This video was made possible by Away.
Get $20 off your Away suitcase by going to awaytravel.com slash wendover and using the
code wendover at checkout.
And quickly, once you've finished this video there are two others to watch—a behind-the-scenes
video on my brand new personal channel and my appearance on StarTalk where I appear on
camera for the first time.
Both are linked in the description.
Suppose we're in a cave right now, this is a cave, and there's maybe ten of us.
We have a mini family tribe.
And I say, you know, I want to go out and see what's on the other side of that mountain.
We can see it from here.
And then you say, no, no, we have cave problems you have to fix first.
Fix all the cave problems first, then you can go out on the mountain.
And that's what it sounds like to me when I hear people say, we have problems on Earth,
let's fix those before we go into space.
And here's Earth, this speck of dirt orbiting an ordinary star and there's this vastness
of the universe that is waiting for us.
It beckons.
The commercial space industry is heating up.
Fifty years ago, outer space was reserved for the most powerful of nations—the most
dominant governments.
But today, there's a democratization of space.
Commercial industry is inching us closer to the cosmos, and in the process, there's
a growing interdependence between what's happening hundreds of miles up in space and
down below on Earth.
The commercial space industry—using multi-million dollar satellites and rockets—is increasingly
playing a part in our everyday lives.
You may think of this industry as a new phenomenon.
You may have only started hearing about profit-seeking space enterprise in the past few years, but
in reality, this has been going on for decades.
Our founder, Walter Scott, founded the company in his garage in Palo Alto twenty-five years
ago.
This is Dan Jablonski.
He's president of one of the commercial space companies that you might not have heard
of—Digital Globe.
They might not be as flashy as SpaceX or as exciting as Virgin Galactic, but they've
been flying satellites since before Elon Musk even graduated college.
In fact, they were the very first American company to be granted a license to take high
resolution pictures from space and that is essentially what they do—they take pictures
from space, but it's a lot more complicated than it sounds.
To take those images from space, you need satellites and Digital Globe has five of them.
So the five satellites we have on orbit are GOI-1, Worldview-1, Worldview-2, Worldview-3,
and you're noticing a trend here, Worldview-4.
The first of those was launched in 2007.
The most recent was launched in 2016 and they have an expected life of over ten years
each.
And these are really good satellites.
Worldview-4, for example, Digital Globe's newest satellite, has a pixel size of 12 inches.
That means that this satellite, orbiting 383 miles above earth, can clearly see a single
sheet of paper placed in a parking lot.
Horizontally, that's like if a camera in Toronto took a picture that could clearly
identify the individual eyes of the Statue of Liberty in New York.
It is insanely high resolution.
With a 30 centimeter pixel you can actually pick up road markings.
You can see the lines on the road whether they're straight or dashed lines.
You can see whether there are turn arrows there, whether there's a stop word on the
road markings.
You can even pick up some of the traffic signs and traffic light sizes.
The potential uses of such high quality imagery are endless, but how do the satellites even
work?
It's good to know that our satellites are in a low earth orbit which means that they
actually don't—they're not like a geo-satellite that sits up in a fixed orbit and stays over
one place on the planet.
Some satellites are specifically designed to stay directly over one position for their
whole service lives.
Their orbits are significantly higher above earth so the time it takes for them to complete
an orbit is exactly the same as the time it takes the earth to make a full rotation so,
relative to earth, the satellite doesn't move at all.
This is incredibly useful for certain uses like communications.
When a communications company launches a satellite to broadcast TV or radio or internet, they
want that satellite to stay over their particular service area.
DirecTV, for example, the American satellite TV company, want their satellites to stay
over the US because that's their service area.
If they weren't able to put their satellites into geo-synchronous orbit, they would have
to launch enough satellites to cover the entire world even if they were only broadcasting
to the US.
So, DirecTV want their satellites to stay over one area because they're broadcasting
to one area, but Digital Globe, on the other hand, want their satellites to move because
they're imaging the entire world.
Each of our satellites right now are in sun synchronous orbits.
So what that means is that the orbital plane that the satellite is flying around in stays
in the same orientation relative to the sun all the time.
Simplified, that means that any given satellite passes over any given location on earth at
the exact same time every day.
Worldview 3, for example, always orbits above the points on earth where it's 1030 AM.
When it passes over Denver it's 1030 in Denver, when it passes over Paris it's 1030
in Paris, and when it passes over Tokyo it's 1030 in Tokyo.
How this works is that essentially, with each pass over the light side of earth, the orbit
advances relative to the earth at the same rate as the sunlight advances.
This orbit type is crucial because a lot of what satellite imaging is about is detecting
change from day to day, month to month, or year to year, and an image taken at 1030 AM
is going to look very different than one taken at 6 PM.
This orbit type allows the satellite to pass over the entirety of earth once per day at
the same time so the light conditions look the same.
The satellites do, of course, need to be told what to do and that all comes down to four
people in one room.
So this is our mission operations control center.
This is where we fly the five satellites on orbit and really inside this room is what
we consider our time-dominant, real-time activities from choosing, making the final choices of
what images we're going to collect in the next several minutes to the next several hours.
These four individuals are controlling billions of dollars worth of satellites.
This whole company—the thousands of employees and hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue—all
exist to organize and fund what these four individuals are doing—sitting and piloting
the satellites above in space.
The mission operations center is, of course, staffed 24-7 since, while it's nighttime
in the US, it's daytime in Asia and Australia.
The satellite vehicle operator's main task is to load plans onto the satellites of which
images to take when, to monitor that the satellites are operating correctly, and to assure that
the satellites won't collide with other satellites or space junk.
The central screens at the front show the current locations of each of the five satellites
while the one to the left displays other information such as the total number of times each satellite
has orbited around the earth and how much time they have until the satellite loses signal.
You see, in order for satellites to function, they need to be able to communicate with the
ground and that's done with ground stations.
These antennas communicate to satellites using what are essentially super high-powered wifi
signals.
The ground station's digital globe users are able to receive about a gigabyte of information
every second from the satellites.
Each of those antennas around the world see each satellite several times a day and so
is that, as we go through the day, we accumulate about 7 terabytes of raw imagery off the satellites
through that gigabit connection.
Satellites can only communicate with the ground stations while they have a line of sight with
the antenna so, due to the curvature of the earth, in the view of any given ground station,
the satellite will eventually dip below the horizon.
Therefore, each ground station only has a limited operating range.
The exact locations of ground stations are, understandably, kept secret, but if there
was one in Germany, for example, it would communicate with the digital globe satellites
exclusively while they passed over Europe.
The fact that these satellites have to, by nature, pass over the entire world is actually,
however, quite useful.
Not only does this let digital globe map the entire world, but they also use the extra
capacity for humanitarian efforts.
It's actually easier for us on the humanitarian global development side because we have much
more capacity over a lot of these areas.
There's a lot more demand for our satellites over developed countries, for instance, right?
So people are typically, for commercial applications, much more interested in the U.S. or Europe
or some of these more developed areas versus sub-Saharan Africa where we, just generally
speaking, have much more ability to task the constellation and to collect those imagery.
So it's actually an opportunity for us to support those use cases much more than others.
For instance, Digital Globe partners with the Gates Foundation to map every single building
structure in rural Zambia so aid workers now know things like how many bed nets, vaccines,
or food to bring to communities that were previously unmapped.
There are few companies the size of commercial space companies that rely on so few assets.
What makes Digital Globe, for example, run are those five satellites and to get those
to space, to the place where they make money, they had to put them on rockets which tend
to, from time to time, blow up.
It's always a little bit of a nail biter as you come up to a launch.
We put an enormous capital investment into the satellites and the launch vehicle and
it all comes down to a one hour event—lifting off from the ground and going into orbit and
that's a, that can be a little bit of a nerve-wracking period but certainly very exciting
at the same time.
An average of one in twenty rocket launches fail and then, on top of that, some satellites
fail once they reach orbit which makes the space business risky.
Companies like Digital Globe will therefore purchase enormously expensive insurance policies
on their satellites in case the launch or the satellite itself fails.
If they didn't, one bad launch could spell the end for the company.
Of course, some launch providers are much more reliable than others.
United Launch Alliance, the launch provider that Digital Globe used for their current
five satellites, has not had a launch failure in its eleven year history.
Insurance rates for ULA would be relatively low while insurance rates for a newer launch
provider, such as Orbital ATK or Blue Origin, would be comparatively high.
Nonetheless, the cost of newer launch providers with insurance included is now often less
than the older, more reliable launch companies.
But how does Digital Globe fund their exploits?
What keeps those satellites flying?
How do they make their money?
Our largest customer is the US government and we've been very proud to be their mission
partner for over a decade and a half coming up on two decades now.
It used to be that the commercial satellite industry was essentially focused on one major
customer—governments.
In the past, the US government has been the single largest customer of the few commercial
space companies that there were thanks to its enormous defense spending, but today as
commercial customers contract commercial space companies, the business is spreading globally.
Over the past decade, the customer base has become more international and more diversified.
Our other customers are international customers who may be US allies or maybe technology companies
across the world.
We go deep in the telecommunications infrastructure, online mapping, energy industries, mining
industries, forestry applications.
There's really a huge variety of customers, but the most obvious ones are those mapping
companies.
If you've ever used Google maps, you're using our imagery.
If you've ever used Apple maps, you're using our imagery.
If you ever look and do a crowdsourcing project in OpenStreetMap, you're using our imagery
as well.
But perhaps the single most promising use of earth imagery is with autonomous vehicles.
Having good, solid, current satellite imagery is an integral part of how autonomous vehicles
work.
These vehicles can't just rely on their internal sensors to understand their surroundings—they
get a view from above.
As we think about autonomous vehicles, it's not okay to update the image once a quarter,
once a year, even once a week.
They really need imagery that's coming in much, much faster than that to deal with changes
in traffic conditions, changes in roads, crashes, etc.
Uber, which is developing autonomous cars, is already a customer of Digital Globe for
navigation purposes and as more and more companies move into the autonomous vehicle
race, the competition between earth observation companies for their business is likely to
heat up.
There are plenty of other emerging uses as well which, as an ensemble, are growing the
demand for earth imagery day by day.
It is a tremendously fast growing industry.
But satellite imagery by itself really isn't worth much.
You need something more.
I would say that our customers are demanding more actionable information faster than ever.
Translation—customers want data.
They want the information embedded in the images.
For that, there's another company—Radiant Solutions.
So today customers, the big challenge is around where it used to be more of a, hey we just
need to get an answer, now it's more of how do we deal with all of this data and how
do we answer the more complex questions because they are getting more complex and they're
getting even harder to answer now by virtue of being inundated with data.
Radiant Solutions would describe themselves as a geospatial analytics company.
They take satellite imagery and translate it into information.
We're able to take in vast amounts of data and make sense of it to produce insight.
They answer big questions.
A logging company might ask a question like, what's the density of trees in this particular
region of Canada before purchasing new land and Radiant would be able to look at hundreds
or thousands or millions of square miles of imagery to tell them how many trees there
are.
Now, with so much imagery and such a big world, you can't just do this all by hand—at
least economically.
For that reason, there's been a huge shift in the geospatial analytics business toward
using artificial intelligence.
We hear more and more now that data is kind of like the new oil.
Well that's sort of true but the data has to be reliable, there has to be high confidence
in the data.
So the AI has to be good.
To train a machine to find a red car, for example, you need to show it thousands or
millions of examples of what a red car looks like, but…
It's very different for a machine to look for a red car in an urban environment as it
is to find a red car in snow.
So not only are you training the models to look for that object, but you also have to
train it on where to find it regionally.
It is hugely complicated, but that's why these guys are in business—to answer complicated
questions.
Some data, however, isn't in the visual spectrum.
Some data is hidden, but luckily there's a special satellite just for that.
In the old days, it was just please get me good, solid image pixels to use and I'll
go figure out how to use them.
Today, particularly in the commercial space, it's all about information.
That's Paul Kennedy—Vice President of Ground Systems at MDA.
They've been in business since 1969.
Their most visible project was on developing the Canadarm for the space shuttles and International
Space Station.
As a long-time player in the industry, they serve a variety of functions from developing
space robotics to building satellite ground stations, but one of their most valuable assets
is that special satellite—Radarsat-2.
While most earth observation satellites image using the visual spectrum, what we can see
with our own eyes, Radarsat-2 uses radar.
Radar is an active pulse.
So the satellite actually sends a beam of energy to the ground and reads back what it
gets back from the earth and that gives us a couple of interesting advantages in SAR.
For one, radar can see through clouds and darkness.
It doesn't matter what the light and weather conditions are, it's all the same for Radarsat-2.
Now, MDA is a Canadian company and it's no coincidence that a Canadian company operates
this satellite.
Just like the US government is a major customer of Digital Globe, the Canadian government
is a major customer of MDA and here's the thing about Canada—the weather is terrible
and it's always dark.
Quite literally in northern Canada where the sun stays down for the entire winter.
It's no coincidence that the company that works so closely with the Canadian government
operates the satellite that can see through clouds and night.
Without Radarsat-2, the Canadian government would be blind—they would have no way of
monitoring huge swaths of their territory in the high arctic for months out of the year.
With new launch providers emerging such as Blue Origin and Rocket Lab and SpaceX, the
cost of launching material into space is plummeting.
Now, this is useful to these companies, at least in some ways.
With lower launch costs, Digital Globe and MDA can launch more satellites which means
more data for radiant solutions, but that also makes it easier for competitors to launch
satellites.
The earth imagery business is growing but so is the competition.
The best known earth imagery startup, Planet, is launching a constellation of small satellites.
While Digital Globe's satellites are the size of a bus, Planet's smallest are the
size of a toaster.
With the smaller size, development and launch costs are lower.
While in the past starting a space imagery company required hundreds of millions or billions
of dollars in funding, the emergence of smallsats means that it's enormously easier to break
into the satellite imagery business nowadays.
But there is a key difference between these two companies.
Digital Globe's satellites capture imagery with a pixel size of 12 inches while Planet's
primary satellite constellation captures imagery with a pixel size of 10-15 feet at a much
lower cost.
There are certain uses for high-resolution imagery and there are certain other uses for
low-cost imagery so in some ways, these two companies aren't even direct competitors.
Nonetheless, the space industry is changing, growing, and becoming more competitive so
the established companies need to adapt.
United Launch Alliance knows that, Airbus knows that, Arianespace knows that, and Digital
Globe, MDA, and Radiant know that too, so they made a change.
These three companies are now one.
Along with a fourth company, a spacecraft manufacturing company called SSL that will
be covered in a future video, these are the entities that make up the newest powerhouse
in the space technology business.
This merger wasn't necessarily in response to heavy competition but rather, at least
from an outsider's perspective, a preemptive strike to establish themselves as a major
international player before the commercial space industry truly lifts off.
Increasingly, the more traditional aerospace and defense companies that have been supplying
technology in space have been able to provide the performance but the cost has been extremely
high.
Maxar is now a fully vertically integrated company.
In the earth imagery space, for example, they'll do everything from building satellites to
operating them to extracting data from imagery.
By performing all the steps in this process internally, Maxar lowers its costs and this
also puts them in the same league as Airbus as one of the very few end-to-end integrated
space companies.
The commercial space industry as a whole is doing a phenomenal job of making access to
orbital space commonplace.
The routine steps of space activities are slowly being ceded to private enterprise that
could do it faster, better, cheaper.
We're now at a place where launching a satellite to low earth orbit is unexceptional.
That's exactly what we want—easy access to space—and for near space, that exists
right now.
Getting beyond earth's orbit, though, outside our cosmic neighborhood, into deep space,
that's still tough.
The problem is that private enterprise, by its very nature, needs to make money.
Companies and their leaders are beholden to their investors to make money.
If they're not, then they're not a company.
Companies can and do make money with deep space but only through developing and building
technologies for NASA and other government agencies.
There is zero commercial demand for deep space technology today.
Going to new planets, to new solar systems, exploring space, that really doesn't make
money.
Many people who think about commercial space, I think they're over-predicting what their
role will be.
They're imagining commercial space leading a space frontier.
But to lead a space frontier is expensive and it's not an obvious return on the investment.
You might do it as a vanity project.
If there are enough billionaires in the world, they could all pool their money.
Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates, Elon Musk.
They could do a vanity project and send humans to Mars, let's say.
But that's not a business model and it would get a lot of attention but is that something
you can sustain?
No.
It would be a one-off.
When people imagine a future of space and industry, they're imagining a sustained
business case.
Of course, you could have said the same thing about the space race 60 years ago.
That was exploration, however, in the long term, it was an investment that paid off because
space now makes money.
Space today is an integral part of what we know and what we can do on the surface of
the planet.
Communications, imagery, climate science, defense and intelligence and security applications,
all of those are seamlessly enabled by space technologies without most of us who go through
our daily lives not even thinking about it.
The difference between commercial enterprise and governments is time.
Commercial enterprises need to think about investments that pay off within the lifetime
of their shareholders.
So you're always thinking about what is the return on the investment you're making?
How long will it take you to achieve the returns on the investment?
And what's the probability that the R&D you're putting in will be successful?
While companies look at investments in terms of years, governments can look at investments
in terms of decades or centuries because governments transcend generations.
The innovation that will occur by bringing humans to Mars and beyond will absolutely
make money in the very long term.
But right now, it would take an enormous amount of money that few people want to risk.
You could point to Elon Musk as an exception to this rule—he more than anyone understands
the value of super long-term investments like going to Mars—but he also understands that
he's alone in that.
Individuals don't want to invest in something that won't make money until after they're
dead.
Musk has stated that he has no plans to take SpaceX public until after a successful mission
to Mars which means that, for the moment, the company is almost acting more as an organization.
He's funneling the money from launches, which make money, into exploration, which
doesn't.
Governments need to lead the way because they have the longer time horizons that they can
think about and monetize.
When they do that, once they lead the way they have now quantified the risks and you
know the costs and where the friendlies are and the hostels and whatever are the things
that would compromise your mission, they've already figured this out.
Then if they do it right, you then hand that to private industry that then makes a buck
off of it, then the government can tax that if they so choose.
Maxar Technologies and its four businesses meanwhile absolutely innovate including in
deep space technologies, but they're not going to put the pieces together to go to
Mars by themselves because that's not a good investment.
One should be careful to realize that this coming era of commercialized space does not
necessarily translate into a renaissance of space exploration.
Commercial industry is not a substitute for NASA or the ESA or any other government institution.
They are collaborators.
They can make the government's job easier and cheaper, but they cannot replace those
whose jobs are to go where no human has gone before.
The next few decades and centuries can be the era of space exploration but for that,
you need a public, you need an electorate that understands that anything good, anything
truly worthwhile, takes time.
There are so many thanks I have to give for help with this video but one is to Away, not
only for making this video possible through sponsorship, but also for literally carrying
my possessions over the 15,000 miles I traveled while making this video, and unfortunately
that number is not a mistake.
I've now owned my Away suitcase for almost a year, have traveled all over the world with
it, and I love it.
The suitcase is just solidly built, you can feel it, and it has a built-in yet removable
battery, a laundry bag, a laptop sleeve, and a compression system so you can pack more
into a smaller space.
Best of all, for how good it is, the Away suitcase is sold for an amazing price and
it's at an even more amazing price if you go to awaytravel.com slash wendover and use
the code wendover at checkout to get $20 off your Away suitcase.
They're so confident that you'll love the product that all Away suitcases have a
lifetime warranty and a 100-day unconditional return policy.
It's quite literally no risk and they made this enormous video possible so if you need
a suitcase for life, check out awaytravel.com slash wendover and use the code wendover at
checkout.
I also have to give a huge thanks to Maxar Technologies, especially Kristen Karringer
and Turner Brinton, for letting me film this video as it takes an enormous amount of work
to allow cameras into such a high-security environment.
Lastly, as I mentioned at the beginning, I appeared on Neil deGrasse Tyson's show Star
Talk and also launched a new personal channel where I made a behind-the-scenes video for
that appearance.
Both are linked in the description and on screen now.
Thanks again for watching and I'll see you again in three weeks for another Wendover
Productions video.
