Good morning, everyone. No, really. This is about 20 minutes after I got up. Got my coffee
here. There's your free sip outside of Sunday. And today, I have a long day of watching Kenobi
and writing a review for that amazing piece of cultural legacy that I'm sure will live
on forever. But before I get started on that, I wanted to at least quickly record something
that could come out today. And I know this is a little bit old. As always, I'm perpetually
behind the times. It's just a product of getting older. And so I wanted to take a peek at this
because you guys, if you haven't seen this yet, you guys will be blown away. This is
the TikTok page of Natasha Badger. As always, no one go bother this person. We're not here
to docs or dogpile or anything, but she works at LinkedIn in Chicago and she has quite a
few things to say about it. But this one here went viral both on TikTok and off. Day in
the life of 22 year old living in Chicago, working in the tech industry. Here we go.
Today was one of those days where you leave for work at 7 a.m. and you don't get back
until past midnight. It sounds like a really busy day, you know, when you're working like
what is that, 18 hours a day. Let's see her 18 hour workday. I left for work early for
a 9 a.m. meeting that was conveniently canceled right beforehand. Wait. Oh, I guess. Wait,
hold on. Wait, do you have like a two hour commute? You said your day started at seven,
but you're you're going into work for a 9 a.m. meeting. OK, but luckily I got to the
lobby and there were these eucalyptus towels waiting for me, which is really nice and some
fresh orange water, which I, of course, took before taking the elevator. OK, OK, so in
the lobby, if you work, it's too early in the morning for this. If you work at LinkedIn,
you can expect cold orange water in the lobby along with eucalyptus towels. I don't I don't
quite know what that means. Like, do they do they take the eucalyptus tree and they
just squeeze all the juice out of it, put it in the towel? Is that what's going on here?
Are they are they steamed? Maybe they're steamed by burning eucalyptus wood. I don't know.
What do you need a eucalyptus towel for? Do you like wash yourself? Hold on. So having
to take the terrible bus ride across Chicago, I mean, fair enough, it is Chicago. You come
in and you're filthy from having rubbed shoulders at the plebs and you just need a steamed eucalyptus
towel to brush yourself off with. Also, make sure you use those tongs to grab it. You got
to keep everything sterile and clean, especially because probably some low level worker put
that there for you. Also, aren't eucalyptus, hold on. It's a fast growing evergreen tree
native to Australia. Why is eucalyptus harmful to humans? Taking 3.5 milliliters of the oil
can be fatal, can induce nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. You know, I thought eucalyptus
was just like the food for koalas, but now I guess it's also this shit. And some fresh
orange water, which I of course took before taking the elevator up to the office. Of course
you have to take the fresh orange water. Who even drinks water without orange slices floating
around in it? I grabbed some breakfast, normal oatmeal and chia seed pudding and we finally
got LinkedIn. Wait, wait, what the fuck is this breakfast? Look at this. You got like
fresh fruit dishes. Somebody cut this shit up and laid it out for them. I grabbed some
breakfast, normal, normal. This is a normal breakfast. I mean, fair enough. It's, it's
pretty healthy. You know, you got all the, all the, all the good grains and nuts and
berries in there. Okay. Like this is a, this is a healthy breakfast, but Jesus, this ain't
normal. Most people aren't eating this. Most people can't afford to eat it. I don't think
I've ever actually worked at a job that had breakfast provided. There's always like eat
before you get in oatmeal and chia seed pudding. And we finally got LinkedIn mugs in the office,
which I'm so excited about. Are you just scrolling on Amazon as part of your workday?
Then I found out that the wall heart that we have in the office is made out of recycled
trees from Chicago, which was so cool. Fun. Recycled. Recycled. You know what? Oh God.
You know what a recycled trees is? It's wood. It's paper. What do you think your, your house
is made out of? What do you think you, you, you write on recycled? Man, I came from my,
my small town that I grew up in, how to recycle tree plant fact. And then it was time for
our company, all hands. So I grabbed our drink of the day, which is a blackberry mojito and
headed downstairs to the all hands room. So I'm like, okay, so the company, all hands,
you get a free black beer. What the fuck is a mojito? I don't even know. Can you imagine
working at this place? Sarah, it's time for the meeting. Don't forget to grab your blackberry
mojito. I paused on this like great looking lunch. Do they provide the lunch to co-workers
some lunches? We were starving after that. There was this, oh, I'm sure you were so starving
after that blackberry mojito meeting. And yeah, they, they have, you know, very, what
looks to be reasonably high class food available for them to eat. There's some lunches. We
were starving after that. There was this cool little dish and I grabbed a chai latte before
heading to work. I grabbed the chai latte before heading to work. You just had lunch.
What are you even doing all morning? Sounds like it's just been a whirlwind of mojitos
and chai lattes and Shia puddings. My coworkers play ping pong and then tried out a new quiet
room, which is a really nice area to just like relax and unplug from work. So your job
consists of you dicking around all morning. And then when it's time to really knuckle
down, you go to watch your coworkers play ping pong in the lounge. And then tried out
a new quiet room, which is a really nice area to just like relax and unplug from work. Unplug
from what work? What have you done all day? You're gonna go sit in the quiet room and
like pretend that you're in a forest or something. Look at that wallpaper. And then tried out
a new quiet room, which is a really nice area. And then tried out our new quiet room. It's
that exact inflection that everyone makes fun of. It's like, it's perfect. This is,
this is the perfect TikTok video. Shut the site down China. It's never getting any better
than this. Then it was time to buckle down. Like sat in our focus area for a while. I
grabbed, is this buckling down? It was time to buckle down. So I sat in the focus area
and got kettle potato. What the fuck? Sat in our focus area for a while. I grabbed a
snack after I was hungry. And then I finished up the rest of my work before getting an email
announcing the next team that I'll be joining through my... Finish up the rest. What work
even happened today? Before getting an email announcing the next team that I'll be joining
through my BLP program. Work was finally over. Oh, she's joining a new team, getting a promotion.
She earned it. All right. What is happening? What's what's happening now that work is finally
over? It was hot as hell. So we went to go get some drinks in Lincoln park before heading
to a housewarming party for one of our coworkers. Here we are. There was banana pudding. It
was just great summer vibes and really fun to connect with everyone. And then we last
minute decided, F it, let's go out. So we headed to West loop and went to Federales
really quick drink. At this point, I realized that I was still out with my work laptop.
So I decided to call it a night. Good night. Today was one of those days. Okay. Okay. So
that, that, that little last leg of the journey there, that's fine. You know, once you're
off the clock, do whatever you want. You're going to go drinking. You're gonna hit up
like three bars and two parties. That's not what I would do, but you have fun. But let's
listen to the start of this again. Today was one of those days where you leave for work
at 7.00 AM and you don't get back until past midnight. Okay. I mean, that's technically
true, right? She did leave for 7.00 AM and didn't get back till past midnight, but like
everything off the clock after work was just you partying. And then everything on the clock
was just you loafing around. There's no, there's no work happening here. Is there like, I don't
think I've ever had a day this pampered in my life. Even like when I was a school kid
where things not laid out this nicely for me, you know, you're the jobs that I've worked,
man. I've been the guy who collects garbage in front of your house in the morning. I've
been the guy who cuts all the grass for all the various public green spaces that everyone
seems to enjoy so much. I was that guy I've operated machinery. I've stocked shelves.
I've cleaned toilets, like actual jobs. Not, not to say that people who, you know, they
don't work with their hands, aren't necessarily doing actual work. There's a lot of valuable
work that comes out of people who work with their brains, but she's not doing either.
Where is the meaningful labor? It's not to be physical, but it has to be something right
now. If you look at this woman's tech talk account, you'll notice that there's actually
many different day in the life videos. So for example, here, day in the life as a 22
year old living in Chicago, working in tech, same video just earlier. Welcome to another
day in the life, working for LinkedIn, Chicago, get excited guys, because today LinkedIn hosted
its second music festival. This is a hybrid experience. So each office had their experiences,
but everyone could also stream virtually. So I got to the office, picked up my usual
breakfast. There's a coffee. So I had to get some nitro cold brew and literally sprinted
to a meeting that I was late for with one of the interns and had to try out our special
drink of the day, which was like a blackberry fizz headed to lunch. And this is just had
to look at this lunch. They have like a, like a hot dog cart in the building where the festivities
began. We had essentially a mini taste of Chicago with a lot of local vendors. Unfortunately,
I couldn't eat most of the stuff cause it had gluten in it, but look how pretty and
fun this was. There was a photo. I wonder, okay. Naomi actually has a real gluten intolerance.
She can't actually eat that much gluten, but here's the thing she can eat a little bit.
You know, if we give her like one slice of pizza where the dough is not gluten free,
she's okay. But any more than that, and over the course of a day, she starts to have stomach
problems. Um, I wonder if this person's actually gluten intolerant or if she's jumped on the
bandwagon of eating gluten free stuff because it sounds like organic or healthy or woke
or whatever photo booth. We had to go pick up our swag, not a huge fan of the t-shirt,
but it's fun. We got glow sticks too. And I took a mini break, played some ping pong
with James. He did beat me. Jesus Christ. Like this is, this is the workday. They don't
do anything at this place. Once a month, LinkedIn shuts down so its employees can focus
on our wellbeing. And today was one of those days I got up early this morning in the spirit
of wellbeing. I made myself some KMLT journal. I clicked on this. It's a day in the life
of worker at LinkedIn in Chicago because it was just a bunch of these, right? And this
one was like, I didn't go to work today. You know, my, my job is so stressful that I just
needed LinkedIn gave us all a day off cause it's just brutal there. There's another one
where she goes to Google and yes, at Google, they have the exact same problem where people
are just coming in and sucking up unbelievable amounts of money and benefits and gratuities
while doing no actual work. And she's done a bunch of these, but see, they haven't gotten
that many views as compared to the one here that recently went viral. I mean, she's living
a life of bourgeois indulgence, that's for sure, but that's not necessarily wrong or
immoral. I'm not a socialist. However, it does feel like it's something that can't last.
It's not sustainable. There's no way this makes money. It's going to come crashing down
on them. This is the kind of person that would literally say to the starving peasants, let
them eat cake. And of course she also has most of the normal progressive quasi socialist
opinions when it comes to politics. I've personally been over the whole independence day thing
for a couple of years now, but you guys have fun out there. Tagged with Roe V. Wade and
Black Lives Matter. This is for all my girlies who are going through imposter syndrome at
work. You're not a white man. Therefore they did not hire you on quality. That was like
a one, two punch. Okay. So for those of you who don't know imposter syndrome, imposter
syndrome is when you've made it, but you feel like you don't actually deserve to have made
it. And so you think that you're an imposter and you're a fraud and you'll be found out
and then you'll lose whatever success that you might've earned. And the reason people
feel this way is because you have to live with yourself every day. So you know very
deeply all of your greatest failures. However, other people, especially those who are say
hiring you or promoting you or accepting you, they only see your successes. So everyone
feels like, Oh man, if they only knew the worst side of me, I would lose this great
opportunity that I have. And I mean, sometimes that is true. Look at the falls from grace
that we've seen, but for the most part, it's not true at all. And the reason why it's so
funny is because clearly these people don't deserve anything that they have, but at the
same time, she goes on to say, you are not a white man. Therefore they did not hire you
unqualified. What do you think diversity hires are? This person, Natasha, what do you think
you bring to LinkedIn? Are you one of those nerdy guys who is like crouches in front of
the computer for like 16 hours a day, writing the actual backbone of the service that everyone
uses because it doesn't fucking seem like it from these tech talks. So yes, this person
is a young professional bourgeois lefty. One of many right now who are out there basically
just sucking up benefits, working at these positions that don't really bring any value
to the companies. And although I'm sure this is not the normal Zoomer experience, I in
fact know some Zoomers who are very working class and are certainly struggling quite a
bit right now. That's not this person. There does seem to be this microcosm of people who
live in these large cities and who work for these, basically these hollowed out giants.
They're just subsisting on the decaying mass that is once a great company. And as soon
as that falls apart, they'll all be out of jobs. But they don't see the end coming. They're
just living high and like, oh, this is just life. This is just good. They don't know how
atypical it actually is. So this is something I've been thinking about for a while. It's
not a fully formed idea yet, but maybe I can still, I don't know, bounce it off you guys
anyway. I was talking with Spoon maybe a week or two ago. Those of you who don't know, Spoon
is Aiden Paladin's co-host over on her show. He's a nice enough guy. We disagree on pretty
much everything because he's a monarchist and he's much more right-leaning than I am.
But I can talk to people I disagree with as long as they're nice. But I was just casually
discussing with him. I didn't use this graph in the discussion, but I'll use it here. You
can find graphs like this a lot. This is the share of the labor force employed in agriculture.
Share of people of working age who were engaged in any activity to produce goods or provide
services for pay or profit in the agricultural sector, which is agriculture, hunting, forestry
and fishing. So basically what percentage of your society actually works in the creation
of food. And as you can see in the 1300s, 1400s, 1400s, it's pretty steady. We're hovering
between like 60 and 75%. So most people were working in the production of food and to get
out of that food production industry was actually considered to be a luxury. And if you think
back on it, this kind of makes sense, right? Like if you're in prehistory and everyone's
just hunting and foraging for survival, like 99% of your population at that point is working
on food. But as soon as people develop basic farming techniques and they didn't have to
be nomads anymore, they can actually settle into a city. The reason that that could happen
is because farming allowed for excess food produced with less labor, at least compared
to hunting and gathering. And so with the excess food, you could actually afford to
have more people who provided for society in other still important ways, but weren't
directly tied to food production. So you could have people who were smiths or people who
were priests, people who were scholars, people who manage the bureaucracy of a city, you
know, like, like guards, people who worked in defense. These are all people who do important
labor that helps develop the society. And yet they still eat food without contributing
any labor to food production. They still provide meaningful labor. They have to trade it for
the food. And the only way that this trade is even possible is if there is a surplus
of food. This is the main reason why hunter-gatherer societies don't really develop any kind of
formalized priest class. There's just not enough food to go around to spare individuals
to go off and do that sort of thing as a full-time job. And what this graph shows us
is that due to technological advancements over time, less and less people have been
involved in the production of food. And I'm not complaining about this. This is generally
a good thing because what that means is that that's more hands that are freed up to do
different types of more specialized labor. That's more brains that are freed up to be
able to think up new ideas. And then maybe that develops into something very useful for
society. Getting people out of the farms creates a surplus of labor that can then be diversified
across an economy as well as allowing people to deeply specialize in one thing. But there
is a side effect of it. We now have a society of people that can work real jobs that do
provide real value. But nonetheless, those jobs are extremely divorced from the most
practical concerns like food or housing or clothing. And yet they can still pay for those
things. Money is an abstract way to transfer labor between different mediums. But we've
abstracted the whole thing out so much that somehow I can make YouTube videos that generate
enough equivalent labor as a worker who grows the food that I buy in the grocery store.
And it's this extreme level of abstraction that leads a lot of people, especially if
they've never actually worked a real working class job before these people, they become
unmoored from reality. There seems to be at least to me, a connection between the people
who believe in progressivism and socialism and a prosperous enough lifestyle to be extremely
disconnected from the essential labor that keeps them alive. I'm sure you've you've heard
the story many times. There's like a university professor who is like, food comes from the
store. Why do we have to kill animals? Why do we have farms? Why do you have to shoot
them? Why do you have to hunt? That's barbaric food, just just buy food at the store. And
like they don't know where the food comes from, because they're so divorced from that
part of reality. These people think that socialism works, because they are so disconnected from
how society runs, that they don't understand why it wouldn't work. It's having the privilege
of being blind to how the sausage is made. And this LinkedIn woman, it's not her fault.
She's not doing anything wrong, like morally, she's taking advantage of a system that allows
her to live this opulent life. But there's nothing real about it. It's all very manufactured.
It's all very artificial. It's all very divorced from the actual reality that most people have
to live. And I don't even think that she knows that that's the case. You know, if you go
really far down her page, she talks about her university experience. And it seems like
she went to a pretty good university for graphic design like this, this person came
from an upper middle class life for sure. She's never gonna know what it's like to drive
a truck for 16 hours, or have to take garbage to the dump. She fundamentally doesn't know
about everything happening outside of her field of vision that allows her to have this
this very cushy, bourgeois life, which is what makes it absolutely ridiculous that so
many people who live in these ivory towers think that their ideas are how society should
be structured. Things should be done according to their theories, but they're just so ignorant
of everything. Anyway, my friends, I hope you enjoyed this Hangout with Dev, and I will
see you next time. I love you.
