So, during my absence, Amazon workers in Bessemer, Alabama voted against forming the company's
first union, and progressives aren't too happy about it really.
And fair enough, Amazon's got a pretty well-established history of treating its workers poorly, from
shockingly high number of on-the-job injuries, to a patent for a cage worker pod that started
the Wage Cage meme, to employees dying on the job and nobody noticing for 20 minutes,
to an Amazon hiring AI having to be shut down because it was discriminating against women,
to an Amazon firing AI tracking warehouse workers and letting people go without a human
supervisor's involvement, to Amazon delivery men pissing in bottles in order to meet drop-off
quotas.
In case you think I'm here to be an Amazon simp, I'm not.
That being said, Amazon's certainly done some good things too, like implement a $15
minimum wage, provide medical, dental, and vision plans, a 401k, and stock options.
This is stuff that unions are often fighting for, and yet here they are without a union.
But in terms of the union vote itself, the way that the socialists reacted to the union's
loss was very similar to the way that progressives react when minorities don't vote left in
elections.
Yeah, this entire thread has a dem-blacks-don't-know-how-to-vote-right feel, doesn't it?
The actual truth is, though, most people are smart enough to know that unions aren't
a silver bullet.
I did a dumping with Scrump on that very topic, if you want to check it out.
But as an overview, unions provide both real benefits and real drawbacks, and these considerations
hold different weights depending on the industry we're talking about.
The positives for workers are pretty straightforward.
Unions protect workers' right to work.
In locations where you have at-will employment, meaning the employer can fire you for any
reason they want, even if you've done nothing wrong, unions can guard against undeserved
firings.
Unions increase workers' negotiation power.
When workers negotiate with the employer as a block, rather than individuals, there's
more weight behind it.
Having one employee walk off the job is not as damaging as having them all go.
Unions fight for benefits.
Even though Amazon provides a lot of benefits, many workplaces don't, and oftentimes benefits
have been pre-secured in a union workplace before you even take the job there.
Union workers may be paid better.
There is some evidence that unionized jobs pay better than their non-unionized counterparts,
all other things considered.
But there's also some evidence that the inverse is true too, so maybe this point's
undecided.
And that leads in very well to the negatives for workers.
Unions aren't free.
Union dues can eat up a significant chunk of change, and this is ultimately wasted money
if you never actually use any of your union benefits while you're at the job.
Additionally, unions, like any other bureaucracy, swell and become inefficient.
And you can expect these fees to rise in a disproportionate manner to their benefits.
Unions reinforce an adversarial relationship with management.
In workplaces where management is already adversarial with the workforce, this isn't
a big deal.
But, and I know socialists refuse to believe this, but it's true, I've experienced it,
there do exist positive workplaces where management cares about the quality of life of the workers,
and unions are a great way to destroy a positive workplace atmosphere.
In a functioning, healthy workplace, labour and management are on the same team, and unions
ensure this will never be the case.
It's settling for mediocre when the possibility is greatness out of fear of disaster.
Unions are anti-individualist.
This is a larger point I'll come back to a little bit later in the video.
Unions can cause increased prices, or decreased quality of product.
All of the extra things unions can win for workers still cost the business money, and
this cost is almost always carried on to the consumer, in much the same way that minimum
wage increases are.
And if the business is already failing, attempts to unionize are often toothless, as we've
seen with Gawker and Buzzfeed.
Unionization has never saved jobs in a failing business or a shrinking market.
Unions can be uniquely, incredibly corrupt.
Unions are hierarchies of individuals, and like every area of interpersonal activity,
there is the opportunity for corruption.
But unions are in a unique place legally.
They aren't the business, but they also aren't labour itself.
They're the apparatus that speaks for labour's interest.
They're often immune to antitrust laws for this reason, despite operating a labour monopoly
in the sub-markets they exist in.
This allows for quite a few opportunities for corruption.
For example, more than a dozen union officials, including two presidents, have been convicted
of embezzling funds from the United Auto Workers Union.
A president of the Communication Workers of America was caught stealing $600,000 in union
funds.
A president of the United Industrial Service Workers of America was sentenced for stealing
$800,000 from a union healthcare plan.
The Service Employees International Union has faced multiple lawsuits alleging sexual
harassment.
Unions have a long history making backroom deals with both organized crime and foreign
spy networks.
Of course, this doesn't mean that every single union is full of rapists or fedora-wearing
mobsters or KGB agents.
Unions can often provide protection for low-skilled workers and low-paying jobs.
And those people are often the ones who need the most protection.
Unions raise the floor, but they also lower the ceiling, too.
Consider this.
Most union contracts in low-skilled workplaces have things like raises or promotions on a
set calendar.
For example, if you're going to get a raise, you'll get it once you reach a milestone
of however many months or years served.
This generally, but not always, closes the door to the possibility of raises based on
merit or independent negotiation.
The same thing happens with promotions.
When an opportunity appears to move up the food chain, it'll be handed out based on
seniority, not merit.
And unlike with raises where there's sometimes a bit of wiggle room, most union contracts
on promotions are ironclad.
In this situation, if you were a poor, inefficient, or lazy worker, you would find that the union
in this low-skilled work environment would certainly protect you from getting fired.
And you would be handed your contract-allotted wage advancements like clockwork whether you
deserve them or not.
But if you were a talented, quick, or enthusiastic worker, somebody who had the raw potential
to rise the ranks on your own merit, the union structure itself would hold you back.
It doesn't matter if you can push 10 times more product than meth-head Michael, he's
been there 10 years and you've been here too, so he gets the promotion.
In this environment, unions serve primarily to protect mediocrity, and such a workplace
will see a regular turnover of their most promising workers as they move on to greener
pastures.
And this is where we get to that anti-individualist point I mentioned earlier.
If you are somebody who's talented, skilled, or driven enough to be able to negotiate with
your employer on your own merits, a union will only serve to hurt you, not help you.
You won't have the option to stand apart or represent yourself.
Your employer's hands will be bound by the contract, stating that they can only treat
with you through the union apparatus.
And the union's hands will be bound by the contract, putting more senior members of the
union ahead of you.
It is inherently anti-meritocratic, and in most cases, you have no choice but to be part
of the union if you want the job, even if you don't want to be.
Of course, socialists often make the false claim that employers will never, ever directly
negotiate with individual employees, because employers always hold the cards in hiring.
They believe this for two different reasons.
One, because they're generally working in low-skilled jobs themselves, and have never
seen a high-skilled worker negotiate for themselves.
And two, because decades of mass immigration have flooded the labor market, depressing
the price of labor for so long, people have largely forgotten what it's like when there's
more jobs than workers, and employers have to fight over employees.
After all, there's a reason that employers tend to poach employees from each other, and
have non-disclosure and non-compete agreements in their employment contracts the higher up
you go.
It's because if you make yourself a valuable worker, whether that's through education,
rare qualifications, industry connections, a good reputation, work ethic or intelligence,
then eventually you will reach a tipping point where there is greater demand for your specialized
skills and employers will compete to hire you.
A great example of this is in the UK.
If a building has historic importance, you need specialized qualifications to work on
it, due to the nature of the materials and the architecture involved.
Only seven people in the entire country have the license, and you can bet those seven control
the market for their labor, not their employers.
The point I'm making is, while a properly functioning union can help the lowest rung
of workers, it will eventually hurt you the higher you climb.
It raises the floor, but lowers the ceiling.
This is why you're less and less likely to find a union presence the higher you climb
in any organization, and why, eventually, the next promotion that you can take will
require you leaving the union and going staff.
But even for people at the bottom of the hierarchy, research shows unionized workers are less
happy.
Yeah, you know, I was surprised to read this too, but it actually kind of makes sense if
you think about it.
Many of the early studies suggest that union members are less satisfied than non-union
workers, but are also less inclined to quit their jobs.
This surprising finding has been considered an anomaly by many researchers, as unions
should achieve better working conditions, which, common sense suggests, should lead
to higher job satisfaction.
The author's research helps answer the puzzle.
In a recent meta-study, he found that unions don't seem to make workers less satisfied.
Rather, workers who are likely to be dissatisfied, even after controlling for various aspects
of their work, are more likely to join unions.
And this makes sense, right?
If you're satisfied with your job already, if you feel your wage is fair and you're
being heard and taken care of, you're not going to need a union.
Unions are things people advocate for if they feel like they're downtrodden, or they
agitate for if they've been radicalized.
However, the same research in this article shows that union workers who are more likely
to be dissatisfied are also less likely to quit their jobs.
This is surprising on its face, but it makes sense.
Let's say you're in a non-union workplace, and your job is shitty.
You approach your boss about suggestions to make it better, and your boss, being an asshole,
tells you to shut up and get back to work because your voice doesn't matter.
Now, controlling for variables like pay and benefits and the job market around you, there's
a reasonable chance that you'd walk off the job right then and there, especially if
you have a spine.
But now let's say you're in a union workplace, and your job is shit.
You approach your boss about suggestions to make it better, and your boss is still an
asshole, but this time he says, well, the union provides for a worker suggestion box,
so put your suggestion in there.
You talk to your union rep, you file away your suggestion, which will never be read,
and will be discarded immediately if it is, and then you go on working for another day.
It's true that in a bad workplace, a union can serve to protect you from unjust firings,
but it also serves to convince you not to quit when you've been slighted, because
it grants you the illusion that you're being heard, that you're understood, that
you're participating in something, when the truth is, the union rep and management
are probably hanging out after hours laughing at you.
I want it to be clear, I'm not strictly anti-union.
They have their place, and they can do good.
In fact, if you're a free marketeer, you should be pro-union, because collective bargaining
is a market force, just like individual bargaining is.
Free market only means that the state should not threaten individual free agents from acting
freely at the barrel of a gun.
It doesn't say that people can't come together to foreign unions, or companies.
But this position that socialists have taken up, that unions are always good no matter
what, and management will always be pure evil, is laughably stupid, and I love it when it
blows up in their face.
Like when Medium says that their workers attempt to unionize was just an amplification of cis
white male voices, or when Kickstarter said their workers attempt to unionize was a misappropriation
of unions for use by privileged workers.
Yeah, you made this corporations go woke bed, and you can fucking lie in it.
And of course it goes without saying that these people suddenly become violently anti-union
when it's a police union, but that's a topic for another day.
For better or worse, unions are falling out of style, and when it comes to that anti-individualist
stance I mentioned earlier, I can see why.
Consider this story.
Instacart is firing every employee who voted to unionize.
Sounds pretty bad, right?
Instacart operates under a gig model like Uber and Lyft, who have both dealt with their
own unionization woes.
But consider that gig business model as compared to a traditional job.
At a regular unionized workplace, like say at a grocery store, or a food packing plant,
or some other blue collar job, you've got a union that protects you, but you still show
up for the hours they schedule you, whether you like it or not.
The whole purpose of an independent contractor job is that you can make your own hours.
You don't want to work for Uber today?
Well then don't.
Set yourself unavailable on the app.
Have plans at 7pm?
Okay, work whenever you want and then call it a day when you're done.
I know at-will employment is considered a dirty word in the States, but that doesn't
just mean at-will for the employer, it also means at-will for the worker.
These types of jobs have their drawbacks, but what they provide that a 9-5 unionized
workplace does not is infinite flexibility.
Some people consider content creators not to be self-employed, but to be employees of
YouTube or Twitch.
I don't agree with that, but let's run with it.
If we are employees, that means we're operating on a gig model, and I couldn't be happier
with it.
If I post a video tomorrow, I don't post a video, and the responsibility of what happens
is on me.
I don't get paid.
I might lose out in the algorithm, whatever it is, but it's my choice, and I can come
back the next day and post a video again without the possibility of getting fired by YouTube
for a no-call no-show and having my channel given away to somebody else.
The gig model is not for everybody, but for people with specific personalities or lifestyles
it's perfect, and this drive to unionize everything is ruining the benefits for those
attracted to this idea of working at their leisure.
I think this stems from a fundamental misunderstanding of the strengths and weaknesses of unions,
where they are appropriate and where they are not.
Case in point.
No dude, simply not showing up to work is not striking, and it was good to fire you
when you stopped doing your job.
You're an idiot.
Worst part is, all this union idiocy is probably going to end up hurting the good unions too.
Walmart already aggressively union busts, and they're one of the shittiest employers
around.
I actually think Walmart's one of the places where you really should have a union and yet
here we are.
At the same time, Amazon has been employing some truly dystopian things, like tracking
employees with heat sensors to try and determine pro-union sentiment, or taking advantage of
workplace ethnic strife to prevent unionization attempts.
Unions may be good in these situations, because Walmart and Amazon are both kind of shitty,
but socialists have royally shit the bed on the union question to the point that your
average person is never going to touch it.
So yeah, that union vote failed.
And you know what?
It failed fair and square.
No no no no no, don't call to stop counting the ballots.
Don't complain that illegal ballot drop boxes invalidated the vote.
Don't complain that large batches of ballots arrived at odd times, and it seemed suspicious
that they would do so.
Don't complain that Jeff Bezos himself was against the idea of mail-in voting as it would
be considered unfair.
Stop crying about it.
This is normal election behavior.
Amazon is just fortifying the vote, and leftists are just conspiracy theorists who are butt
mad that they lost.
Sound familiar?
Thank you for watching my friends.
If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around and do all the other algorithm-positive
stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like, I don't know.
Sub for more, or hit up my Patreon or Subscribe star if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So I'll see you tomorrow.
I love you.
