Welcome to SJ Weekly, guys, for this week. I know last week there was a few complaints about the
fact that there was no slurping of the usual daily coffee, so I will of course cut right to the chase.
You know what? If I could, I would always have that first sip of coffee over and over and over
again. It's the best part of coffee. I know this is coming out a day late, I'm very sorry about
that, but it's not like I did nothing yesterday. The January community stream was held on this
channel yesterday. All people who either sub to me on Twitch, on my Twitch channel, or they give
at least five bucks on Patreon, which by the way, you don't have to worry about anymore because
Subscribestar now works, but basically if people financially support the channel, they come on a
voice call with me, and then we watch a movie together, and that was yesterday's stream. So
even though SJ Weekly is a day late, I didn't do nothing yesterday, and in fact we had a lot of fun
watching the fourth and final Channel Awesome movie. It was fucking atrocious. And speaking
of Subscribestar and Patreon, yeah, Subscribestar is actually working, so I'm going to be setting
up the Subscribestar account in the next few days, but it is operational, so if you want to support
the show financially again and you left Patreon and you're looking for a way to do it, you can go
to Subscribestar.com slash shortfidotaku. But let's get on with it. Here's this week's
ridiculous person, ridiculous account. Her name seems to be Hikio Mikado, a real space girl
visiting virtuality. I'm sure you are, darling. Activist against evil. Well, who isn't? I'm a
Christian, I'm a lesbian, I'm ENFJ, I'm Mercurian, social justice warrior, vegetarian,
something in Japanese, and hashtag resist. I'm surprised there's no pronouns in that bio.
So Elizabeth Warren posts something about how, due to the government shutdown,
domestic violence shelters are cutting services due to lack of funding. And I mean, that is a
problem with a prolonged shutdown, is that a lot of services that need funding don't get it,
and that's something that can't be ignored. But Elizabeth Warren, bless her heart, says Donald
Trump and the Republicans are making a choice to keep survivors of domestic abuse in danger
rather than reopen our government. Hashtag Trump shutdown. Maybe you guys should come to the table
and work out a deal on the wall then. You already know what the Republicans want. Try to cut a deal.
Stop being obstructionists. But anyway, here's our terrible account,
hikimikado. Hashtag expel Mitch McConnell and open the government. I don't know if it's quite that
easy. Vote on the budget you already had with bipartisan support. If they actually had bipartisan
support, they would do that. They clearly don't have the support for their budget.
If hashtag traitor Trump vetoes it, override the veto with that same bipartisan support.
Yeah, that's not how it works. You can have enough votes to pass a bill and then when it's vetoed,
you have to have even more votes. It's not just casting the same votes again. I don't think you
understand how your government works. Rescue the 800,000 federal workers that Trump has
held hostage like he's holding a fucking gun to their heads. Hashtag save USA from fascism.
Nothing that's been described in this situation is fascism. In fact, what would be fascism is
ordering a government back to work that did not agree on something. Let's move on to our first
article today on Vox. And right away I notice, where did our ads go? Yeah, I ad blocked them.
Fuck you, Vox. I hope you start firing people too. Social media is rotting democracy from within.
How social platforms enable far right politicians campaigns to undermine democracy.
I can already tell exactly why they're saying this and it's because despite all the terrible
shit social media companies have been doing recently, and they've been doing a lot of
terrible shit, there's still a little bit of impartiality to them. Like I've seen SJWs on
Twitter get fucked by the rules designed to protect SJWs. So very clearly it's not a perfectly
biased system yet. And right now the positions of conservatives are more amenable to the general
population than the positions of leftists. And there's no surprise as to why that is.
It's because the left abandoned liberalism. The left abandoned personal freedom. It abandoned
property rights, freedom of speech. And the right decided to swoop in and claim those things.
Since most people like those things, most people are now starting to go right. And because the
marketplace of social media companies is inherently based in freedom of speech,
even as they try to suppress that speech, there's always going to be a bent towards freedom on any
social media platform. And if it's the conservatives that are taking up that position politically,
they're going to be popular on those social media platforms. It makes complete sense to me.
Even as like, you know, YouTube and Reddit and Facebook and Twitter all start censoring people,
there's still a cry for freedom on those platforms. There's still people finding ways to
work around the rules. There's still people finding ways to fool the algorithms. And at
some point when all of those safety measures, those stopgap measures are closed, the social
media network in question will likely die the same way that Tumblr died. Because to put it plainly,
the people desire freedom, and social media networks offer freedom. And the less freedom
they offer over time, the less popular they're going to be in the long run. But yeah, that's
what this article is likely about. I'm just guessing I haven't even read it yet. But basically
that because the left has abandoned freedom as a political principle, and social networks are
inherently based in freedom, now it turns out that far right politicians campaigns use social media
to undermine democracy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, they're not undermining democracy,
they're undermining you. At the inauguration of Brazil's new far right president, Bolsonaro in
early January, a crowd of his supporters began a surprising chant. They weren't cheering for
Bolsonaro or his running mate or their party. Instead, they're reciting the names of social
media platforms. Facebook, Facebook, Facebook, the crowd yelled, WhatsApp, WhatsApp, WhatsApp.
They were crediting the platforms with their man's victory, and they aren't entirely wrong.
During the campaign, a conservative pro-business interest group funded a massive disinformation
campaign on WhatsApp. I'm sure it was disinformation only. False and damaging
information about Bolsonaro's left wing opponent, including fake news mocked up to look like
neutral fact checks, spread like wildfire in the run up to the October 8th vote.
This deluge, according to one Brazilian expert, played a role in Bolsonaro's victory.
Social media networks give the plebs a way to voice their concerns,
as well as to group up together in ways that they wouldn't have been able to before the internet,
and spread their ideas. And the people that hold cultural power right now, which are people
on the far left, don't like that. They don't like the plebs speaking up. They simply want to speak
for the plebs. Social media, once seen as a profoundly democratic technology, is increasingly
serving the needs of authoritarians and their allies. No, it just turns out that it's still
a democratic technology, despite how much they're fucking it up. It's just that you are against
democracy now. That's the point. The people are switching away from your political point of view,
so you think that social media networks are to blame. Social media can certainly help
pro-democracy movements at times, but they overall give far-right parties and authoritarians an
advantage. Well, keep in mind that authoritarians can be far-right or far-left. Being a tyrant is
not exclusive to one political stripe. Nazis might be far-right tyrants, and communists might be
far-left tyrants, but they're still tyrants. And I have to ask you this, why do you think that
social media gives far-right parties and authoritarians an advantage, and not far-left
parties and far-left authoritarians an advantage? What's the difference? Why is it that only the
right benefits from social media? Is it because the left can't meme? That's definitely a possibility.
Or is it because far-left extremism is just really unpopular right now, and social media lets people
talk about that? Maybe that's the advantage. I'm sure at some point in the future, far-right
extremism will become unpopular again. Certainly more unpopular than it already is. Because these
things seem to work in a pendulum. And there's going to be people like you, probably at Vox,
applauding social media for allowing young leftists to voice their concerns about the
populist far-right. But right now, because they're against you, they give authoritarians an advantage.
This is just so fucking transparent and disgusting. And you know what? It's on Vox,
so I'm not surprised. Over on the pluralist, we have bikini climber freezes to death on
mountain while waiting for help to arrive. What? A Taiwanese social media star,
known for scaling mountains in the semi-nude, was found dead after falling into a 100-foot
deep gulch on Monday. The day before, 36-year-old Gigi Wu, known online as the bikini climber,
had tumbled into a ravine in Yushan National Park, where she tried to scale the country's tallest
summit, Taiwan News reported. Her leg was injured by the fall, Wu immediately called a friend and
reported her location to the best of her ability. Yet it took security forces more than 24 hours to
locate her, by which time she was already dead from hyperthermia. Maybe you shouldn't... I know
it's a bit too late to talk about this now, Jesus Christ, but maybe you shouldn't climb mountains in
a fucking bikini. I get it, that's your thing, right? You're going to be a social media star,
you're going to have a gimmick, there's your gimmick, be a good looking girl, climb mountains
in a bikini, I understand, but maybe it wasn't worth fucking dying for. While daredevil tragedies
are nothing new, the promise of social media exposure has enticed many inexperienced attention
mongers into taking on increasingly dangerous and sometimes deadly challenges. Examples transcend
age and country. A Romanian teen who caught fire after trying to take a selfie on top of a running
train. V, V is that you buddy? On the BBC news we have speedboat killer Jack Sheppard,
Georgia link confirmed. There's a speedboat killer? Okay, let's read the article.
Police in Georgia have confirmed that they are working with the Met police to track a fugitive
who was convicted of killing his date in a speedboat crash on the Thames. He killed his date
okay and in a speedboat crash like maybe I mean if if the speedboat crashed does that really
mean that you killed your your date if you crashed your speedboat like I don't I don't know how it
works I know that in a car like if you do you do you if you're driving a car and you and you like
accidentally get into a crash in your car are you are you held liable for murder if a passenger
also died like I don't know maybe it doesn't necessarily seem right but I don't I don't know
Jack Sheppard 31 was sentenced to six years in July for the manslaughter of 24 year old
Charlotte Brown however he was absent from his trial after fleeing the UK in March and he he
went to Georgia so he just he just made bail and ran okay Sheppard made his first appearance at the
old Bailey on 26th of January where he entered a not guilty plea to a charge of manslaughter by
gross negligence okay so he wasn't murder manslaughter by gross negligence he was somehow
negligent what actually happened in the event though after meeting on the dating website
okcupid Sheppard took Miss Brown on a date on the 8th of December 2015 he spent 150 pounds on wine
and food at a restaurant in the shard before taking Miss Brown on a speedboat he claimed he
owned okay here's here's the map of their little speedboat trip one they board the speedboat at
Hammersmith bridge two Jack Sheppard drives the boat at speeds of 26 to 34 knots I don't know if
that's too fast like I don't I don't know anything about boats and they drives it to three so he
drives all the way up to when Westminster bridge turns around oh at four around Battersea bridge
Charlotte Brown takes control of the boat
and at five near the plantation wharf the boat veers left and hits a submerged submerged object
Miss Brown and Sheppard were thrown from the boat when it hit branches in the water
Sheppard was found clinging to the hull and Miss Brown was pulled from the water
unconscious and unresponsive a post-mortem examination found she died from cold water
immersion hold on a minute if if she took the control of the boat at four
isn't she responsible for her own death like what why is he a speedboat killer he wasn't even
driving the boat like if if she wanted to drive and he handed the control of the boat over to her
and then she crashes the boat killing herself and almost killing the guy why is he the killer
why is he somehow responsible even through gross negligence are women not considered full adults
in the UK maybe he fled to Georgia because he knew that as shitty as the UK is right now he
wasn't going to get a fair fucking trial and speaking of the UK being shitty it was revealed
that dozens of girls subjected to breast ironing in the UK perpetrators consider it a traditional
measure to stop unwanted male attention an African practice of ironing a girl's chest with
a hot stone to delay breast formation is spreading in the UK with anecdotal evidence of dozens of
recent cases community workers in London Yorkshire Essex and the West Midlands have told the Guardian
of cases in which preteen girls from the diaspora of several African countries are subjected to the
painful abuse of an ultimately futile practice you know if you're gonna import people from
from wildly different cultures than than your own this might be a good reason as to why there
should be an impetus that they assimilate into your culture it is fine if African people move
to the UK to become British it's fine if Middle Eastern people move to the UK to become British
if they want to keep doing the same bullshit that turned their countries into dusty shitholes
in the first place they should probably fucking stay there you can call me a racist all you want
I do not want to see preteen girls have their chests fucking ironed in the UK or in Canada or
the States or in any other first world nation where we have moved beyond this type of stupid
barbarism one woman living in the suburbs of an English city told the Guardian how she went about
ironing her daughter's chest at the first sign of puberty I took the stone I warmed it and then I
started massaging my daughter's chest and then the stone was a little bit hot when I started
massaging she said mommy it's hot the child developed bruising and the mother was eventually
questioned by police before being released with a caution just with a caution guys you can't
actually arrest her because this is her beautiful native culture you can't actually arrest her for
fucking child abuse because it seems that no matter what the only thing that British police
do is give out cautions that's all they do when something is way too serious and pretty much
requires somebody being thrown in jail for the rest of their fucking lives they get a caution
but also when somebody does absolutely nothing wrong they still get a caution it's cautions
for everyone in the UK UK man details run in with Britain's thought police no crime has been
committed but I need to check your thinking no you don't the police do not need to check your
thinking they do not need to check my thinking until I break the law the police can fuck off
at some point I'm gonna have to do a video on just how shitty the UK is because I keep seeing
more and more of these ridiculous stories and things do not seem to be getting better
a former police officer in the UK has had his thoughts checked by police claiming to
represent the LGBTQ community Humberside police tracked Harry Miller to his place of work
after acquiring 30 tweets including a number of limericks that he had liked from his personal
account he liked them that's the problem he pressed the fucking like button on twitter
according to the officer Miller had not committed a hate crime by liking the tweets but the event
was still to be recorded as a hate incident they really are watching fucking everything at this
point are they after being subject to a 30-minute police inquiry Miller was warned to watch his
words or risk losing his job as potential LGBTQ employees would not have a safe space if they
decided to work for Miller following the incident Miller posted a series of tweets detailing the
account got a call from director saying cops wanted to speak to me he had sense not to give
out my number but he said but he said he'd pass on details I rang spoke to PC from Humberside
introduces himself as representing the LGBTQ community on a report of hate speech by me
they found me via my company had been all over the website and decided if I employed trans people at
all it was not a safe place for them and work should know the cops said he was in possession
of 30 tweets by me I asked if any contained criminal material he said no I asked if any
came close to being criminal and he read me a limerick honestly a limerick a cop read me
a limerick over the phone I said I didn't write that he said ah but you liked it and promoted it
I asked why he was wasting his time on a non-crime he said it's not a crime but it will be
recorded as a hate incident so I've added to a statistic even though there is no crime which
brings me to my next point I asked how could there be a victim if as he's established there was no
crime he said that's just how it works my comment was that by framing the complainant as a victim
this made me by default a criminal I asked him to desist from using it this is where it gets
incredibly sinister the cop told me that he needed to speak with me because even though I'd committed
no crime whatsoever he needed and I quote to check my thinking he said sometimes a woman's
brain grows a man's body in the womb and that's what transgender is you can imagine my response
lastly he told me that I needed to watch my words more carefully or I was at risk of being sacked by
the company for hate speech at which point I wished him well and said I needed to go rinse
my socks according to humberside police a hate crime is anything that you think might have been
motivated by hostility or prejudice to become a victim of a hate crime you don't even need to be
the target you simply have to witness somebody being targeted and you're granted victim status
this is ridiculous this needs to fucking stop period this is something that everybody has an
obligation to oppose this will be how the new tyranny of the 21st century is built
through bullshit like this and we can thank the sjws for popularizing it and far left
politicians for empowering the state to act on this bullshit it has to stop all right guys I'm
done man it gets more and more disheartening the more videos I make I have to admit oh fuck me
thanks for listening I do really appreciate all the support as I said at the top
subscribe stars up you can hit up subscribe star.com slash short fat otaku
if you feel like financially supporting the show as usual I stream on twitch five nights a week
twitch.tv slash game boomers tonight the plan is that me and two friends of mine we're going to be
playing through the newest episode of life is strange 2 which is another sjw piece of shit
we're going to play it laugh at it's going to be a good time swing by around like uh
7 pm est I'd say between 7 and 8 pm est come say hi I'd love to see you there
I'll talk to you guys later I love you
