If we don't do this, we're done for.
I can't get in.
Okay, we have to try something different.
I just sent you a link.
Have you got it?
I got it.
There's only 90 seconds left.
We are running out of time.
Okay, open it.
Set location to Ashburn and click continue.
Done.
Quickly reload the page and we should be in.
They know.
What?
They know we're on a proxy.
Try another server.
There isn't one.
Are you sure?
There's nothing.
60 seconds left.
60 seconds, Gabe.
All right, we're going to need to try something else here.
Have you tried Surfshark?
Surfshark?
Surfshark?
Yes.
You've got the link now.
It's downloading.
What is it?
It's a VPN service.
When things are geo-blocked right now, we can circumvent it.
We can virtually appear like we are in any one of a hundred countries.
If a Netflix show isn't available in your region, just change your location.
And it encrypts your traffic.
Your internet service provider can't see what you've been up to online.
And Surfshark doesn't keep logs of what you're doing either.
I've got it.
Open it.
Type Boston.
Hit connect.
That's all I have to do?
Just hit connect?
It's that simple?
It really is that simple.
This doesn't work.
We are out of time.
It's still blocked.
They have over 3200 different servers.
Connect to a different one.
Did we get it?
We got it.
If you use Code Opinion or click the link in the description box, you can get an extra
three months of Surfshark for free.
2017.
So that first story we're going to talk about today is about a family that has garnered
a lot of negative attention in the past week.
2017 was an interesting year on YouTube.
You poured molten lava on a phone and a cockroach.
A year of evolution, restlessness, and scandal.
Hello, I wanted to make a statement on what I said in my previous livestream.
The platform reached new heights, but there were many lows.
The website's ecosystem was irreparably changed, and creators were forced to adapt to it.
A bunch of advertisers, fearing backlash, removed their ads entirely from YouTube, and
during this period, every YouTuber saw a decrease in revenue.
Yet, amongst this all, the year mostly belonged to a creator by the name of Jake Paul, and
his motley crew of vagabonds known as Team 10, who had burst onto the scene with all
the bombast of the showbiz world's most notorious figures.
The colossal rise of Team 10 was attributed to a combination of pranks, music videos,
and controversies that all drew attention, criticism, and even anger from fellow content
creators and the general public alike, barely taking them a month to go from just another
YouTube ensemble to public enemy number one.
They continued to participate in escalating antics that would redefine content on YouTube
as many perceived at the time, cementing their status as YouTube royalty, for better and
for worse.
Fast forward a few years, and their YouTube channel is gone, many of their videos are
gone, and their presence online is left behind little more than a brief summary on their
website, and the commitment that a new era is coming soon.
They're carved out on the platform, lost.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of
a twat with too much free time, and Team 10, what happened
to them? Let's find out.
As I'm sure you're aware, we all know who Team 10
started with. However,
the origin story is somewhat more intriguing than one might assume it was, because before
Team 10 burst onto the scene, Jake Paul was a relatively popular teen actor and influencer,
posting with his brother Logan, don't know if you've heard of him, on Vine. They garnered
a multi-million following from posting short clips that capitalised on pantomime humour
in the mid-2010s. The content obviously hasn't dated particularly well,
but for what it's worth,
Logan and Jake were strong physical actors who could manipulate their bodies pretty successfully
to enable effective slapstick comedy. Now, Vine didn't last too long,
but the dreams that Jake Paul possessed persisted, and not too long after, he moved to LA
in pursuit of a greater goal, celebrity stardom. This appeared to be materialising
as soon as he acquired a role on the Disney Channel show Bizaardvark, alongside
Madison Hu and Olivia Rodrigo. Jake Paul played the role of a character who would partake
in a variety of days for social media clout, which was touted by Disney as an appropriate role
for such a creator. The show revolved around the concept of reality online, which was fitting
given that at the time Jake Paul was working on his own YouTube projects.
This included a channel called Jake Paul Productions, which appeared to alternate between
the genres of vlogging, comedy, and music. It had been running since May 2014,
and it accumulated a few hundred thousand subscribers by the time Jake's big Disney break came around.
However, not satisfied with a career in acting and a relatively fruitful YouTube channel,
something was brewing behind the scenes, a little project that Jake had been working on
with a few of his buddies, a syndicate known as Team 10. Team 10 had clearly been an idea
conceived by Paul as he was moving to Los Angeles. The Twitter appeared in September 2015
and the official website not too long after. In its formative era, there wasn't too much known
about its ethos or its aims, as its members were still not a major presence online.
However, this would gradually change over the following year as they worked to expand their influence.
Team 10's YouTube channel was launched around May 2016, a couple days before his two-year
upload anniversary on the video sharing platform. Although they were establishing a YouTube
presence, their marketing clearly presented something else, that this was an agency looking to
maximise the potential of future influencers. The advertising heralded it as the first ever
social media for the talent, by the talent. And although channel syndicates and collaborative
groups had existed long before Team 10, there was an air of formality about this arrangement
that appeared to set these creators apart. Being part of Team 10 granted you immediate benefits.
First of all, you'd have a slot on the Team 10 social medias, you'd be listed on their running
Twitter feed, you'd have access to uploading on their YouTube channel, and you'd likely be in the
proximity of the then up-and-coming Jake Paul, who was quickly becoming an overnight sensation,
and would regularly invite other members of the team onto his main channel. Most impressively
though, you'd have a spot in the Team 10 house, a sizable mansion which boasted a basketball hoop
in the kitchen and its own DJ booth. It seems that at its inception, Team 10 was going for a slightly
more diverse assemblage of talent. The early roster featured a young AJ Mitchell who would go on
to find considerable success as a solo musician, Alex Lang who would go on to find work as an actor,
and Nils Visser who was an aspiring DJ at the time. However, in spite of the marketing of Team 10
as a network to bolster individual success, there was a much greater motive that would become very
apparent if you read any of their blog posts from this time. We'll focus on this little excerpt,
that describes their new crib. After listing out all the cool aspects of the Team 10 house,
they share one additional detail, that quote,
Of course, this isn't a great revelation, nor is it some grand deception, but it is a tactic that reveals
what Jake's true intent with Team 10 was, and how it was capable of doing something that he alone
could not, and that was to capitalise on the fandom. You can have a teen idol who will be loved by
swathes of adoring fans, but put them in a group, and you have a dynamic that allows audiences to pick
favourites, play characters off each other, and be invested in the interweaving storylines that existed
in their lives. By then it was pretty clear that Jake Paul knew his appeal to younger teen audiences,
and if you didn't think he was explicit enough with his intentions, then you didn't have to look beyond
the interviews he gave for a more direct explanation of where his goals lay. As you get more and more popular
and start to build a brand name for yourself in the space, you start working with big Fortune 500 companies,
merchandising deals, you can tour, there are lots of ways to monetise, but if you have millions of fans,
and you can convert even 5% of them to pay for something of yours, you are in the 7 figure range.
Jake Paul was doing what a lot of corporate and record label executives had done before, he was manufacturing
Teen Appeal, but whereas many of those who had come before worked within the bounds that corporations
granted them, Jake seemed much more involved in the brand image than the teen idols who had come before him,
and possessed no shame in doing so. Jake Paul crafted a very polarised marketing strategy, on one hand
he placed himself as the nexus of youth stardom, priming a parasocial relationship with audiences who
wanted to feel like they were a part of his life, but conversely also playing to the crowd of entrepreneurs
who wanted a taste of that lifestyle. In another interview with Entertainment Tonight, Paul branded himself
in that he wanted to not just be a creator himself, but he wanted to raise the next generation of influencers,
and that's what Team 10 represented to him, sowing the seeds of talent and reaping the rewards when they came to fruition.
However, although he had amassed a decent number of subscribers on their YouTube channels, and was building
a substantial relationship with audiences, it was hard to say that Jake Paul or Team 10 had quite made the big leagues yet,
there was still a formula waiting to be perfected, but if they wanted to do that, they would have to continue
pushing the boundaries of their content into new realms. How would they manage?
Well.
Although 2016 marked the online establishment of Team 10, 2017 was definitely the year it began to take off,
particularly on Jake Paul's main channel which featured many of the members and the shenanigans that occurred
in the four walls of the Squads Humbler boat.
Paul obviously had a penchant for doing it large, the sort of formula that Mr Beast refined in recent years,
of investing a lot to make a lot. This often led to rather high-budget stunts, pranks, and trips that would regularly
capture the imagination of prospective audiences. His actions were presented in the light of a brash frat boy
who was living it up, pushing the envelope to the extreme. However, unlike the platform's now largest individual creator,
the younger Paul brother also integrated elements of Team 10's personal lives into the content, and this formed
a more sequential narrative within the uploads. Even though these videos would work as standalone clip baiting content,
you could easily be drawn into the interpersonal relationships that these creators would have between each other,
and Jake would regularly alternate between silly and serious, even if it was just through whether he used up or lower case
in the titles, or punctuation marks like ellipses. There was an emotion that would be elicited from a user,
like excitement or fear. There was drama, drama that we'll talk about in a bit, but even when it seemed negative,
it served some sort of purpose in appearing real to those who watched it. Jake Paul knew exactly how he wanted
a video to be marketed, and the daily vlogging style allowed for a constant schedule that made the most of an algorithm
that often rewarded a strong upload schedule. This position Jake Paul's channel in particular is one of the fastest growing channels
on the platform, however many of his Team 10 colleagues also experienced unprecedented prosperity, especially Erica
Costell, the then girlfriend of Paul, whose romantic involvement with Jake was one of the centrepieces of the channel,
and would regularly be used as a selling point for a variety of commodities. All of these demonstrated the components
of the very successful channel that Jake had spoken about in interviews, one that progressed with its viewership's investment
in it. They had a loyal following from their fandom, but it also felt they had yet to become the colossus that Jake likely
envisioned during the conception of the channel. Not that many people were speaking about their content outside their audience,
and there was probably a question about where they would hit that ceiling, but that was about to change.
2017 was not just an interesting year in general, but an interesting year for music.
Particularly on YouTube, we're just seeing a rise in popularity for creator-performed diss tracks, most famously
by the likes of creators like RiceGum. The popularity of general rap music on YouTube had been bolstered by the fact
that reaction content in the musical domain was often oriented towards hip-hop, which seemed to inspire creators
to chance their own arm. These diss tracks were not particularly exceptional, but they were a goofy source of entertainment,
and a new spin on the then pretty exhaustive reaction commentary genre as a whole. However, no creator had properly made
an actual diss track to the rest of YouTube, and why would they? It would be an incredibly braggadocious thing for any creator
to do, and you could easily end up alienating your audience by insulting them. After all, they are part of the YouTube
network as much as anyone. You'd have to have confidence-bordering arrogance to do it, and well, one man, or one team, did.
Now, brag rappers long existed in the music industry, as a matter of fact, its existence underpins many modern
cornerstones of hip-hop music. However, brag rap worked because the brags were either impressive, challenging, or amusing,
and the artists actually had the charisma to back up what they were saying. Jake Paul, on the other hand, does not.
He had attempted a diss track against Ricegum in 2016, which was no better, but you'd think he would have learned something
in the year since, but alas.
There is this degree of ineptitude that is almost fascinating when watching the music video. It exhibits a near elementary
understanding of how rhyming and wordplay operates within music, the number of couplets that just fall flat on their face,
the similes that are so basic they feel like they were written by someone with the talent of a grapefruit. They have a team of people,
this is the best they could come up with. There were so many inconceivable moments, Jake Paul's merch selling like a God Church,
Nick Crompton hailing from the city of England, and using the word litting, unironically. It was pure, unadulterated trash,
and everyone knew.
The thing about virally bad music is that it often has the potential to be more successful than virally good music.
This started all the way back in 2010 with Justin Bieber's Baby, which for a long time was the most disliked video on YouTube,
and persisted over the years with songs like Friday. Whereas in the case of Rebecca Black and Justin Bieber, there was a sense
that they were trying to perform a musical number, Jake Paul and his colleagues possessed none of that, especially given the subject
of their rap song was how much better they were than all of you. Accordingly, they were afforded even less charity by the
already savage internet dwellers who wasted no time in going at Team 10's attempts to establish themselves online.
I heard it in one day, they came out with that. I'm not saying it's easy to write music at all, I know it's tough,
but I think I could come up with a better song in one day.
The criticism came thick and fast, with many people pointing out the obvious, that Jake Paul was a subpar rapper,
and with such a popular and easy target, it wasn't long before even the platform's largest creators were chiming in on the platform's
personality.
I think this song has killed me. I wanna die more than I've ever died before.
Jake Paul was right in one sense, the PewDiePie was indeed next, and in doing that, Team 10 did what they were probably
setting out to do, establishing themselves.
Now, why did I include this part when I'm talking about the demise? Well, I think it very aptly describes Jake Paul's
relationship with Team 10. Jake Paul, on one hand, seemed like a very financially astute individual.
Um, yeah, so we're in a company called Teamdom, you can think of it as a modern day media conglomerate,
where we use social media and content marketing to drive products, talent, make viral videos, and we work with brands,
and develop products, and that sort of stuff, yeah.
On the other hand, he wrote this.
Now, there isn't a direct overlap between business acumen and songwriting capability, but it wouldn't have been
hard for him to hire a ghostwriter who probably would have assisted him with some pretty fire bars.
There was very little stopping Jake from writing a perfectly serviceable song, but he ultimately chose not to,
and he was also heavily involved in writing other people's verses as well, which seems strange given that they all
have talent in the musical vicinity, at least on par with their wringling.
The truth was that Jake assumed he knew better than everyone else, and maybe he did.
Jake Paul knew that the most easily exploited market was a younger child with an internet connection,
and an interest in modern culture and glamorous lifestyles, people who want to live like them,
so why wouldn't he produce content that is intentionally juvenile in its presentation, yet confident in its messaging?
It's the easiest way to tell a young person that, this is how you live like me.
If anything, It's Everyday Bro was a statement of transparency to everyone else online,
they were going to make a shit ton of money off their viewers, and there was nothing you could do about it.
Barely days after people started responding to his video, he dropped God Church merch that probably did sell like a God Church.
Despite his atrociousness, It's Everyday Bro quickly accumulated over 100 million views on YouTube,
charted in multiple countries, and ascended to number 3 in the weekly American iTunes chart.
Everyone was talking about Team 10, and nearly every member experienced exponential growth during this period,
many of whom appearing on the list of YouTube's fastest growing channels.
Commentators could say whatever they wanted, but it did not change the reality that Team 10 had arrived.
The question is though, what do you do now all eyes are on you?
My older brother, Logan Paul, probably never heard of him. He basically, um...
dissed, if you could even call us that, in his YouTube video.
He dissed, he dissed, It's Everyday Bro, the song, badly.
Let's talk about the concept of beef.
By now it was pretty clear that Team 10 were not in many people's good books,
but it wasn't necessarily bad for business, particularly given there was potential for conflict between groups.
Now, most of these people are not the most relevant to today's discourse,
and to be frank, a lot of the drama after the song's popularity was pretty manufactured,
including Jake's short-lived beef with his brother and the pop group Why Don't We,
but there was something brewing beneath the surface.
At the end of Logan's rather short response, you see, there is the apparent reveal of someone who is known to Jake.
Who is that person?
Anyway, there was this tribal element about It's Everyday Bro,
and it's relationship to Team 10, a sort of chest-beating moment.
And I say it's a diss to the whole of YouTube, and it is, but it was also a diss to a variety of people.
Nevertheless, there is what many assume to be a very real reference to a person by the name of Alyssa Violet,
and the relationship that she had with Team 10.
Let's go back to 2016 briefly, when Team 10 was still in its infancy.
As noted, there were a fair few members who were in and out of the house before a solid roster was assembled,
but none that were likely closer to Jake than Alyssa herself.
Alyssa and Jake went back, and I mean back in this sense, actually back to Jake Paul's home state of Ohio.
They met at 18, both fresh out of high school, when Jake moved to LA, as did Alyssa,
signing a five-year contract with Team 10.
And at first, real rumours swirled about her and Jake's romantic potential,
with many speculating on their relationship status, and Team 10 even marketing merchandise related to the couple's connection.
However, at the start of 2017, this soured when Alyssa was abruptly removed from the Team 10 group,
with Jake releasing a distraught statement alleging that she cheated on him.
Alyssa adamantly denied this, and put out her own statement saying that she couldn't have cheated because they were never a legitimate couple,
expressing a sentiment of betrayal that he couldn't even make such claims.
One thing was for certain though, it concluded the will they, won't they saga, with a rather definite they won't.
This tension persisted over the following months, with Hollywood Gossip Magazines continuing to cover the story.
However, It's Everyday Bro, and the lyrics relating to what was sent at 4.52, once more placed this breakup underneath the spotlight
as they appeared to be an indirect reference to their breakup.
At this point, Team 10 were rather widely hated by the online world for their godawful music,
but Alyssa was about to give them one more reason, or a few more at least.
Alyssa- I just don't understand how someone could do that to someone. I really don't.
On the 9th of June, Alyssa Viola uploaded a video entitled, What You've Been Waiting For.
This video is a much more personal dissertation on her relationship with Jake, expressing that she legitimately loved him,
and that she experienced serious emotional turmoil due to the fact that he regularly played with her expectations,
including asking her to leave the bedroom so he could sleep with other girls.
Alyssa- I'd move in with him, sleeping in the same bed, basically together at this point, but without a title.
But then he would always have girls over in front of me, and I was just like, what the frick?
So then we're not together. But then he would play all these mind games with me and just be like, yo, don't get mad,
having a girl over. Can you do that 25,000 times? I would be in our room editing or doing something,
and then all of a sudden he'd walk in and be like, yo, can you leave, please, for two hours? Can you go upstairs?
Can you leave for a little bit? And I was like, why? He was like, oh, I'm having a girl over.
We're gonna hang out in here. Okay. It was heartbroken. Legit heartbroken.
This was a significant detail in the video, given that some of Team 10's most successful uploads at that point
were content that clickbaited the speculative aspect of Jake and Alyssa's relationship.
In essence, she felt used for content, and then cast aside when she wouldn't play Jake Paul's game.
I finally treated him the way that he was treating me, and he didn't like it. He got pissed and kicked me out.
Like, the one time I decided to be savage like him, and it ended with me being homeless.
Although a footnote in a lengthy rebuke to Jake Paul, it seemed to illuminate the idea that Team 10 was living
a much more manufactured lifestyle, the one that was portrayed over YouTube.
The video as a whole reflected the sort of control that Jake also exerted over people who were bound to him,
metaphorically and contractually, but it wasn't over yet.
At the end of the day, you can't just say I'm sorry and take everything back.
I'm hurt still, and you've hurt a lot of people. The damage is already done.
You can't just kill someone and bring them back to life. It doesn't work like that in the real world.
And I know a lot of you will be like, Alyssa, don't release that track like you're such a b****. Be the bigger person.
No, I'm sorry, guys. I've been wanting to make this video for so long now. I'm very honest.
If I got a boob job, I would tell you guys I got a boob job.
Rice and I have been working on the song, and we put our blood, sweat, and tears into this, and I'm proud of it. I want to put it out there.
Alyssa Violet's video is a bit strange in the sense that the first 14 minutes contain a lot of seemingly sincere criticism
of Jake Paul and the Team 10 dynamic. However, she concludes the video with the promise of a diss rap of her own,
a collaboration with then extremely popular creator and YouTube rapper RiceGum.
She announced a final verse and music video would be dropping in a few days, but releases a majority of the lyrical content
for the viewers to enjoy. This seemed like a strange contrast to the rest of the video, and felt more like an indulgence
to the performative content that Team 10 had been participating in.
Barely a day after, Jake Paul had released a response to Alyssa Violet's video where he had mostly been
invasive of divulging any intimate information, dancing around subjects as a whole.
He also recorded this alongside a monologue where he talks about decreasing online hate and being kinder to each other,
a complete coincidence I'm sure. However, he said regardless of what came next, he would not be responding
as he didn't want to deal with the drama publicly, likely aware that any engagement could bring the rest of his crew
into the drama, and the possible questions it could attract about the nature of Team 10 itself.
On the 11th of June, the song and music video for RiceGum and Alyssa Violet's diss track, It's Every Night Sis,
dropped on Rice's YouTube channel, and, well, the least I can say is that it was better than it's everyday bro.
The flow in the bars were a stark improvement on Team 10's offering, although by lyrical standards it still left a lot to be desired,
with a lot of thematic repetition and couplets that didn't quite rhyme as well as they probably could.
However, it was definitely designed to be a more personal attack as they harp on Jake Paul's high school history,
which had been portrayed by some ex-students as being mired by ruffian and bully boy behaviour.
Following this, a lot of people took the side of Alyssa, with many criticising Jake harshly in his comments section.
However, the aspect of this once more being projected onto a YouTube diss rap tended to reinforce the facade
of Team 10 rather than actually undermining it. Jake Paul operated over the medium of performance,
and ultimately regardless of what you said over a music video, it was only going to more deeply invest people
than actually rip the mask off, which is what Alyssa appeared to be trying to do throughout the majority of her initial upload.
I don't know how I could love a person that treats someone like that. I don't know if I was in love with him,
or the idea of him, or who I thought he was. I think I was just addicted to the pain of wanting someone so unattainable.
Ultimately, in spite of the massive view count this drama generated, and testimony from a believable source,
Team 10 remained largely unscathed, and continued to pump out content on a daily basis.
Although Alyssa's video walked the line of tearing down the pretense of Team 10's content,
it only stopped short of doing so, and instead of looking at this video of how Jake had used a person to create a reality
for their channel, they tended to look at it from the context of how Jake had treated a former member of Team 10.
What their image was at that time didn't matter, as long as they had the tools to pull it off,
and in the coming month it became clear that there was to be an embrace of the villainous status that had been bestowed
onto them by their critics. This meant more emotional, serious videos, more content addressing their own friendships
and relationships, and more pranks and stunts that promised even higher stakes than the last.
Eventually, the scope of what Team 10 were aspiring for in their little fantasy world began to have implications
for the rest of planet Earth.
I'm cramping!
Yo, I don't know who won.
I need help, Chance!
You gotta hand me!
I don't know, bro, we need to fix it!
We need to replay!
Cut it! Call for it! Call for it!
Replay!
As you're likely aware, Team 10 had a house. Unlike many houses, it was in a neighbourhood, which unsurprisingly,
was not full of young people looking to party, and as Team 10's antics gradually escalated, so did the negative aspect
of those in the real world. In the month following, their house hosted a multitude of stunts that generated multiple
complaints about his behaviour, as many online maligned him, Team 10 seemed to lean into its status,
with Jake being the main spokesperson for them, continuing to be a nuisance even when other people in the real world
tried to consult him about it.
Jake, I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't crawl up there.
Why?
I just wouldn't do that.
A lot of the neighbours are complaining, they're very upset.
No, why?
They say that you've created a living hell out here, that it's like a circus.
Yeah, it is.
All the fans.
I mean, but people like going to circuses, right?
Interviews with the mainstream media had gone from these relaxed dialogues to borderline bedlam.
Drama that had previously been contained within the YouTube platform was spilling over in all directions,
and everyone continued to amplify its coverage over the entirety of social media.
Team 10 obviously enjoyed continued strong viewership over this period, however, there were real world
consequences for this publicity, the most notable being Disney's decision to sever ties with Jake Paul,
ending his work on Bizaardvark, further enshrining this image as this out of control celebrity with a gang of hooligans.
He's just going around like a wrecking ball, being an absolute douchebag to people in public,
and everything that he does, he's just like this fucking ego-brained, just has no perception of what it's like
to be a respectful, decent human being in society.
And, you know, Jake Paulers would call that savage, you know, dab on those motherfucking haters,
I call it being a fucking loser.
That's just how I was raised.
Jake Paul said there wouldn't be a response to Alyssa Violet, but in a way, the heightened stunts and the consequences
that resulted from Team 10's involvement in them were just that.
It was a statement of legitimacy that sought to invalidate the criticism that Team 10 were just another
flash in the pan collective coasting off their 15 minutes of fame, but could they ever fully avert that?
Not everything that you see in the media on a day-to-day basis is real, and that you could basically fake anything
and twist everything the way you want.
Understanding what made Team 10 tick requires an understanding of the actual power dynamics between Jake
and the rest of the crew members. By that should have been apparent, the Team 10 didn't exist because they were all besties.
This was a business venture, and led at the helm by an intrepid influencer who was willing to put everything at stake
for the success of it. Jake Paul had outwardly stated his intent multiple times to create a network which would
maintain a hierarchy of younger talent beneath him, and at the time Team 10 appeared to be a model that would
optimise that. However, were the cracks starting to show?
As aforementioned, there are many benefits to working within a group, particularly when curating fandoms
who want to see personalities building off each other, the monetisation of such networks is incredibly
lucrative for all those involved. This income is typically a motivator to keep these sets of people together,
but at the same time, if a collective becomes too popular, then individual members may feel that it is in their best interest
to go solo. Jake Paul had to walk a tightrope of making Team 10 famous enough to be a worthy investment,
but also reliant on him for that fame to the extent that people wouldn't just walk out. The members themselves
would have felt empowered by the success of Team 10, but also somewhat hesitant to change the status quo,
out of fear that their prosperity may not carry over into their solo ventures, and who can blame them given the many
techniques that Jake himself employed.
Although he obviously wanted the presence of Team 10 for his many antics, in interviews he would still be quite
possessive over the fandom, even when surrounded by his peers, you'd hear the term Jake Paulers rather than Team Teners.
Now, the former does roll off the tongue better, but that's not the reason why he uses the term, in this case it's all about
control. It's the same reason he used his main personal channel to upload a significant amount of Team 10 content,
he wanted to conflate the success of Team 10 with his own, so there was a sense of dependency on Jake.
He didn't want people to just join, acquire success, and leave, but now as someone who did just that, and being
noticeably vocal about it, there was a sense that maybe this structure that Paul had set up was looking somewhat fragile.
Although simultaneously being the public and private face of a business may have seemed like an advantageous position
at the start of Team 10, as it enabled a close relationship with the public perception, it also eventually made him
quite vulnerable, particularly when he became infamous amongst online communities, and it became beneficial for people
to talk shit about him. There are many managers in the industry who are real disciplinarians, for many it's seen as a
standard for them to maintain a public image, I'm sure there are some who are quite unpopular for it, but for Jake,
when his public image was skewered, so was his private enterprise, influencers are far less likely to go on record and
complain about a corporate executive. Jake Paul on the other hand was a prime target.
By making a video on the matter and the subsequent diss track with RiceGum, Alyssa Violet seems to set a precedent for the
attention that could be generated just by leaving, and aligning herself with those who may be hostile to Team 10 and Jake Paul.
At the same time, she also had reduced the novelty of such an action, and actually appeared to possess legitimate
justification for it, so even though there may be some who seem tempted to walk away, Jake's newfound commitment
to the image of Team 10 may have won them over for the moment, but how much could Jake do to convince them that
they were better together?
Well let's talk about loyalty, it's clearly a trait that Jake Paul values in a team member, provided that the loyalty
is to him and not from him. Generally, that was presented as the reason that Alyssa Violet had been ejected from
the house in the first place. Come August, it appeared she had properly moved on from Team 10, and had entered into a
relationship with the content creator FaZe Banks, who was also heavily enshrined in the Los Angeles scene.
Despite supposedly referring to her in It's Everyday Bro, Jake has since made a point of not addressing her,
leading with a peace and love philosophy that was always evident in his content. On August 18th, he put out a post
on his Twitter, appearing to show remorse for his actions over the past few months. He stated that he had learned
that words could indeed be very powerful, and that he would be more mindful of his words going forward.
What was his reason for doing this? Was it a heavy issue weighing on his conscience?
Well.
Long story short of it is that Meg was assaulted by a man last night, who is in the same community and space as us.
And it's not like, if you guys see, she literally has a bruise, I don't know if you can see on camera, like here,
not to be like dramatic, but like she literally has a bruise on the side of the whole entire neck.
The same day, you see, Jake released a video titled, My Assistant Was Assaulted. A pretty serious accusation,
once again it was embedded in a standard vlog, so there's lots of typical shenanigans before this sobering sit down
with the solemn faces and the still camera, where Jake discloses more details relating to this incident,
including the alleged perpetrator.
When I was leaving, he sort of clotheslined me and put their arm out in front of me, and tried to like pull me
into the place that they were, into his table. I was looking up at him and our faces were really close,
and he sort of like was right here.
I feel like it was more extreme. He didn't know you, doesn't know you.
I've never met him before, I just know who he is because he's well known in our same community.
In this video, Jake and his peers explain that during his assistant's outing to the club,
she'd spotted FaZe Banks making out with a girl who wasn't Alyssa, and then while on her way back from the bathroom,
she'd run into Banks who clotheslined her, leaving a very noticeable bruise on her neck.
The thing is though, it's not even internet beef. He doesn't even know who Meg is.
Meg is behind the scenes.
Literally, it just so happens that she is my assistant and works here.
And so, what's crazy about this is that if it wasn't her, this message would have never been spread.
This type of thing could have kept on happening. It could have spiralled into a lot worse things.
It just sickens me, but I don't know if there's more to the story.
Jake quickly dismisses ideas that this has anything to do with Team 10's ongoing disputes with Banks and Alyssa,
stating there was no way that Banks could have even recognised his assistant to the club,
and that this could have happened to any female.
Jake Paul was just standing up for women all around the world.
This video isn't meant to retaliate or target anyone.
It's not about that. It's not about revenge or starting a drama or beef or anything.
It's about how important this message is to get out there, and we're trying to figure out the situation.
But what was he really doing?
This was a very serious charge being made about a public figure.
Nick DM'd the person, police are involved, there's proof, thankfully there's cameras at this club,
and we are going to stop this and have justice and let the police take it from here,
and they're the professionals, they can handle it, but overall this situation just sucks.
It was provided even more credibility by the fact that it had come from number one feminist Jake Paul.
Additionally, Nick Crompton tweeted a screenshot to substantiate this,
adding that the police had been informed that Team 10 would never, ever lie to their fans.
However, this statement would be brought into question by FaZe Banks himself,
who would soon post a video response the following day.
With the title My Girlfriend Was Assaulted, he elaborates on the screenshot that Nick Crompton had posted,
showing that there was missing context to the message.
He said to me somewhere along the lines of,
she said she knows you didn't do it on purpose, so she doesn't think you did it on purpose,
but my assistant was at Warwick last night, it's a club in LA,
and you were there as well, and she walked by your table, and you like clotheslined her,
or did something, and you left this bruise on her neck.
So right here, Nick has lost all credibility.
Now, of course, it's very possible that a person can reflect on an event and change their mind about an individual's intentions,
but with all the intersecting factors, including Jake's ongoing feud with Melissa,
and the rather ham-fisted narrative surrounding women's rights, and being more considerate in general,
it felt like this was another rather calculated move to vilify a person who was finding success outside of Jake's incubator project.
Additionally, given that it was completely separate to the allegation of the clothesline,
the detail of FaZe Banks supposedly making out with a woman who wasn't Alyssa,
seemed like a twist of the knife into a person who had not been loyal to their beloved team.
There was no real way to avoid the fact that this seemed much more personally motivated than it had been presented.
If there was genuine concern, why would you air out that information in a public forum before talking to the affected party first?
I never thought that anybody could lie about something like this.
So initially, I responded with, wait, what? Who is that? I've never seen this person ever.
I don't remember having any interaction with this person, and this is the first time I have ever seen this human being in my life,
and it's a picture of a bruise on her neck, and I'm being told that I caused the bruise.
So I responded, I said, oh my God, holy shit, I don't remember doing that.
I don't think, I never saw her, but obviously if I did do it, it was on accident, 100% on accident, and I'm sorry.
And I asked for her on Twitter, and I tried to get in touch with her, to which Nick didn't respond to any of that.
In Banks' video, he goes into more details about this incident, explaining that he had attempted to reconcile
nearly immediately, but was not given any route to do this. Banks also provided eyewitness testimony from two of his friends
who were also at the establishment that night, which were both very differing accounts to the one presented by Jake Paul in his video,
both of whom confirmed there was no way that he would have ever made out with another girl, and that any physical incident
with Jake Paul's assistant was completely unintentional, though he doubts whether it even happened now.
I suggest that it was a possibility that members of Team 10 had spiked his drinks in an attempt to engineer the situation.
I'm sitting there minding my own business, I'm speaking to Naija, which you've seen, you're talking to Naija.
I look over at Naija, and I look back behind me, and the kid, they have you up, and you're not even paying attention to who you're making eye contact to,
and you're drinking out of the thing, and they're like, keep, keep, keep, for the next five minutes, keep feeding you alcohol.
And they were trying to just get you.
They were trying to get you complete.
Kids from Team 10, by the way.
Blacked out.
These kids actually did something to me.
Like, I really truly, in my heart, believe that these kids drugged me, or just got me way beyond drunk,
and obviously with intent, they told you they were trying to get me blacked out.
As you're likely aware, the video didn't end there, and Banks and Alissa proceeded to go into more depth about the relationship with Jake and Alissa,
revealing details that even many neutral parties would label as abusive.
Honestly, he did assault me a few times.
If we never agreed on something, or if something happened, he would spit in my face, and this has happened multiple times.
He would, like, spit at, like, my feet, the ground that I walk on.
Another time, he threw my phone.
Neil's was there, too, at this one, too, and surprisingly enough, Alex Lane was there at this one, too.
When I was living in his apartment, he took my phone, threw it at the wall, we got into a fight, I ran upstairs,
he dragged me down the f***ing stairs, and I actually have-
Yeah, that's been on your leg since I met you.
This has been here for, like, two f***ing years, dude.
Today's Banks concludes the response, stating that he will be suing Jake Paul and Team 10 for defamation of character.
In the coming days, there were further responses from all sides trying to shield their reputations,
including Logan as well, who sat down with his brother to go over their side of the story.
Eventually, Jake walked back his statements and expressed how he was actually all about positivity now,
and that this would be resolved in private.
...to handle the situation, and so I reached out to Banks directly, over text message, and we're communicating now,
and we are going to meet up, figure out how to solve this situation, we're stopping the drama, guys.
However, this was not the end for Banks, who decided to release another video titled Proof I'm Innocent.
This included an interview with a person by the name of Max Beaumont.
Max Beaumont was a member of Team 10 who had been speculated as the individual who may or may not have spiked
FaZe Banks' drink. However, amidst all the conjecture, he abruptly decided to leave the Team 10 house,
stating that he would be returning to college for a normal life.
After calling his departure, he sat down with FaZe Banks over a phone call to help clear up the events of the night.
Do you, as a person who has seen this all go down, as somebody who was there that night,
between me and you, everything that you've consumed about the situation thus far, do you believe that I did this?
I do not believe that you intentionally assaulted this girl.
I believe that, if anything, you accidentally bumped into her.
I can't explain the bruise, and she's my best friend for seven years, so it's so hard for me to say this,
but the way that I saw you that night, I do not see how it was a possibility that you went from this nice guy
who came over and gave me a hug to someone who started swinging at her afterwards.
That's my personal opinion.
And just one more thing, do you believe that I kissed somebody that night?
No.
He echoes Banks' retelling, stating that he did not see Banks cheat on anyone,
and that he also did not witness any physical incident occur with Jake Paul's assistant,
writing additional third-party testimony contradictory to that of Jake Paul and his crew.
Now, some probably said that he was trying to ease any tensions with Banks,
given that his name had been brought up in relation to the incident.
Declaring Banks' name was the best way to clear his own name.
At the same time, Beaumont was one of the founding members of the team,
he had been there for a very long time, and he seemed to lose a lot more from walking away from Team 10,
and repudiating the testimony of someone who he clearly considered to be a close friend.
Everyone knows how fleeting drama is online, and his name was only brought up in passing.
Hey man, I'm Max, I'm from Team 10, and his Instagram, it'll pop up right now, it's whoismax, right?
Whoismax, his name's whoismax.
This and the prior video did make a dent in the subscriber count of Paul and co,
with many siding against the infamous squad,
which is such a shock after Jake Paul was so determined to drop the issue and be all about peace and love.
We weren't handling the situation the right way.
But the truth is, it's not an issue of being positive.
If someone was assaulted, it would be quite a pressing matter,
and the police would be contacted if you felt it needed to be addressed.
It's an issue of honesty, and actually making sure that if an incident has occurred,
the facts are established so all relevant and proportionate action can be taken.
I don't think the video's existence was unjustified if Paul believed what he was saying,
but as the situation continued to transpire, and more details were revealed,
it became increasingly difficult to believe.
So what was the reason behind all of this?
We can assume it was personally motivated, but what would that personal motivation be?
I didn't really know whether or not it was him at first,
because he has a girlfriend, and he was making out with this other girl that I knew wasn't his girlfriend.
So at first I was confused, but then I realised it was definitely him.
Well, let's talk about it.
There are loads of self-interested reasons to start drama with a person.
Most of the time it doesn't happen because the cons of manufactured drama sufficiently outweigh the pros.
But in the case of Jake Paul, whether the allegations were true or false,
he had more than enough motive to stir the pot.
Part of it is factualism, Jake Paul's prime directive is to appeal to his audience and Team 10.
Outside the women's rights narrative, him speaking up makes it look like he is standing up for someone close to him.
Not only is this demonstrative loyalty to the people in his life, but also for those who trust his intentions.
This is the most notable thing a guy can do for his friends and colleagues,
so on one hand he has demonstrated his allegiance to his team.
However, that wasn't the only reason, and I call back to the question I asked earlier.
Why would you include the detail of your ex's boyfriend cheating on her if it doesn't actually substantiate your initial allegation?
Sure, the clothesline incident was good motivation for a video addressing this issue at hand,
but I think there's one big reason that detail existed.
We call back to Jake's plans of creating a major creator network where he works as a quasi-mentor for many creators,
facilitating their success on YouTube.
It's not an uncommon position to aspire for, but I don't think he does it out of altruism.
For a person who likely gives himself a lot more credit than he should, he always expects something in return, that loyalty.
What looked like an act of loyalty for Team 10 was actually an attempted punishment of disloyalty to Alyssa Violet,
provoking an aspect of factualism to show that those who did leave Team 10 would not just be joining the enemy,
but an enemy that had actively sought to harm Jake and his friends.
That's a difficult position for any member of Team 10 to come to terms with, but now it is significantly backfired,
and there was a sense that this situation had been used for much more insidious reasons.
A member of Team 10 had walked out of the house, and their credibility was wearing thin.
On the surface, Jake may have been trying to show more loyalty and commitment to Team 10,
but the contrience of this drama could not masquerade itself behind the very apparent truth,
that Jake was playing Game of Thrones, and its schtick was beginning to tie.
Jake, what do you think about the It's Every Night Sis song?
What is it?
It's Every Night Sis with rice gum?
Oh, I think it's great, man.
I just claimed the views on it, I'm gonna buy a new car with it.
Jake's continued anger towards people who left Team 10, yet inability to change or prevent it would confuse many reasonable onlookers,
but unfortunately most of the people who actually cared enough to spectate were not in a reasonable frame of mind.
Over August and September, there was this sense once again that Jake Paul was trying to be real.
This began with a diss track to himself, which on the surface may have seemed like a legitimate self-reflection,
but more just included him presenting his own perspective on recent matters,
and once more taking passing shots of former members.
It began very hard to almost hide the fragility of one man,
and how his fame as an individual, Crater, and his greater aspirations were continuously compromised by the actions of others.
This is a man who had given these people everything, and yet time and time again people kept walking away,
despite the fact that he treated them like family.
And when reflecting on where many of the founding members were now,
there seemed to be this growing list of alumni who had just vanished from the crew's vlogs.
No big thank yous, no glorious send off, even the people who had supposedly left on amicable terms,
one day they were there, the next day they weren't.
Most of the time you'd find out from a video on their own channel, or if Jake Paul dropped a diss on them somewhere.
If Jake treated these people like family, I'd hate to see how he treated his family.
In a way, when someone left the house for good, Jake seemed too embarrassed to even admit that it happened.
Team 10 had to look like this indomitable frat house fortress to any outsider's sources, where the banter never ends.
He was also aware of how the media would latch onto an exit en masse,
how one person leaving could easily provoke copycat incidents, and how he had to do everything to prevent it.
However, he couldn't help letting his personal biases seep into the content because that's also how he maximised the potential of his personality.
Jake Paul was allowed to be weak, he was allowed to be human, that's what made him appeal to the viewers,
talking about peace and love and his own personal struggles and being a decent person,
but when Team 10 activities ensued, it could never truly fail, even when cars were smashed,
even when fires were sent,
even when members were injured.
It could not afford to fail, but in doing so, Jake Paul split his persona down the middle and created a recipe for disaster.
What do I mean? Well, not too long after the loss of founding member Max Beaumont, a more fiery exit would follow.
So, let's talk about two very curious characters, known as the Martinez Twins.
The Martinez Twins joined Team 10 in early 2017, appearing to serve as a proxy replacement to the Dolan Twins,
who some had speculated on Jake's relationship with after they had collaborated.
In many ways, given their unique background to the rest of the team and their brotherly camaraderie,
the Martinez Twins quickly became fan favourites in the hearts of many Jake Paulers.
They had this sort of wide-eyed innocence and energy that complemented the edgier presence of people like Jake and Piers,
more seasoned with these group antics. On the surface, they seemed to be living their dream,
but it did beckon one question, what happens when you're not in on the joke?
The Martinez Twins were sort of at the forefront of the new era of Team 10,
making a rather notable appearance on It's Everyday Bro, and spinning super hot fire lyrics.
They appeared to be a part and parcel of the team's pranks and japes, however, around September,
they began to act a little out of character.
First came a diss track that appeared to be directed at some of their comrades,
however, you could easily perceive that as a joke and move on.
Not too long after, in October though, they flew back to Spain,
and their future with Team 10 appeared uncertain while they struggled to obtain visas.
They were designed to return regardless at the start of November,
but accompanied by a video that revealed that they would not be residing in the Team 10 house anymore.
Many Team 10 fans seemed disappointed by this, expressing that they would be most welcome there,
but more perceptive viewers probably realised something was up,
and barely a week after came a further video that was posted on their channel titled,
We Left Jake Paul's Team.
On the surface, this video could have a plethora of interpretations,
by now, clickbait was so second nature to the genre of content,
that they could have just been going on a day trip to Disney without the rest of the crew.
Once the video starts, you realise that this title actually does exactly what it says on the tin.
So, guys, we're no longer with Team 10.
In this unmonetised upload, they reveal that they have indeed departed the notorious posse,
but are seemingly vague about the details behind this.
With that said, from what one can gleam, the message of the video was that they had joined Team 10
under the pretense that it would be a very different experience to the one they subsequently received.
They felt that their naivety was taken advantage of by many of those in the team who found them an easy target to pick on,
deeply given how they were not fluent with their language.
However, as they became more familiar with the world in LA,
they became more disillusioned with what was offered to them.
And we went there, and it was like Team 10.
We didn't know about Team 10 before that.
We were like, yo, they're the same people like us.
They do the same as we do, and we can make content together.
We can have fun together.
We thought they could be our family, but not anymore.
You wake us up.
You just wake us up.
We're awake now.
We know everything.
We know we're used.
He's awake.
I'm awake too.
And we're pissed.
We're really pissed.
Yeah, bro.
Okay?
Because you're a bully.
If this video gets just one like.
One like?
Take.
I used to love you.
For real.
I will do the like.
I will do the like.
No, you don't have to.
If this video gets just one like.
One like.
I will tell them.
Just one like.
I will tell them.
Everything about you.
They conclude the upload with a firm commitment that if the video received one like, they
intended to reveal everything about their experience with Team 10 and Jake Paul.
Before they could, however, Team 10 posted a response to their Twitter, claiming that
what the Martinez Twins had alleged in their upload was simply not true, along with numerous
other comments expressing bemusement at this sudden betrayal.
A series of responses from members followed over the coming days, expressing similar sentiments,
including Jake Paul's parents, in what looked to be a blitz of uploads in an attempt to
discredit their claim.
We all love the Martinez Twins, we all are just shocked, no team member that I've talked
to understands what's going on, and it's quite devastated.
They were an integral part of the team.
The Martinez Twins then hit back, alluding to the idea that there would be more on the
way, and indeed there was.
On November the 14th, we were blessed with another longer upload that went into more
depth about the Martinez Twins ordeal at the hands of Jake Paul and the rest of Team
10, supported by video evidence posted by Team 10 and Jake Paul themselves.
Like Jake started to prank us every single day, we were in a room, so he started to prank
us every single day.
Like we felt so bad, like we were the only ones getting pranked, like the other ones,
they didn't get pranked at all, and we were getting pranked every single day because we
didn't say anything bad to him, we were like, okay yeah, fine, fine, fine, but when you're
like fine, fine, fine, all the time, they can do whatever you want, they can do whatever
you want to you.
When the aforementioned clips were originally uploaded, I think viewers always assume that
there is some sort of balance that ensures that nobody is disproportionately subject
to Team 10's pranks, and there is this sort of understood respect and consent to those
things happening.
Have the Martinez Twins assert that they were just too inexperienced with the culture to
actually have a choice in what was going on with their lives, they had met Jake, he had
encouraged them to come over to the United States to LA, a place thousands of miles away,
of which they didn't even speak the language, just to turn them into routine punching bags
for channel view.
And it was like the first month on Team 10, it started getting worse, they started talking
bad about us, because it was funny for them, he said to us, he was saying to us all the
time, Binner, like, we found out what was Binner, and we were like, how he's joking
about that, like, he cannot joke about that, he was saying to us, Binner, and there's in
blogs that he's calling us Martinez, Martinez, no Martinez, Martinez, so Martinez is like
Binner, but Martinez, if you can tell, our brain was like, what the hell is going on,
and we start thinking, are they joking, are they not joking, what the hell is going on,
and they say bad words, like, way worse.
This behaviour routinely involved waking them up unannounced, something that the Martinez
twins felt they were subjected to far more than any other member in the house, how they
also revealed that they were made to do some pretty uncomfortable actions under the guise
of content which they didn't really understand, and felt under pressure due to the overbearing
environment that Jake Paul had manifested.
This was particularly concerning when Jake tried to make the Martinez twins perform something
unsavoury on each other, which the Martinez twins documented.
Their treatment didn't appear dissimilar to the extremely controversial, and often
illegal hazing rituals that many frat houses employ on newer members, there's a sense
that the Martinez twins, although struggling to find their feet, wanted to be accepted,
and therefore would tolerate and do a lot more than most people would do in a normal
environment, and Jake was aware of that and used it as leverage to behave pretty terribly
towards them, because he knew they wouldn't say anything back.
Whenever they tried to take countermeasures, like locking the door or finding new accommodation,
Jake would become visibly angered, seemingly worried about the consequences it could incur
on the group's image or content.
But he was so mad when we tried to lock the door, he was like yo yo open open open, yeah
we were like okay, so and then we were like okay let's try to move to another house just
to have our privacy, to take a shower, Jake found out that he was, that we were getting
an apartment or something like that, because someone told him, so we had the meeting, Jake
was really mad to us, he was like yelling at us because we wanted to move, that he only
cared about the paparazzi that were outside, like if we move, they're gonna say all the
Martinez twins move out, oh my god Jake Paul, he didn't care about our privacy, he only
cared about himself, he used his name, himself.
He also supposedly refused them an English tutor, likely concerned they may dare to feel
empowered.
In spite of all this, they chose to remain and try their best, but the cracks were obviously
beginning to show, and this ultimately bored over when they realised that in spite of all
the bullshit they were subjected to, Team 10 were hoarding all the profits for themselves,
and lying to the Martinez twins about how they could transfer it.
I asked them about a bank account in LA, and they're like you guys don't have visas,
so you guys can- and then I found out now you can have a bank account in LA without
any permission, when you make your own money, and they took everything, they were holding
more than a Lambo, and that's the reason, like I could send that money, and I'm gonna
try to get it, but I could send that money back to Spain, and have it with my family,
and all the stuff that they wanna do, and that's the reason that it pissed me off.
They finish the video with a request, that when Jake Paul inevitably finds more members
for the Team 10 house, he should treat them better than he treated the Martinez twins,
or else he'll be stuck in a cycle doomed to repeat itself, one that would inevitably
leave him worse for wear.
You're gonna have more members on Team 10, okay? I want you to treat them right, I want
you to treat them not like us, because if you treat them like us, you're gonna be
alone always, and I don't want you to be alone.
The Martinez Twins video was a fiery departure from Team 10, and added them to the growing
roster of members who had left on unfavourable terms with the squad's ringleader.
By this point, you could create a whole new Team 10 with people no longer in Team 10,
and like clockwork, many jumped on this to know what it said about the once more under
fire ensemble.
You just have to look at Team 10's history to know, this is a recurring theme.
But what did it say about Jake?
When you react to this, you're not gonna say anything on your social media, because
you know, we're right, we're right, we're saying the truth, and when you say the truth,
you don't have words to say something.
In their video, the Martinez Twins hypothesised that Jake would decline to comment on their
video because he knew it to be true, however, they would be surprised as barely a couple
days after, Jake would upload a video response to Twitter.
What's up everybody, I wanna address the Martinez Twins situation, and let me start
off by saying, first of all, I'm so sorry to the Martinez Twins, nobody should ever
feel bullied, and I truly apologise for not doing a better job as a leader and as a friend,
pure and simple, I owe you guys an apology.
In this video, Jake elaborates on his feelings, and explains Team 10's previous response
as one that was a result of offence and upset that anyone could interpret his actions in
such a way.
It was bizarre that Team 10 attempted to respond before the Martinez Twins had uploaded a follow
up video and their evidence, it made Jake's walking back rather awkward, but he continued.
Jake says, I'm happy they took the time to share their feelings in the second video,
which makes things clear, but they never came to me or anyone and shared how they were feeling,
which would have resolved the situation immediately.
He states that the Martinez Twins had never come to him directly and expressed these concerns,
and that if they had, they would have been resolved immediately, although not presenting
this as a direct counter to what the Martinez Twins were saying, it does contradict their
account pretty significantly, in their video the Martinez Twins openly state that they
added a lock to the door and expressed intent to move house, both of which Jake didn't
seem to appreciate.
I know they're not overt expressions of discomfort necessarily, but if Jake is anything
like we've understood him to be thus far, he's certainly a man who can read some text,
and if you're playing pranks on someone, and then they just happen to ask if they can
move out, there's probably a reason for it, so Jake here is either denying that this request
was made, or implying that he could not draw a parallel between the two situations, something
that a lot of people found implausible, not least the Martinez Twins themselves, who found
this sudden change of tone quite surprising considering that he and the rest of the team
had flatly denied all claims at first.
We had a conversation so many times, I knew that we were feeling that way, that we were
feeling bad.
Additionally, they didn't appreciate the fact that he still declined to comment on
any of their other claims, including the racism, and the withholding of funds which they felt
entitled to.
It means that you hold our money, and you only apologise about the pranks, you said
racist things to us, and one thing, you hold my money, you hold my mom's money, I don't
even care if it's my money, I care if I can give the money to my mom.
Beyond that, though, they seemed insulted by the fact that before they'd even released
their second video, Team 10 had rushed to brand them as liars, including Jake's own
father, Greg Paul, who believed this move was orchestrated by their manager.
That Jake brought those guys to a whole other level, and they would not be anywhere near
where they are without Jake, without Team 10, and without the love and support that
they gave those guys.
In this case, it was a conflict of words, but the truth was that most evidence was readily
available on Jake Paul and Team 10's channel, which may have turned into a compilation that
for viewers, spoke for themselves.
Jake, you apologise, because you were so many times bullying us on camera, and even worse
off camera, and you said in your video that the problem was our English, and that's
why we felt more bullied, so we posted a video saying the truth, that all the things that
you did to us, that's bullying in any language.
This was not the first time that Jake had been accused of emotional abuse, and there
were definitely similarities in the cases.
Both Alyssa Violet and the Martinez Twins had been invited out to LA with the promise
of success, views, and support from Jake Paul, and in both scenarios, they found themselves
merely as cannon fodder for that content, outside of which they were often isolated
to keep them primed for future Team 10 uploads.
In the case of the Martinez Twins, however, it definitely seemed more sinister, given
that their isolation didn't just come from the fact that they were in a place they weren't
familiar with, but they were actively disadvantaged in how they could interact with others.
One of the most concerning details was the fact that Jake and others allegedly refused
them an English teacher, although I cannot look into Jake's mind and tell you the exact
reason that he might have done this, for many it almost seemed self-explanatory.
If they learned English, then they would wise up to the context of what he was doing and
probably undermine his plans for content creation.
At its heart, Team 10 was a well-oiled machine, and there were obviously people who were aware
of its integral nature, nobody more than Jake himself.
There was no way a lot of content like that would just happen naturally, however, if everyone
was in on it, then its contrivances would likely become quite obvious.
There were theories that Team 10 was fake in the sense that everyone knew exactly what
was going on, but these videos tended to tell a different story.
That story was that Jake enjoyed people who were not entirely in on the joke, he enjoyed
people who were somewhat innocent and naive, not only because fans found those sorts of
characters endearing, but he also likely knew that their desire for acceptance amongst a
popular social group would drive them to be more enthusiastic and involved in the antics
they may not have fully understood, and tolerate more Team 10 bullshit which would allow Jake
to push the content further.
It's by the allegations of Jake holding people back though, I don't doubt he knew
that eventually they would acclimatise to his shenanigans, however, in his head he believed
the growth and success that he offered would serve as a fair trade for being subjected
to the pranks he pulled.
That was one continuous miscalculation that he made, although hazing is pretty awful for
a lot of people, it does result in the induction of an individual into a group or organisation,
with some of him viewing that reward as completely worthwhile.
Yet Jake appeared to conflate statistical reward with emotional reward, maybe because
of his own perspective on the matter, maybe in his mind somewhere he believed the Martinez
Twins should just be grateful for what he did to them, he gave them clout and attention,
pranks were just part of the deal you make for being in that house, however, he fundamentally
misunderstood how people would interact with that behaviour, the fact that many also want
emotional validation for such actions, something that the Martinez Twins emphasised.
Prank someone, you can prank someone and then say, sorry, I'm so sorry, I'm gonna clean
it up, sorry, you can prank me back, like I pranked my brother in my blocks, and you
can see, I pranked my brother, and we pranked back, so it's fine, but like, I will say sorry,
I will say, if I messed up, or if I, so if I messed up, I'm gonna clean it, like, don't
worry, I'm gonna do it, like, I'm sorry, but he didn't, he punched me in my face, in a
prank, but like, how you feel when you wake up, you wake up, and you have someone, someone
next to you just ready to do something, I don't want this in my life.
He never offered that reward to people who tolerated his bullshit, he never gave them
that induction, he kept that admission into his inner circle at arm's length of many of
those he tormented, and for the Martinez Twins, that became too much of an ordeal to manage,
the psychological damage was palpable, these people not really knowing where they stood
with their supposed leader, being scared of going to sleep every night, what Jake was
doing had a marked negative effect, and what was it for? Well, to maintain a dynamic that
he was happy with, however in doing so he raised serious ethical questions that many
would justifiably take issue with. Jake's response was that he assumed that this was
all a septal banter between people who would be considered friends, but the problem was
that to them they weren't friends, they were just fuel, and that was illustrated by their
perception of Jake Paul on and off camera, and the social engineering that was manufactured
by Jake Paul himself. Was this cycle doomed to repeat itself?
Over the next couple of months, this whole situation was addressed a few times by separate
people, probably the most interesting example of this was Nick Crompton, who was able to
handle himself pretty professionally on camera.
Nick Crompton- One minute everything was fine, and the next it wasn't, and I don't think
I'm ever going to know the reason behind that.
He repeated the same message that Jake did, that ultimately he wasn't sure where this
information was coming from, and once again, although not directly accusing the Martinez
twins of lying, still contradicting their claims that this was a serious problem in
their minds.
Nick Crompton- I, along with everyone else, when it happened, and even before it was happening,
I've been messaging them, and trying to figure out what's wrong, what's going on, and there's
just been no response.
When someone conveys themselves well, it's very easy to look at the situation and go,
well, maybe this was one big misunderstanding, even in spite of the compelling evidence presented.
Nonetheless, even if it was, there's still a reason why they felt they had to leave,
there must have been a reason why they thought the grass was greener, there had to be a reason
this kept happening.
What was going on, and what could be done about it?
Let's have a little flashback.
Jake- And good morning, Jake Paulers, I hope you guys are having a great day, we're gonna
kill it, make sure you're smiling, make sure you're dabbing on them haters, make sure you're
working hard, baby, and if you're new here, I'm Jake Paul, these are the Jake Paulers,
and it is lit every single day, bruh.
When the team burst onto the scene in May 2017, everyone was against him, they had something
to work towards, a goal of sorts, to cement their reputation in spite of their detractors,
there was this energy pulling the group together, this idea that there was a struggle, walking
away from a group at any point around them would have made you a traitor, especially
during the Alyssa Violet and FaZe Banks era.
At the same time, there was this sense of commitment and loyalty, people had been offered
a space and a luxurious house, they had been promised fame and followers, and that's what
they wanted to work towards.
Jake put himself out there, made himself the villain of the internet to spread their message
worldwide, and it worked extremely effectively at the time, at the start their growth would
have been rewarded in itself, but as the months passed, and the growth stagnated a little,
there was this lingering question of where Team 10 could even go from the dramatic heights
they descended throughout the mid-year, earlier I spoke about how Jake conceptualised Team
10 from a more professional perspective, and how that was somewhat abandoned as he became
more notorious as a celebrity himself, however it also began to desert what ultimately kept
Team 10 together, that notion of progression.
Alyssa Violet's departure was strictly personal, whereas the Martinez twins felt
more like a mesh between personal and professional, they had experienced all these pranks that
caused significant psychological upset, and practically received nothing in return, and
as the team's online reputation fell into the minds of disinterest amongst many online
viewers, that dissatisfaction over diminishing dividends was likely exacerbated, this was
fundamentally because Jake Paul had shifted the window of what he sought to achieve himself,
and tried to take Team 10 with it.
Jake Paul's
Initially, Team 10 was presented as a social incubator for talent, Jake Paul marketed it
as that, that he would be at the helm of the creative side, but would also be managing
these individuals as well, and making sure their full potential was realised, particularly
with the application of his business, Teamdom. The problem is that when someone feels they've
reached their full potential within the team, there is that question of what now? What was
Jake going to offer them now they've felt more confident in themselves? Jake seemed
to want to take up the Royal Talent Manager, the promoter, but because he had become so
heavily involved as a public figure, and one desperate to enshrine his status as the bad
boy of YouTube, his desire to be taken seriously as a businessman began to flounder, and this
idea of an infinite career progression inside Team 10 began to appear less and less available
to its members. Furthermore, the fame that Team 10 had generated its members, likely
more than any had ever envisioned, allowed them to establish themselves as individual
creators. No longer was the clout and the luxurious house a valid form of compensation
for one's troubles, as you become more defined as individual creators, as you find yourself
with more dedicated fans, you find yourself realising that you can bargain more. And when
people tried to do that, it seemed that this was just not really an option to Jake, who
still wanted that collective under very tight management. So what Jake was really conjuring
was a revolving door system of talent management, where people would join, grow their channel,
and then realise that there wasn't much else that Jake or Team 10 could offer them, and
walk away. Further to this, the trend of posting departure videos on the collective
made leaving the group a more notable thing, and likely made some people feel more empowered
to do so. Although possibly risking status as a traitor, Team 10's image had become
so toxic that for every person who might call you a snake, there were 10 more willing to
back you. In trying to make Team 10 bigger than anything else, Jake had unintentionally
created a leaving culture, and had done nothing to actually counteract it. It seemed that
Team 10 was on the brink, and this truth would only be proven further as the new year approached.
By Christmas 2017, although Jake had lost some pretty significant names, the core membership
of Team 10 were still intact, but every passing day that appeared more shaky, especially given
Alex Lang's choir departure at the start of December, and at the turn of 2018, they
lost two more members, Tristan, an American vlogger, and Tessa Brooks, another person
who had a verse in the notorious It's Everyday Bro.
Tessa Brooks- It's just that we've grown apart, and we're heading in different directions,
and that's totally okay, it's not something that is right for me anymore, and we just
disagree on a lot of things, and that's okay, everyone has their disagreements, I don't
regret being a part of Team 10, I don't take it back, I wish everyone had Team 10 the best,
but it's just not for me anymore.
Both of them appeared to not harbour animosity towards the team, but the message was clear,
that what was being offered to them was not anything that they felt they needed anymore,
and additionally, the fact that they probably did not move into the new place had cemented
this idea that their paths were diverging.
Alex- We had our differences, but most of all, my goals are just going in a different
direction than Team 10.
This year, I want to be working towards the goals that I set for myself when I first started
social media.
In many ways, these departures were more cutting to Team 10's image, although the
modernized twins allegations concern more serious breaches of behaviour, it gave them
something to respond to, this was just two people stating that Team 10 was not offering
them what they needed.
And if Team 10 couldn't offer two young and capable individuals a route to advance
their career, what could they offer?
Where could Team 10 go from here?
January 2018 was a rather uneventful month for Team 10, Jake tried to push viewership
with the typical on-brand hijinks, and uploaded videos that I'd call landmark content, where
Jake announces something huge that has happened in his life.
Unfortunately, he'd been through so many breakups and relationships at this point that
he was scraping the bottom of the barrel, which produced gems such as the now-deleted
I Lost My Virginity, which one can only hypothesize about the cause of the deletion of such
precious content.
In spite of all his attempts to provoke the internet, nobody was really biting that hard,
and you could put it down to inertia, but there was another reason too.
Now I can't talk about this too much because YouTube won't be very happy, at the start
of January there was an instant where Redacted Redacted went into a known Redacted Redacted
where people Redacted Redacted, and Redacted Redacted Redacted.
This mystery individual was related to Jake Paul, and apparently people's attention spans
could only sustain themselves on one Paul at a time.
And now that this had occurred, everyone's attention was elsewhere, and there was no
amount of clickbait that could supersede the outrage that Jake Paul's relative generated.
After the loss of Tessa and Tristan, Team 10 were looking noticeably leaner on the line
up front, and barely a couple days after the incident with Jake Paul's relative, and Tristan
Tessa's departure from the channel, Jake launched a new plan, something called Edfluence.
Edfluence is a course that you guys can take right now, online, how to do social media,
secrets, tips, tricks, how to be a YouTuber, how to grow your channel, all things that
have taken me years to master, you could even potentially be able to join Team 10 if you
take this course.
This was a campaign designed to create what he branded as his Team 1000, possibly of future
influencers who would be able to use the tricks that Jake Paul had used to have their own
shot at stardom.
This appeared to be Jake Paul's solution to losing some of his business credibility
on social media, and was met with anticipation by a lot of his followers, and even some aspiring
influencers.
How nearly immediately after the launch, the site was mired with technical issues and pricing
complaints, leading many to brand it a complete scam.
There was no denying its slapdash release, especially given that a community section
that Jake Paul vocally advertises in these videos didn't actually exist.
For all the time Edfluence had been in the works, the Twitter account had been active
since mid-2017, this seemed surprisingly rushed.
Was Jake aware that Team 10 was struggling, and this was a quick cash-in?
Was he trying to use it as a proxy recruitment site, or was he just trying to take advantage
of his relative's misdeeds?
One can only guess, but it felt like Team 10's membership was becoming increasingly
unstable, and on the 2nd of February, Jake decided to finally address it once and for
all.
Jake Paul- And like this video isn't meant to stir up drama, however, like, I never talk
about drama, and I never like snap back to any like haters or whatever, but I feel like
this is good to get off our chest.
As per usual, it's at the end of the video, but still somewhat significant as Jake had
often avoided even acknowledging people who had left the crew on his main channel.
He expresses his desire to clear the air and tell the truth, two phrases heavily associated
with him.
What was that truth?
Well that, surprise suckers, this was actually what he had intended all along.
Jake- But the point is, is that it is an incubator, and if you guys don't know what an incubator
is, think of a duck egg.
A duck egg gets put into an incubator, it gets warmed up, a couple months later it hatches,
and then the duck goes off on its own and lives its duck life.
Jake opens by talking about the incubator theory, and comparing it to ducklings hatching
from an egg.
When they hatch from an egg, they venture off into the world, and are no longer kept
within that Team 10 incubator.
Javi then goes on to say that these ducklings do not just go out into the world, in fact,
they are kicked out by the Team 10 High Council, who evaluate which members are worthy of staying,
and which members are not.
Jake even gets statistical, estimating that approximately three quarters of members who
had left the Team 10 house, and made videos on the matter claiming that they had left
by their own volition, were actually jumping before they were pushed.
The truth is, Team 10 is a family, and a lot of the times, the family makes a decision
as a pact on who is going to be in the team, and who isn't going to be in the team.
But the majority of the time, it's the internal members making a decision to tell another
member that like, hey, we don't think this is right, and we should go our separate ways,
that we let them do whatever they want.
They make videos saying that they're leaving Team 10, when I just am putting this out there
into the air, that 75% of the time, that is not the truth.
Jake will have you know he is very happy with the departures, and thinks that their videos
serve Team 10 excellent publicity, while also allowing him to focus more closely on the
people that he can trust.
Even if the circle had become a bit smaller, from Jake's perspective, it had only grown
stronger, and for him, this just represented a new beginning, something that he branded
Phase 2.
I think this is just the start for Team 10 as an empire, and I call this Phase 2.
As you can see, although numerous members had upped and left, some under extremely hostile
terms, everything was going according to plan, and Jake was merely separating the wheat from
the chaff.
Smash that subscribe button, join the strongest team on YouTube, and I will see y'all tomorrow
because it's everyday bro.
Jake has this incredible talent of taking an L, and presenting it as a W to his followers.
Some likely left this video feeling like they had a better understanding of his perspective,
but the truth was that even if the incubator system worked as Jake intended it to, it meant
that Team 10 had to constantly find exemplary talent, or else they would not be able to
create a long-term connection with audience members.
Jake was notably fragile about the image that members leaving would project onto Team 10,
and how that may affect their own prospects for recruiting other people.
Not all publicity is good publicity when it makes your space look like an unattractive
place to spend time.
Many members who left cited they thought this would be the place of their dreams, but were
deeply disappointed.
That is not going to look enticing to outsiders.
Additionally, all these fans created connections with certain members who left, and when they
left they had to deal with the emotional disappointment, and decide whether they could really invest
themselves again.
There was no way that system could work effectively on a long-term basis.
Jake presents these members leaving as just him trial and error testing people until he
finds the right ones, and that this was actually the start of a new era with better members
than ever, but how many of these new members at this point had actually stuck around?
What could Phase 2 even consist of?
So that's the reason why you guys see some of these videos online, that's the reason
why people make those videos, and that's the reason why Team 10 sometimes gets smaller
and smaller and smaller, but internally we just get happier, happier, closer and closer
and closer, and stronger and stronger.
We can look over the first year of Team 10 and talk about what worked and what didn't,
but Jake did make one good point, that ultimately he had a few core members who were identifiable
to many online audiences, and had a strong connection with that audience.
Jake Paul's argument was shaky, but ultimately could be perceived as valid in the way that
a lot of the people who were long-term members appeared to be actually part of Jake's inner
circle, and very few within the inner circle had ever left.
I'd say this inner circle consisted primarily of Erika Costell, Johnson Anthony, Chad Tepper,
and Nick Crompton.
Us in the group still held influence, but these were the ones who seemed to draw the
most collective presence for the team online.
They were the ones who would probably spring to mind when you mentioned those who were
actually part of the posse.
In early formats of the group, the Team 10 page was often split between the squad and
the team, the team often concerning themselves with the logistical side of operations, which
inevitably brought them closer to Jake.
Uh, I'm sorry, um, I don't know, like, how to say this, um, but it's been, like, I just,
like, wanted to call everyone here.
Sorry, uh, this whole Team 10 thing has been such an incredible journey, a year and a half
or so of, you know, family.
They had been there since 2017 at the latest, who had often been alongside Jake during many
of his controversies.
They signified a loyalty to the team that many fans would identify with.
These individuals also seemed more involved in Jake's business side, and they didn't
necessarily make a great secret of it.
With this in mind, they probably received a more personal side of Jake Paul that certain
creators who had felt bruised by his behaviour didn't, and felt like they knew him better
and could take his behaviour in a context that helped him understand it.
With that said, there were definitely aspects of the business partners in Team 10 that made
them extremely influential.
They likely knew their worth to the audience, and they knew their image was something that
couldn't necessarily be replaced.
With that in mind, they were still essential to Team 10's second phase, and none of them
seemed to be going anywhere, at first.
Team 10's monthly viewership statistics have been on a downward trend since 2017.
At their peak, they were averaging around 15 or 16 million views per day, and although
most people wouldn't turn down the viewership they were pulling at the start of 2018, it
would regularly dip to 3 or 4 million, less than a quarter of their most successful months.
Particularly for an incubator, people liked the idea that they can take enterprise from
strength to strength, and there was this sense that maybe there were not many places for
Team 10 to go after the frenzy of 2017.
Although Jake had promised a new era, the months in early 2018 were surprisingly tame,
with Jake decidedly going for a more tortured anti-hero image, launching a Team 10 tour,
and hosting interviews where he reflected on the character that he created.
Jake- I look at myself as a role model, but like an imperfect role model.
I'm gonna be real, I'm gonna make mistakes.
I think that's more realistic for kids to have a role model like that, versus someone
who just seems perfect from the outside, because these kids in school are going through a lot,
they're gonna get bullied, they're gonna maybe get a detention.
They need to be shown how to deal with that, and just always think positively, and to keep
your head up, and that's what I try to put out there.
Overall, this image was appealing to some devotees, but rather boring to others.
Probably the most notable news in early 2018 was that his former landlord sued him, claiming
excessive damages to the previous property he'd resided in.
When the news reported on this, many people in the comments seemed rather disinterested
in the affairs of Jake, some even saying that they'd forgotten about his existence.
After 2017, it just felt like there was nothing that could be done to change the trajectory
of the channel, it didn't stop them from trying, including new content, new members,
and even what appeared to be a mass deletion of videos that did briefly spike the channel
viewership, but ultimately to no avail.
However, everyone was still in for the long run, right?
Well, on the 4th of May 2018, Team 10's COO Nick Crompton posted a statement to Twitter,
entitled, It's time to move on from Team 10.
He briefly details his reason for leaving, stating that the channel is headed in a direction
that doesn't make sense to him, chalking it up to internal differences.
He openly expresses his affection for the team and Jake Paul, and states that this has
been part of his dream, and that he's extremely grateful for the opportunity.
Overall, it seems quite a nice departure as departures go, but it wouldn't undermine the
fact that Team 10 just lost one of their most influential figures, and it wasn't going to
become any easier in the coming days.
But as time goes on, and you know, things change, people change, like my goals and views
changed, I've just decided my path is a little bit different from what the team's path is,
and that was the main reason, that was like my deciding factor in leaving.
On the 8th of May, Chance Sutton announced his departure in another Twitter post titled,
Thank you Team 10, love heart.
Once again, there were a lot of platitudes for Team 10 and Jake, but ultimately Chance
had decided that he needed to focus on his own career and bid the group adieu.
As an additional note, the head of engineering also announced his departure on the same day,
which once more marked a rather strange simultaneous exodus of a few pretty high profile
members.
As a matter of fact, every performer other than Jake on It's Everyday Bro had now left.
Rumours surrounding it would have provoked multiple exits in such a short period of time.
Something about Phase 2 had clearly rattled a fair few people, but without further information,
one could only speculate.
Fortunately, we didn't need speculation, and the culprit decided to make himself known,
and it was none other than Jake's father, Greg Paul, who claimed to have uncovered the truth.
Yo, what's going on people? GP coming at you.
According to his subtweet, he had conducted an internal audit, and that he had seemingly
uncovered details of financial recklessness, even implying some form of embezzlement?
Nick Crompton wasn't happy with this, and angrily tweeted back that it wasn't the audit that people
had a problem with, it was about that Greg Paul was an all-round extremely unpleasant person to
deal with, and had next to no communication skills.
Greg was an interesting person to draft in, maybe because he would fundamentally run perpendicular
to those of Jake's loyal inner circle.
His only stakes are his son's wellbeing, and if he felt that people weren't doing their jobs right,
then he has very little to lose in being cutthroats.
But Jake Paul did. I don't know Team 10, I don't know if Greg had a point, but regardless of the
fingers and the pies, he had just fundamentally caused a departure of at least two of the team's
most influential figures. Regardless of their business practice, they still meant a lot to the
image of the team, and Nick Crompton's swift smackdown of Greg was probably the most indicative
of where public sentiment lay on it.
Greg may be an excellent businessman, but he is not a public figure, and his indirect gusting of
the team may have been a financially frugal move short term, but it had just jeopardised the future
of this phase, and one person knew it.
So, over the past couple of days, I'm sure you guys have seen, there's been members leaving Team 10.
INTRO
On the 13th of May, Jake Paul took to YouTube once more to upload a response to the sudden
departures of individuals, entitled, My Response and the Truth About Members Leaving Team 10.
As usual, it's placed on the typical vlogging escapades, however, unlike other responses and
sections, this part takes up two thirds of the video's runtime, and seems to have a rather
disparate tone to the rest of the content addressing these matters.
People's goals and things change, and sometimes that change causes people to grow apart from each
other, and for me, the way that I'm changing is I had bigger vision.
At a glance, his message doesn't seem particularly different, he goes for the spin that these people
leaving was actually a favourable outcome, it signified growth and progression for those
involved, and he personally welcomed that as, to him, change was an inherently positive force.
His explanation on the departure of certain members appears to align with that of Nick
Crompton, that ultimately the trajectory of the team had been adjusted, and some members
felt like they didn't identify with those goals anymore. To him that was an acceptable discord,
but it was also irreconcilable in his mind, so the only option was to go their separate ways.
As the video, it once again plays into this idea that Jake Paul has all this planned out and under
control, his vision has become greater than that of those around him, and he is satisfied with the
outcome, even if he is sad to lose the company of some old friends. Jake Paul-"All of my energy
is focused on changing right now, and building the new, and going in a new direction, and
innovating, and being on top of the game." Nevertheless, this video was distinctly different
to other content that tackled disputes between the team and other creators. First of all,
gone were those who often flanked Jake, providing that sort of strength and reinforcement to what
he was saying. Second, gone were the cuts and edits that allowed Jake to make his narrative
as short and efficient as possible. However, most telling was the fact that although Jake
presented his perspective as one of the sepsis of confidence, his tone seemed surprisingly unsure
of itself and vulnerable. Jake-"Some of the people didn't necessarily agree with where I wanted to go,
or what my vision was. I totally respect that. I didn't want to persuade anybody into believing
in my vision. Sometimes my visions and ideas scare people because of how crazy they are."
Now, in a way, it makes some semblance of sense if Jake wishes to present a more authentic version
of himself when responding to this, but the uncertainty present as Jake rambles for
approximately 20 minutes is far more disconcerting than reassuring. At the same time,
as someone who's always seemed calculated with his content, there had to be something symbolic
about his choice to go it alone. He still has members of his team, and even a couple of his
inner circle that would readily back him up with these decisions. But maybe the truth was that
after such disruption, he didn't know who to trust anymore. Jake-"And as I was bringing on these
older business advisors and people to help me with my company, a couple of them advised me to
bring somebody on into my corner who wanted nothing else but to protect me,
who didn't care about my money, who I could 100% trust no matter what. And so the only person I
could think of, the only person that is right for that job was my dad. Not to run my businesses and
be in charge, but to simply look over the shoulders of other people who were in my businesses,
who I'm entrusting to run my business, because I knew my dad would have my best interests at heart."
The video was a rather futile show of strength. He emphasized the need to have people who shared
his vision around him, but the problem was, if he didn't have enough people supporting that vision,
how was he going to make it there? I don't think he knew exactly. Jake-"I have big goals. Like,
I really, really have found recently that I am so passionate about music. And again,
I just want to surround myself with people, again, who have way more experience than me,
who have way more relationships than me, who have tasted victory and business success in this
industry." In June, Jake attempted to launch a live show fittingly called Team 10 Live. However,
by now it was clear that the team was looking rather emaciated. Although no announcement of
departure had been made, brothers Nathan and Cade Spicer were not present at any of these shows,
causing many to assume that they had also made their exits, and leaving Jake Paul's squad with
six members, which other commentators were more than happy to point out. The narrative
was no longer that Team 10 were the worst collective to grace people's computer screens,
it was that they were dying, and they were not sure what to do about it.
There's a pretty beautiful irony in the fact that more than half of Team 10's most iconic song
is performed by people that are no longer in Team 10. For some reason on the website it says,
Team 10 tour 2018, as if to suggest that there will be more tours in the future.
I just can't imagine a world where that happens. I think this was a one and done kind of deal,
and if it is, I guess I'm happy I got to be a part of history.
Over the next few months, Team 10 continued to falter and stagnate, and although Jake expressed
no hostility towards former members in his May upload, as summer 2018 approached its end,
Paul's attitude towards those who had left Team 10 behind appeared increasingly bitter.
No, I think if you think about it, if Team 10 were together right now,
it would be bigger than the Kardashians.
First of all, on True Geordie's podcast where he claimed that Team 10 had the potential to be as
big as the Kardashians, which is a strange statement to make about a group of people
who you insisted that its whole purpose was to incubate towns and let people go whenever
you felt like it, and yet in spite of all this, Jake still had a spin, claiming that it was those
who left who were the real failures.
Till this day, I haven't made a single dollar off of Team 10. I've only invested my own money
into it to make it successful. And they're like, oh, like, you owe me this, you dah, dah, dah,
like, dah, dah, dah. Like, there's so much like back and forth, and it's all I wanted to do is
create a platform for people to like accomplish their dreams. And a lot of them have, but they
still don't, they don't, I don't think they realize like what they had until it was gone.
Those people needed Jake to succeed, and now he's sure they're realizing the errors of their ways.
Why don't they just come crawling back already?
And I think like, as we've seen like members leave Team 10, you see them all turn into nothing,
and make mistakes, and fumble, and then I think they're like, oh shit, like,
maybe what I had was amazing.
This perspective was reiterated in Shane Dawson's Jake Paul series,
where Jake once again claims that those who left had used him.
I'd say like everyone who's left has used us.
Yeah, because they think they can go on and do something better, and then it's like...
I don't think they realize that they like used us, but when these people come into Team 10,
I give them everything.
Now, maybe they did, maybe they didn't, but the truth of the matter was that Jake Paul's shift
in tone signified that his perspective had shifted, before he was looking for reasons
why Team 10 would still be successful, and how actually everything was going according to plan.
Now, though he's too proud to admit it at the time, he had clearly come to terms with the fact
that Team 10 was failing, and he was looking for people to blame, but as the person who proclaimed
that they had the final say, the buck stopped at him, and he seemed incapable of tending to
the continued bleeding of numbers, some of whom even warned him that this scenario would repeat
itself. At first Jake lost a couple members he was able to replace fairly easily, even perhaps
enhancing the crew, then he lost a few more members who ultimately left a mark with viewers
who cared about them and invested their emotions and finances into the group, but finally he lost
integral members who he cared about and trusted more than he was prepared to admit, and members
that he was unable to replenish and admit back into his inner circle. Jake's team remained at
a roster of six for the summer, and the start of autumn, but come mid-October during Shane
Dawson's documentary series, the fate of Team 10 would be decided once and for all.
I suppose we should talk about the Shane Dawson documentary for a moment,
as there is the significance of its relationship with Team 10.
I just feel like I was like a pawn in like their game like they're always trying to one-up
each other always like so like I was just like a goal like I was
just used the whole time in Team 10 in videos and Logan's videos and everyone's I was just like
I don't know it was like they're playing a game and they're like the chess masters or whatever
and I was just a little fun.
Throughout the series, there were a variety of interviews with former members who had left under
certain circumstances, and there were occasional revelations that added context to past situations,
including that Alyssa Violet had slept with Logan Paul, Nick Crompton claiming all the pranks were
fake, and Jake alleging that Chance Sutton had stolen a joint account from him. These potentially
added context to previous scenarios and maybe gave Jake more footing to respond to them. Throughout
the series, there had been emphasis on Jake's relationship with past and present members within
Team 10. There were many questions swirling on how the depleted team were going to emerge from
this. While so many rumours surrounded their future, they would receive an answer very soon.
On October 18th, although no formal announcement was made, all of Team 10's socials were wiped
completely, with a message posted on their now inactive Instagram that a new team would be coming
soon. At the time, this news was taken with a grain of salt by many following the situation at hand,
partly because this coincided with the climax of Shane Dawson's documentary series, with many
assuming it to be a marketing plot to promote whatever Jake had planned. It's a reasonable
theory, because it almost certainly would have worked, and Jake seemed to be taking aim at former
members of the house again on social media. But as the final episode of this show aired,
people didn't exactly receive what they expected. It featured Shane sitting down with Jake,
asking the questions, and allowing Mr Paul to respond to nearly every major controversy
that featured himself in Team 10, many of which he never fully addressed at the time,
including those involving present and former members.
There are a lot of ways to interpret his responses, some of which you will not find
satisfactory, as he does hold steadfast on points that many people feel strongly about,
such as the claims made by the Martinez twins, which Jake dismisses as banter.
On other situations, like his relationship with Alyssa Violet, Jake seems more contrite,
admitting that her affair with Logan was only a response to their own toxic relationship.
He navigates a variety of situations with different levels of defiance and remorse,
even making a statement by deleting their face bank to upload on video.
However, probably the most relevant details are the plans that Jake has for his future.
For me, that's why I want to completely disconnect from all of this social media shit right now,
is to figure that out. What do I really like to do? What do I really want to do?
What's next for me? It's like you said, it's like starting over.
There is a sense that, at this moment, Jake had already made up his mind on the fate of Team 10,
and although this upload followed the wiping of their social media presence,
it was recorded before and almost served as a retrospective justification of itself.
The only significant detail that seemed to imply otherwise was this idea that a new Team 10 was in
the works. How could Jake walk away from something saying he didn't want another Leaving Team 10
video, but still wanted another Team 10? How could you have one without the other?
It was hard to look at this and not expect another Team 10 almost immediately after the
conclusion of this series, and barely a month after the disbandment of Team 10,
Jake Paul posted a tweet that read, Season 3, November 25th. This led to many online
concluding that this was the next roster. It made sense as Jake had retained ownership of
the Team 10 house, with a few people even moving in. However, when the date came around,
people got something very different to what they were expecting.
For the past, like, month or so, Erika and I's relationship has been, like, super rocky.
Like I said, it turned into this, like, downward spiral where we were just, like,
super super toxic for each other, and we, like, know everything about each other,
and, like, we know how to hurt each other, and it's so sad that it got to that point, but it did.
Season 3 was, in fact, another documentary-style series which covered Jake Paul himself,
his personal life, and his relationship with Erika Costell. It had been announced a few weeks
prior that they had broken up, and Jake had teased the reasons for this on his channel,
but in the end, what people received was a two-episode drama fest which Jake Paul
discontinued for being too real. There was no prominent mention of Team 10, just Jake and a
bunch of his friends trying to navigate the waters, a relationship that was beyond saving.
Over the next few months, it's seen that Jake Paul was quietly taking apart the constructs
that he had built Team 10 on previously, and had something else in mind, but nobody was sure what
at this point. Jake Paul himself was in and out of the news, but for no particular reason other than
it being Jake Paul.
Jake Paul- Go to mysterybrand.net if you want to win some mystery boxes,
this video was so much fun, thank you so much for watching, I love you guys,
and I will see you tomorrow with another video, peace!
Jake Paul- This has got to be one of the worst things I've seen on YouTube, simply because his
fans are so young and so impressionable.
There were crickets for months until a February vlog titled
Dear YouTube, I've Been Hiding This From You, when Jake began opening up on the reasons why
Team 10 was brought to an end.
Jake Paul- A lot of the reason why Team 10 started to fall apart is because I wasn't able to connect
with a lot of the members as people, and so I didn't understand or I wasn't able to judge
whether they were good people or not, because I just was like, business, business, everyone's
gonna win, everyone's gonna grow and do amazing stuff, and then you come to find out and you see
bad traits and bad qualities in people. I also wasn't mature enough to be able to understand
feelings and love and emotions and stuff like that, because I just got looped into business
when I was 16 years old.
What was said in this video wasn't necessarily a surprise, and seemed to line up with the
observations that could be made towards the end of its time in the spotlight. Jake possessed
serious trust issues with members and couldn't reconcile them. He felt like he couldn't continue
this knowing who people really were, and thus he felt the only option was to bring the famous
and infamous crew to an end. It appeared that this time there was no grand scheme, no immediate
reboot, no hilarious prank, this is the way that Team 10 had ended. Not with a bang, but a whimper.
And to be honest, I think that's always how Jake Paul saw it as ending, he never enjoyed the
narrative of a dramatic collapse, he'd much prefer to end a project quietly and move on to the next
one. Maybe that was the play, to leave everyone expecting something that wasn't coming.
Jake Paul-"And that's like where there was kind of like a disconnect with a lot of the Team 10
members, and even with like my best friend like Chance for example, it was just like this weird
thing for all of us to get used to, and we weren't able to get used to it, so that's where a lot of
like weird stuff came from." But of course, he doesn't normally talk about something without reason,
and at this point, the conversation takes a turn once more towards Jake's future plans,
revealing what was indeed coming up.
Jake Paul-"I'm in a position, I'm 22 years old now, and who I want to be and where I see myself being
a couple years from now is very different than what I'm doing now." In his video, Jake seemed to
reflect on the failure of Team 10 as a result of too many emotionally immature people under one
roof. It's hard to know how exactly he's grown from this, but one might say that age and experience
is its own form of maturity. Responding to a question asked by a fan, he seems confident that
the next Team 10 will not be caught by the pitfalls that the previous one was, promising that
it will be bigger and better than ever. Jake Paul-"We are working on a new Team 10 guys, we're still
figuring it out, it's still very early stages, but I love Team 10, it's a genius idea, it creates like
such an amazing vibe in the videos, and I want to bring that vibe back, and know that when I do
bring it back, it's going to be better than ever, and it will be bigger than ever, and it's just
gonna be smarter and well done, and I learned from my mistakes in the past, and I want you guys to
just trust me as I rebuild the Team 10 that it's gonna be dope." However, otherwise, it didn't seem
like Jake was planning on changing too much, committing to the vibes that had made the previous
one a success. As you noted in this video, it was still in its early stages, and other than
Jake Paul offering an internment, I mean internship, that would be paid in fun, there wouldn't be much
public development on this until the end of May, where a trailer was posted on Jake Paul's channel
foreshadowing the new Team 10, and how they would be presented. Jake Paul-"People don't understand
how hard it is to rebuild this company, the pressures, the shit that's on my plate, I don't have
a roadmap in front of me of how to do this shit, and it's fucking stressful." This seemed to take
inspiration from the cancelled Jake Paul and Cut series from November, and they also mostly erased
from the internet to Team 10 TV, which involved the original members. It seemed to focus more on
this dramatic portrayal of Team 10 under the guise of reality. It was a bit unclear what exactly the
show was going to be at this point, but there was a focus on Jake Paul and his then girlfriend Tana
Moncho, who had recently gone public with their relationship. Tana's involvement would be confirmed
a week later with a video posted onto Team 10's channel titled, Tana is joining Team 10.
Unfortunately, I can't say too much else about the video because it seems to be lost to time.
However, on June the 1st, Jake Paul posted Meet The New Team 10, introducing his new entourage to
the entire world. Jake Paul-"The problem is, it's hard to find actual good Team 10 talent
who work hard, want to be here, don't have egos, have a talent, have the right look, are the right
age. It's like there's almost like no way to find them." There are a variety of intro reels for these
people who many will know barely anything about. Lots of clips of them going about their lives in
the sort of shaky cam drama that many people who are interested in reality TV will be all too
familiar with. It seems Jake wants to embrace the chaos and make it part of what Team 10 is known
for. Whereas in the past, Jake attempted to control the narrative surrounding his squad,
here he wants the narratives to create themselves from the authentic interactions between figures
within the house. The roster of members appeared to be more mature this time, including the couple
Tram and Core, whose son Tidus would regularly make appearances on Jake Paul's channel as well.
In his February video, Jake stated he was trying to reconcile his maturing audience,
the reality show style seemed to be the solution. On principle, it seemed like a good idea. One of
the greatest conflicts from within Team 10 was that the group often appeared blindsided by drama
and tension. Team 10's proclamations of strength and good vibes were often undermined by people
stating otherwise in exit videos. In this case, the drama would be integrated into Team 10,
there would be negativity and suspense, and if someone left and said the atmosphere was toxic,
people would just say, well we've been new, we've watched the episode. This was Jake Paul's attempt
to reclaim the drama that had taken so much from him, it was the chance to have a say on his own
character before other people did, and he was successful in that way, but it was still a very,
very mixed blessing.
You know that like, I'm business oriented, and I'm just getting straight to the fucking facts, like,
yeah we're friends, but like with that shit, it's just straight to the facts, like, that's disgusting,
like, you need to delete it, and here's why, and I don't want this drama, I don't have time for this
drama, like, I hate having to babysit, but it's part of what we need to do with this new Team 10,
because in the old one, there was no communication, and no, no one really actually managing what was
going on.
Jake's attempts to blend the personal and the business side on a public forum made sense in a way,
because it allowed people to see the often flawed process that individuals have as humans, and the
failings that occur along the way. How that perspective was at the expense of any actual interest
from most people outside the immediate audience, it played out more like something you'd see on a rather
tabloid cable channel rather than actual YouTube content. Viewership on each of these videos was a
few million, and although many of these viewers seemed interested, a lot just weren't even bothering
to click on them. Jake having full control of these aspects made the content unappealing, and
dampened the conflict, limiting the actual reach of videos. In fact, the only major drama that was
reported on by sources outside of Jake Paul in the first month of this airing was when a pair
of transgender women revealed they were kicked out of the house for their gender identity. You didn't
see that in the Team 10 uncut, did you? It played into this perception that this was still highly
processed content.
So do you want your room, or do you want to finish the conversation? Where do you want to go? Do you
want to end this on a good communicative term, or what?
It's over, Jake. I've got an argument with you. We're on Team 10 uncut. I don't give a fuck. I'm
hooked by sin, but we're letting you on the new land.
People didn't trust this sort of candid media from Jake, because people didn't trust him.
Additionally, it lacked the chemistry and dynamics that the original Team 10 possessed. There was
nothing wrong with these people, but at the same time, the reality style aspect really
sapped the personality from these individuals, many of whom could never recreate the energy of
a Martinez or a Chance, and I can't believe I'm even saying that. Almost as soon as Jake Paul
went back to posting normal content with Tana and a few others, his views jumped up significantly.
This led them to try merging these two together with a video clip baiting a couple's fight,
but even that couldn't inspire mass viewership. Episode 11 was released over a month and a half
later to a rather underwhelming response, and despite the promise of season 2, Team 10 uncut
was quietly ushered off the channel after 11 episodes, with normal content resuming soon
after. The last video uploaded to the Team 10 channel was on the 21st July 2019, which
appears to feature a reduced roster and an energy that was somewhat subdued. Maybe Jake knew that
finally, this time, it was the end of the line. Jake Paul had taken an extensive break to
recalibrate and rebuild Team 10 from the ground up. He had invested a lot of time and energy into
making this one of his most finely tuned ventures on his channel yet, but people weren't fighting.
I doubt many people even knew there was a second Team 10. Although Jake never officially brought
it to an end, stating in interviews that more would be coming soon, his plans for the crew
never really re-emerged, and although he kept some members around, Team 10 itself
was effectively over. Team 10 was dead.
There were continued hints and allusions by Jake Paul that Team 10 would eventually return,
but as I mentioned earlier, there has been no follow through on such, and any social media
presence they previously possessed has been mostly erased, including their channel which Jake has
now transformed into his Boxing Center podcast, BS with Jake Paul. Probably the most indicative
sign that Team 10 was a done deal was the fact that Jake Paul sold his house in 2021,
stating that he intended to move out of LA and focus on his mission to become the greatest
prize fighter in the world. In that sense, such an entourage may hold him back. It also didn't help
that in the years following its cessation, Team 10's legacy has been marred by continued claims
of extremely improper and unprofessional behaviour, coming from people who were formerly associated
with the group, and even people who weren't. These are not like claims, and in certain industries
would be taken very seriously, but Jake Paul is like a proverbial steamroller for his brand,
and his responses either amount to no response or threatening to sue. Jake doesn't care, I doubt he
ever will, but as far as Team 10 is concerned, he seems happier without them now, and I have a hunch
the feeling is mutual. Most former members appear to have found some success in the careers they've
decided to pursue, with a couple like the Dobres even staying in the clickbait game.
It's a testament to the sort of environment that we were living in 2017 that Team 10 existed,
and how they were treated by the public in general. It made sense there was this contempt
for them given their behaviour, but very few people really looked beyond that at the time.
I've heard people say that they missed the 2017 drama when it felt less serious, but the claims
weren't less serious, it's just the way people treated them were. The prevailing narrative was
that Team 10 is annoying, obnoxious, and therefore bad, and don't get me wrong, they're not good
things to be, but over time, the concerns relating to a group like that became greater and greater,
and their reputation, although not given much thought since, would likely sour in the public
mind or review. Is there anything vaguely positive at all that one can say about them?
Jake, it's every day bro, peace, peace bro, we're all dead.
There have been creator houses before, but none popularised the idea like Team 10,
and I don't believe it was just the luck of the draw, it was obviously highly calculated,
and at the core was a strong business mind who knew how to market himself and others in the form
of Jake Paul, an individual simultaneously able to be a successful public figure and a business one
required a lot of skills, and Jake Paul demonstrated that he could do either in creating
Team 10. The challenge came with actually balancing them, and trying to navigate interpersonal
relationships alongside them, which was a challenge given that Jake Paul seems like a bit
of a toxic person, an observation that became evident to many over time. We'll talk more about
him personally in a bit, but for the team itself to succeed, it needed a lot more than it had.
Hey, hey, this is my vlog channel, get the f*** out of the camera. Hey man, this is my vlog channel.
On the surface, Team 10's real success was lasting as long as they did, from the It's Every Day Bro
music video, and all the uploads, drum, and controversy that followed it. I have not been
able to go into detail about a lot of it because this video would have been so much longer than
planned, but the group was a ticking time bomb that could have resulted in much worse than it did.
Nick Crompton would dismiss prank content as fake to try and make it seem more inconsequential,
and to possibly counter those claims that these japes cause visible harm, but regardless of how
much of it was planned, there was tangibly a real element to it, and in trying to fulfil that sort
of YouTube insanity image, there were multiple times when the project could have just imploded
dramatically and given Jake the PR nightmare that he dreaded, so many close calls. Team 10
delicately walked the line of what was acceptable content to upload onto YouTube, and one can't help
but wonder if they would have crossed it if Jake's brother hadn't done so before. The off-camera
lifestyle of Team 10 was often reported in a rather unflattering light too, and yes, in a way
it can't be surprising that Jake Paul seemingly created a frat house environment, but a lot of
members didn't sign up to that, especially considering factors like background and age.
It was not something that everyone would have been happy to be a part of, but they didn't feel like
they had a say. Additionally, the general claims of individual maltreatment of those within the
house after they left were damning in their own right. It's obviously hard to evaluate the verity
of every last claim, but Jake seldom sought to deny a lot of them, he often dismissed or downplayed
them as misunderstandings and banter that had gone wrong, yet even if that was the case, it underlined
a fundamental problem of having something like Team 10 and what they offered, this idea that they
could take a smaller, inexperienced, often younger creator and grow their channel, but with one
massive condition, which is that you have to tolerate this group of people who are more
influential than you. You have to live in their house, and you have to deal with their antics.
Maybe nothing was designed with malice or intent to exploit, but Jake implicitly created an
environment that individuals would inherently feel rather trapped in. A brief read of a psychological
study on conformity and compliance would have told you that what they were creating could never
function healthily, but it kept happening. The greater problem with this environment is when
someone does decide to depart, it's always more dramatic. Leaving Team 10 videos didn't just
manifest as a trend because they were a fun thing to make, they existed because individuals
found their personal feelings caught up in this space that they felt trapped in, they'd crafted
a relationship with an audience who felt like they were a part of the team and that leaving would be
a betrayal of sorts, something that core members would occasionally refer to. These videos weren't
solely created as a way to attack Team 10, it was a way to rationalise their own decision to the
outside world. Every exit video felt like a stab to the Team 10 image, and yet every time they
persisted, while proclaiming that they knew exactly what they were doing. If they knew what
they were doing, then they'd know that they were trying to trap smaller creators in a collective
by offering them more influence and making it contingent on living in a house with a commitment
to millions of fans. But maybe Jake did know what he was doing, maybe he wanted to create a Team 10
that was fully submissive and under his thumb. Some people had noted his controlling nature,
he's a businessman and clearly has the ability to be methodical. He knew that if he had a consistent
roster that didn't feel like they could or should leave, then he should have a cash cow for at least
a few years, and yet in less than a year and a half it was practically over. A year and a half
was impressive innings given how catastrophic it could have been, but Jake always wanted Team 10
to be more, as shown by his presentation of it in interviews and messaging. He wanted to make as
much money from the concept as possible, and by failing to ensure their longevity, he fell short
of that goal. So, why does someone as supposedly successful as Jake Paul fail so miserably?
Jake Paul appeared to have a plan for Team 10. That plan was to bring a load of smaller craters
into one space and use Team 10 as a way to gradually grow their channels, and in return he would have a
share of their success. Some people go and want to go off on their own, but it doesn't necessarily
mean they're not a part of the Team 10 family. We've still got percentages though, lonesome, and
precision. Although this wasn't spoken about too much, there were general allusions to contracts
that would provide Jake Paul with a cut of a person's revenue, even if they left the YouTube
collective. However, I don't think the intention of that contract was just to let Jake Paul have a
share of income after someone left. Jake had more than enough money. Moreover, it was to encourage
people to stay and make money with him, because deep down Jake Paul knew that a continuously
changing roster of creators would not be good for brand identity, and he had to create something
that was successful enough to make a person stay, but not successful enough to make a person leave.
In essence, Team 10 was conceptualised as a honeypot for smaller creators. Jake Paul knew
that he had to make Team 10 an internet presence to guarantee his success, but he always seemed
cautious about how much power he was willing to grant them, from the simple decision of uploading
a significant portion of Team 10 content onto his own channel, calling the fans Jake Paulers,
to having an inner circle that oversaw a large majority of creative decisions. When people
raised certain concerns, he would supposedly reference PR, and how it would look if people left,
but it's also possible he didn't want people to live anywhere else than the house, because
that removal might give them some independence to make decisions about their future. He wanted fans
to be devoted to the holistic idea of Team 10 first, and any members other than himself second,
to maintain that threat of financial consequence if they did walk out, this idea that the fans
would not follow them out the door. The English Tudor story illustrated that although Jake may
have wanted to lift people up in a way, he wanted to keep them beneath him all the same, he wanted
to be their lifeline, if they walked away then they would be out of that spotlight he had provided
them with, and he was a well connected industry individual with roles on mainstream television.
During the first months, this plan appeared to work, and even when it was tested by a situation
such as Alyssa Violet's departure, it didn't seem to dent the brand too much because a majority of
fans were more interested in what Jake and Team 10 had to say about it than the situation itself.
This all changed, however, when they released It's Everyday Bro.
It's Everyday Bro was a stroke of marketing genius that I have no doubt was as intentionally
eye catching as many people found it, but at the same time, it was too eye catching for what
Jake Paul had intended, because it gave the members of Team 10 a never before known presence within
the online world. There was no real way to predict this level of virality, sure, songs in the past
would become popular for being particularly bad, but really I think Jake was just more interested
in making a simple track with immature lyrics that his target demographic would consume.
Before Jake, Paul was just known as this businessman influencer at the helm of Team 10 who
would draw attention for his occasional wild antics. You ask the average netizen before the 31st of
May about any of the members in Team 10 and you would receive a blank stare, but after there was
this sense that these individuals had possessed their own status, and even if that status were
treated negatively, it was still a power of sorts that could be wielded in a way that Jake Paul
didn't like, it was associated with the brand. The winds of change were indicated by a list of
violence video, even though she had left months prior, she clearly sensed that public opinion was
turning against Team 10, and felt like she had a space to release an impactful video on her
experience with Jake Paul. This was obviously exacerbated by the supposition that Jake was
referring to her in It's Everyday Bro, but even if he wasn't, she clearly felt empowered in that moment.
Something clicks in your head, like you want to kill someone, but you want to cry, and you want to
get revenge, but you can't. It's like so hard to explain.
Her video undermined this likely prevailing narrative from within Team 10, that if you walked away,
you'd lose everything that Jake had given you, that you'd be cut off from industry and a future within it.
As Team 10 became public enemy number one, Jake appeared to be losing his grasp on what he had
created. His behaviour became increasingly controversial and irrational, some might say they
were pushing the boundaries of content for entertainment and attention, but in doing this and
landing himself with a ton of negative publicity, he began to lose the credibility within the
industry that he held before, including his Disney show. It was hard to tell whether he thought that
this behaviour would cement his status amongst the remaining members, but really, it just made him
less and less powerful, to the point that even his supposedly serious moments were challenged
fervently from all those outside his echo chamber. When he tried to play his hand against Alyssa,
attempting to punish her for leaving, he showed that he really possessed very little.
Alright guys, so I'm in a Skype call right now with someone who is a part of Team 10, as well as
was there, present, a witness to everything that happened on the night that I allegedly assaulted
Megan Zelli, who is the assistant of Jake Paul. The tide was turning, and Jake no longer had the
credentials to back up this idea that he could be a decisive figure in a person's career, and over
time, members began to peel off gradually, some more quietly than others. There was far less at
stake for one's reputation to disassociate from Jake Paul and Team 10, arguably it became the
smarter thing to do to move on from the team that had become so ubiquitously maligned.
When your reputation is in the gutter like that, your power is reduced, and whether or not Jake
realised that, he didn't appear to adjust his behaviour with mind to it. However, one of the
more pivotal moments that appeared to influence Jake's power over many of those around him was
one that is often overlooked, the moving of the Team 10 house. In this case, the accommodation
was clearly a means to control those within the four walls of the Team 10 residence, however,
when they moved house, four people did not move with them, and none of those four people
returned. Firstly, Martinez Twins, who formally left in November, followed by Tristan Tessa,
who left in the new year, Tessa moving in with Tristan, who had never resided with the rest of
the crew anyway. It once again seemed to prove that once members were out of that sphere of power,
they would feel more comfortable walking away. The only people who appeared to stay longer for
a year at this point were those in his inner circle, this made sense as these people appeared
to have some control over the direction of the team. Nevertheless, they were also prominent
members in the group's image, and therefore had to be treated with extreme care. Yet, in a final
massive faux pas, Jake involved his father, who was either ignorant or dismissive to the role that
these people played, and his supposedly aggressive auditing style pushed critical members out of the
circle who had shared that control with Jake, leaving him with full control but a depleted
group, and a fate practically sealed. In barely a year, Jake had lost complete control, from the
businessman whose members relied on him to develop their skills and influence, to the laughing stock
of a frat boy who called their father in when the pressure got too much, and paid the price for it.
Although it was true that Team 10 couldn't exist without Jake Paul, it couldn't exist with Jake Paul
either, and maybe it's fate was sealed from the start.
In the February 2018 video that Jake Paul published covering Team 10's demise,
he reflects on how he struggled to get a read on members, and to really trust their intent,
and that makes sense to me, but I don't think it came down to the issue that he was unable to trust
these people, I think it came down to the fact that he was unable to understand people's needs
and actually look out for them. I don't have a doubt that if Jake Paul believed that he had an
option to keep members at Team 10 that didn't involve the tactics he executed, then he may well
have just done that, but it could well be an issue of being raised in an environment where the only
way to get what you want was through emotionally manipulative stratagems. He would regularly try
to keep people under the Team 10 roof, would become hostile if his plans were challenged,
would attempt to punish those who left, even if he claimed to be all about peace and love,
he had to show what would happen if they left to make sure they remained, but he lost that power
to keep people in his life. Jake set up Team 10 with the goal of making as much money as possible
essentially, but sometimes you have to invest in people to keep them around rather than just try
to keep them under your thumb, but for a person who wanted to create an incubator for future talent,
Jake didn't trust those people enough to support them in ways that they needed,
he was more comfortable holding them hostage in Team 10 purgatory which made them feel the need
to escape. To me, I think of the dichotomy between a rich servant and a poor master,
what Jake offered all of the members of Team 10 would inevitably make them a lot of money at some
point, even if they never derived any actual income from Jake Paul himself, but value isn't
singly derived from what's in your bank account, it's an intersection of a lot of aspects and
assets of one's life, and there's a point as well where someone will be happy with what they've made,
different people have different meanings of enough. For Jake Paul, I don't think anything
was ever enough for him, and so he struggled to empathise with people who actually did want
something simpler. Jake saw what he was giving as the ultimate sign of commitment and investment,
that he was growing these people's channels and providing them with a route to stardom,
and in return they just had to relinquish some form of control over their lives, which he was
more than ready to make the most of. He always seemed to think that anything he gave to people
should be returned in a transactional sense with emotional loyalty, but the moment you do a favour
with the expectation of something in return, well it's no longer a favour. Those people didn't use
you, you tried to use them and failed.
If Adam is a talent manager and he's going to be helping you get deals, he's going to be helping you
protect your brand, I didn't even know he was your talent manager, I thought he was in team 10 with us,
so that's another issue of this communication, that I thought he's a homie that's in team 10 with us,
that's dating Lauren, a part of team 10 as well.
There's this episode of Team 10 Uncut where Jake Paul has this rather awkward exchange with a member
regarding a situation, and many observed in the comments how he seemed to be incapable of balancing
his personal capacities with his professional capacities. This was always one of the key problems,
because whenever he did something that may have negatively affected someone or upset them,
it was business to him, but whenever someone did something in return that bothered him,
it was personal. It was the case when people left and he said it was business, but clearly felt like
he was used because they didn't reciprocate his investment, and it was the case with a list of
sleeping with Logan after Jake had seemingly slept with multiple women during an emotionally
dysfunctional and abusive relationship. He was so robust, and yet so fragile, so methodic,
and yet so unnecessarily vindictive. It's strange to think how different this timeline may be if
Jake didn't think to scatter the verses of his breakout hit with excessive references to the
person he had evicted a few months before. Alyssa may never have made that video.
Alyssa- I decided to be savage like him, and it ended with me being homeless.
In the end, it just led to very unhealthy dynamics between himself and other members,
who had a lot less influence than him. It made the Team 10 house a very exhausting atmosphere
for some, and create a relationship with Jake Paul where people never really knew where they
stood. It wasn't just a case of Jake Paul being unable to trust other people, it was a case of
other people being unable to trust Jake Paul, and when you have a large group with a defined
ringleader, then you need to be able to put your faith in that person. To me, Jake Paul's claims
that everything was fake was a way to cope with the fact that he didn't know where to set the
boundaries of reality in his interpersonal relationships with his colleagues and friends.
His commitment to maximising Team 10's profits while trying to use his personal self created
a conflict where his supposed friends didn't know who he was. This was demonstrated when he tried
to revive Team 10 with a show that operates in a genre where a lot of content is often fabricated,
seemingly under the expectation that that's what people wanted to see. They wanted the drama, sure,
they wanted the fight, sure, Jake wanted to give them that, but without any of the actual stakes
outside of the channel. Unfortunately for Jake, that aspect of realism was what made the original
Team 10 so interesting and fascinating for viewers. What makes YouTube successful in that way
is that people do feel involved and closer to these creators, the drama, responses, uploads,
commentary. It made people feel close to the action and gave them this affinity to those
involved, whether they were on Jake's side or not. It is ironic that even after being shunned by much
of the mainstream industry, Jake still wanted to give people a Disney Channel version of Team 10
drama. Jake's desire for complete control of a narrative ultimately compromised the reason why
Team 10 was so successful in the first place though, this was only Team 10 by name, very few
people will ever think of that name and think of these people. No offence to them, but maybe it's
not a name you want to be associated with anyway. Jake Paul will always be the first name that comes
to people's minds, and that's what Jake Paul wanted. He was the founder, he was the innovator,
he was the communicator, and so much more, but he was never everything. Even if Jake Paul was
the centrepiece of Team 10, even if he was the secret sauce, as he called it. The reason that a
secret sauce can remain secret is the presence of other ingredients, and when something comes
together, and when something works, you make sure you keep those ingredients there. Most people
don't leave squads because they don't like drama, they're musicians that remained together for decades
despite hating each other. If there was something worth staying for, then many of those who left
would, but Jake's ego was too big to give people a reason to stay, continuously claiming that it was
all under control while watching the ship sink, involving people incapable of resolving the glaring
flaws and maintaining a personal environment where others wanted to be, discarding the mantra
that he started the team under, for the talent, by the talent. What sort of talent is your father?
Crowd Cheers
The success of Team 10 was a recipe that captured the imagination of youngsters all over the world,
alongside the ire of many creators and commentators who wondered what their appeal even was.
Well, it appealed to the most primitive idea of success, the freedom to just live as recklessly
as you wish every day and hit a reset button before the next one starts. Do whatever the hell
you want, however you want. With the power of producing and editing, they successfully crafted
that image for millions of people. However, there are a fair few reasons why we don't live like that
most of the time, and as Team 10 became more notorious and unstable, those reasons became clear.
You can't hit a reset button at the end of the day, the reckless behaviour will stick with people
to the point where they won't want to be a part of that life anymore. It's not something they'll
want to do, they came to that house with massive dreams, but all they received was an early wakeup
call. Most people can't and won't live like that, and I don't think Jake ever properly comprehended
that. Maybe he just didn't want to, and would have rather continued to live in his fantasy of
excess, but his failure to address the fact that sometimes people just want a bit of their life to
themselves was what cost him their company, it served as a reminder that there are some things
you can never fully control. For all the highs and lows, Team 10 lived like it died, at the hands of
a man who's ego was too great for one, but not enough for ten. Whether it could have amounted to
something greater is a question that will never likely be answered, but perhaps that's for the best.
It's over now, and to be honest I can't ever see it coming back, but for a few months in 2017,
for better and for worse, it really was every day. Bro.
So yeah, that was the video, I hope you enjoyed it, it was certainly an experience for me. I'd like to
give a big thanks to the editors as always, they've done a great job, and I appreciate all their work,
and there are some really really good edits in this one, so I hope you appreciated that too. I'd
like to give a big thanks to the post editor, Kojak, person on audio, who I assume will be
Linuski, but we can change this bit if it's not. Thumbnail artist, Staffo, fantastic work as always,
big shout out to my patrons, $10 plus patrons on the screen now, but also have to give a special
shout out to the $50 patrons, Seri Tisch, Esther Bedoya, and Hypercube, thank you as always for
your support, I really appreciate it. Big shout out to the artists, all their credits will be in
the pinned comment alongside editors and so on. If your art appears in this video and you want
the credit for it, then just let me know. Also a big shout out to the sponsor Surfshark, it's been
a pleasure working with you as always, and I look forward to doing it again very soon. And just a
reminder that it is code opinion you need, code opinion for 3 months free. I don't really know
if I have too much else to add, but I hope you guys are taking care of yourselves and looking
after yourself as it finally begins to cool down up here for the winter. So I hope you guys have
a good day, good week, good month, but until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I will see you in the next one. Thank you.
Bye.
