So yesterday's video was titled, Black Lives Matter is a Racegrift.
Here it is, it's been removed.
This video was removed from YouTube, only you can see this video.
This video can't be monetized.
This video has been removed for inappropriate content.
Now, this video showed some of the violence that Black Lives Matter people have been committing
in the streets, but the video also shows how Black Lives Matter has its roots in Marxism,
as well as how it takes all of those millions of dollars of donations given to various Black
Lives Matter groups, and then funnels them to the Democratic Party through a slush fund
known as ActBlue.
There was some violence in the video, but it was on par with my previous two videos,
the police violence from the Legitimate Police Reformers Needed, and the Antifa violence
from my Antifa is a Terrorist Organization video.
Now those videos got demonetized, and I expected they would.
I did not expect my Black Lives Matter video to be taken down.
Maybe it is because of the violence, or maybe it's because they don't want any kind of criticism
of BLM to get out there.
This is what it looks like in my back end, I can't do anything really, I can't change
anything.
And when you go to the actual video, at least for me, I see the video, but it says we've
removed this video because it violates our community guidelines.
You will be able to view this video for 7 days from when it was removed.
This period allows you to review the content and decide whether you wish to submit an appeal.
So if I click on the appeal this decision button, this is what I get.
Before you appeal, please review your content to ensure that it abides by our community
guidelines, in particular the section shown below.
Provide supporting details in the box.
Okay, well let's see what this section says.
Upon review, we've determined that your content violates our guidelines and we've removed
it from YouTube.
We know that this might be disappointing, but it's important to us that YouTube is a
safe place for all.
If content breaks our rules, we remove it.
Learn more, by the way, will just take us to the basic community guidelines page.
So even though it says this particular section was what I violated, this says nothing.
This is literally just a fuck you.
You haven't explained how my video violated your guidelines and nothing in it breaks your
terms of service.
To be honest, I don't expect anything back out of that.
I think that video is just going to have to remain off my channel, unfortunately.
It is of course on my Bitchute, it's right here.
If you feel like going to watch it there, here it is.
And one of my friends has decided to upload a backup to their channel as well.
If you want to do the same, you know, put it on your own channel as a backup, feel free
to download it from one of these sources and re-upload, I don't mind.
Anyway, fuck censorship and fuck YouTube.
