Hey guys, Dev here, and if you're watching this over on the main Short Fight Otaku channel,
it's been a while.
The first question you've probably got is, where the hell did you guys go?
We realized that not all of you actually want to see our daily uploads of Let's Play content,
so we moved all of that stuff over to a different channel at youtube.com slash c slash no-talent-gaming.
So for the past five months, we've been over there uploading stuff every single day.
I've also been on Twitch at twitch.tv slash shortfightotaku doing streams.
I'm making this vlog to announce two big things.
One, I'm doing a daily stream challenge for the month of June.
That's right, every single day this month I plan to stream at twitch.tv slash shortfightotaku.
So if you just want a new daily dose of Dev, you can head on over there every single night.
Even if you're not interested in gaming content so much, I'd still request you come over because
I often talk about, you know, gamergate stuff and SJW stuff and, you know, political news
of the day.
I do like to cover all the topics whenever I play a game.
The second big thing is that we're finally restarting this channel, the main shortfightotaku
channel.
I know most of the subscribers to this channel are interested in SJW stuff, and that is something
that we do plan to deliver.
Long story short, it's just been a really hectic semester at school.
Dave wasn't able to do much, I wasn't able to do much, and camera lady actually now has
a new job, so she's not doing much either.
But school's over, summer's underway, and we do have a lot more time on our hands.
And not to get into too much detail about it, we have four big projects we like to get
underway on YouTube.
There will be future vlogs in the coming weeks, probably next Monday I'd say, talking about
these projects in depth and what we plan to do.
But long story short, in about two and a half weeks time, you're gonna start seeing new
content on this channel, and it's mainly going to be political and SJW stuff in nature.
As for gaming and anime content, we will be talking about that in future vlogs as well.
We have some very big plans, we've had these plans for about five or six months now, we
just haven't been able to do them, and now we can.
So thank you guys for sticking around, I have noticed that the sub count has basically remained
static, which is pretty good for a channel that puts out no content for about five months,
so thank you.
I know what you're here for, we will be making it, and if you're interested, please check
out youtube.com slash c slash no talent gaming for our let's plays.
And if you want to join in on the daily stream challenge this month, head on over to twitch.tv
slash short fight out talk, sometime tonight I'll be playing another game.
See you there guys, I love you.
