Good morning gamers! Let's talk about Corona-Chan, because after yesterday's video where I did
the whole hate facts thing, we need to be even more depressed about the state of the world.
I see all you guys saying that I'm going to get yeeted off YouTube for that video,
maybe, but you know my channel is still pretty clean, no strikes or anything,
so I'm sure they'll at least give me one. It'll probably be okay. It's on Bitchute anyway,
so it's not going anywhere. I last looked at this map during the weekly sip,
and things have gotten worse since then. Another 200 cases in South Korea since Sunday.
Italy's blown up. Japan's blown up. The US now has 35. Iran has gone crazy. There are
stories with Italy and Iran both, how the numbers just spiked in both of those places.
Canada's a tent, okay? I'm still fine. I still kind of live in an isolated area of Canada.
I don't even think SARS made it here, where I live, so this one might not make it here.
Hopefully, guys. Check out the bottom of the list. A bunch of these other countries now.
Afghanistan, Nepal, Bahrain, Lebanon, Iraq, Egypt, Sri Lanka now. These places all have at least one
case, which means that there's actually probably a lot more cases, like a lot more cases. Considering
that this thing takes two weeks to incubate, it can survive on surfaces for a long time,
there's definitely the chance that there's just a whole bunch of unreported cases everywhere.
South America's still pure. They'll be the last civilization.
I don't think this is gonna kill us, I'm just joking. Let's start with some fun stupidity
before I really get depressed about it. Coronavirus could lead to a US vape shortage,
because I guess it's all made in China. I do like this guy here, hikikomorphism's take on it.
This is a news article you find lying around in the early stages of a Deus Ex game. Yeah,
kinda. Or maybe like a Walking Dead or something, like some kind of zombie game,
where like before shit gets real you just see that Vice published something completely
fucking stupid. Check out these brainlets here. I guess I'm committed to Chinese food when we
go out until this thing is either over or normalized. Luckily that's not what you call a
problem. Yeah dude. I heard from my mom yesterday that some Chinese restaurants are saying that if
things go on like this for another week or two, they'll have to close. Check out your local Chinese
places if you can. No thank you. No thank you. You can call me a bigot if you like, but I will not
eat the bat soup. Pewdiepie came back, guys. And of course immediately when his first video
published, the media had something to say about it. Pewdiepie laughs at Coronavirus in a racially
edgy return video. Pewdiepie is back on YouTube again, and back to his old ways. In his return
video he laughs about the Coronavirus and mocks the Chinese language. You know, when there's
something as serious as this happening, you kinda do have to laugh at it. I don't know if, like,
are journalists human beings? This is a medical article, the 2019 NCOV Coronavirus, are there two
routes to infection? And the basic idea of the article is that it turns out that it's not just
through sneezing or coughing or breathing, you know, respiratory infection, that the Coronavirus
can get around. It can also be transmitted through fecal transmission. Apparently if you have the
Coronavirus and you have diarrhea, you can create a virus-laden gaseous plume, which can infect
other people up to 200 meters away. Damn, dude. This doesn't bode well for India. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. Let's get to the actual news. Iran is closing all schools in its capital city of Tehran
because of the Coronavirus epidemic. Now that the Coronavirus has actually hit Iran, I think we're
going to start seeing a bit more of a serious death toll. Like, China is not the greatest
country medically or, like, technologically, but it's certainly light years ahead of a place like
Iran. And these other Middle Eastern places and African places, now they're going to start getting
infected. I think we're going to start seeing a lot of people die. I really do. I think in
these places where there is no real medical apparatus to speak of, nothing certainly advanced,
certainly nothing Western, there's going to be some serious problems regarding the Coronavirus.
This is not yet confirmed to be Coronavirus, but I think we're all thinking it.
The Slovak Prime Minister has canceled a schedule due to an illness. Just an illness. Who knows what
it is? I mean, it kind of sounds like if you read it. Slovak Prime Minister canceled his agenda
because of a sudden illness. He was hospitalized yesterday night due to acute upper respiratory
tract infection accompanied with high temperature. Due to his condition, he is canceling his entire
schedule temporarily. We're all thinking the same thing here, aren't we? What if this guy ends up
being like the first public figure to actually get the coronavirus? Another major location the
virus has hit since my last video was Italy. Italy is putting areas with outbreaks on lockdown.
Borders to Italy are closed. Additionally, they have no idea how the virus got there.
The man previously thought to be patient zero in Italy's outbreak has never actually had the virus.
It is now unknown how the outbreak began. Maybe this is like a walking dead scenario where
something fundamentally has changed in the human genome and all humans just have it.
Probably not, but it's interesting to think about. There's been some crazy video coming out of Milan
in Italy of just completely, God damn it, get out of here, Euro news, Jesus Christ, of just completely
empty store shelves because everyone is buying everything up. Like, let's keep going here. Look
at this. All this stuff is gone. It's just gone, man. People are raiding grocery stores in a panic
to buy whatever they can, you know? Remember that for the past three or four videos, I've been
saying start stockpiling some food. This is why. Everyone who thought I was dumb for saying it,
man, no. If it hits your town, this will happen. Grocery stores will run out. Shipping will slow
or even stop, at least temporarily. I've said it before. I'll say it again. Make sure that you have
enough food to last for like a month. If just for some reason you can't go outside for a month,
have food, have some rice, have some beans, have some peanut butter. There you go. Get a
multivitamin in there too. It's not going to taste any good, but it'll cover all of your nutritional
needs. You'll be set for like a month. 10 pound bag of rice, 10 pound bag of beans. Get a jumbo
container of peanut butter. Get it now while the stores are still open, while there's no panic,
and while there's no coronavirus in your city. Go get it now. You can even stop this video. I won't
even be offended. Just go out and get it. Xu Zengrun, who published a rare public critique
of President Xi Jinping over China's coronavirus crisis, has now been barred from social media,
and his friends have not been able to contact him for several days. The professor was confined to
his home by the Red Guard, and he has been barred from social media. This is China's new strategy.
When it first happened, they clamped down hard, just hoping that it would blow over like SARS did.
When it turned out that it wasn't blowing over, they had to at least be somewhat public about it,
but they had to start putting their own spin on it. They're like, okay, we're working on it.
We're getting under control. There was videos of people spraying the entire city with disinfectant,
et cetera, et cetera. But now that things have gone wildly out of control and it's
infecting the entire world, they've basically gone into complete lockdown mode again.
China's no longer reporting any new cases. They're no longer reporting any numbers.
Borders are closed. No information's getting in or out. We have no clue what's going on in
China anymore, and we haven't for at least a week. Zhu Xinyang and Li Kaochu, legal and social
activists in China, have gone missing. Of course they have. It's China. Finally, for once in their
miserable existence, at least recently, the New York Times is honest about something. To tame
coronavirus, Mao-style social control blankets China. Despite their high-tech tools, the
authorities are mainly relying on a flood of workers to keep hundreds of millions of people
from coming in contact with outsiders. This is how China has it under control, guys.
They're disinfecting like every surface of every city and just locking people away in their homes.
The last numbers that we got before China sealed itself off was 760 million people are
currently under quarantine. Not much of a fucking quarantine then, is it? I mentioned rather
flippantly last time, more as a joke, that the coronavirus could actually render men infertile.
Turns out that that was not necessarily just a rumor, there may actually be something to it.
Coronavirus seems like the perfect storm. Reports that it can affect fertility and cause men to not
be able to reproduce with their sperm. People are still saying this might be some kind of
bio-engineered weapon that got loose accidentally. I don't know, maybe. At this point, fucking
anything's possible. This is from the Global Times, which is basically China's media outlet
in the West. And if an arm of the Chinese government is finally admitting this, we have
to know there's something to it. New Chinese study indicates the coronavirus did not originate
in the Huanan seafood market. Yeah, we all know it came from the bio lab at this point,
don't we? They don't say where it came from, but they say that patient zero transmitted the virus
to workers or sellers at the market. It didn't originate at the market. The market just allowed
it to spread very quickly. Alongside Italy and Iran, the last place to have a massive boom
recently was South Korea. And guys, this story is so wild, I don't know if you will even believe me.
But first of all, let's start with almost all the patients in the South Korean psychiatric ward
have the coronavirus. It turns out it is being spread around medical facilities.
But more importantly, there is, believe it or not, an actual death cult from South Korea,
and they have actually succeeded in spreading this thing around. They've been flying on planes
for weeks to spread the virus around other nations. I'm not kidding. This is not something
out of a video game. Let me show you. This is from the Washington Post.
South Korean coronavirus spike linked to doomsday sect with a messianic leader. A church in South
Korea with a messianic leader has been identified as a hotbed of coronavirus cases as the outbreak
grows in parts of the country. The leader of the sect, Lee Man Hee, said all gatherings
have been suspended after health authorities linked Lee's followers to more than two-thirds
of all confirmed coronavirus cases in South Korea. Korean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
said that 182 of South Korea's confirmed coronavirus cases were traced to Lee's secretive
religious movement, called the Shin Cheonji Church of Jesus of the Temple of the Tabernacle
of the Testimony. A 61-year-old woman who attended the church's branch in the southern
city of Daegu has been identified as patient zero by health authorities. The woman initially
refused doctors' requests that she be tested for the virus on the grounds that she had not
traveled abroad recently. Before she eventually was tested, she visited a hotel, a hospital,
and the church attended by some 1,000 members. The KCDC director told reporters that the services
which often gather followers in crowded spaces possibly led to mass transmissions.
The church is thought to have more than 200,000 adherents across the country.
Followers equate Lee with the second coming of Jesus to deliver believers from an impending end
of days. And here's some of the related activities of this church. 28 of 39 South Koreans who
recently made a group pilgrimage to Israel have now tested positive for coronavirus.
That's probably how it got into Israel. Turns out that same church is well established in New
Zealand with branches in Auckland and Wellington. Oh well, it's been nice knowing you. It'll be
okay, dude. It'll be okay. The New York Times also had to talk about this shadowy church at
the center of the coronavirus outbreak. At the meetings of this secretive church,
worshippers sit and pack together on the floor, forbidden to wear glasses or face masks. They
come to church even when sick. After services, they split up into groups for Bible study,
where they go out into the streets and proselytize. After the first coronavirus
infection was reported among its members, they were told to lie about being followers.
As of Saturday, more than 700 members of the church, which is considered a cult,
could still not be reached according to health officials who were frantically hoping to screen
them for signs of infection. Oh my God, dude. When you actually look at the places this church has
branches all over the world, you can see it kind of, I don't want to say this, it kind of follows
the map of the spread of the infection. A lot of these places got this virus, not necessarily from
China, but from South Korea and Japan. So I wonder, I don't know, maybe it's best not to
be a conspiracy theorist about this. Some more stupidity from the World Health Organization,
if you happen to need any more proof that they're fucking incompetent.
The WHO says it no longer has a process to declare a pandemic because the old system used that had
six phases is no longer in use. Okay, so I guess they just can't declare things pandemics anymore.
Awesome. Meanwhile, here's the WHO's chief saying that the world must prepare for a potential
pandemic. How do you even know what a pandemic is? You fucking clown. This thread that this is
in is actually just full of like kind of crazy breaking news about it. Yeah. Stuff from Iran,
stuff from China, stuff from Italy. There's apparently a flight being held. Let's see if
I can find it here. Tourist hotspots in the Italian city of Milan are closing their doors.
Oman reports first two cases of the virus. An Air Italy flight from Rome is being held
in quarantine. I guess they just can't leave the plane. The WHO believes that the coronavirus has
peaked and plateaued in China. Are you actually trusting China's numbers on this? All right,
guys, things are going crazy out there. As always, I'll end it with this. At this point,
you probably can't prevent yourself from getting sick. If you're going to get sick,
you're going to get sick. At the same time, it doesn't seem to kill that many people,
two to 3%. That is a higher percentage than the flu, yes, but you can definitely fight this off
if you're smart about it. The biggest problem now is the breakdown of worldwide shipping and
the fact that if it comes to your town, your grocery stores might not be getting a resupply
for a while. Get your supplies now before it shows up. If you're in a place like Milan,
I hope you listened to me a couple weeks ago, and if you're in a place like my city where
nothing's happened yet, now's the time to prepare. Buy a few extra weeks worth of food that can be
stored at room temperature, just kept dry, and you can probably ride this one out. You don't
want to be going out into a riot just because you ran out of food. Though in my case, I could
probably stand to lose some weight anyway. Alright guys, good luck out there. Don't lose hope. I love you.
