Hey guys, Dev finally here with a new video.
I know it's been nearly two months since the last full SFO video and I apologize for
that.
Real life has kept me a bit run down recently.
But I'm back and I'm going to be doing my best to maintain a regular schedule.
While I was gone I was still working on and off on a handful of different videos.
One of them was on net neutrality, because it's a topic that's returned to the forefront
of everyone's minds in the past week and will likely stay there for the next little
bit due to recent and ongoing happenings on the subject.
However, I realized that the arguments I wanted to present in that video required that
I lay a rather large foundation on the topic of the pros and cons of capitalism, which
just so happened to be the focus of one of the other scripts I was working on during
the break.
So, let's spend this time discussing the inner workings of capitalism, and I'll put
out a companion piece a few days after this video goes live on net neutrality, using this
video as a basis for it and feeding us into that conversation as best I can.
The premise I'm starting with is that capitalism is the single most successful, prosperous,
egalitarian, and robust economic system in human history.
We need to examine not only how this can be so, but why it is so.
And coming to this understanding is going to require us not only to examine the positives
and negatives of capitalism, but also the positives and negatives of a few of its main
historical competitors, namely socialism, communism, feudalism, fascism, and anarchism.
Now that's a lot to unpack, so please bear with me a bit.
Let's start with a few basic definitions, to set things up.
I'll pull these first two from Wikipedia, yes, I know, but for our purposes they will
do.
A social system can be reasonably defined as a patterned network of relationships constituting
a coherent whole that exists between individuals, groups, and institutions.
An individual may belong to multiple social systems at once.
Examples of social systems include nuclear family units, communities, cities, nations,
college campuses, corporations, and industries.
The organization and definition of groups within a social system depend on various shared
characteristics such as location, socioeconomic status, race, religion, societal function,
or other distinguishable features.
An economic system can be reasonably defined as a system of production, resource allocation,
and distribution of goods and services within a society or a given geographic area.
It includes the combination of the various institutions, agencies, entities, decision
making processes, and patterns of consumption that comprise the economic structure of a
given community.
As such, an economic system is a type of social system.
From these definitions we can glean that a social system is an area of human interpersonal
behavior that governs a specific part of society.
An economic system is a type of social system that governs finance and production, just
like a legal system is a type of social system that governs law and order, and the same goes
for political systems, cultural systems, and so on.
This stuff becomes pretty obvious when you think about it.
We can also define our end goal for any given social system being in the service of humanity,
meaning a functioning social system must serve the needs of as many people as possible, with
a social system being considered more functional than its competitors if it is capable of serving
more people, serving the same number of people more efficiently, or serving the same number
of people with the same efficiency, but at a higher quality.
So quality, quantity, and efficiency.
Now I don't mean this in the strictest of utilitarian terms.
In my video titled When Is Political Violence Acceptable, I do spend some time picking apart
utilitarian ethics.
But let me give you the cliff notes here.
The idea of the greatest good for the greatest number of people sounds moral at a glance,
but there is no safeguard in place for the people that fall outside the bounds of the
greatest number.
This is what is commonly referred to as the tyranny of the majority.
If you want a simplistic example of the failure of utilitarian ethics, there is always bike
cuck.
In any case, this is not what I mean when I say that a social system needs to be in
the service of humanity.
While it's true that no social system can adequately protect the rights of, and provide
prosperity for, every single human being, it also cannot actively work to violate the
rights of, or inhibit the prosperity of people not within the system, at least not without
sufficient provocation.
Now there are some people who don't actually agree with me on this starting point.
A good example of those people would be the hardline multiculturalists.
When the claim is made that all cultures are basically the same, that they all have
the same value, and that a nation is not intrinsically tied to its national cultures but instead
to all cultures of the world, on an equal basis regardless of population demographics
or language or history or anything else that exists in reality, this is a rejection of
the idea that a social system must prioritize people within the system.
And there's not really an easy way to bridge the gap between these two points of view.
I mean, what's the point of having a social system if the bloody thing doesn't perform
its work primarily for the benefits of those invested in it?
The multicultural point of view is that any social system must equally accommodate all
people regardless of their participation in the system, and this idea is both impractical
and untenable.
I mean, you can't continuously withdraw from society more than you deposit, any more
than you can do so from a bank.
But then again, I don't think that these people have ever had to balance a budget.
So maybe I'm not so surprised that they think that piling on unrelenting burden is
how social systems should work.
But if we do accept the idea that a good social system must prioritize an in-group while still
not causing harm towards an out-group, that gives us a way to measure the relative effectiveness
of the six economic systems I listed off earlier.
Let's knock off some of the simple ones right away.
On anarchism.
Anarchism as an economic system, or really as any form of social system, is a complete
joke.
It doesn't work.
It never will.
I honestly don't think that the anarchists have any idea about the nature of humanity.
I can simply say, go read On the Social Contract, and despite the flaws in that book, this is
basically all the refutation anybody needs to throw all flavors of anarchism out the
window.
Anarchism describes a stateless society, where there is no government, no power structure,
and no nation.
And if this society ever manages to come to fruition, it will be promptly flattened by
the next society over that decides to actually unify into any type of fighting force, because
a stateless anarchist society will be entirely defenseless.
But that doesn't even matter, because when you even get just two human beings together,
there needs to be some form of self-mediation between them, some basis by which they recognize
each other on some level.
Even the most primitive, ass-backwards, uncontacted tribes have a power structure, a chief of
some kind directing the others, because as it turns out, organization and specialization
are good things for society, and an anarchist society by its very definition lacks those
virtues.
If you want to see anarchy in action, go watch The Thinkery's video on Slab City, and if
you want to get angry about it, realize that these people take food stamps from the US
government so they can live in houses made of scrap metal in the middle of the desert
and spend their time destroying other people's shit.
Anyway, it's time for judgement.
Remember our criteria, we can judge a social system if it provides for its in-group while
protecting the rights of its out-group in its given field, which is, in this case, finance
and production.
Does anarchism do this?
The answer is a resounding no.
Not only does it fail to do this, it fails to exist in any meaningful way.
And should an anarchist society ever actually exist, it will likely be the result of a massive
nuclear holocaust where entire continents are on fire and the few dozen remaining members
of humanity are spending their final moments eating each other because the Earth can no
longer support life.
On feudalism.
The case for feudalism as an economic system is another of the weaker ones on the list.
Put very simply, feudalism was a system where the noble class owned land within a kingdom
and peasants worked the land in exchange for the right to live on it and subsist off of
it.
Any excess value that peasantry managed to pull from the land would almost never actually
stay in the hands of the peasantry, but return to the nobles who owned the land.
Feudalism failed when the Black Plague hollowed out Europe, removing most of the serfs from
the equation altogether, as well as a shift in policy away from nobility maintaining their
own men-at-arms loyal to them and threw them to the crown and towards a more centralized
professional military.
Feudalism did manage to last until the mid-1800s in Russia, however, which would have a huge
impact on communism in that country, but that's for later.
So as an economic system, does feudalism provide for the largest number of people possible
while still not harming those outside of its system within the sphere of finance and economics?
The answer is again obviously no.
The out-group, the serfs, vastly outnumbered the in-group, the nobles, and they lived lives
of multi-generational indentured servitude with no possibility of personal freedom or
social advancement.
Feudalism was specifically designed to restrict the lives of its out-group as much as possible
in order to keep them working for the benefit of the in-group.
We can safely classify it as a failure, though this time at least it didn't require reducing
the planet to a ball of ash in order for it to exist.
The critique of fascism is a bit more complex than the previous two.
Fascism is not only an economic system, but also a political system that exists as a form
of hyper-nationalism.
Nationalism, as a social system, is not always a bad thing, but when it turns bad, it generally
morphs into some form of fascism.
Fascism prioritizes all-encompassing state control over every single social system.
The political system must be fascist, in order to maintain political power and direct the
nation.
The economic system must be fascist, in order to micromanage the economy for the betterment
of the state.
The cultural system must be fascist, in order to indoctrinate the people of the nation through
propaganda.
The military system must be fascist, as fascism values a state of total war, where the distinction
between military and civilian disappears, and all production, all people, all economics
and trade and art and everything else that exists is made to serve the war effort.
Fascism is ultimately totalitarian in nature because by its own definition it must control
and govern everything.
Oh, and for those of you calling the modern alt-right fascists or Nazis, you might want
to re-listen to the definition of fascism as a social system that I just gave you.
I very rarely agree with the alt-right, but they do not meet the definition of fascism,
on multiple criteria.
So let's talk fascist economics.
In Alfred Rocco's The Political Doctrine of Fascism, Rocco writes,
it considers the economic development, and especially the production of wealth, as an
eminently social concern, wealth being for society an essential element of power and
prosperity.
But fascism maintains that in the ordinary run of events economic liberty serves the
social purposes best, that it is profitable to entrust to individual initiative the task
of economic development both as to production and as to distribution, that in the economic
world individual ambition is the most effective means for obtaining the best social results
with the least effort.
Therefore on the question also of economic liberty the fascists differ fundamentally
from the liberals.
The liberals see in liberty a principle, the fascists accept it as a method.
By the liberals, freedom is recognized in the interest of the citizens.
The fascists grant freedom in the interest of the state.
In other terms, fascists make of the individual an economic instrument for the advancement
of society, an instrument which they use so long as it functions, in which they subordinate
when no longer serviceable.
In this guise, fascism solves the eternal problem of economic freedom and of state interference,
considering both as mere methods which may or may not be employed in accordance with
the social needs at the moment.
On first glance, this might sound pretty good, because hey, the fascists aren't stuck to
one specific economic policy, they're willing to swap things around based on what works
best for any given time.
But then you notice that they define what works best by what's best for the state,
and by the state they mean the government, the party.
And then you notice that individual rights are only respected while they're in alignment
with the state.
And then you realize that there's nothing built into fascist economics to stop the state
from turning on the individual when it suits them to do so.
Fascist economists believe that their pulling bits and pieces from capitalism and communism
meant that they represented a true third option to the problem of economics.
Unlike communists, they believed that the existence of social hierarchy was beneficial
to society.
But unlike capitalists, they believed that the government had a fundamental role to play
in managing the economic interactions between the various classes.
Like laissez-faire capitalists, they believed in social Darwinism within business, where
people were allowed to catastrophically fail or miraculously secede based on their own
merits.
But like socialists, they believed that a catastrophic failure in the private sector
set back not only the entrepreneur, but the state, and therefore the people of the nation.
And the entrepreneur was responsible to the collective in this regard.
In George Reisman's essay, Why Nazism was Socialism and Why Socialism is Totalitarian,
Reisman goes into great detail describing how fascist economics eventually snowballed
into the extreme restriction of all freedoms, not just economic but personal freedom.
Freedom of the press, freedom of expression, and so on.
It's a really interesting read, and I recommend you take a look at it, but the basic idea
is that Nazi Germany printed a whole bunch of excess money in order to finance its war
effort.
Dumping that much money into a free capitalist system caused hyperinflation, so in response,
the German government took control of most of the private businesses, and instituted
price controls and rationing of goods.
Because of the lack of freedom regarding what could be bought and sold, and at what price
and quantity, a large black market developed.
In response to the black market, the German government began issuing fines for anybody
caught dealing in an authorized business.
But the official state economy was so heavily controlled, and the black market was so profitable,
even excessively large fines could simply be absorbed into the huge profit margins as
a business expense.
So the German government had to set up a justice system in which the penalty for black market
trade was long-term incarceration or death, a secret network of spies to not only infiltrate
black markets but also intimidate uninvolved citizens into keeping their noses clean, and
a police force empowered with the authority to spend swift justice on the spot due to
a jury's obvious willingness to let somebody off easy for selling a couple of pounds of
meat.
And so, we now have the apparatus for the police state, which extends itself far beyond
economics but exists because excessive government control of an economy requires it to.
So, does fascism provide for the largest number of people possible within its in-group while
simultaneously not harming people within its out-group in the realm of finance and production?
Again, the answer is no, but not due to its non-existence like with anarchism, or its
extremely small in-group and the brutal repression of a massively large out-group like with feudalism.
In fact, the in-group of fascism is very well defined as the citizens of a nation.
The problem with fascism, as an economic system anyway, is not that it defines a large out-group
and then brutalizes them, but that it fails to provide for the economic well-being of
its large in-group.
Even though fascism's in-group is clearly defined, individuals within the in-group garner
minimal economic advantages due to their in-group membership.
Of course, fascism clearly does violate the rights of its well-defined minority out-groups,
but that has less to do with economics and more to do with other aspects of fascism.
On socialism.
Ah yes, socialism.
Communism's little brother, and often considered a stepping stone for a society moving from
capitalism to communism.
Socialism is defined primarily by social ownership of the means of production.
There are many different stripes of socialism, but they are united by the idea of social
ownership.
The means of production, for those of you who don't know, is socialist and communist
lingo for the factories, the farms, and the other locations, equipment, and methods used
to produce goods or services.
So, in a capitalist society, the owner of a factory would employ workers to run his
factory and produce the goods of the factory in exchange for a negotiated wage, which the
owner would then turn around and sell on the market.
The revenue generated from the sale of the goods would then be used to provide for the
wages of the workers, as well as pay the owner of the factory enough for him to live on in
exchange for not only the owner's ownership of the factory, but for his work in directing
and overseeing the production, the hiring and firing of workers, and the negotiation
of sale on the marketplace for his products.
Socialists believe that the setup is inherently unethical, that the means of production cannot
be privately owned by one person, but must be socially owned.
Well, what does social ownership entail?
Let's ask an actual socialist.
Yeah, I got into a shitty Twitter argument with this person a few months back.
I kept it up solely because I knew I was going to be using her stupidity in a video eventually.
I won't bore you with the details, you can go read it yourself if you've really gotten
bored with hitting your own dick with a hammer and want something a bit more painful.
Here's the gist of her argument.
Bosses at work don't actually do anything of value.
Workers do all the work, and management just gets fat off of it.
Therefore, any workplace must be socially owned, and must lack hierarchy.
The workers would all hold an equal ownership of the workplace, and a council of workers
would be elected to take the place of management.
The council would collectively decide every decision the workplace makes, with input from
the electorate of workers.
Oh, also, in this hypothetical dreamlike scenario, the state would not exist.
Yes, she was an anarcho-socialist, and that small townships and cities would have elected
councils to independently rule them from any federal body.
Which would effectively make them city-states, and would not be anarchy, but fine, whatever.
I don't know where to start here, this is so absolutely moronic.
I asked her if she believed it was inherently unethical for a boss to offer money in exchange
for a worker's work.
She said yes, because even if both the boss and the worker consent to the arrangement,
it's oppressive and exploitative, because it involves a power structure.
I asked her if it was possible for a worker to sell their partial ownership of a workplace,
and she said no, because money would not exist.
I asked her if having an elected council of workers would be too bureaucratic to function
during a crisis situation, where a single boss having to make a quick decision would
be more effective.
And she dodged the question.
I asked her if she knew that partial ownership by workers of a workplace already existed
in capitalism, in the form of some companies offering stock options for employees as part
of hiring, and she dodged the question.
I asked her how her rules would be enforced, which is when she mentioned those township
councils, and then I asked her if force would be used by these councils to prevent bosses
and workers willingly exchanging in barter for work simply beyond partially owning the
workplace, and she dodged the question.
But here's the most telling part of my whole exchange with her.
I said to her, let's pretend I'm running my own business.
With just me working in it.
If I wanted to bring on somebody to help me work, expanding my business into a two-person
enterprise, I would not be allowed to simply pay them out for their work, right?
I would have to offer this other person 50% ownership of my business?
She agreed, that's how it would work.
And then I asked her, well, what if I can't find anybody willing to work as hard as I
am on my business?
What if the business is my passion project, like say, my YouTube channel or my stream?
Why should anybody else deserve an equal share of ownership in the project if to me it's
a passion I will invest my all in, and to them it's simply a job?
Her reply was striking, and it gave me a hard look into the mind of a true socialist.
According to her, I didn't actually feel passionately or work hard on my business the
way I describe myself as doing.
According to her, all people inherently invest the same amounts of work into all things,
as long as they're not being oppressed by capitalism.
The idea that some people work harder than others, that some people have passion for
their projects, that some people may be considered to be exceptional, was simply a capitalist
myth.
Everybody's the same.
I was lying about my passion, and anyone I picked up off the street would do as a co-owner
of my enterprise, because I don't work harder or care more, I'm just a liar.
This is what socialism is, folks.
It does not believe in the true passion that humans can feel for their life's work.
It does not believe in a calling.
It does not believe that people are capable of becoming more than they currently are.
It attributes all differences in work ethic not to ability, talent, competence, education,
experience or passion, but simply due to the oppression present in the boss-worker dynamic.
And when that dynamic is removed, socialists believe all human beings to be unchangingly
equal in their capacity to work.
It does not believe in growth through effort, or successful entrepreneurship, or motivations
beyond simply subsisting.
Socialism talks about rights, but not responsibility.
It talks about alleviating suffering, but not about creating wonders.
It talks about survival, but nothing beyond that.
It talks about being alive, but not living a full life.
But like I said before, this woman was an anarcho-socialist.
Maybe all the problems come from the anarcho part of that equation.
So let's talk about state socialism.
Well, we kind of already did.
A lot of the arguments against fascist economics also apply to state socialism.
A contemporary example is Venezuela.
The Venezuelan government has seized approximately 30% of the nation's private enterprises.
But that 30% consists of almost all vital private infrastructure.
And just like what happened with Nazi Germany, rapid inflation has kicked in.
It's become a Twitter meme at this point, with how low the Venezuelan Bolivar has fallen.
I remember being astounded when the World of Warcraft in-game gold coin became worth
more than the Bolivar.
But that was months ago, and it's only gotten worse.
The Venezuelan government's response to this was to limit the amount of bolivars people
can withdraw from banks.
A massive black market is also beginning to spring up as well.
And if Venezuela doesn't change its course, we already know what's coming down the road.
Spies, secret police, suppression of freedoms of the people, foreign scapegoating and propaganda,
and transformation into a pure totalitarian state.
It's a catastrophic collapse of an otherwise viable country based on purely ideological
bullshit.
And a lot of Venezuelans are starving and dying because of it.
The Venezuelan government is committing human rights atrocities against its own people.
And I don't care how often they say that they're doing it to try and liberate the
working class.
Look at you, you fat fuck.
You've gained like 50 pounds during one of the worst famines in your country's history,
and you've caused it all.
And of course, the verified Twitterinos love to talk about how Venezuelan socialism isn't
real socialism, because it's state tyranny.
There's some understanding that socialism requires state tyranny to exist because the
owners of the means of production aren't going to give up those means unjustly unless
you impose massive force on them.
There's a Twitter verified account called the Official Socialist Party, which by the
way, shows you the real worthlessness of that blue checkmark.
But this account has some choice takes.
Like this, for instance.
There needs to be far more discussions and preparations taking place worldwide so that
there can be a smooth transition to genuine socialism.
Actual socialism has never existed anywhere.
It won't exist until global capitalism has ended.
Outdated economics get replaced by better ones.
A moneyless society with no ruling class is next.
You know, there's a lot of things that are just straight up wrong here.
But let me touch on one that I haven't mentioned yet in this video.
The claim that actual socialism will not exist while capitalism exists.
Why not?
Can't you go have your actual socialism somewhere while some other group of people somewhere
else not in contact with you has a capitalist system?
Why does socialism need to be all-encompassing, blanketing over every country and person before
it can be considered to be functional, or real?
Why does the mere existence of capitalism somewhere outside of the borders of socialism
cause socialism to fail spectacularly?
Is it because socialism necessitates a tyrannical government, and a tyranny requires foreign
scapegoats that its propaganda arm can use to distract the people from the tyranny they
live under?
Is it because if socialism actually existed everywhere, then there would be no more excuses
for the government to use for its failure, and it always, always fails?
Oh man, here's Jeremy Corbyn praising Hugo Chavez.
And Michael Moore, too.
Is there any reason why you chaps haven't decided to go and live in Venezuela since
it's such a paradise?
Or why you haven't socialized your own massive amounts of personal wealth and property if
the poor matter to you that much?
I mean, it's not like Venezuelans are resorting to eating their pets or anything.
Or that teenage girls are working as prostitutes to avoid going hungry.
That would be an awful state of affairs.
Though, considering the pedophilic state of Hollywood at the minute, there's a fair chance
that underage pussy on tap might actually motivate Michael Moore to move to Venezuela
after all.
Okay, okay, I know I'm just spending some time here taking the piss out of these idiots.
Let's actually discuss socialism seriously for a bit.
It's written in Trandran Kukkatha's article, The Cultural Contradictions of Socialism,
that socialism is by its very nature doomed to fail.
Socialist thinkers have usually presented social transformation as the solution to social
ills, since the source of those ills has been held to be the social and economic order in
which private interests and market relations are dominant.
Once market relations are transformed, they have assumed the way we would be open for
rule by the collective in the interest of the whole.
In these circumstances, there is little need to say anything about how political institutions
under socialism would check and control the exercise of power.
The problem of the abuse of power no longer needs to be considered.
It is liberal political theory that is focused on the problem of controlling the abuse of
power, since it always assumes that there will always be a danger of such abuse.
For in any society, there will always be particular interests trying to gain advantages for themselves.
Tyranny is always possible, but socialism assumes, or hopes, that such problems will
not arise, and so does not assume the need for political theory.
Indeed, were it to borrow from a theory of politics, such as the liberal theory, that
might help it address the problem of tyranny.
Yet in avoiding such borrowing, socialism has also avoided in addressing the problem
of how there can be a socialist order that is not simply a dictatorship by a socialist
political elite.
This is true of the socialisms described by almost every socialist thinker, even though
all of them envision the good socialist order not as a dictatorship, but as a society marked
by collective self-rule for the good of the whole.
In other words, socialism simply assumes that when capitalism is swept aside, the economic
system and the people within it will naturally settle into work or ownership of the means
of production, all on its own.
I know I'm sounding like a broken record here at this point, but it's pretty clear
that the socialists are ignorant regarding the nature of humanity.
Finally, we come to the judgement of socialism.
As an economic system, does socialism provide for a widely established in-group, while still
respecting the rights of a minority out-group, in the realm of finance and production?
Well, first of all, socialism lacks an out-group entirely.
You could make the argument that socialism's out-group are the bosses, or owners, or management
of a workplace.
But unlike communism, which simply wants to kill those people, socialism wants to demote
them to the position of co-owner.
So unlike anarchism, feudalism, or fascism, socialism wants to absorb as many people as
it can into its in-group, from its out-group, until the out-group no longer exists.
But does it provide for its in-group?
The only reasonable conclusion one can come to is no.
As an economic system, socialism does not provide for its in-group for several reasons.
One, it's too bogged down with its own bureaucracy to make expediated decisions.
Two, it provides no safeguards against its massive bureaucracy from becoming extremely
corrupt.
Three, it believes that the capability of becoming corrupt is some capitalist infestation,
and not something intrinsic to everybody.
And finally, four, just as it does not recognize that innate evil in human beings, it also
does not recognize the innate good in human beings, to strive for excellence.
Socialism fails not only as an economic system, but as any form of social system.
Non-communism.
The critique of communist economics will likely use many of the same criticisms I use to critique
socialist economics, because the two are closely related ideologies.
However, there are a few key differences that are worth discussion.
First, socialism advocates for worker co-ownership of the means of production.
Communism, on the other hand, advocates for communal ownership of the means of production.
Sounds similar, but is different.
In a socialized factory, 50 workers might each own one fiftieth of the factory.
In a communized factory, each worker owns the entire factory, and everybody's rights
overlap, creating community ownership.
Of course, in practice, both options often meant state ownership of the factory, due
to the state being the only legitimate representative of the people.
But fine, whatever, at least the theory is different.
Second, like I mentioned just a bit ago, socialism advocates for leveling the playing field by
forcing the bosses to have the same social standing as the workers, with everybody being
a co-owner of the means of production.
Communism, however, is entirely willing to just kill the bosses outright.
Of course, this is not directly stated in the Communist Manifesto, but with a bit of
reasoning, I think I can show you how this is indeed the case.
The communist theory of hierarchy revolves around the idea that all hierarchies within
a capitalist system are based in power, and only in power.
The great class struggle that Karl Marx describes is a power struggle between the proletariat
and the bourgeoisie, the haves and the have-nots.
And there is some legitimate truth to this.
The rampant, unregulated capitalism of Marx's time lacked a minimum wage or a maximum amount
of hours' work per day or week, it lacked workers' rights and protections, and it
had no problem with child labour.
It would not be uncommon for the factories of that era to employ ten-year-old boys to
work sixteen-hour days for a pittance, which is why so much of the Communist Manifesto
revolves around either factories or farms, with industrialization and serfdom both serving
to smother the working class, though using different methods.
This is also why Russia ultimately became the core nexus of communist activity, as Russian
feudalism had continued for several hundred years after Europe abandoned it.
So okay, it's reasonable to accept that hierarchies are based in power, there's
a lot of evidence for this to be the case.
But communism claims that all hierarchies are based in power without exception.
That if somebody got to the top of any given hierarchy, it was a power play.
Communism leaves no room for, say, a hierarchy of merit, where the people who exhibit the
greatest consistent skill rise to the top of the hierarchy based on that skill.
And well, you might consider me to be naive for even believing that hierarchies of merit
can exist in the first place, but no, no, I'm really not naive.
Of course, power plays can corrupt hierarchies of merit, but power can only corrupt a hierarchy
of merit so much before the hierarchy ceases to function entirely.
And really, can we reasonably say that the hierarchies of merit that exist within Western
capitalist democracies have been compromised to that degree?
I don't think we can.
I mean, look around you, you're likely watching this video on a computer right now,
which gets its power through the power grid.
And the data is being sent from your internet provider through the telecommunications grid.
If the hierarchies of merit that govern electricity and the internet in your area were so hopelessly
corrupted by incompetent people making power plays, would you still have power and internet
at all?
The fact that you're even able to hear my voice right now is testament to the hierarchies
of your society functioning at least somewhat on merit.
Complicated systems like power grids are falling apart all the time, and society is
full of workers who go out and patch it back together constantly, and we are so good at
doing this that we have things like water, power, heat, transportation, food, internet,
and so on almost all the time.
And hey guys, if you ever actually meet a communist, ask him if he had to get, say,
a dangerous operation performed, if he would shop around for the most competent surgeon
he could find within his budget.
And when he naturally says yes, tell him that the competent surgeon is only in his position
due to a hierarchy of power, and he would be better off going to the marginalized doctor
instead of the privileged one.
So, communism claims to want to upend those pesky hierarchies of power for the betterment
of the poor, downtrodden working class.
But in Soviet Russia, during the collectivization of all the farms, the most successful farmers
were completely wiped out, either through force or starvation, and this action led to
the starvation of millions of Ukrainians in the 1930s.
Just so you can have a taste of what this was like, I'm going to read an excerpt from
David Patra...
Patra...
Patrakarikos?
Fucking...
I'll read an excerpt from David's article, Why Stalin Starved Ukraine.
People crawled into wheat fields to eat ears of wheat before dropping dead.
They died from hunger in the act of eating.
Children collapsed and died during lessons.
A mother took the bread from her offspring to feed her husband.
She could, she said, always have more kids, but she could only ever have one husband.
A couple put their children in a deep hole and left them there in order to not watch
them die.
A father strangled his own children rather than watch them perish from hunger.
Communities that had once been kind and welcoming became mistrustful and violent.
Lynch mobs tortured people, and in the end, most horrifically of all, people began to
eat each other.
How could this have happened?
The moral side of communism purports to care for the well-being of the poor.
So what could be the rationale for the communist holocaust of the Ukrainian people?
Well, let me take you through it step by step.
There's a utopianism implicit in communist thought that goes a little something like
this.
If you could just get the damn bourgeoisie to stop oppressing the proletariat, the utopian
society would be ushered in and all people would live in paradise.
So the bourgeoisie is not only guilty of oppressing the proletariat, but is also guilty of preventing
the utopia from coming about.
And that's a pretty great rationalization for any sort of punishments communism may
afflict upon them.
And then you remember that the bourgeoisie also refers to people at the top of the hierarchies
of power.
And then you remember that communism operates under the principle that all hierarchies of
hierarchies of power, even when they're not.
And then you realize that, in Russia, the people at the top of, say, the hierarchy of
merit in regards to farming were extremely poor families that had just managed to pull
themselves up out of serfdom during the collapse of Russian feudalism due to them being the
most competent farmers in the nation.
And then communism, with its obsession with upending hierarchies, comes along and slaughters
all of those people, causing a widespread famine because there's no one left who knows
how to grow any food.
Is this a case of the communists truly loving the poor and having good intentions, but their
theory being so fundamentally flawed that it killed a lot of people?
No, I don't think so.
And this is where we finally come all the way back to communism's hidden desire to
kill all their bosses, when socialism simply wants to strip them of their status.
In 1937, George Orwell wrote the book The Road to Wigan Pier.
It's one of his lesser known works, up against titans like Animal Farm in 1984, but it's
still a very important book.
In it, Orwell describes his own real life travels through the slums, ghettos, and mining
towns of the UK, and paints a picture of desperate, grinding poverty.
And really, you'd have to be a sociopath to not feel something for the people he encountered
on his travels.
It made sense that, at least for a short time after those trips, Orwell himself began to
advocate for Marxist theories.
However, this advocacy was short lived.
And The Road to Wigan Pier ends with probably the most accurate view into the mind of a
communist, though he uses the term socialist.
From a thinker who briefly scared with the idea himself out of compassion for the poor,
but later rejected it.
Orwell wrote,
It may be said that even if the theoretical, book-trained socialist is not a working man
himself, at least he is actuated by a love of the working class.
He is endeavoring to shed his bourgeois status and fight on the side of the proletariat.
That obviously must be his motive.
But is it?
Sometimes I look at a socialist, the intellectual, tract-writing type of socialist.
With his pullover, his fuzzy hair, and his Marxist quotation, and wonder what the devil
his motive really is, it's often difficult to believe that it is a love of anybody, especially
of the working class, from whom he is of all people the furthest removed.
The underlying motive of many socialists, I believe, is simply a hypertrophied sense
of order.
The present state of affairs offends them not because it causes misery, still less because
it makes freedom impossible, but because it is untidy.
Poverty and, what is more, the habits of mind created by poverty, are something to
be abolished from above, by violence if necessary, perhaps even preferably by violence.
Hence the socialist's worship of great men, an appetite for dictatorships, fascist or
communist.
The truth is that, to many people calling themselves socialists, revolution does not
mean a movement of the masses whichwith they hope to associate themselves.
It means a set of reforms which we, the clever ones, are going to impose upon them, the lower
order.
On the other hand, it would be a mistake to regard the book-trained socialist as a
bloodless creature entirely incapable of emotion.
Though seldom giving much evidence of affection for the exploited, he is perfectly capable
of displaying a hatred, a sort of queer, theoretical hatred, against the exploiters.
Hence the grand old socialist sport of denouncing the bourgeoisie.
It is strange how easily almost any socialist writer can lash himself into frenzies of rage
against the class to which, by birth or adoption, he himself invariably belongs.
Now to anybody who spends any amount of time on the internet, and especially on Twitter,
and especially on the Twitter feeds of anybody with a verified blue checkmark, the person
Orwell describes has to sound extremely familiar, from fashion and fanaticism to interest and
ideas.
He describes a man-child, somebody who lives in the lap of luxury and has never felt true
suffering, somebody who dresses themselves up in a specific way to show their status
but spends so much time bad-mouthing that status.
He describes their fake rage against the oppressors, while not a peep comes from their mouths about
the oppressed.
These qualities all have their modern versions, from hipster game journalists, to rainbow
haired shetwinks, to verified twitterinos.
People who spend more time fake raging at whomever they perceive to be the latest oppressor
of the day for the benefit of their own social status than they do on actual activism for
the sake of the poor.
And it becomes very clear exactly what type of people communists, and socialists too,
are deep in their core.
They do not love the poor, they simply hate the rich.
So let's say a person like this comes along in states to use some rubbish like, hierarchies
of power function by privileging the powerful and marginalizing the powerless.
By the communists' own logic, the claim can be made that because communism privileges
hierarchies of power over hierarchies of merit, that under communism, merit is now the marginalized
quality.
I think this is why communists hate the rich, because even in the most opportunistic, unregulated
of capitalist societies, there will always be at least some people who manage to get
rich based off their own merits.
And that group will never ever contain the personality types that lead one to accept
the philosophy of communism.
From this point of view, the communist looks like a jealous, irrational child, determined
to tear down everything solely because he wasn't the one that built it.
But of course, the communists would never actually admit that to you.
They probably wouldn't even admit it to themselves.
If you were to ask the communist why he thought in these terms, his answer would be predictable.
I care about the poor, and therefore I am a good person.
And always in that order.
Not I am a good person and therefore I care about the poor, but I care about the poor
and therefore I am a good person.
Well then, if you were smart, or even better if you felt like trolling him, you would ask
the communist, well, when you say you're a good person, that's a position you're
privileging.
What about the ways in which you're an evil person?
Aren't those ways being marginalized?
And that sounds kind of funny, but there is truth to it.
We all have good and evil inside of us.
None of us are perfectly moral.
And it's actually important that we recognize this fact.
Because if we're cognizant of our capacity to hurt other people, then we can control
it.
We can make decisions with forethought.
But if a person were to truly believe that they were perfectly moral in everything, then
what reason would they have to be careful in their dealings with other people?
They wouldn't have one.
They would simply charge ahead, thinking that because they are perfectly moral, their innate
innocuous quality makes charging ahead perfectly safe.
And they'd leave a wake of destruction behind them, because they would be fool enough to
not admit their own failings.
In fact, let's say a perfectly moral person exists.
And somehow this person was a communist.
Best possible scenario.
And let's say we as a society give that person the political power needed to make
communism unfold in the real world.
And as communism unfolds, and begins to fail because that is what it will always do, and
people begin to die as a result of this, what would a perfectly moral communist do?
They would stop communism.
At least for a little while.
At least to ask the question, what's going wrong?
Why are people dying?
How do we fix this scenario?
They would not charge forward and kill tens of millions of people like every communist
leader in the history of humanity has done.
This is why you can never trust the moron that says true communism has never been tried,
or actual socialism has never existed.
The implication is that everyone who's tried it were all morally deficient, but that they,
the speaker, somehow have the inhuman morality to make communism work.
But they don't.
They're human, with failings, and would be corrupted by the absolute power necessary
to make communism work.
Just like you or I would.
But they think they wouldn't be corrupted.
And they would hold that belief right up to the revolution that finally deposes them and
puts them to the sword.
Such is the nature of the person that believes in communism.
This conversation has taken us far beyond the bounds of communism as an economic system,
and for that I apologize.
But the failings of communism are so supreme that they cannot be discussed in an economic
vacuum.
Suffice it to say, communism fails as an economic system for the same reasons that socialism
did.
It fails to provide for its massive in-group, it fails to account for political excess,
and it operates on the hatred of the rich rather than the love of the poor.
On capitalism.
Finally, we're here to talk about capitalism.
I have no clue how long this video is at this point.
It's probably pretty long, but hopefully I have done an interesting enough of a job
at laying a groundwork for why capitalism just works.
Now there's obviously parts of capitalism that don't just work.
I mentioned them earlier regarding child labour, a lack of workers' rights, and the horrible
conditions of the industrial-era factories.
Those horrors make me fully understand why Marx, and other thinkers of his time, sought
desperately for an alternative to capitalism.
But those conditions don't exist in functioning western capitalist democracies, at least not
often, and I don't think that any reasonable person nowadays would object to government
intervention if something like that started to come back.
In essence, a communist idea of what capitalism is is about 150 years out of date.
The factories that Marx railed against, they don't really exist anymore.
We have child labour laws now, and minimum wage laws, and maximum work laws.
All reasonable restrictions that prevent an immoral employer from working their employees
to death.
Remember when I said that we can judge an economic system to be successful based on
its providing for its in-group, while not harming its out-group?
Well, industrial-era capitalism did fail that test, but modern, moderate regulated capitalism
does not.
But why does capitalism work?
That's a bit more complicated.
Unlike the five other economic systems, capitalism accounts for personal liberty.
It allows all people, including the working class, to have the choice to do whatever they
like with their lives as long as they're able to do it themselves.
Of course, there are still poor people, and starving people, and homeless people in this
system.
Capitalism isn't perfect.
But within properly regulated capitalism, poor people at least have an opportunity to
get ahead in the game.
For example, things like student loans exist in capitalism, where a poor person can get
a loan to go to school in a useful field, get a well-paying job, and then repay their
loans and join the middle class.
This is possible even in the USA, where the capitalist system lacks some of the more reasonable
regulations.
It simply requires that a poor person go to school for something useful, and not feminist
dance therapy.
Capitalism is inherently a hierarchy of merit, where people will rise and fall within a marketplace
based on three factors.
One, how much effort they put into it.
Two, how much of that effort becomes victories.
And three, how much they are able to learn from the effort if that effort becomes defeats.
It is competitive, yes, and competition requires losers.
And some people may lose many, many times, for reasons that are truly not their fault.
Capitalism doesn't account for long streaks of bad luck, or well-meaning people who just
can't get a break.
But that is what reasonable regulation is for.
And just so we're clear, the reason hierarchies of merit exist in the first place is due to
a mathematical idea known as the Pareto Principle.
The principle states that, over a long period of time, roughly 80% of the effects of a given
situation come from roughly 20% of the causes.
Delafrido Pareto, the father of the principle, had a hobby of growing green peas, and noticed
that as he planted and replanted his crops over the years, approximately 80% of his harvest
came from only 20% of last year's peas, and the rest of the peas only produced just enough
to survive one more season, or nothing at all.
The Pareto Principle has been accurately applied to many situations across many species, from
plants and animals to human behaviour.
It's what the libertarians would refer to as the exceptional individual, where a small
class of hyper-capable people do the vast majority of society's work, and therefore
deserve to eat the majority of the rewards.
I don't entirely agree with the libertarian interpretation of the Pareto Principle.
But at the very least, I know that libertarians understand the principle better than the communists,
mainly because the communists would never be able to grow peas in the first place.
A great way to explain why western capitalist democracies function so well is to look at
both the needs of the individual and the needs of the state.
In, say, a communist system, the needs of the state directly oppose the needs of the
individual.
Where the individual need to benefit from his work, and the state need to collectivize
and redistribute all work, naturally oppose each other.
Using the same type of comparison, fascist economics allowed for success or failure based
on merit, but only made it a matter of social collective interest when failure occurred.
In other words, fascism did not reward success, but it did punish failure, for the reason
of sabotaging the state's economy and wasting the people's resources.
Western liberal capitalist democracies generally don't do this.
In fact, when they function correctly, they do the opposite.
We consider it a matter of social collective interest only when an economic endeavor succeeds.
In other words, we reward success, but we do not punish failure, because we understand
that failure in economics is punishment enough all on its own.
Just like with communism, fascism pits the economic forces of the state and the people
directly against each other.
But within capitalism, the needs of the individual and the needs of the state are aligned.
It's in the best interest of the individual to benefit from his work, for obvious reasons.
But it's also in the best interest of the state that the individual benefit from his
work, due to the wider benefits of trade with other individuals.
Still don't get it?
Here's a scenario that might help.
Let's say you have a carpenter, and he makes chairs.
The chairs he makes have a market value of $10 per chair.
He can sell them for $10.
And let's say you have a baker, and he bakes bread.
The loaves of bread he bakes have a market value of $10 per loaf of bread.
I know, we're just using hypothetical numbers here.
At first glance, it might seem like one loaf of bread is equal in value to one chair, and
to the marketplace at large, that's true.
But it's not true to the carpenter or the baker.
The carpenter has so many chairs, and he makes them so easily, they're not worth $10 to him
personally.
He's probably not going to go out and spend 10 of his own dollars on a chair when he can
make his own.
And the same goes for the baker.
His bread isn't worth $10 to him either.
So if the baker and the carpenter were to come together and decide to trade one loaf
of bread for one chair, even though both objects are worth the same amount of money, each person
values the other object more, because it's something they don't have and can't easily
make themselves.
It was a completely fair trade, $10 for $10, but the baker and the carpenter each got something
of higher value to themselves in the trading.
Everyone walks away happier, but more importantly, everyone walks away with more value than they
had before.
And by the way, that's the point of money, socialists.
Money has no power in itself.
It's simply a way of easily facilitating a barter system, where all individuals in a given
market value everyone else's goods more than their own, and are all willing to trade in
such a manner that everyone ends up with more personal value than what they started with.
Of course, there will be people that exploit the system, people who steal or sell fake
goods that aren't worth their price, and so on.
But the combination of an intelligent, well-educated population, market forces that allow quality
to naturally dominate over time, and in the most extreme cases, government regulation,
can adequately tackle the problem of economic exploitation.
This example also illustrates the value of specialization, a concept that the anarchists
can't seem to wrap their head around.
A carpenter can, over time, learn to build better quality chairs more quickly and cheaply
if he keeps practicing his craft.
A baker can learn to bake better quality bread for the same reason.
But if everyone had to learn every single skill, then nobody would produce anything
of exceptional quality.
Tell me, anarchists, how many part-time doctors does it take to cure cancer?
And I know that arguing from results is kind of a no-no, but let me indulge myself a little
bit here.
If capitalism is so flawed and weak and awful, why hasn't it been crushed yet?
Why do things held in community always fall apart in comparison to things held privately?
If these systems actually worked and didn't run counter to human nature, why do people
still not put their garbage in public garbage cans?
Why do parks need public works departments to regularly clean and maintain them?
Or on a larger scale, why didn't the Soviet Union outlast the United States?
Why has prosperity worldwide only improved under capitalism in the long term?
Why hasn't this stuff worked?
Oh, and the answer is not because it's never been tried.
It's clearly been tried.
You just don't like the results.
Believe it or not, sometimes the stated outcome on a theory does not line up with the actual
outcome of the practice.
In fact, if you are a communist, you should probably be happy that you live in a capitalist
society because if you really want to, you can get together your commune, you can go
off into the woods and live terrible, pathetic, dreary, collectivized lives.
Why don't more communists do this?
I presume it's because they want to drag the rest of us down with them.
And believe it or not, there's even a moral case for capitalism.
For all you moralists and spiritualists out there, aside from inheriting money, which
is its own separate conversation, or you finding a lucky twenty dollar bill on the sidewalk
or something, people generally only manage to get their hands on money by somehow contributing
to society.
You make something you sell or you go to a job where you perform valuable labor or you
donate to my Patreon.
At some point you have interacted in society in a meaningful way.
You have provided enough value to somebody else that somebody else was willing to pay
you money for that value.
So you take your money down to the grocery store and you ask the clerk there for some
food.
And the clerk asks you, well, did you contribute to society in a meaningful way today?
And you say, yes I did.
And the clerk says, well, how do I know?
How do I know you're not just lying?
And you say, well, I provided value to another person and he gave me this money in return.
And the clerk says, okay, that's great.
And then he takes your money and then you get your groceries.
That's the underlying conversation that happens when you go shopping for groceries.
And the money that you give the clerk eventually makes its way back to him in the form of wages
for his labor and the cycle continues.
In this instance, possession of money can be seen as proof of contribution to society,
which does have moral implications.
I know this isn't perfect because there are certainly jobs that should be getting paid
more for moral reasons that currently aren't.
But we're getting there.
No, really, we're getting there.
Capitalism is the reason we're living in the age of technology.
Capitalism is the reason there have been massive quality of life increases worldwide in the
past hundred years.
Capitalism is the reason that when the United Nations stated their intent to cut world poverty
in half by 2015, they managed to hit that mark in 2011.
Capitalism is not just the mindless pursuit of wealth until the entire system destroys
itself.
At least, not if it's properly regulated with the interest of the individual at heart.
Capitalism is a system where people can act freely in accordance with their own desires.
And if the fruits of the work they perform in the service of their desires has some worth
to their fellow man, capitalism allows them to survive and thrive off of those fruits.
But of course, capitalism isn't perfect either.
There's still a lot of people out there who fall through the cracks.
But a well-regulated, but not state-controlled capitalist economy, interfered with by the
government not for the benefit of the state or the collective, but for the benefit of
the individual, and only interfered with so that they may freely contribute value to one
another, will have the tools that we need not to help the poor, but to allow the poor
to help themselves.
And let me corrupt the Winston Churchill quote here a little bit for my own ends.
Capitalism is the worst form of economics, except for all those other forms that have
been tried from time to time.
Thank you guys for listening to this one.
As I'm currently recording this, the audio file is an hour and a half long.
It's going to be quite the editing job.
Thank you to everybody who supports my work on Patreon.
Thank you to everyone who tunes in, or even better, who subscribes to my Twitch stream,
which I do generally about four times a week.
Thanks to everyone who is in the Discord and being enthusiastic and asking me about where
the video is.
I know, it took me a long time.
I'm hoping to get this up on November 30th.
I'm going to work very hard to try to make that to be the case.
If you enjoyed the video, please consider subscribing because I do upload this content
at least semi-regularly.
And if you believe that in this capitalist system of ours, my passion project here has
provided you with enough value to warrant giving me some money for, please consider
heading over to patreon.com slash shortfatotaku.
Thanks for listening, guys.
See you next time.
