Hello ladies and gentlemen, welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too
much free time.
And I think it's time we go talk about the gaming industry, but also with a cheeky bit
of politics thrown in there for good measure as well.
For those who didn't know, I used to myself be a fairly political commentator, I intertwined
it with fairly media-friendly topics and even covered trending topics from time to time,
but I was pretty political, I'm not going to go into that much depth mainly because
I will likely save it for a special video, and I expect to be asked it for the Q&A.
There's some statements I stand by, some statements not so much, ideas evolve, if you
care about it, you can DM me.
If I was still political, I think today's topic would be of my interest, however we
are running with it on my new format, because I think it is embedded in YouTube culture
enough to appeal to many people here.
So it's a bit of old, bit of new, and anyway, there's an equally prominent reason that
I'm doing this, because probably to the surprise of some of you, I used to watch a
lot of Angry Joe.
I wasn't crazy about the streams and so on and many of the other smaller videos he
did, however I'd always tune in to some of his more long-form reviews, and even some
film reviews, you know the one with other Joe and that float with the beard, yeah, that
one.
And also as a person with OCD levels of pedanticism, I love lists, and in around 2014 at the turn
of the year, Angry Joe would drop 3 or 4 big fat top 10 lists for me to dig my teeth into,
dillish.
I really enjoy a lot of review channels, they definitely encourage critical thinking, and
as someone who has always dreamed about being involved in the creative industry, it gave
me ideas that I might or might not want to do if I ever followed those arrows.
I haven't yet, though there's still time, and I've ended up here, what a place to
be.
Anyhow, central to that was Angry Joe, he didn't always provide his criticism in the
most constructive way, but he never held back, I mean it's in his name, what would I expect.
I enjoyed his passion balanced with delivery of valid criticism, and he also made his name
as a huge proponent of consumer values, which in spite of my criticism of certain people
of recent, I'm still a huge fan of people getting value for their money, so he definitely
played a fundamental part in my life and my YouTube career.
Another thing that I followed was his politics, it always appeared to me that he fell into
a moderate but passionate left, while still being empathetic towards other views.
This is particularly demonstrated when he covers video game controversies like in his
top 10 lists.
It was a few weeks back I was browsing the internet for the latest spice, and decided
to see if there were any new Angry Joe videos, I don't watch them on a particularly regular
basis at this point, mainly because of my own commitments, university and YouTube equally
take up their fair share of time, and I'm still expected to be social to keep up appearances.
However I noticed that one of his most recent videos had a particularly poor light to dislike
ratio, that being this cheeky bugger.
At the time I moved on I was just looking for videos to watch, however a few hours later
I heard that it was something a bit more contentious, and then someone messaged me,
and then some videos came out, and I was like, alright lads, what is the spice then?
Well to understand the spice, we have to go back to the roots, so let's take a little
trip.
This is Battlefield, I assume most of you know it, I sure know Battlefield, I personally
play Call of Duty more than this franchise, but that was only because at the time most
of my mates played Call of Duty 2.
Ooh, right opinion plated cause his friends did, yeah shut up mate, I was 13 and had to
manually decipher how socialising worked, I went through a period of copying and pasting
highest rated insults of a website onto my Facebook page, those were dark days, we don't
talk about them.
Get it?
Got it?
Good.
I realise I went off on a bit of a tangent there.
So Battlefield, it's a game, that people played, and gaming a few years ago was in
a sticky situation, you see there's this thing called Call of Duty 2, where both games
were released fairly regularly, annually for the Call of Duty franchise, now whereas many
games typically wait years to have sequels if they have sequels at all, this idea of
a game a year was properly ingrained into the culture, however like with every progression
you need new ideas, and so there was a chronological movement, typically forward, and with these
series we gradually, or even quickly depending on your perception, moved into the future.
And honestly, in many people's opinions, it was a bit shit, not because there was anything
bad about the idea, but firstly it had been done before, multiple times, and secondly
for many people the overwhelming amount of gadgets and flashy visuals seemed to replace
player skill, it just became all a little silly.
So Battlefield noticing this smartly decided to go back in time, to World War 1, for Battlefield
1, which was given great praise by many critics, because in spite of the slightly short single
player campaign it was supplemented by an excellent multiplayer which had some pretty
cool features, it was clear that there was a lot to enjoy about this game.
So following the success of Battlefield 1, they thought that they would keep up that
spirit in, and this time to shift to the World War 2 scenario, however, as would be
expected with any new game, changes were likely to be made, some new game modes, some alterations
to how the games played, and the one that vexed certain individuals, particularly those
vocal in the YouTube sphere, the introduction of a female lead character.
Now Joe decided that he would give his take on it, criticising those who thought this
way and going on to hypothesise a different explanation, and after sitting down and watching
it myself, the best way to describe his video would be confusing, however, with a bit of
research and understanding, I'm sure we can find a way to get the best side of both parties
in this circumstance.
So today we're going to be re-entering the battlefield of politics, representation, video
games, and so much more.
And you know what, I think I'm more ready than I've ever been, despite the fact that
I'm currently recording with a duvet over my head.
This is what quality pays for, my friends.
So without further ado, let's get into this.
As assumed, Angry Joe's persona is angry.
What a fucking revelation.
That means that he typically tends to alienate a lot of people who he criticises, and believe
me when I say he does it a lot.
Now generally if you want people to come round to see your point of view, being angry
is not the best way to conduct yourself, however Joe's technique was never to have those he
criticised to see his point of view.
What do I mean?
Well to understand that we need to talk about corporations.
The hard truth is, which many of us have accepted by now, is that corporations do not really
care about how happy an individual consumer is with the product.
If you make a complaint, it will be filed away somewhere nicely, and it's essentially
a number to them.
But that number that is assigned does matter, because if the complaint is serious enough,
and it threatens to remove monetary funds, then having those sorts of complaints in volume
would be extremely concerning, because in the words of the famous philosopher, Mr. Krabs,
So a really good example of this is the loot box situation with Battlefield 2.
The sheer volume and animosity of the outrage caused such unprecedented levels of backlash
that EA, under the pressure of Disney, had to backtrack their implemented changes.
A lot of these corporate businesses will try their luck with the consumer, and push
these little amendments each time, grappling more money from the unsuspecting audience,
until they overstep the boundary and we tell them to fuck off.
And right central to that anger at the corporations was the man himself, Mr. Joseph Vargas here.
And this is why Angry Joe's rage is often effective in these situations, he knows exactly
how to direct it, when you're facing off against a mega big bad business, you need
someone who can mobilise the indignation within the viewer, they need someone to rile
up the people, companies like EA, to me at least, have proven themselves as not really
concerned with what the consumer wants, you can't present a reasoned argument to change
their mind, like you could change my mind, they need a different treatment, a firmer
hand, let's consider it tough love, EA, you're receiving my tough love, even though
I positively loathe you.
But anyhow, Angry Joe delivers that, and that's why people felt good about his content, because
it channelled people's feelings in a way that made them feel more inclined to be vocal
about it, it gave them a purpose.
We need people like that who can exert influence, and yes, in many ways it is good on that behalf.
He also has a habit of strawmanning, which once again in a way is fine, there's this
character, Corporate Commander, who is pretty much the satirical strawman on the corporate
mentality, which once again, when dealing with a level of truth, it's perfectly fine
as I've said before, as long as the exaggeration is part of the humour and not placed prior,
then we don't have a problem, and it's clear where it lies in this instance.
When dealing with companies, Angry Joe doesn't pull punches, which is important in a way.
However, when speaking to his fanbase, or even people who aren't necessarily his fans,
if you want to change mentality or behaviour, it can be just a simple case of speaking to
them with a tone of reason.
When dealing with audiences, there'll always be a set of people who are open to persuasion,
and a set of people who won't be so open to persuasion.
Now that can fluctuate depending on what audience you're speaking to, but for me,
it always pays off to be somewhat open to discourse in these scenarios, because even
if you only convince a few people, you know, that's a few people more than none.
With companies, you don't have to do this, mainly because there are a bunch of highly
educated individuals who can probably completely understand the reasoning behind every one
of your points, but choose to ignore it, because it's a free market, they can do what they
want for that sweet, sweet dollar.
With audiences, most of them don't tend to have that agenda, and as I said, this can
change within individual circumstance, but I think that's an important point for everyone
to keep in mind with today's topic.
I will likely have disagreements with people today, it doesn't mean you can't deliver
them in a way that may make them more empathetic to your point of view.
You can throw civility out the window if an individual is just being a dick, or is snidely
attempting to undermine you, those people can fuck off, but I hope I've made my point
clear.
The other thing is that directed anger works sometimes, and not so well other times, and
when dealing with large collectives who may have a variance in ideology, there are some
instances where you could say yes, the ideology is so illogical that it is beyond justification,
but generally, I don't think this is one of them.
So we've essentially dealt with what I believe are two key elements of justified anger, how
rational it is, and who the recipients are.
There are lots of little technicalities within that, but that's why we look at these situations
on a case by case basis, like today.
With the case of businesses being dickheads, Angry Joe was the firebrand game who was going
to stand up to these bad men, it always felt like a David vs Goliath, so even in cases
where the anger may have been overstated, the sheer fact that companies were so huge
just meant that people never felt remotely remorseful for doing it.
There are plenty of psychological studies that have examined how emotional interaction
works.
This sticks out to me, that when dealing with loss in mutual relationships, anger is much
less effective at responding to that than other emotions, I think that's important.
Now today's situation is disjunct from that study, though I do think there are familiar
sentiments.
When you direct anger towards a person for some alleged wrongdoing or disagreement, it
makes them much more likely to be provoked than necessarily be empathetic towards how
you view the situation, which makes them even less likely to being convinced or persuaded,
and more likely to just turn around and say fuck you.
Does that make them right?
No, not at all.
But if there's a better way to make people listen, why wouldn't you choose it?
Angry Joe has built his career off being angry, and galvanising people about affairs that
they might not have cared about otherwise, therefore it's almost likely that a lot
of his fans will be very passionate about topics, and may even demonstrate anger themselves.
I'm not saying that Angry Joe made his fans angry, in fact they may have been passionate
people long before they watched Joe's content, but when they did, his underlying passion
probably resonated in a way.
Your fanbase does tend to reflect you somewhat as a persona, not universally, but at least
partially.
Which leads us to this video.
With the concepts of anger explained, I think we can now apply it to this lovely piece and
explain why people may have taken a decent objection.
Let's quickly discuss the argument before we break down Joe's video.
So basically what I understand from my research, the comments, and the subsequent narratives
is that the inclusion of a female with a prosthetic limb in a game that is depicting a real event
should do it in a historically accurate manner, out of a level of respect for those who may
have sacrificed their lives during the war.
I will of course discuss my viewpoint later on this, but that is the basis.
Now in the intro I branded Angry Joe's video as confusing.
Why is that?
Well you see, the whole anti-SJW and women topic was actually kind of secondary to what
Angry Joe was discussing.
From what I'd heard, I was expecting this rant to be aimed at all the people who were
complaining about there being a female character in the new Battlefield game, but he more used
it as a springboard to explain why in fact the female character wasn't the main reason
that people weren't buying the game.
We'll discuss the credibility of those claims in a moment, but is the fact that it was a
secondary topic good or bad?
Well typically I'd lean towards saying it's a good thing, however in this instance I am
going to make a clear exception.
If it had been a passing comment it probably wouldn't have given the critics enough ammunition,
but he paid just enough amount of time to it to make it worthy of response, while at
the same time using it as a secondary topic meaning that he never actually responded to it,
he just presented it in this exaggerated manner.
In fact if you pay attention he barely provides any commentary on it at all, other than the
impersonations, which is in the sort of typical Angry Joe manner, the sort of exaggerated
character who takes the piss out of a mentality, with a little undertone of fury at those people.
We'll break down any specific details in a moment, but you can see why this probably
didn't come across too well.
You see Joe directed his straw man imitations and attitude partly towards the viewer, not
entirely, he does mention these YouTubers, but he definitely makes some general statements.
Now some of the YouTubers that he watched may have had an agenda to push, but a lot
of audiences are just looking for something to believe in, convictions to have, living
a life without opinion and discourse is very empty, opinions bring people together where
they're in friendship or discourse, and these people look at the arguments whether
from a partisan set of sources or not, and they deliberate what they think is the best
opinion to have.
I think firstly Joe underestimated the amount of people who felt this way, and the sort
of passion that they had about this topic.
Without being too cynical of his intentions, I doubt he would have spoken so disparagingly
of that position if he'd realised the depth of these ideas ran within many of his viewership,
I mean you can tell by the way he words it almost.
Even if you're a strong, passionate person with strong, passionate opinions, no one goes
out to hemorrhage subscribers like that.
But Angry Joe wasn't really that angry in his video, I mean sure he's a naturally
provocative person, but as Ransco it was fairly low key, I mean his attitude didn't help,
but as a secondary topic did it require that level of vitriol, unfortunately that's what
Joe's architecture'd himself.
As I said earlier, when you're a naturally enthusiastic person, you're going to attract
naturally enthusiastic fans, and what happened is that this debate had been going on for
a fair bit of time, if he'd intervened early he may have been able to change some minds,
let alone wrap himself up in all this controversy, but he didn't, he waited for people to re-solidify
their opinions, tell themselves they were right, and then launch this video.
What about the video's points, well Joe expresses that there are different reasons
for why Battlefield's sales are failing, contrary to the people claiming it was the
female main character, and I do understand where he's coming from, I do think there
is probably an array of reasons for the failure in sales of New Battlefield, obviously the
timing and release between one of the most anticipated games in ages might well be a
significant factor, and the idea that it has been marketed terribly is another legitimate
point, I had really only seen one trailer, and it wasn't particularly awe inspiring
as trailers go, however there was a perspective that could've included this that definitely
seems viable to me, even as someone who seems sceptical of the whole explanation that many
others came up with, and this is a point that in my opinion should've been considered,
particularly regarding the marketing, when Battlefield 1 had their trailers released
in anticipation for the game they had the fact that they were completely changing the
style on their side, here was this trailer which was in a way a complete game changer,
with all the context, they had a completely different landscape to reflect these ideas
on and it was bringing back people to what they wanted, at the same time the presentation
of the trailer allowed them to introduce all these new elements individually, exciting
the audience while building up to this big fuck off airship.
So really when it comes to trailers, the background and the foreground elements are definitely
separate in how they can appeal to the viewer, now World War 2 is definitely different from
World War 1 in many ways, but stylistically with regards to the background they do bear
a set of similarities, so it no longer had the wow factor from Simple Premise, now this
in a way wouldn't have affected audience reactions hugely, in fact I'm sure most
people wouldn't have minded, but it definitely could've affected sales, on top of this
the trailer, despite being a whole minute longer than the Battlefield 1 trailer, just
threw a load of things on the screen at once and expected us to take it in, what was actually
in the foreground? Well as we've discussed, without having to concede too much it is kind
of this lovely lady here, she opens and closes the trailer fairly iconically, and even though
there are many components on screen, it's clear that there is a level of focus on her.
In my opinion, I don't really care about that, and to get this out of the way just
so people understand my position, a lot of history is not particularly intimate to me.
Does it interest me? Of course I take great interest in it, but when I go to play games
I play it for the fun rather than the historical accuracy, and therefore it doesn't really
bother me that they alter details, I mean it's a video game, if you wanted a realistic
game about World War 2, it would be slow and depressing. With that said, exaggerating
details is definitely different to changing details, and I do understand that for some
people, for an experience to be immersive, they take preference to certain elements being
accurate over others, and honestly the glamourisation of past events is inescapable to an extent.
The next point is discussed under the premise that the inclusion of a female character was
used as a marketing tool. Now although not explicitly stated, I feel that from how it
was presented, they were trying to bring attention to it. If you feel differently,
and that this was just a trailer with a character who happened to be female, then I completely
understand that, and this next point will not connect with you.
However, as a marketing tool by Battlefield, it is fairly futile. This is not the case
of having something groundbreaking, this is not a female Doctor Who, this is a character
in a video game. It appears to me that Battlefield either seriously overvalue the cultural impact
of their game, or severely misread the demographics. The point is about sales, and let's say
people don't care about the female lead. You know what, I agree with that, you know,
I don't give a shit, I think most people don't give a shit. Okay, so they have a
female lead, great. A lot of video games have female leads, when you play with people like
Shell, Athena, or many others, Battlefield doesn't have any rights to declare themselves
as a bastion for any causes, they had loads of time to do it before, and they're kind
of late to the party, everyone else has gone home. So instead of being lifted up by feminists,
they were shot down by historicists, it's hard to feel bad for them when the move seems
so bloody calculated. I think that's what stands out to me, it seems phony, and when
you have the biggest shill of the company, or the biggest ex-shill of the company, Patrick
Soderland, trying to use his daughter as emotional leverage in an interview, yes, I wonder how
many of his millions that he's fleeced from the consumer he's decided to donate towards
the causes that he suddenly cares about so much. I feel that regardless of whether the
sales have been affected by the timing, as a gaming company, you have to introduce something
that excites people, and that's what was lacking above all, plenty of games have introduced
controversial elements, that have upset people, but they still did relatively well with the
sales because they were original, and well thought out, and well marketed. That's what
I see with Battlefield, just a failure to capitalise on ideas. So I disagree with people
who say that it's the female character that has solely caused the decrease in sales,
because at the end of the day, even though many of our YouTube videos may pool some nice
views and we have a great set of fans to support us, we don't reach a majority of consumers,
many of whom are not concerned with politics, I only heard about gamergate when Angry Joe
included it when I was a gamer, we sometimes forget that we're not a central hub, Battlefield
1 sold 25 million copies at least, how many of those people are going to be watching us
ranting. However, the focus on a female character could definitely be symbolic of that absence
of creativity, no one left, right or centre likes a fair weather feminist, it's opportunistic,
like businesses are, but moreover than that, it's just bad marketing. So that would be
my response to Angry Joe, and also the people that he was responding to. I don't believe
in the narrative that it's just female characters impacting the sales, and I'd say that many
people do not care, but their focus on it could definitely have taken away from other
features that really should be more defining within the game, they're not as revolutionary
as they think. What I'm trying to say here is that there is clearly an overlap between
viewpoints, and there could have been this bridge built between understanding, and it
may have even convinced some people away from the narrative being created by a lot of these
other commentators that Angry Joe clearly feels are in the wrong, but he's instead
decided to completely castigate them, at the same time castigating the audiences, and
this is what really annoys me about the community in general, so let's discuss it a bit more.
I responded to the narrative that Joe responded to, I did not have to even address whether
I thought they should have females in the game or not, in fact, the only reason I did
was just so people could see my opinion, and maybe it would change a few minds, I don't
know, people may have their mind made up already. Angry Joe almost seemed to go out
of his way to make a jab at the critics of the inclusion of a female character in the
game, even though he didn't need to, which is weird because he then makes a second video
which is a response to another video, in which he says that people are annoyed because he
presented a different idea.
And that's the thing.
I don't think the ideas that Angry Joe was trying to speak about were particularly bad,
it was just the tone that fired back on you, because in those instances, it doesn't matter
how valid your point is, if you have no respect to the people you present it to, then they're
not going to hear you out. For the record, I do not think Joe is a shill, Joe doesn't
seem to be defending any company conduct here, it's just impossible to work out who he
planned to respond to when he behaved with such hostility towards them. Let me present
to you a hypothetical scenario, and one that should serve as a base assumption in many
instances, at least in my opinion at least. You have a commentator, and he doesn't like
you, he's saying to all his fans, this is the truth, listen to me, do not listen to
them, they're wrong. These fans may be convinced, as I said, it's on a spectrum, how do you
respond? And when I say how, how do you speak to the fans? In this instance, Angry Joe doesn't
seem to understand that people, whether they're right or wrong in the way they feel, aren't
going to listen to him. It'd be like me, instead of starting off my video like I did
today, I would instead be going like this.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the best opinion, where I show why you're
wrong. And today we've got Angry Joe, this ugly bellend who looks like he's the front
runner for 2018's Virgin of the Year, and today we have him trying to talk about video
games like he even cares about them, how adorable. We don't really want him in the community,
we just tolerate him, and when he's not rambling on about boring theories that no
one gives a shit about, he's attacking gamers, the ones he's supposed to be standing up
for, talking about how they're all sexist man pigs, yeah screw you buddy. Now he obviously
has received this treatment from many people, and I disagree with it firmly, and it just
shows how individuals value riling people up over actually trying to change their mind.
But this does not make Joe's point of view inexcusable, it just means that he's sunk
to their level. I feel Joe probably witnessed the backlash to the inclusion of a female
character in this scenario, and thought to himself this is all rather unjustified. People
were becoming riled up, he even says that himself, he probably had his reasons for thinking
that way. I also feel that it isn't necessarily worth the vitriol, and honestly I think there
are decent responses that can be made to the claims.
But I feel like these sorts of topics that people are trying to have discussions with
have gone to such shit of recent, and it was a trap that Joe just fell in. Which is why
I typed with this part preaching to the choir, because the sort of tone that's presented
is exactly what people who agree with whatever youtuber want to hear. They wanna hear something
to be pissed off, and then the person is pissed off and they respond in a pissed off manner,
and audiences on the two sides are never really interested in the context, they just wanna
hear the person they hate get dunked on by the person they like.
By buying into that demean himself, Joe probably does make some friends in certain places,
but is unlikely to change minds, which is really what I think discourse should be about.
Now once again, this is no pass to some of the people who made responses to him, they
were clearly lacking interest in convincing him, and more in stoking the fire, but they'll
have their time very soon. From my somewhat extensive experience, Joe likes to present
himself as an arbiter of the community and consumerism, and in a way he always has, and
by making these videos about top 10 controversies and providing his opinions on it, it tells
me that he's someone who really does want to cover these sensitive topics with nuance,
and gain respect from those in the community. I think the problem is he became a poster
child for what many of his critics wanted to make him out to be, in the battle of ideologies
things are so much more about presentation than they are about points, and I think he'll
regret how he spoke, because he's got himself caught up in the trap. When really his video
had some points that could have shifted perspective, everything got drawn to his assigned comments,
which weren't really necessary in the first place. Maybe that's his persona, maybe that's
what he wants, but I don't think it is, I think a series of choices in how he has
conducted himself led to this. He has attracted fans from all over the field with his firebrand
rhetoric and clear cut consumer values, but if he directs that attitude at those people
they're likely to respond in the same sort of tone, and also compose the narrative that
he doesn't stand for those very values that brought them there in the first place. I don't
believe he's not pro-consumer just for disagreeing with people's points of view on this topic,
it's not really corporatist-centric, I just hope that today this has been a more relaxed
view on the whole thing after it's all quietened down a bit. I think Joe is legitimately one
of the good guys, but unfortunately everything past has led to this presence, and he has
provoked part of it unto himself in this instance, and maybe in spite of the anger,
take some of my points on board.
Anyhow, that was the video, yes great fun, and we had a great time doing this one, as
I said duvet over my head, this is America, what joy.
However if my predictions are right, we probably have passed 50,000 by now so I really wanna
thank everyone for that, obviously I'll probably put out a tweet and YouTube comment too, but
let's make it official YouTube, thanks guys for all the support, it means a lot, 50k would
not be possible without these blokes, the editors, they have done once again a stellar
job of creating another masterpiece, and I cannot thank them enough. Go and send them
some love because they really, really deserve it.
If you wanna reach me, and I'm not responding to comments, my Twitter's at the right opinion,
Facebook as well, sometimes use that, links in the pinned comment, you're gonna love them.
I also have a Discord, which I have been a bit more active in recently, I told you
guys I'd pick it up, mainly text chat though, but you can still reach me on my account there
too, I try and keep everything open for those purposes.
Anyhow, I don't think I really have too much else to say, hopefully this audio sounds better
than my last one, or else I've just overheated myself for like 50 minutes, well I'm gonna
put my headphones on soon and find out.
Until then however, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.
