We're going to talk about something more serious now.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and let's talk about the jolly old depression.
It's been a while since I've spoken about mental health, but we're returning to it today,
mainly because of a few comments that I've seen, and the debate it subsequently inspires.
This man is Andrew Tate. He is a cruiserweight and heavyweight kickboxer from Chicago.
He has attracted controversy with his recent statements on depression, that were certainly divisive to say the least.
Let's get the tweet up itself.
Now this provoked thousands of responses, 21,000 to be precise, which doesn't necessarily surprise me.
He goes on to argue his point about how depression stems from a dissatisfaction from life,
and the lethargy from these people towards changing it, and how it is that person's responsibility to change it as well.
He also went on Paul Joseph Watson's channel and argued his case.
Now Paul Joseph Watson urged people to watch the whole video before passing judgement, so I did.
Now the first thing I think it is important to say is that you don't have to be an expert to necessarily comment on these affairs.
There's plenty of leeway in the debate for people of many persuasions to weigh in,
so I understand where they're coming from on that one.
But let's cut to the chase. I watched the video, and I'll give them kudos,
because they put their arguments forward clearly, and I can understand it, so now I can actually retort.
The first point I picked up on was the overreliance on situational circumstances by Mr. Tate.
He heavily relies on the assumption that depression is situational,
and although I do believe that the situation can be considered as a factor,
it's a genuinely accepted actuality that there are many strains of depression that rely on interior mechanisms,
such as chemical imbalances that cause negative feelings to become inescapable.
If depression was solely based on the surroundings, you wouldn't see rich, successful people committing suicide.
But we do. Very successful people indeed, whom are unfortunately rather tortured on the inside.
Speaking from a personal perspective, I've become particularly depressed when I feel like I'm lacking progress in my life.
It happens a lot, and it's not something I'm necessarily happy with,
but it's not something you can simply click your fingers and change.
I'm working my ass off in everything I do currently, and as much as Tate might like to envision it,
just because you're talented and you do something good doesn't mean it's gonna work out.
It's the hard truth of life. Some people are incredibly skilled individuals,
but the truth of social mobility is a tough one to traverse.
Tate suggests that people can get healthy, start their own businesses, but that's a lot easier said than done,
and we have to acknowledge that a lot of people's attitudes are influenced by their upbringing,
and prospective students aren't really treated like possible entrepreneurs.
And I think it's shit, but there's a level of accountability that has to be down to the system,
and telling a depressed person to work harder is a huge oversimplification.
They also reference the rising rates of depression in the US. Now that's an important footnote,
but the false assumption they make there is that because depression diagnosis is on the rise,
depression must be on the rise. What they fail to consider are other variables,
such as the fact that people may just be more aware of depression and the treatments they can get,
and people may subsequently be more eager to seek medical help for it.
It cannot be denied that there is a massive drive in mental health awareness,
and given the increased awareness, diagnoses would be expected to go up.
Though 400% is a large number, it's not impossible for that number to be explained through extraneous variables alone, from my point of view.
Studies have found that after a positive event, someone's mood may improve temporarily,
but it often returns to the base rate afterwards.
What prevents me from being depressed is change in autonomy,
but very few people have the ability to be in that constant state of adaptation.
It'd be fucking cool, but it's just not possible.
Depression isn't a frame of mind for many people, it's something that isn't easily changeable,
and it's always existed in society.
Now, I'm not suggesting that that's the case with everyone,
and depression in the mood, and depression in the actual condition are very diverse predicaments,
but only one is really possible to address in any circumstance.
And even then, saying work harder is a hefty statement when many of them are working hard.
It's like telling a poor person to just get rich.
Depressed people and lazy people are by no means synonymous.
And even with that said, I think you'll be hard-pressed to find a relationship between income and depression rate,
and I know success isn't necessarily indicative of income, but there is a link.
It is something that you can measure.
My personal opinion is that depression and suicide are often contributed to by isolation,
and if you look at the suicide rates in America,
they are very worryingly, closely, negatively correlated to population density of each state.
However, people who are depressed may not necessarily report it,
so this skews the results to the point where suicide and depression themselves are very weakly correlated.
Now, correlation can not imply causation, but it's certainly food for thought.
You also have to note the importance of the word contribute.
You can live a happy family life and still be insanely depressed.
Unfortunately, some people can't change that.
I don't doubt that there is this existence of situational depression, but it's nothing new,
and I do think the doctors probably prescribe medication too liberally for depression rather than considering other treatments.
But starting off your thread with depression isn't real is going to be hammered by people because it's a universal statement,
and there cannot be denying that some people suffer depression no matter what situation they find themselves in,
and find it very hard to combat it.
And that's why, as I said earlier, even rich people commit suicide.
There was also this statement that suicides are increasing, and I understand that in the US they are.
However, in many countries, UK included, suicide rate has gone down despite prescription of antidepressants going up.
Depression is a hard topic. What we do know is that it's something that there is many causes and many strains that contribute to it,
some more chemical, some more situational.
And if you attempt to make it a black and white conversation,
you end up making a grossly reductionist comment that undermines what we have found out about depression in the last few decades.
I know it's not an easy topic to discuss, but it's not something that I rate Mr. Taiton.
Anyway, long video, that's all I have to say about depression.
I think it's an interesting topic, but one that has to be approached with caution.
All thoughts in the comments below are appreciated, but until then, I'm the right opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
