I guess my channel is going to turn into Pewdiepie's at least for a little bit because I'm actually
going to do a meme review believe it or not.
This is not the kind of thing I usually do but this is actually somewhat relevant and
in fact it is a meme that I am really, really enjoying.
Doesn't Pewds have a song for meme review anyway?
Yeah.
Isn't it like, leave your entries in the subreddit bros.
No wait that's, that's L-W-I-A well you know it's all basically the same show anyway it
seems like.
It's okay I like Pewdiepie quite a bit.
But anyway, meme review.
This article popped up about a month ago.
The canals of Venice run clear as coronavirus halts traffic, bringing back the lagoon waters
of ancient times.
The popular tourist destination is in lockdown with visitors staying away and residents self-isolating.
An absence of boats has caused the once turbid waters to clear, revealing fish populations.
Oh that's real cool.
Yeah and here in the article you got these screenshots where you can see the fish swimming
around and how clear the waters are.
It's actually kind of neat.
And in fact the European Space Agency released two pictures, one from recently and one from
about a year ago.
And you can actually see the difference.
You can actually see how Venice has changed from space.
It's kind of interesting.
And you have other similar events too like this one.
Nature is healing.
New pollution free world thanks to COVID-19.
The pyramids in Egypt are now visible from Theca road.
And you know what that would actually be a really breathtaking view to behold yourself.
The point is that there's two phrases nature is healing and we are the virus.
If you search those on Twitter you will get some extreme ridiculousness.
It's pretty awesome.
Sharks are finally enjoying the wilderness now that humans are gone.
We are the virus.
What is this?
Yeah.
You know I can't find it anywhere.
Is he going to jump in?
Yep.
Okay.
I can't find the video anymore.
But a few weeks ago there was a video of a guy who was walking around an abandoned city
in like a T-Rex like animatronic T-Rex suit and the police were yelling at him.
And it was playing the Jurassic Park theme.
Now that the smog has cleared up we can see Denver all the way from New York.
The earth is healing.
We are the virus.
Oh is that like the halo remastered?
Man that actually looks pretty good.
I wonder if it'd be worth playing on Game Boomers probably honestly.
The earth is healing.
We are the virus.
Don't do it Mr. Bird.
You're going to get lung cancer.
You're going to have a pre-existing condition and COVID will get you.
The Daleks are returning to England.
The world is healing itself.
You know I never liked Doctor Who.
Even back during the good seasons people call certain doctors like better doctors than others.
I never understood it.
I never got it.
You know?
I was always more of a Star Trek guy.
Well I mean until recently obviously but still.
This picture was taken downtown just yesterday.
Nature is returning.
We are the virus.
Jesus.
Man the Cats movie really was just nightmarish wasn't it?
And you know they're making a new one too with the same technology.
They're doing like a live-action Robin Hood where it's Robin Hood as like an anthropomorphic
fox furry kind of guy.
You think one box office flop is enough Disney?
Cows are returning to the sea.
Nature is healing.
We are the virus.
How did they get this picture?
That's like a real cow.
They just okay.
For the first time in four generations the headphone jack is returning.
Nature is healing.
We are the virus.
Yeah well you know what?
If you were a big brain like me you'd still be using what I have right here.
This this old Galaxy S2 it still has it's from like 2009 or whatever and it still has
the old headphone jack.
Let's listen to these ancient sound effects dude.
I don't know I just never felt the need to get a new phone to be honest.
Like this one still works.
I think the text of this one is actually the original text that started the meme.
Here's an unexpected side effect of the pandemic.
Since the humans are inside the native wildlife is returning for the first time in years.
Nature is healing and we are the virus.
Now this picture obviously isn't the first picture like like whatever whatever picture
started this meme it was a serious post it's just that this text went viral.
I do like that people are taking the opportunity to dress up like complete idiots in really
weird suits and do things outside.
Crabs are back in the airports.
Nature is healing.
What's this video?
Who flew with crabs?
What is this video?
Oh god someone actually put like crabs they put crab someone put like a box full of crabs
in in in the luggage in the plane and now they're just all over the place.
Oh my god why why would anyone do this?
I'm kind of half expecting the the crab dance to start playing here and I guess normally
I'd cut that in for a gag but last time I did that I got copyright struck on YouTube
so you'll just have to imagine it I guess.
Nature is healing man look at the hips on her damn girl you uh you want to get together
some time and do some photosynthesis together cookies have returned to the sewing kits nature
is healing we are the virus yeah I do have even though I've never actually eaten any
of these cookies before in my life I really don't like them I have about five of these
containers around the house just various things stuck in them just because usually
like my parents were throwing them out I need a container so I'd take one or like they would
give me something that they had that was in a container and now I have it I think I've
actually seen more of these containers with random things in them than with the actual
cookies the rest of the space needles have returned to Seattle the earth is healing it
actually looks a little bit more like an alien invasion to me to be honest maybe that's what
it actually is though guys or or you know what it's probably something even worse I
think the original Seattle space needle is probably a giant 5g tower causing coronavirus
for the entire world that's what's happening there we go I've solved it pasta is returning
to its native habitat in Tesco nature is healing you know where I am locally we've actually
kind of got past the uh the the shortages stage you can still only buy like two of certain
items in grocery stores but the the shelves are pretty much stocked now like they're they're
okay I actually went to the grocery store yesterday and and the cashiers are wearing
like face shields not just like breathing masks but like the full like like covers your
whole head face shield and there's tape on the ground that says okay make sure to stay
six feet apart from each other etc and it's like okay but I have some acquaintances that
work at the store and I asked them like hey are you guys actually doing anything meaningfully
different like in in the background and they're all like no we're just working as usual because
I mean what's gonna happen right it's like okay yeah fair enough there really does seem
to be more of a perception of a problem than an actual problem at least in some locations
right now because everyone in Italy is quarantined the natural wildlife has returned to the water
and forests we have the virus excuse me this is obviously a faked photo both of those pictures
are of New York style pepperoni pizzas those are not authentic Italian pizzas so obviously
someone set this up wildlife is returning to the Scottish streets nature was what the
fuck is this this just has to be some Scottish thing that I don't get maybe it's just because
I don't know Scottish people have red hair I don't know maybe Dankula can fill me in
or something with everyone on lockdown the trucks have returned to their water holes
oh isn't nature beautiful I wonder what actually happened here like is this just a Photoshop
or did did two trucks actually just drive into the river I've seen more ridiculous things
to be honest I just took this beautiful photo what's actually interesting about this photo
is I don't know if you guys know but this is actually a real picture I know that we
just have it ingrained in our heads now that it's the Windows XP default desktop theme
and it looks very computer-generated of how perfect it is but it actually is a real photo
yeah according to the internet the picture is named bliss and it was originally taken
here this is in California something like take the take these these stats here maybe
plug them into Google Maps and see what I can get and here it is Microsoft Windows XP
background photo site yeah check this out it's going to okay can I I can't Street View
it okay maybe I can just take a look at it from over here yeah okay I could see it this
is definitely the spot okay fair enough fair enough you get you got me good job wildlife
versus her into the city nature is healing as it just blows fire all across Tokyo there's
a period of time I was probably between like 16 and 18 when I was a little bit of an insomniac
and I would actually spend my nights either playing video games which I did quite a bit
or I watched late night TV and what was on late night TV often were really badly translated
Asian movies I actually got to see the clones of Bruce Lee then for the first time it's
a terrible movie however however I did in fact get to see some some Godzilla films and
you know this stuff like this this this cool animatronic stuff or like this cool stop-motion
stuff sometimes it's like people in suits walking around like a set that is obviously
just a bunch of buildings I really have a respect for like this era of filmmaking it's
not the same when they do it in CG you know here's my friend vague commander day 37 women
are returning to the kitchen nature is healing we are the virus and this is from the twitch
stream of one Ava quarantine girlfriend I went to school for philosophy wanting to discover truth
and justice but all I found out was that I was gay and trans I don't know if this qualifies as
women return to the kitchen maybe let's let's watch the video get my old headphones out guys
it's a layer cake it's a layer cake I did it look at that look at that that feel when men
make better women than women but I can't just steal PewDiePie schtick forever it is pretty
fun to just check out the current memes and laugh at their best iterations but it wouldn't
be an SFO video if I didn't try to at least end it with some kind of point or a vision or something
the reason this meme has been relatively successful at least kind of low-key is because of how it's
framed the whole nature is healing we are the virus thing as if human beings aren't part of
nature as if we don't exist alongside it as if we don't deserve a habitat just like every other
creature on the planet does but there's definitely this almost anti-humanist undercurrent but below
it with the whole we are the virus thing as if humanity is the problem the mere existence of
humanity is what is what makes everything terrible and at least in these people's minds I do think
that humanity on the whole is probably a good thing I don't know if that's a controversial
opinion nowadays but it's definitely how I feel even just avoiding any kind of religious arguments
which I am apt to do because I'm an atheist I do think that humanity is probably relatively unique
at least insofar as we know because we are definitely the first time that the universe
has been able to observe itself we are part of the universe we are made up of the same matter that
has always existed and yet we're also cognizant I think that's important I think that's different
and I think it's special I think it's worth preserving and this idea that the planet will
be better off without us it's like better off for who you might make the argument that yeah okay
mankind has done a tremendous number on mother nature but she gets her revenge on us and then
some we all get diseases we all get viruses obviously we all get sick we all die eventually
but if you think back like a year or two ago or even longer to be honest a lot of the the more
extreme climate alarmists were saying that unless humanity completely shuts down everything we are
doomed there will never be another generation of humans we're going to destroy the planet so much
it'll be completely uninhabitable you know I I do definitely believe that climate change is at
least partially man-made but I certainly don't buy the most doomerist of predictions when it comes to
this stuff but still that was always the claim we must shut everything down and the economic cost
be damned well at this point we've done that haven't we we are destroying our own economies
and forcing everyone to stay inside in order to get a handle on the coronavirus and in doing so
worldwide emissions have dropped tremendously and yet global lockdowns might reduce co2 emissions
but won't halt the climate crisis scientists say there's a difference between co2 emissions
and atmospheric concentrations of co2 well what the hell else do you want from us then we have now
unwillingly and not for the reasons that you initially wanted but we have now put into place
all of the recommendations you were looking for and apparently it's still not enough so what else
is there if it just so happens that climate change is irreversible and and I don't think that it is
well then screw it if turning into a complete fascist state where no one is allowed to leave
the house and all economic activity must be stopped using state force is still not enough
then it's not fucking worth it but most importantly I still do think that human ingenuity will solve
this problem you have this line here there's a difference between co2 emissions and atmospheric
concentrations of co2 okay so even if we stop all co2 emissions there's still all that extra co2
floating around on the atmosphere that we already put there and eventually the the plants and the
oceans will absorb that co2 and it'll kind of level out if we all happen to disappear but at
the same time there's still no reason why human ingenuity can't also speed that process along
there are ways to extract co2 from the air and I do have great hope that our cleverness will still
save us yet both in terms of the climate crisis and in terms of coronavirus but in the end the
reason why the climate activists wanted a global lockdown and now that they have one they're saying
that it's not enough is because we can't beat climate change under capitalism socialism is
the only way yes it's never really been about saving the planet it's always been about implementing
socialism that's why AOC's Green New Deal was chock full of socialism that's why other climate
activists always talk about not just the climate the science behind it but also about pushing
social justice bullshit the climate has always been their sneaky backdoor to bringing socialism
about because while there are many good arguments against socialism the honest truth is there's not
that many good arguments against environmentalism truthfully think about it for a minute even if
you don't believe that humanity is causing climate change we still do want the planet to be
inhabitable by humans even if its natural cycles make it so that it's not in the future if that is
the case we should probably work towards keeping things as they are secondly there's still no
problem with cleaning up the environment anyway like okay if you don't believe that climate change
is being caused by co2 emissions that humans are putting out fine you can still believe that all
the plastic in the ocean was put there by humans and didn't just naturally appear there you can
still feel like cleaning up oil spills and rescuing animals from their negative effects
is probably still a good thing and thirdly even if you don't believe in climate change getting off
of foreign oil and starting to use local renewable resources for our energy can only be a good thing
politically so because when you really think about it there's actually not really that much that's
bad about environmentalism that is what they're using to sneak socialism in and of course I
completely disagree with the whole point of this article here it is absolutely possible to be an
environmentalist and a capitalist and of course this is all something that we know very well
because of this this article from last year extinction rebellion isn't about the climate
extinction rebellion by the way it was a radical protest group regarding the climate I don't think
they really exist anymore they kind of had their 15 minutes of fame in 2019 and they died out but
this guy here says yes yes I know the climate is breaking down it's urgent an emergency we only got
a few years left to fix it but extinction rebellion isn't about the climate the climates breakdown is
a symptom of a toxic system that has infected the ways we relate to each other as humans and
to all life this was exacerbated when European civilization was spread around the globe through
cruelty and violence especially over the last 600 years of colonialism although the roots of
the infections go much further back see this is this is all about socialism it is all about
anti-western hatred this is all about post-modernist narcissism the delusion of white supremacy centers
whiteness in the experience of white people the delusion of the patriarchy centers the male
experience the delusions of Eurocentrism and includes the notion that Europeans know what's
best for the listen how does any of this relate to the environment oh it doesn't oh you're just a
fucking Marxist trying to sneak all this shit in the back door get the fuck out of here extinction
rebellion isn't about the climate it's not even about climate justice although that's important
if we only talk about the climate we're missing the deeper problems plaguing our culture for these
people if capitalism actually managed to achieve all of the goals of environmentalism but didn't
implement socialism then it would still be a failure because they don't actually give a
shit about the environment and that's why i enjoy this meme because frankly it makes fun of the way
that these sanctimonious snobs actually feel about the environment they post a picture of a
deer running through their backyard or something they go oh nature is so beautiful humans are so
terrible and it's like fuck off man there are legitimate criticisms to be made regarding our
relationship with the environment but if your analysis of the situation ends with humans being
extinct as a moral good i just don't want to fucking hear it you sound like an absolute lunatic
and the only way i would ever go along with your ideas is if you make yourself extinct first
