Let's have a little chat, then, lads.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and music, probably the most volatile industry of recent, and the subject of today's question.
When we talk about recent movements, obviously the first one that comes into our head is Me Too,
which obviously inspired many women to come forward about their sexual maltreatment by celebrities,
primarily in the film and journalism industry, though it did have outreach into other sectors.
Some very large names were taken down, while others very slyly sneaked out of the spotlight during the allegations.
However, there was one industry that was eerily quiet, and that was the music industry,
and now there were a few, Russell Simmons probably being the most famous of all,
but that was more from an executive position, and even then, the coverage has been minimal,
which is surprising considering the claims are quite numerous against him.
For those who are familiar with my channel, you'll know that I'm a keen follower of music.
If I wanted to start up my own review medium, I probably could.
I like to see myself as someone who, quote, gets around 99% of music.
Recently, there's been a trend of what many regard as Soundclown rappers.
Now, this is headed by names like Lil Pump, XXXTentacion, Lil Uzi Vert, Lil Yachty, you know, lots of Lil people.
I bet some of them aren't even small, misleading cunts.
However, obviously rap is typically a more gritty genre, and therefore some of its output is gonna be more controversial.
At the pinnacle of this controversy, one of the Soundclown artists to emerge was 6ix9ine,
or Tekashi 6ix9ine, as some call him, and his music is interesting.
That's an appropriate word to describe it. However, that's not the only interesting thing about him.
To understand the premise of what I'm gonna be talking about today,
and why he's more than just the typical interesting individual, I'm gonna have to get some help in,
because, to be honest, although I know the basics of his case, I don't really know what his persona is like.
So, to understand why he's so controversial, I've decided to bring on Soundclown rap connoisseur,
Vanilla Rice, to explain exactly why he's causing a stir,
following which I will talk about the greater point being made. Take it away.
Hello, everyone, and welcome to my part of the video. I've been asked to talk about Tekashi 6ix9ine.
Now, the thing about Tekashi 6ix9ine is that, to me, personally, I feel like he's set such a bad precedent
for so many internet, or Soundcloud rappers, or up-and-coming artists, and it's just not good.
Tekashi 6ix9ine, so you might have heard of him. You might have heard this song.
Or this song.
Or this song.
Or you might have heard all of them, and thought they were one song. Now, usually, I don't say that.
Usually, I don't say, oh, oh, oh, this rap and all of his songs sound the same. But this, it's genuinely, like,
the same flow, and the same sort of beat, and the same sort of lyrical consistency of all of his other songs,
of all of his hits. I just don't appreciate that. The only reason he's relevant is because he always
maintains a state of controversy, and he's always in the media for doing something controversial,
either touching kids, or shooting a gun, or, uh, saying, oh, test my gangsta. Test it. Test my gangsta.
Test my gangsta. Come test my gangsta, you know what I'm saying?
I want people to test my gangsta. Test my gangsta. The thing I don't like about it is, because he,
like, he still maintains his relevancy. He still maintains it from DJ Akademiks, who covers him,
like, every day of the week, because he's always doing something. Like, the other day, he was shooting
a gun. He was in, like, a gunfight. He was just squaring up to people, because he was, like, because of
his actions, where he goes, test my gangsta. People have now tested his gangsta, and they brought out
guns, and he was, like, because he maintains this sort of drama all the time, and I don't appreciate
it. He hasn't done anything revolutionary. His flow isn't anything, any, like, revolutionary thing.
His lyrical consistency, it's not revolutionary. It's just hype music. It's just because he's got
rainbow hair, that he's sort of stood out, and everyone's gone, oh, yeah, that guy's got rainbow
hair. He might be cool. There's allegations around that he's touched kids, and people support him. I
don't understand. I think I understand why people are drawn to him. It's because he's such a crazy,
weird character, and he's such a, I don't know what I want to say, anti-hero. I don't know.
I don't know what to sort of classify him in. He's just 6'9". He's just insane, and he looks weird.
He's just scary. I don't like him. He's just, what is he? Why has he done that to himself? And the
fact that he's done that to himself just to achieve fame means that, like, you know, he's changed his
appearance. He's like, oh, that. Oh, I'm just expressing myself. I'm just expressing myself.
No, mate. You've done that just so you stand out and you maintain your relevancy on no,
like, merit. It's just on your appearance and your insane personality.
No one cares. Why are we keeping him relevant? If an artist has to maintain
a state of drama, and has to maintain a state of drama to stay relevant, then
why? Why are we giving them the time of day? It's only his appearance and the way he conducts
himself that keeps him relevant. And that's just my opinion on it. And again, it's a bad precedent
for people trying to get up to the top, because kids will be like, you know, the kids that want
to become rappers will be like, oh, 6ix9ine, he did it. Oh, I'm gonna rip my teeth out and,
I don't know, get a Glock and go out on the town and all that stuff. And I just, I don't appreciate
what he's done for hip hop. All right? That's just my opinion. Thank you for letting me on your
channel, James, or The Right Opinion, or whatever. It's been a good one. Please subscribe to me,
or follow me on Twitter, or both, so that would be really appreciative. Thank you. Peace out,
home dogs. Thank you, Vanilla Rice. Go check him out. He makes some spicy content. Now, being the
very gracious gentleman he is, he sent me his part before I wrote this script, so I can actually write
it with that information in mind. Now, to nuance onto Vanilla Rice's point about touching kids,
what he meant by that is that 6ix9ine was actually convicted of use of a child in a sexual
performance. Now listen, I'm not here to discuss the case in too much depth, but if you want my
brief hot take, 6ix9ine is talking out his ass. He's lied about every other detail of the
situation and been called out on it, rightfully so. But one thing that has not been disputed is
that he pled guilty to the following crime, and it's a fairly incriminating description. Now,
in many industries, such a conviction would be career-ending, yet he's one of the few that,
even with such information public, allows him to do what he desires, and still gives him an
opportunity to make a hell of a lot of money. Why, I hear you ask? At the height of one of the
most monumental social movements in recent history, is a person so antithetic to that?
Becoming a mainstream artist. Well firstly, music is a very heavily consumer-based market. A lot of
power to decide what is going to be hit lies with much of the buyer, and as many artists tend to
have a signature style, people tend to base it on the quality of the music rather than the character
of the person making it. Whereas in a film, swapping an individual actor out may not be
too much of a difference, in music the artist is much more central to the final product,
making record labels much more reluctant to drop an artist as they're not as expendable as those
who contribute to other industries. Chris Brown is still notching top 100 hits to this day, and he
continued to score huge singles years after the domestic abuse case, which would have ended many
careers in many various persuasions. This conveniently brings us to our second point.
The music is a much more individual art. People aren't just supporting the music, they're often
supporting the artist. The artist is often at the helm of their creation. If you're an actor and you
want to be in a film, and one of the many executives object to your inclusion, then you're
chucked. Even without a label, you could still make hits. In fact, given the current internet
nature of virality, the opportunities yielded are greater than ever. And then we have to talk about
content, because as Vanilla Rice noted, 6ix9ine regularly involves himself in plenty of antisocial
behaviour. In a way, many would say that this is part of the culture. I mean, hip-hop is a true
reflection of what life is like. It's not pretty, but it's something that has to be addressed. But
this is where the conflation of cultural understanding has allowed some fairly
reprehensible human beings to slip through the cracks. In hip-hop, the gritty culture can be
derived as a product of the broken system, and therefore, if someone is convicted of
a felony when young, they may still be able to make music afterwards and turn their life around,
and I think that's a positive thing because often they can talk about it and inspire other people.
Many rappers reflect on their struggle, and I see it in a lot of the best music,
especially in 2017. However, from the offset, 6ix9ine doesn't do that. But okay,
he's acting like a provocateur while still making his content. Plenty of rappers have done that in
the past. It's the culture. However, that should not apply to every crime in every situation. And
last time I checked, if inappropriate sexual action with minors is a staple in the hip-hop community,
then I don't really want to know, and I feel a lot of artists would not condone that as
defensible behaviour. It's certainly not what's getting infamous, well I hope not at least.
Plenty of musicians can live a public life and still be very outrageous because of the power of
the consumer, and often that's what's allowed them to get away with it. In a way, maybe we
don't hold musicians to the same esteem as actors, but should we? And can we? Music is much less
under the control of the industry currently, and that's both a good and bad thing. It will lead to
a lot more diverse and interesting music, gaining traction over mediums that may not have been
available in the past. I love the thought of that, fuck corporations, fuck the establishment,
but it also means that certain people who may not deserve popularity may get it, because popular
demand often may disregard quality of character, and given the huge presence of younger audiences
on streaming sites that don't really care about someone's character, then yes, it's going to
happen. Should we change it? I mean, it's not really down to us, whereas an industry could
exile an actor by not casting him in films that require high budgets anyway, and it's not like
the actor could make a film on his own. Any musician can find a good squad and drop a spicy
mixtape, it's elementary really, so you can either take a more open industry with the risk of having
bad people make the dollar, or cleansing these people, but nonetheless creating a very hierarchical
system which may create very corporate pop. But right now, we don't have a choice either way.
I mean, the masses have made up their mind, though I certainly don't want someone like 6ix9ine around,
you know I won't be purchasing his music, he's here. But then again, there are a few Chris Brown
songs that I like. Is it down to the consumer, or the label, or anyone? Tough questions with no clear
answer. I'd love to hear your thoughts down below though. Big thanks to Vinland Wright again for
appearing, I'll leave his links in the description and the pinned comment, check him out. Until then,
I'm The Wright Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Outro
