Hello my friends, this video is meant to announce that I have now uploaded the entire SFO backlog
on my rumble channel.
That is rumble dot com slash short fat otaku.
I know it says here it's like slash c slash c dash three five zero eight eight seven.
Yeah, okay.
But if you just put in short fat otaku and hit enter, you'll get sent to the same place.
So rumble dot com slash short fat otaku rumble is another up and coming alt tech platform
like odyssey and like bit shoot and I've spent maybe the past week and a half uploading my
around 500 videos to this platform.
It does not have an auto sync feature the way that odyssey does.
So I had to do it all manually.
And it took me a long fucking time.
But every video and every stream that I've ever done should be here, including some stuff
that I might have changed my opinion on over the years, like for example, my early dumping
with scrumps on kraut.
I've certainly changed my feelings about kraut as a person and later videos do reflect that.
But in my opinion, it's more important to have my entire backlog up in one place.
And to make that easier for the viewer, every video has been re edited to include a original
air date in the front just like on bit shoot and just like on odyssey.
As for where I upload next, I don't know it takes between one week and two weeks to fully
upload my backlog to a channel, it seems daily motion, maybe is Brady on still a thing?
I'm not sure.
In terms of coming back to YouTube, my monetization has actually been slowly progressing.
I am no longer shadow banned site wide, although I haven't got my monetization back yet.
So I guess that's some form of progress.
And I do intend to shake a few more trees.
But basically what I've set for myself is once I've uploaded the entire SFO backlog
to all of the alt text sites that I want to upload it to, if I'm still not re monetized
by then, I will just start a new channel.
And I'm aiming for that to be the new year January 1, because why not?
It's a great time to start new year's resolutions, maybe start a new channel is a good way to
start the new year.
And of course, if I were to do that, I would use the devonatized channel that I made a
month or so ago, it's already got four and a half k subs, I would probably rename it
to something else.
But I would convert this channel into the new SFO channel and I would make the old SFO
channel like a backlog or an archive or a place where I upload, you know, episodes that
are too spicy for the main channel, if I never get it back, that's what I'll use SFO for.
So if it turns out that I have to make a new channel, this will be the one that you want
to follow.
But for now, if you like rumble, all my content is there.
And when the new content does come, in fact, scrump, Lilith and I recorded a new dumping
with scrump a few days ago.
It'll go up on rumble, it'll go up on Bitchute and Odyssey and whatever else I plan to do,
as well as the old or new SFO YouTube channel.
And of course, I still do try to stream on game boomers most nights night if all goes
according to plan, my girlfriend and I will be continuing our cyberpunk 2077 playthrough.
So drop by twitch.tv slash game boomers and come say hi.
All right, I guess the next thing for me to do is to figure out whether or not Brady on
and daily motion are viable.
Is Vimeo still a thing too?
I remember that was a channel that was like a site years and years ago, but I don't think
anybody uses it anymore.
Anyway, I'll go figure it out.
Thanks for sticking with me guys.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you soon.
I love you.
