Let's get to the bottom of this.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time.
And in case you haven't noticed, I'm not a very ceremonial person.
While many people were pumping out Christmas-themed contents, the Grinch Opinion over here
hadn't even changed his Twitter AVI or name to something mildly festive.
Nor have I really done videos on any other joyous periods.
However, now and then a period may invoke me to do something that I would not typically do otherwise.
Today's topic is one of those very few.
So on the 1st of February, I was reminded of something that had gathered dust in the back of my brain.
That is LGBT History Month.
Twitter were kind enough to remind me with a cheeky hashtag slapped in the trends for me.
So being the nosy bugger that I am, I decided to click on it and see what mostly people were saying.
Now, it was the usual positivity stuff, and it's vacuous but mostly harmless, so who am I to judge?
No, the spicy stuff that caught my eye was this one very provocative tweet,
nicely tucked in amongst all the self-affirmative content.
What does the tweet say, I hear you ask?
Not that actually anyone's asking that and I'm pre-recording my voice,
and that's a fucking stupid concept and idiotic thing to think at all, but yeah.
Going off on a bit of a tangent, here is the tweet, essentially noting the clear disparity
between the HIV contraction rate between the homosexual male community and the heterosexual community.
Sprinkled at the end is the colloquial phrase,
figures don't lie, folks, giving us a nudge about what he's trying to imply.
He then cites a link, allowing him to back up his factual statement.
This man is good ol' Benjamin Disraeli, and he said there are three types of lies.
Lies, damn lies, and statistics.
What did he mean by that?
Well, he didn't mean that statistics don't reflect legitimate information,
but the way they can be used without proper context can push an agenda
that the statistics, when placed under scrutiny, may not properly represent.
Now, after some searching, I did find the statistics that he was referring to.
What I find curious is how he chose the two most contrasting percentages.
The fruit from the cherry tree was picked very carefully indeed.
Now, of course, 66% of new diagnoses a year is no good,
but the volume of diagnoses is what matters.
For example, if I was to say 100% of people who suffer from the common cold are of Asian descent,
it wouldn't validate my argument if only one person out of the whole Asian peninsula was actually diagnosed.
It's about the proportion of persons within that demographic,
and ignoring that certainly wouldn't be compatible with any argument without further context.
What he has done here has introduced conditional probabilities, but disregarded prior probabilities.
What would be more accurate is to say that just under 5% of homosexual males in the UK are HIV positive,
because if you want to make a general point against homosexuality as a whole, that's the only way to be fully relevant.
With that said, from my perspective, 5% is still far too high,
mainly because it's still being spread unknowingly, and sometimes knowingly.
But once again, you can't make HIV out to be this death machine cutting through the LGBT community when it's not,
and you certainly can't then say, this is why people need to stop being gay.
Whenever challenged, he says,
Oh, I was just stating a fact.
But a fact is not always conducive to the implication, especially when you confuse the demographic with a disease.
I'm more than prepared to admit that there's an issue surrounding unprotected sex,
but unfortunately, it's just a fact that a certain type of intercourse particularly associated with homosexuality
is a lot more likely to spread sexual disease.
However, just because being gay is more likely to lead to HIV or AIDS doesn't mean that homosexuality presupposes it.
As proven, currently approximately half of those diagnosed with AIDS are heterosexual.
A highly disproportionate figure does not give him the right to destroy the exception.
Many walks of life will put us at knowing risk, an occupation, a hobby, it doesn't mean that we shouldn't do them,
and I believe that sexuality is not a choice, so there is even less accountability on that behalf.
Another exemplar for the model would be this,
a majority of people who suffer from Ebola are from Africa.
It does not lead that being African presupposes Ebola,
nor does it mean that we should focus on stopping people from being African.
Now, from a more traditionalist viewpoint, there are two responses.
Some would argue that there is more responsibility bestowed with HIV.
It is a different disease and can be handled better with more control.
Something like Ebola is a lot more random and hard to handle.
I agree, but that's not the point of the analogy.
I am pointing out the issue of the focus.
Telling people to stop being gay would not prevent the spread of an indiscriminate disease,
just because it's more prevalent in one demographic.
Now, the other argument is that race is more biologically decided than sexuality.
This is also true, but once again, it's the inference that follows which is arguably false.
Sexuality definitely has social influence, as proven by twin studies,
but that doesn't mean that it is a choice,
nor does it imply that you can educate people out of it, as this tweeter seems to claim.
It is a very philosophical grey area, because research cannot say too much definitively.
Speaking from experience, so please take this with a pinch of salt,
sexuality was a realization, in spite of the fact that I had never been educated about it at all.
No one taught me to be gay.
I went to a Christian school, I was waiting to be attracted to women, basically,
until I wasn't, in the spirit of Destiny 2.
In modern society, more people have access to that realization.
I don't believe it's something that I could have chosen,
because in spite of my eccentricities, I am a rational being,
and in a rational situation like that, I would have, quote, chosen to be straight.
There needs to be better education for heterosexual and homosexual people.
Many don't know the risk of contracting asexual diseases 18 times higher when done through the rectum.
Many don't understand that not every type of sex is the same, and this, in fact, leads to a higher risk.
Those are the serious solutions that we need to be talking about.
His whole argument comes down to more gay people suffer from HIV-related illnesses, so let's stop them.
If you want to stop it, I don't know why the logical step to preventing an indiscriminate disease
that affects straight people too, is to stop being gay.
The whole AIDS-HIV argument shouldn't be weaponized like it has been.
It should be time to look and say, how can we make it that more people are clued up?
This sort of position is what I call the veil of vested interest.
Don't do this, kids, you might deal with a problem that we so badly care about, but don't care about enough to solve.
Not to mention that you can choose to do all these other things that will entail risk, but just not this thing.
This thing's too bad.
For me, this is the sort of stuff that's masqueraded in the common good,
but really just reflects a very personally idealistic vision of society,
and his comments later, regarding it as perverse, just say to me that it's more of a social order issue to him,
and I always find that rather snowflake-like.
HIV is shit, AIDS is shit, and all that is shit, but I don't understand why it reflects any sort of degeneracy.
Maybe an ignorance, maybe a habitual oversexualization, which is a knowledge, but it's one of those things.
It's just important that with that sexualization doesn't come a carelessness, and that's what we need to work on.
Now that's not to say the gay community shouldn't pay attention to it.
On the contrary, to all you fags out there, I get it, it's easy, spur of the moment,
you don't have to worry about impregnating a dude, but please, either you get some protection,
or you make sure they get some protection, or both preferably.
Although research into HIV and AIDS has come a mighty long way,
it would be much better to spare the hassle, and to make sure that you're not a victim of a horrible, horrible disease.
Do it for me, think of the right opinion when you're having sex, and think about all the things that I've said.
And that advice goes to anyone else out there. Kids, wear protection.
Parents, ask yourself why your kids are watching my videos. Cunts. Oops. Anyway.
What are your thoughts? I'm mixing up a bit this time around, but I have to have some variation from time to time.
I'd love to hear what you think in the comments below.
Until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
