Who are you?
I'm Connor McCloud of the Klen McCloud.
I was banished from the planet's ice 500 years ago.
And I cannot die.
He can't die, that is, unless he's decapitated.
The year is 2024 and the Highlander, played by French actor Christopher Lambert,
is once again trying to save the world,
which is in danger this time by the very atmospheric shield
he implemented to save the planet in the original Highlander movie.
A plot reversal perhaps, but, says Lambert,
that was the intention of director Russell Mulcahy
to make a sequel that is quite different from the original.
You know, generally when you make a sequel, you copy the first movie.
To come out of the second, you say,
I've seen it, it's the same as the first one, and Russell wanted to avoid that.
People might be disappointed by number two,
but you can't say that it's not a different movie.
Don't worry, we're going to be okay.
Easy for you to say, you don't have to worry about getting killed.
The original Highlander, released in 1985, was not a box office success,
but became a cult film on the home video market.
It also starred Christopher Lambert, an actor who rose to stardom
after his appearance in Greystoke, The Legend of Tarzan.
He is now one of France's top actors.
It sounds like magic.
It is, kind of.
But we are joined in a way that can never be broken, not even by death.
When you need me, you'll only have to call my name.
Ramirez!
Greetings, Highlander.
You called?
The original Highlander and the sequel also star Scottish actor Sean Connery.
He returns as Ramirez, the mentor and teacher to the Highlander.
The ancient power of the Quickening has joined us.
We are now as one.
Highlander II, The Quickening, is like the original in at least one way.
It is pure science fiction fantasy, just the kind of film Lambert loves to make.
That's what I like about movies.
You know, they make me dream.
I'm in a fantasy world, and it's not that I want to avoid the real world,
but when I'm making a movie, that's what I want.
In fact, Lambert becomes so much a part of his fantasy movie world
that he insists on performing most of the stunt scenes,
including the sword fighting sequences,
and says that quite often he gets injured as a result.
We rehearsed, as I told you, a long time,
but even though, I mean, when you're in the middle of it,
it gets messy at one point,
and then you get a big cut or whatever,
and that's the way it is.
It's part of the job, so you just accept it.
Now, in life, my job is not to get fucking the elevator, free-falling elevator.
I'm not going to do that in life. I'm not crazy.
But in the movie, it's fine.
The enormous, surreal set in Highlander II was built near Buenos Aires, Argentina.
We had such a big set to build.
We couldn't have built this city in any studio.
We needed an open space.
It's true we could have gone somewhere.
We couldn't find it in Los Angeles, couldn't find it in London,
and that was primarily the reason.
The other reason was to save money,
but, says Lambert, with the constantly fluctuating Argentinian currency,
it wasn't really a saving after all.
Go to sleep on a Monday and you wake up on a Tuesday,
you've lost $2 million.
It really literally is like, you know, put it in the fire.
But that you can't know before, so it's impossible to say,
well, we're not going to shoot anymore in Argentina.
No, it's a great country.
Both the Highlander films have environmental themes.
The world is dying because of damage to the ozone layer,
but Lambert doesn't think this movie message
precludes the film's primary goal to simply entertain.
It's not a pretentious movie, it's not an intellectual movie.
That doesn't mean intellectuals are not going to enjoy it.
I think it's just an entertaining movie, and that's what movies should be.
