10.
A lot has been said in the past few years about California's decline.
For a long time, LA was considered that city you had to move to if you wanted to get serious
about your career, especially if that career was in tech or entertainment.
This means that the city is filled with some of the most successful tech startups and movie
studios in the world, as well as being home to literally the largest graveyard of dreams
on the planet.
Most people who move to LA don't actually make it.
They join the service economy, doing menial jobs for those who have made it, watching
their savings, their youth, and their hope dwindle away until they're forced to either
return to their hometown in shame, or even worse, get stuck in the city because they
no longer have the money to afford the cost of moving away.
If you've kept your finger on the pulse of online discourse, especially on the right
side of politics, you've probably noticed a wider narrative forming with the collapse
of California into the ocean.
And because rightist politics lend well to grand narratives, stuff like the Californian
attitude on gender is narratively tied into the current crime spree running rampant right
now.
I'll show you what I mean.
Here's a compilation of headlines made by a right-wing creator with the implication
that everything is deeply tied together as some form of anti-God degeneracy or something.
Knowingly exposing others to HIV is no longer a felony in California.
California becomes a first state to legally recognize a third gender.
California prosecutes man for posting anti-Muslim messages on Facebook.
Another university seeks to deconstruct masculinity.
27% of California teens are gender nonconforming.
Illegal immigration costs California most at $23 billion.
All states combined cost $89 billion.
California teacher put on leave for asking if schools would allow walkouts to protest
abortion.
Thousands of pounds of human waste removed from Orange County homeless camp.
California school bans national anthem for being racially insensitive.
California appoints illegal alien to state office.
Using wrong pronoun for transgender senior?
California may punish you.
San Francisco or Mumbai, UN envoy encounters homeless life in California.
California is a national leader in outbound moves.
Where did they go?
To a religious person, this looks like a series of data points that can be connected together
to show that California is the next Sodom and Gomorrah, that the rampant sexual deviancy
and hedonism is causing the total collapse and destruction of the state.
And hey, fair enough.
But not being religious myself, I think something a bit different is connecting these stories
together.
These headlines can be placed into three broad categories.
Let's look at the first group, distractions.
Most of the gender stuff can be placed here.
California is probably the most gender inclusive location in the world.
And there's actually a positive side to that.
It's clearly not the government's business or anybody else's for that matter.
If you're gay or trans, and if you're privately living your gay or trans life, there's no
reason you should tolerate a mob of religious zealots harassing you for it.
But and this will become a recurring theme throughout this video, California doesn't
understand the idea of the golden mean.
In other words, you can actually have too much of a good thing.
For example, California banned state sponsored travel to 17 other states in the union for
those states anti LGBTQ laws.
What this means in a practical sense is that if the state was funding interstate travel
to these locations in any way, that funding is now illegal.
So if California is receiving a shipment of goods from Texas, the companies doing that
are no longer subsidized, the cost of shipping increases and goods on Californian shelves
see their prices go up.
Another running theme in this video will be that California does not understand economics.
Also, man, is it only me or do those LGBTQ registration cards seem really fucking weird?
Does the state really need to know how much you like cock?
They're learning from social media, I guess package surveillance up as convenience and
acceptance and people will willingly do it to themselves.
I could go forever on this topic, but there's literally a new article every day describing
California's gender based bread and circuses.
So let's move on to the second category mismanagement.
This is what the bread and circus stuff is meant to distract you from the entire state
of California is draped in a pride flag so that you don't see what's beneath it.
For example, like how Californian towns routinely go without water in heat waves due to poor
management of the state's public works facilities.
Of course, Californian farms are allowed by the state to bypass water restrictions because
food production is important.
But this has incentivized farms that create more luxury food products that take up huge
amounts of water, like almond farms, for example, to completely destroy California's
water table.
Meanwhile, state politicians are amazingly corrupt, with the Democrats having a total
strangle on the Californian political system for decades now.
They fuck you every which way and the population still reelects them because red team bad.
It doesn't matter how corrupt they are, it doesn't matter how much money they embezzle.
Hell, it doesn't even matter if they're a pedo, they might even lionize you then.
A lot of these tyrant tendencies became fully known due to COVID-19 and California's restrictions
are, predictably, some of the worst in the US.
One of the more recent battles has been over the mandatory vaccination of all state workers,
with police and firefighter unions vowing to fight the state orders, and the state vowing
to penalize those who don't comply.
What's really funny though is comparing California's coronavirus response to that HIV headline
from earlier, New California Law Reduces Penalty for Knowingly Exposing Someone to HIV.
In that article, published back in 2017, California State Senator Scott Wiener, Scott Wiener,
said HIV is a public health issue, not a criminal issue.
That was his justification for downgrading from a felony to a misdemeanor, knowingly
infecting your partner with HIV.
Why aren't they taking this stance with COVID vaccines?
Are they also not a criminal but a public health issue?
In fact, this is an even crazier situation, because if you know you have HIV and you go
out to have sex with people, you know you're passing it on, but an unvaccinated person
can be walking around, not knowing if they're currently spreading COVID because of how often
the virus is asymptomatic.
Well, the larger picture here is just that California is fucking insane when it comes
to health management.
Measles and mumps, stuff that we get vaccinated for as kids, have routine outbreaks among
California's homeless population.
Hell, even fucking leprosy and the bubonic plague are making a comeback in LA.
I don't want to hear shit about any sort of healthcare direction or advice coming out
of California.
They're literally living in the middle fucking ages when it comes to medicine.
The third group, reaction, is what you get when you suffer mismanagement for long enough
that these distractions stop working.
It is no secret to anybody that California is currently worse than Gotham fucking city
when it comes to crime.
Videos of street muggings and smash and grabs go viral constantly.
People are so blatant about it that they waltz into stores with trash bags, load up on whatever
the fuck they want, and walk out.
One of the reasons this is happening so often is because of Proposition 47, which raised
the felony threshold for theft from $400 to $950.
In other words, thefts below $950 are considered misdemeanors, which means that in practical
reality, good luck getting the police to investigate them, let alone even show up.
It's also personal thefts that have ramped up, not just commercial thefts.
People are seeing their houses and cars broken into regularly, with Seth Rogen even coming
down from his perch to comment on how it's just part and parcel of living in LA.
In order to avoid window damage, drivers in LA are now moving towards just leaving their
cars open with nothing inside of them so that robbers will hopefully leave them alone.
The police are predictably no help, telling citizens to just lay back and present their
asshole if a robber decides to break into their house, rather than, you know, defending
their home and family.
As the situation in LA continues to deteriorate, we've actually seen the return of fucking
train robberies.
Straight up, we're gonna need to bring back trains guarded by coachmen or something.
A journalist local to LA went down to investigate and had this to say,
I keep hearing of train burglaries in LA on the scanner, so went to Lincoln Heights to
see it all.
There's looted packages as far as the eye can see, Amazon packages, UPS boxes, unused
COVID tests, fishing lures, EpiPens, cargo containers left busted open on trains.
I'm told by law enforcement these UPS bags are especially sought after by thieves opening
cargo containers.
They are often full of boxes with merchandise bound for residential addresses.
More valuable than, say, a cargo container full of low-value bulky items like toilet
paper.
This opened package is destined for Bainbridge Island, Washington state.
Typing in the UPS tracking number and it obviously lists it as delayed.
We found lots of opened packages bound for the Northwest along this section of tracks.
As you can see, trains frequently slow or stop in this area as they get worked into
the Union Pacific Intermodal Facility near downtown LA.
The thieves use this opportunity to break open containers and take what's inside.
I'd say every fourth or fifth rail car had open containers.
Missing a package?
Shipment delayed?
Maybe your package is among the thousands we found discarded along the tracks.
This is but one area thieves have targeted trains.
You were told this area was just cleaned up 30 days ago, so what you see is all within
the last month.
Beyond this one reporter's pretty extensive coverage, there's also viral videos of the
train heists in action, where mobs of people drive up to parked trains and begin picking
through their contents.
These don't look like starving, desperate people.
In fact, most of the things they're stealing appear to be TVs.
Also, I'm not sure if running alongside a fucking moving train is the brightest idea.
One misstep and you're dead.
The amount of debris left on the ground after all of these robberies has gotten to the point
that trains are actually having trouble chugging down the tracks, making the situation even
more unsafe.
This series of events finally culminated with a train derailment recently inside the LA
trainyard facility.
But it's not just the theft.
California is also failing to enforce other laws.
Good luck, San Francisco.
Your new DA has explicitly stated crimes such as public camping, offering or soliciting
sex, public urination, blocking a sidewalk, etc. should not and will not be prosecuted.
Now I get it.
The situation is shitty, but you should be allowed to do it behind closed doors.
And you know what?
Everyone's had that time where you had to take a leak and there's no bathroom around.
But there's a reason that San Francisco based phone app Snapcrap went viral.
Because there's so much poop sitting around the city that you can't even fucking walk
anywhere without seeing it or smelling it.
I mean, look at this shit.
No joke.
Look at the amount of shit.
Drug addiction is also on the rise.
Videos are coming out of California looking like a fucking zombie movie with burnout stumbling
around the streets, operating only on instinct, with no higher signs of life or intelligence.
Progressive ideas about harm reduction are, in fact, enabling the state of affairs.
The Prague's talk at length about how the state needs to provide clean needles and how
there need to be safe, clean sources of heroin and meth.
As if there could be such a thing.
It's fucking heroin and meth.
Yeah, lacing it with fentanyl is awful, but taking fentanyl out of heroin still means
it's fucking heroin and giving druggies needles is enabling their addiction.
The ultimate problem with the Prague harm reduction position is look at how much fucking
heroin enables.
At some point, you have to stop worrying about reducing the bad and start worrying about
building the good.
If you spend all of your time putting out fires and none of your time actually being
constructive and building some sort of positive virtue, you've already royally fucked up.
Californian views on violent crime beyond the mugging are also astronomically stupid.
San Francisco is now paying people $300 a month not to shoot each other because violent
crime is just that fucking high in the city and the law is just that unenforced.
Stories and videos of homeless drug addicts randomly attacking people indiscriminately
routinely go viral, ranging from stabbings and shootings to, most novely, using an improvised
flame thrower on a city train.
Meanwhile, California's response to this state of affairs is to suddenly release 76,000
prisoners, 63,000 of which have been convicted for violent crimes, 20,000 of which are serving
life sentences, in an attempt to create a safer, more just, and more equitable prison
system.
All of this nonsense is the source of the California Exodus.
The idea that people are abandoning California because it is an absolutely terrible place
to live.
The Wikipedia page on the phenomenon still maintains that the Exodus narrative is not
yet proven, but I think everybody can see the writing on the wall.
Big tech is slowly moving out of Silicon Valley.
Elon Musk recently famously relocated Tesla to Texas.
For the first time in a very long time, more average people are leaving California than
moving to it, a lot of them also moving to Texas cities like Houston and Dallas.
They're even willing to pay California's move-out-of-state tax just to get the fuck
away.
And yes, California is behaving like a weird clingy ex here, requiring you to pay them
in order to have the privilege of moving away.
Despite decades of a total democratic stranglehold over the Californian political system, these
new arrivals to these places are voting the same way and agitating for the same corruption,
dysfunction and distraction that they're fleeing from.
Progs are too stupid to realize that their ideas are the cause of all of this shit.
This is a point that I made in my hawks and doves video.
It bears repeating.
The leftoid position on home invasions and riots and looting is that lives are always
more important than things.
And sure, I can see that point of view.
It intuitively feels right, it tugs at the heartstrings.
If you have to smash a window to pull a person to safety, you don't worry about the value
of the window, the person's life is more important.
The leftoid, and to be frank even some libertarians would say, you shouldn't ever use violence
except to stop violence, you shouldn't risk a life except to save more lives.
And that sounds good on the surface, so that's where the leftoid stops thinking because they're
feeling righteous and reaffirmed.
But the problem is, if a police officer sees a burglar robbing a house, the officer should
try to stop the burglar, even if the burglar might fight back and somebody might get killed.
Even if the burglar's only stealing things and not taking lives.
Because if nobody even so much as inconveniences burglars, that creates a permissibility towards
burglary.
It creates an incentive to be a burglar.
If bad people are willing to risk violence to get what they want, and good people always
back down because violence is too terrible to risk, then society falls apart because
nobody is willing to defend anything.
The issue, fundamentally, is that progressives believe they occupy the space of God.
You don't even have to believe in God to see how this is the case.
From the objective, all knowing, all seeing position of God, you can look down at the
earth and see all the people and all the things and say very clearly, yes, of course,
people are more important than things.
You can get more things, you can make more things, you can't replace people, they're
special.
But none of us inhabit God's position.
We know our friends and family, we know our homes and businesses, we know what is particular
to us and we don't know what isn't.
We cannot make moral judgments as if we are God because we don't exist in His position
and we don't enjoy the relative power and safety of that position.
We are not above the people, we are a member of the people.
And from our position here, not everybody can be given the same consideration.
This is why the common response to the soy boy who says, lives are more important than
things, is to hear back, his right to life is guaranteed by me if he doesn't try to take
my things.
He clearly values my things more than his life to try to take them, so why shouldn't
I value them in the same way?
This is the normal position.
Even nowadays, with how increasingly leftward the culture is pushing, this is still how
most people think.
The stuff I work to own, let alone the lives of my family, are way more important than
the life of the home invader.
From the position of God, there's no real responsibility.
You can see everybody's life, everybody's web of connections and motivations.
You can see that the home invader lacked a father figure and his mother beat them and
he was homeless at 16 and he's never really had a real opportunity to have a real life.
Fair enough.
This is why the justice system often, and in many cases should, take those factors into
account during sentencing.
But you're not the justice system.
You're not God.
You're the person with your partner and your kids asleep in the other room.
You're the person who worked years to build that business that is about to be hit by a
molotov cocktail.
And your position, as subjective as it is, contains additional information provided to
you by that subjectivity, by that context, that the position above everything does not
have access to.
Which is why we recognize ideas like personal responsibility and those who would put themselves
in the position of God don't.
Taking that sky high position and saying, well it's all relative, everybody's got circumstances,
it's all material condition, says the communist, is a fast track to disarming yourself in the
face of a threat.
The rioter and the robber are playing their role.
If you want to oppose them, you must play yours.
