Yes, I've made my way over to Brightion. That's Brightion.com channels slash short
fat otaku. I don't think you can actually do it without the channels like if you just did
Brightion.com slash short fat otaku. Yeah, it gives you a 404. All right, I'm pretty sure if
you just search short fat otaku, you'll find me though. Let's see. Yeah, there's all my videos
right there. Okay, I'm on Brightion. That is another alt tech site another another YouTube
alternative. I've been uploading videos to that platform on the SFO channel over there. As you
can see, there's a bunch of videos. But there's something different about this platform. As you
can see in my back end, it says you have been upgraded to new user, you can now upload 50
videos. So there's actually a limit on how many videos you can upload. And as you see,
there's a user level and video unlocks chart on this page here to upload unlimited videos,
I need a 20,000 views to upload 100 I need 1000. And all these levels are correlated by by 10
views a piece. So because I have around 500 videos to upload, I'll need 5000 views on this channel.
So if for some reason you feel like watching my old content, please consider checking out my
Brightion channel. Because if you watch it there, that'll actually help me be able to upload the
rest of my backlog. I'm currently at 942 views on this channel. So another 60 or so and I'll be
able to upload the next set of videos. And if we get to 5000, I'll be able to upload all of them.
And like I said in my rumble video, once I have all of the SFO backlog uploaded to all of the
alt text sites that I wish to utilize, if I'm still not re monetized by then, I'll just come
back on a new channel with new content. So don't worry guys, I'm not gone forever. And of course,
if you miss me that much, there's always my twitch channel, twitch.tv slash game boomers last night,
we played cyberpunk. I played some some Pokemon fire red on a previous night. Here's Dave and
I playing Kirby's Dream Course. I'll be back there tonight. So drop by this twitch URL,
twitch.tv slash game boomers tonight, and I'll be there. So I'll see you tonight. I love you.
