Good morning, everyone. Dev and Naomi are back together again. We broke up for a while, but...
They're gonna actually believe that, you know.
What I mean... What I mean by this is we haven't done a Dev and Naomi talks about
TV or movie or whatever since I think... How was the dragon?
Was it?
It was because you're lazy.
Because you're lazy, too.
I am lazy in my own way.
Well, you can't even complain!
No, no, you're lazy when it comes to your work.
Listen, okay? That's not true and you know it.
Yes, it is.
That's what you get.
Stop.
So we have our morning coffees. It's reasonably in the morning for us and uh...
Yeah, okay.
We have our coffees and we're gonna be here to talk about Star Trek Picard season 3.
Episode 1!
Okay, so here. Let me give you the TLDR, alright?
When I first met Naomi, she didn't know what Star Trek was.
Yep.
And I was like, you know what? I think you'd actually like it. Even though it's not like...
You thought before me it was like just another generic sci-fi action series, right?
Yeah, because hashtag Star Wars was always bad.
How is that related?
Because that's another generic sci-fi series that was, you know, really popular that I didn't know that much about.
You're getting more beatings for that. Here they are. Here they are.
Ow.
Okay, so listen.
But Star Trek is not a generic sci-fi action series. It has action.
But it's also like, it's kind of comedic, it's kind of dramatic.
But it's like a procedural, you know?
Yeah.
And it's a very good procedural.
And it probably... it basically started the genre of what it is.
It's like...
Wait, what other shows are like Star Trek?
That are not Star Trek related?
Like other Star Trek shows?
And The Orville doesn't count.
Because it's a Star Trek parody, right?
Yeah. The Orville doesn't count.
I guess it is kind of something...
Well, here's the thing. If you go back really far, like before Star Trek, you can find stuff like Flash Gordon.
Which is very much... which is very similar.
But it's like... it was that way because that was like a black and white convention.
And they couldn't really do what they could do with tech.
But with Star Trek...
I don't know, like there's one... like firstly, Star Trek was always like an optimistic series.
Yeah, definitely.
It was never like the grim dark future.
It was always like...
You know, yeah, humanity had some bad spots and you can see some of the bad spots in Star Trek.
But you pulled through it and now things are like better.
It's like... it's a bright future overall.
And secondly, it was always about the characters and their relationships.
And they were always mature.
They never pulled punches.
The episode that comes to mind, now that I'm thinking about it,
is that one episode where Worf is asked to donate blood to a Romulan.
Of TNG, you should say.
Yeah, and he... and you know, Worf hates Romulans.
Yeah.
Because he's being racist.
He has a reason, but still.
Yeah, he has a...
I don't know, like if you know a race... like a specific race kills your entire family, spoilers.
You're a racist, Naomi.
Naomi's a racist.
Then you get to be a little bit racist.
Just a little.
Here's the thing.
You know, a show... another show, especially another show nowadays,
would resolve the moral dilemma by having like a third option.
Like just give you an easy way out.
But TNG didn't.
TNG said, listen, either you let Worf be racist and let this Romulan die
or you violate his rights and make him donate the blood.
And the show doesn't pull that punch.
It allows Worf to be racist and the Romulan dies
and then there's actually a consequence to it.
And it's like, OK, so...
It's nice because you get... it's more realistic than having that magical third option.
Because oftentimes in real life, you don't get the magical third option.
You get two shitty options and that's all you get.
Sometimes there's only one shitty option, but that's the conversation.
Yes.
But that was what made TNG... like all of Star Trek, but TNG especially special to me.
Yeah.
And there weren't like fucking Marvel style quips 24-7.
It didn't mind being a bit grimy and edgy when it had to be,
but that wasn't like... humans were kind of past that.
That wasn't the theme of any of the shows in the Star Trek universe.
Even the darkest show, Deep Space Nine, still had that thread of optimism going through it.
Because when we encounter the darker sections of Starfleet, like section 31,
our heroes are rightly disgusted by what they do.
So there's...
It basically... it provided like this sense of liberal optimism towards the future
and about how humanity is going to turn out.
It's not going to be perfect, it's not going to be Utopia,
but basically the idea that it's not going to be a fucking cyberpunk grimdark hellhole
where everything sucks.
However, after 9-11, that type of science fiction became way more...
it was already popular in the 80s, but it became way more popular after 9-11.
And they tried to like make... they tried to like update Star Trek in that way,
so like they did the whole like an enterprise, like the Xindi attacking Earth
and that didn't help the show, it still got cancelled.
They tried to like make it just a straight action movie with the J.J. Abrams reboot
and I think... like those were okay movies, but they weren't really Star Trek movies.
Yeah, after... like I really enjoyed those movies before I knew anything about Star Trek
because of course I saw those first, because I didn't watch old things before you, because you know...
Because you're a fucking Zoomer, I know.
Yeah, totally.
But they were... they were really good.
I really enjoyed watching them, but then after watching Star Trek, I'm just like...
Oh.
Yeah, that's not what they were supposed to be.
Oh.
The reason... okay, I know, here's like what Picard sees in 3 episode 1.
The reason I'm doing all this is because... I'm describing all this because Naomi didn't know
what Star Trek was really before she met me.
And maybe some of you watching still don't know what Star Trek is, and that's okay.
No, it's not.
You should watch it.
But no, we sat down, over the course of like the first half of our relationship,
we sat down and watched every single Star Trek.
Yeah, everything.
We started chronologically.
Yes, we started with the original series.
Which was surprisingly good.
For the time.
You have to remember that it was a 50s show?
60s show.
I think it was a 60s show.
I don't remember.
I think it was like 1969?
So once you go into the mindset of this is a really old show and it's not gonna be perfect,
but it's still gonna, you know, it's still gonna be Star Trek, it's great.
Yes.
Then we watched the animated series.
Yeah.
Which was just kind of goofy.
Yeah, that was goofy, but also a product of its time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's like watching Scooby-Doo again.
Yep.
Then we watched TNG.
But here's the thing, we watched them in order of release.
So back in the day, TNG, DS9, and Voyager all came out at the same time, like overlapping.
Yeah.
So we actually watched the episodes overlapping the way they came out.
Yeah.
Because I had never done that before.
That was a fun experience.
Yeah, that was interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Going back and forth between like different casts and having to keep them all in our heads.
Well, yeah, but also like being able to like get the story slightly better than being like,
instead of instead of like watching like...
There was crossovers between.
Yeah, because there was crossovers like in later seasons and instead of being able to
like watching an entire series and watching the next one and being like, oh, who was that
person?
Why is this crossover relevant?
Yeah.
You actually...
You got it.
...understand why it's relevant.
Yeah.
I know Julian Bashir from DS9 was guest starring on TNG for one episode.
Was he?
Yep.
He was like doing...
I remember it on Data.
Oh.
Yeah.
I don't remember that.
It was like in season six or something.
I don't remember this.
I remember when Will came to DS9 for like a day.
Will?
Riker.
Oh, but it was actually Thomas Riker?
Oh, yeah.
That's right.
Yeah.
It was the duplicate.
But then also...
Spoilers.
Spoilers.
The guy who made the EMH in Voyager came to DS9 for a day too.
It's been too long.
I have to watch them all again, so I fully remember all these references.
Yeah.
We haven't watched DS9 in like three or four years.
Yeah.
It's been a while.
Yeah.
Jesus.
It's because we keep watching new bad Trek.
So the idea was we were going to go through the entire Star Trek canon in order of release.
So we go through all the shows, you go through Enterprise, and then I'm like, okay, Naomi,
here's...
We also watched the movies as well.
Yeah.
We did watch the movies.
Like all the various like TNG movies, original series movies.
Yeah.
Then we get to the reboots, we watch the reboots, and they're like, well, they're not very good.
But they're okay.
And I'm like, okay, Naomi, here's where it gets bad.
Now we're gonna start watching Discovery.
And Naomi's like...
And here's the thing, okay?
It's like Discovery season one, like, there was a skeleton of a decent show, but they
needed to do it completely differently, and they just didn't do it.
Also the Klingons.
Yeah.
In the beginning.
That was bad.
The Trump Klingons.
But like there was... if you just told me a bare bones synopsis of Star Trek Discovery
season one, I'd be like, that could be good, but it wasn't because they did everything
wrong.
Yeah.
But also...
Same with season two, actually.
Season two was better than season one, in fact.
Yeah.
But Discovery is a good science fiction show.
It's not a good Star Trek show.
Not a Star Trek show.
Like it's better now in the later seasons where we're actually...
In the future.
In the future, like attempting to re... spoilers.
Attempting to rebuild...
Civilization?
Because it all fell apart?
No.
Well, not civilization, but rebuild the...
Well, I've forgotten all of my words.
The Federation?
Thank you.
Jesus Christ.
Yes, it is early in the morning for Naomi.
Holy fuck.
Drink some more of that coffee over there.
Why don't you?
I'm going.
I've already half done.
It's not helping.
Okay.
So Star Trek Discovery season one was not very good.
Star Trek Discovery season two was better, but I think it was just... looking back on
that.
I think it was just for the fan service because you had Captain Pike, you had Spock.
You know, just having...
You had number one come back.
Yeah.
You know, I think...
And you had the Enterprise.
The original Enterprise.
Yeah.
I think it was all just fan service for season two.
Season three was like...
That's when we went to the future?
Yeah.
They went to the future.
Right.
Yes.
That's where it started getting better.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And season three and season four are now like...
mediocre.
It's about as good as like a slightly bad episode of Voyager, which is still pretty
bad, but it's better than it has been.
No, I don't know.
I think they're on par with like a mediocre episode of Voyager.
You know, like not a specifically bad episode, but like a mediocre episode, you know?
Yeah.
Okay.
Like, yeah, I watched it and it was, you know, it was okay.
You know.
You know, we watched Lower Decks, which is just a comedy show and it's funny for a comedy
show.
Yeah.
Lower Decks is like actually pretty good, but it's like... it's a comedy show.
It's strictly comedy.
Yeah.
And you have to know all the Star Trek references.
You're like, oh, Tom Parrish was up in this episode.
Yeah.
Like you have to have seen all of Star Trek to get it, but for what it is, it's good.
Yeah.
I really enjoy Lower Decks.
Yeah.
If you haven't seen all of Star Trek, you're not gonna really like it that much.
No.
And like, it's very specifically like, yes, this is part of the Star Trek universe, but
it's also like, here's a shit ton of fan service and like just goof about the Star Trek universe.
Yeah.
But it's good.
I enjoyed it.
And of course, we mentioned the Orville briefly because the Orville is literally just TNG
again.
And I can kind of enjoy that.
Yeah.
I mean, I will say I do.
Okay, guys, I really, really like the Orville and this is probably going to be shown as
a bad take, at least according to things I've seen online.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I, in the latest season of the Orville, I miss the comedy that was in season one.
Yeah.
Season three, like I think Seth MacFarlane was like, I can do a real show now.
It's like, no, it's supposed to be a comedy.
It's a parody.
You gotta chill the fuck out.
It's a parody.
But he wanted to try and make it like a real show.
The thing is, I still like it, but I actually really miss all the comedy in season one because
now it just feels like a generic Star Trek adjacent.
You know?
I'm not saying it's a bad show.
I just, I felt like it was more unique when it was more, not like, yeah, it was a parody,
but it didn't specifically mention Star Trek things, but it was a unique, this is obviously
a Star Trek reference show.
They can't see you with your hands.
I don't care.
This is for me.
Naomi is dressing with her hands right now.
It's for me to help me focus, goddammit.
Okay, tell me about it.
It didn't specifically comment that it was a Star Trek show.
You know?
It just like, if you've seen Star Trek and you watch the show, you're just like, oh yeah,
this is kind of like Star Trek, but with a lot more comedy.
And I felt that it was, it was very unique for, but now in the latest season, I'm just
like, this is mildly boring and I'm not laughing as nearly as much as I did, you know?
But it's still a good show.
I just miss what it was, but I understand wanting to move on from that.
I just wish-
Yeah, they shouldn't have.
They shouldn't have.
I just wish they didn't.
That's just my personal opinion.
I'm sure a lot of the commenters aren't going to like it, but that's okay.
No, I'm pretty sure that I'll actually agree with you if they have a brain.
So listen, listen, to quickly go through this then, because we're getting bogged down.
We watched Star Trek Prodigy, which is the kid's show.
It's good for a kid's show.
It's written for children.
It's a children's show.
If you like Star Trek and you don't like shows written for children, don't watch it.
Yeah.
But you know what?
It's basically set up so that if you're a parent and you're a longtime Trek fan and
you want to get your kids into Star Trek, what you could do is you could sit down, watch
this with your kids.
They're going to enjoy it as a kid's show and you're going to enjoy all the, all the
lore references because Janeway comes back, Chakotay comes back.
They have like-
Comes back.
Spoilers.
The Cindy's show up for a little bit, you know, the, the Tellarites show up for a little
bit.
Yeah.
There's, there's a bunch of lore that's built into the show.
And there's a lot more aliens, so that's neat.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We watched Strange New Worlds.
That was the, the Christopher Pike box show.
It's so good.
It's okay.
Well, there's still some serious problems with it.
Okay.
I don't care.
You know what?
After watching Picard.
Okay.
So it's such a good show.
Strange New Worlds is, it is actually kind of a delight just because it is Trek again.
Now it still has the Marvel quips that I'm kind of getting tired of at this point and
being in fucking everything, but they had self-contained one episode stories, you know,
they had like their villains of the week.
They had their going around, going to different plants, having adventures.
They structured it like an actual Star Trek show.
You have characters that we know like Christopher Pike and Spock and number one, Christopher
Pike.
The actor is way too hot.
Listen, you were also into Spock when we first met.
Remember?
Yeah.
You just like all of them.
You fucking, you Horno.
Yeah.
You like all the girls too, I bet.
Yeah.
Do you like Ortega?
The girl with like the short hair on the sides?
Probably.
Yeah.
Honestly.
I don't remember anyone's name is anymore from anything.
I know that you like the fucking blue GF girl from Lower Decks.
Yeah.
Because you just want a blue girl.
Yeah.
Blue is my favorite color.
How can I not want a girl who's blue?
I'll take the man who's blue too.
Yeah.
Oh, the one that was blind?
Well, no.
I mean, just a blue man.
Oh, you're ableist.
Oh my God, Naomi.
Ableist and racist because he was an Aenar, so all of his race is blind.
It's part of his race.
I can't fucking believe you, Naomi.
How terrible of a person are you?
Wasn't he Andorian?
He was just a sub race of the Andorians?
Yeah, the Aenar are all blind.
That's not being racist.
Listen, if a quality of your race is that you can't see and then you're like, I don't
like people who can't see, you're being racist towards them.
I didn't say I don't like people who can't see.
I just said I don't want to date someone who can't see.
Naomi.
Oh, wow.
Listen, if you wouldn't-
Fine.
You know what?
If you go blind, I'm dumping you.
In 2023, if you wouldn't date a trans woman, you're a transphobics.
Therefore, if you wouldn't date a blind person, you're blindphobic.
That's how it works.
Fine.
If you wouldn't date a Muslim, you're Islamophobic, too.
Okay.
Fine.
You're just like, gigachad, yes.
Fine.
I'll take it.
Okay.
Fine.
But anyway, Strange New Worlds, good show, as close to as close to old Star Trek as Ugan.
Yeah.
And enjoyable.
After Discovery.
Yeah.
So basically, in Discovery season two, the main cast goes off to the future.
The side cast stays behind.
And then season one of Strange New Worlds continues with the side cast story with Pike
and Spock.
Yes.
Because they are the side cast of Discovery season two.
Yes.
So basically, all the new Star Trek shows have never really hit the heights of good
TNG or good DS9.
They've never gotten there.
But-
Strange New Worlds is the closest.
It's the closest.
And Strange New Worlds is as good as, in my opinion, an average episode of TNG.
Yeah, which is really good.
Which is still pretty good.
You know, Discovery is now like a mediocre episode of Voyager, which is not as good.
It's watchable, but it's not as good.
And then the other shows are all like gimmicks, because the kid show, the cartoon show, you
know.
Then you have Picard.
And then you have Picard.
We finally got there, like 20 minutes or whatever later.
Okay.
Well, you know what?
The Star Trek universe is a large-
It's large.
Because-
Da da da da da da da da.
Okay.
Da da da da da da.
So, they set up in Discovery season three, a storyline where Empress Georgiou goes back
in time.
Do you recall?
Yes.
And she leaves the show.
And that's supposed to be the setup for a section 31 show because she's going to be
the star of it.
Yeah.
So far that hasn't happened yet. And the reason that it hasn't happened is because Paramount only,
they set aside a budget for five shows at once. They're only making five Star Trek shows at once.
And the Christopher Pike and Spock, like first of all, all their shows have fucking failed and
sucked. But fans loved Pike and Spock so much in Discovery Season Two, they were like, everyone
on the internet was like, give these guys their own show, make a show, make a show, make a show,
and they're like, oh my god, everything about our show suck. No one likes anything,
we have to do something. And then I'm sure someone at Paramount was like, okay, fucking
this is the only thing anyone likes, make this show. So they're like, okay, if we're making
Strange New Worlds, we've got to preempt a show. What are we doing? We can't preempt Discovery,
it's the flagship. We can't preempt Picard, because we just spent like a billion dollars
getting Patrick Stewart back. So I guess we'll just cancel the section 31 one.
So basically, what they did was until Picard is done, because they only have Patrick Stewart for
three seasons. They shelved section 31. That show's not happening till Picard is done. And then it
will take the Picard slot. So instead of what might be an okay show in section, we don't know,
we don't know. Georgiou is fucking baller. Yeah, she's pretty fun. She's a badass bitch and I love
her. But like the other characters from section 31 that they introduced back in the Discovery
era were not very interesting. Picard is like the albatross hanging around the entire Star Trek
franchise because Picard's season one and two. They're not just bad Star Trek. They're bad TV.
They are I think the worst TV I've ever seen. No, I can't think of anything worse. Like they're
I feel like there's probably shows we haven't watched that are worse. You've never seen Heroes,
right? Uh, I saw some of it like season one or two. Yeah, but that's what I'm saying. Like
afterwards. I don't know because I haven't seen it. But that's what the internet says. So I have
to believe them. Fair enough. The worst episode of, you know, pre Alex Kurtzman Trek was probably
Voyager's threshold where they go faster than warp 10 and then like turn into salamanders.
Yeah, that was a weird episode. That was like abysmally bad. Yeah, that was very bad. That was
a weird episode. And Picard is like, it's not just slightly it's not on par. It's worse than
it's not just slightly worse. It is significantly worse. Like Picard. Picard goes from like,
like you can't even laugh at how bad it is. No, we tried. It didn't work. Naomi,
you watched it and you legitimately got went into a depression. Yeah. Like I
wait. It was the last episode of season two or one. I don't remember. What happened in it?
I don't remember. Half of this is like just going out of my brain as I'm saying it.
Once season three of Picard is done and Patrick Stewart is safely in the fucking grave.
I'm going to like, I'm sure he'll die immediately after this. If anything, keep him alive is the
Star Trek books. But like, as soon as yeah, Naomi, as soon as the show is done, I'm going to do like
a big review like I did with Obi-Wan Kenobi for Picard because like of everything, because it's
so bad. It's so bad. But I did. I like legitimately just felt fucking depressed at how terrible this
show was. And I just like laid in bed for the rest of the day being like, nope, I'm done with
humanity. Yep. You were like, it actually like shut you down for a day because Jesus. Yeah. So
bad. Like Picard season one, they ruined Picard himself. Yeah. They ruined Data. They ruined the
Borg. They ruined the Romulans. They ruined. Yes, they did. They didn't ruin the Borg till season
two. Nope. They had the, they had the artifact that, that reclaimed Borg cube in the middle of
Romulan space they were working on. They ruined the Borg. They were in the Romulans. They ruined
seven of nine. They introduced a bunch of new characters only to ruin them. So Jurati was
terrible. Rios was terrible. He was more ruined in season two than season one, but he still was
interesting. No. Oh, actually I read online. So the shit, sorry, if her season three, the ship that
um, drug, drug girl, whatever, Rammy, Raffi, Raffi. I don't know why I keep calling her
Remy. I don't know either. Is there, do you know her like a Remy? Remy sounds like a familiar name.
I don't know a Remy, but there's definitely been a Remy in some sort of media I've been consuming
recently. Oh, it's house. It's house. That's right. Yep. Did you notice that Raffi was in
Rios's old ship? Yeah. Guess what? That's not supposed to be Rios's ship. What?
They're there. No, no, no. They're reusing the same set, but it's a different ship,
but you have to make it look different. It looks the same. It's not Rios's ship.
Moving on, moving on. How angry with that. I'm annoyed. Okay. They fucked like Elnor was a big
fucking waste. The Romulan, the Romulan Ninja. Okay. I want to point out that you're talking
about season one and like most of these characters got more ruined in season two. Season two was
worse than season one was. Yeah, I'm just going, okay, so here, here, fine, fine, fine. I'll
rewind it then. Fuck. All right. Here's everything that Star Trek Picard ruined in seasons one and
two. Okay. Picard and his relationships to the entire old cast by replacing with a new cast that
all suck. All the new characters that were added were introduced. They were terrible. And then they
were ruined over the course. Like they were made even worse. So Jurati was terrible. Raffi was
terrible. Fucking Rios was terrible. Elnor was terrible. They ruined Seven of Nine. They ruined
Seven of Nine's relationship with Janeway by basically like, like she just, she does so many
things that are like completely against her character arc in Voyager. It's like, remember
when she goes and like gets revenge for Icheb's fucking murder. Yeah. And like, he just has like
a gruesome murder for no fucking reason. Other than because the, the actor that played Icheb
back in the 90s spoke out against, there was some drama that he spoke out against and the,
and the, and the Star Trek company like turned on him for it because it was against another actor
and the, it was, it was, I don't know the full details. If I ever make a, if I ever make a big
video, I'll get the details. But like, I do recall it was fucking stupid. All right. And they just
pedally like had his character ripped apart for no fucking reason. They, they ruined the Borg. They
ruined the Borg Queen specifically by making fucking, that was really bad. Yeah. They made,
they made Jurati. So back in time, in the second season, in the second season, they're in 2024,
Jurati becomes the board queen. Yep. She then survives all the way through TNG and Voyager.
And it's like, hold on. So Jurati was in charge of, yeah. So the whole, why, what, why did you
get, if Jurati was on our side the whole time, why did she do all that shit? It was so bad. No,
no, no. They time traveled back. Remember? No, no, no, no. I think the Borg did. Yeah,
they did too. No, they didn't. You sure? No. What happened was Jurati took Rios' ship,
which by the way, Rios' ship is now gone. Oh yeah. But they took Rios', she took Gios' ship
and then she flew off to the Borg Collective to become its queen. Yeah. Make the Borg good.
And so. Make the Borg good. And basically over the next however many years it has been.
Yeah. She gets to the Collective, she takes over, she becomes the queen.
The issue is that in the actual timeline, the Borg attacked Earth several times,
the Borg attacked Voyager several times, the Borg assimilated 709's family, like the Borg
did all this terrible shit and Jurati was apparently at the head of it the whole time.
Why? None of it makes sense. None of it makes sense. I swear. They ruined Q. Oh God. Yeah,
that was. They fucking ruined Q. That was unfortunate. They brought back Wil Wheaton
for one like. That was stupid. When Wil Wheaton came back in season two,
he looked like Wil Wheaton, not like Wesley Crusher. I was just like, hey, that's Wil Wheaton.
And I was like, wait, who did he play again? Oh shit, that's right, it's Wesley. But he's not
actually Wesley, he's just fucking Wil Wheaton. He's just Wil Wheaton and I was just like,
he should have shaved. At least that, yeah. He should have like, not because the character
can't grow up, but because we haven't seen the character since he was a teenager.
So he should have shaved to make himself look younger. So and they they fuck. Oh yeah,
they ruined like the Khan shit. Project Khan. Remember that? Oh yeah. Yeah. I think with the
exception of the Dominion War, Picard season one and two touched on every single popular,
beloved component of Star Trek lore and then raped it. All of it. All of it. And now it's all
ruined. And also, there wasn't even any, it wasn't well acted, it wasn't well written.
The characters weren't interesting. No. And there's so many plot holes. Where did that
Romulan guy go? Which one? The villain at the end of season one. I don't even remember who
the villain was. He was just like, he was locked up and he was like, I'm here to save the world.
And then he just disappears from the show. He's never seen him again. Yep. Right? Okay,
there's apparently another dimension full of synthetic life forms that can be called through
a portal to destroy all biological life. Mass Effect style, by the way. Season one's dilemma,
which was taken was straight from Mass Effect. It's the fucking Reapers. I want to point out
that as we were watching it for the first time, Dev was just screaming, it's the fucking Reapers.
Like throughout the entire episode. It was obvious. I know, but you were just
yelling it at the TV throughout like the whole episode. Yep. And that's just,
oh, they closed the portal, then it's unresolved. Okay. In season two, the entire setup for season
two, the going back in time, Jiradi becomes the Borg queen. There's always like commentary about
Trump and capitalism and fucking and like homelessness in LA and environmentalism. Oh
my God. Everything in season two. And then they get back to the present. It turns out the whole
endeavor was to reveal that Jiradi was actually the queen of the Borg and the Borg were there to
help stop a random anomaly that was coming out of a portal. It was a big energy beam and they
force it back in the portal and they close it. And then it's several ships and then it's done.
Yeah. It was never explained and fucking Elnor dies. And then he's like, they hail their ship
and then there's like, Elnor's like, I just woke up here on the other ship, dude. It's like,
listen, you weren't even there before. You're a cadet. Like, listen, I'm going to have to do like
a huge video on just how bad seasons one and two were. You're actually going to have to
separate it into like at least three videos. They were the worst TV I've seen. Yeah. That
was pretty bad. On a technical level, on a writing level, on an acting level, on a lore level, like
everything was bad. Yeah. There was like, okay, here, you know what? They tug at the heartstrings
in two scenes, one when Data dies, two when Q dies, when Q dies, when Q says goodbye. That's
it. And you know what? The entire seasons were set up. Yeah. So you have to wade through just
tons of bullshit. And they're like, you'll forget about it because you felt something when you saw
a character that you remember from your childhood die. And it's like, I see what you're doing,
but I'm not. That's fucking stupid. All right. Yep. Yep. Yep. So the thing is,
what I'm getting at half hour in, I haven't gotten to the actual show we're talking about.
Yeah. Well, we got to the actual show, which is not this season. What I'm getting at is that
the cards season one and two were the worst TV I've ever seen in my life. Worst Trek,
worst TV. They're both super bad. Worse than any movie that I've seen.
Well, what about some of the bad movies? You know what? I'll sit down and watch
Schizophrenia. I can laugh at it. I can't laugh it. No, but no. Okay. I'm gonna,
I'll get a few laughs at a driller killer. Shout out to red letter media here with their best of
the worst series. I'm sure that a few movies on there, they made it look good because we,
they didn't, we didn't have to watch the full thing they did. I watched some of those movies
though. I watched some of those movies and I enjoyed watching better ones. I enjoyed watching
them more. Okay. I enjoyed watching them more than fucking Picard. Okay. Well, cause here's the
thing, like a bad movie is sometimes it's funny bad. Sometimes a really bad movie is just boring.
Okay. It's very rare that a show becomes like personally offensive. And that is what Picard is.
It's worse than funny bad. Cause you can have a good time. It's worse than boring cause you're
just bored. But now it's like, Oh, here's the thing that you love and we're going to ruin it
actively. That makes it like so much worse. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty bad. It's really bad.
So we get to, we get to season three of Picard and Naomi's like, I don't want to watch it.
I don't want to fuck you. We watched it. No, you watched it first. And then you were just
like, listen, it's not as bad as season two or season one or season two is worse though
than season one. That's my baseline. So it's not as bad as your low line. It's not a base,
whatever for now. It's the base. Cause I didn't realize that you can get lower than bedrock.
So that was like, listen, it's not as bad. And I think that you're not going to like,
hate yourself for watching this. And I was like, fine. And so we watched it together.
And here's the thing. All right. Season three, episode one of Picard.
It is about as bad as a bad episode of Voyager, which is now on par with discovery.
And the thing is, it's still really bad, but it's not like,
apocalyptically bad the way that Picard was. Yeah, no, I can't guys, my skew, my like,
is a media bad now is very skewed by Picard. So like anything that's better than Picard,
I'm just like, it's great. The fucking Rotten Tomatoes scores for Picard season
three are through the roof. And I'm like, listen, listen, it's not a 90. It's not a 100. This is
like a show that is like, maybe a 45. But that's far better than the zero. All right.
So it's season one or two, like watching watching Picard, season three, episode one
is kind of like watching Voyager threshold. And that it's really bad and really fucking stupid.
But it could be so much worse. And you know what? Can I say my piece now?
Yes, sure. Go ahead.
Is that Will fucking Riker is like keeping that show together.
He is, yeah.
Will Riker is keep Will Riker with Picard that we haven't seen in so many years is what's
what kept the episode going for me because I was just enjoying that.
Yeah.
That's all I was enjoying. I was just like, this is great. I miss Will Riker.
Having them back together again.
Yeah. Like he like...
We get some Riker in Lord X. He's kind of fun in that too.
Yeah. Will Riker is always fun everywhere he is. I like his character so much.
I like that he's like old man grumpy Riker now. He's like, oh, my knees hurt. Fuck.
I got to pee so much.
Yeah, but like he's still his character.
Yeah.
Unlike Patrick Stewart.
Yeah. So Will, like the guy who plays Will Riker. Fuck. What was his name?
I entirely forget. I'm so sorry to the actor, but you were just Will Riker to me now.
I'm not going to remember it.
No, you're not.
But you should edit it in.
Yeah, well, the the the character is still Will Riker.
Yeah. However, his old Will Riker.
Yeah. But the issue is, and this is something that we saw in Picard season one and two,
is that the character of Picard is no longer Captain Picard.
Now it's just Patrick Stewart.
Yeah. That's what it feels like, which is so it's so strange, too, because like.
I loved Patrick Stewart before Picard, but he was one of my favorite actors, like I, I, I,
unlike most people, because I watched them really young, I fucking love the X-Men movies,
the old X-Men movies. I watched them as a kid, guys. I watched it as a kid. I was biased,
but I thought I loved Patrick Stewart. And you know what? I also really liked
Patrick Stewart in American Dead. This character was of Commander Bullock. So fucking funny.
He was great. And now after watching Picard.
Also, you saw him in TNG. That was good.
Of course.
What's funny is like all through the 90s, everyone was saying if you're going to do
an X-Men movie, you have to get Patrick Stewart before they did it. Yeah.
Yeah. To play Xavier, because, like, he's the perfect character. And he was. It was great.
It was the perfect casting. And I'm just I'm so upset that I kind of hate him.
I don't I don't actually hate Patrick Stewart. I'm just I'm just.
Well, it's clear that, like, upset about this character is because of meddling by
Patrick Stewart. Well, he's an executive producer now.
And I think I think the reason they can even do the show is because they brought him in and he's
like, I want to do everything my way. And they're like, OK, OK, Mr. Star. Yep. Yep.
Also, I'm fucking 90.
Yeah. Like you like you can tell that Patrick Stewart is like
feeling his age now with the way he like moves on set and stuff.
Yeah. Will Riker. He's he's pretty old, too. But he's like, I'm still good. Let's go.
But OK, so I'm going to give you the quick overview of the plot of season three, episode one.
OK, so it starts out Beverly Crusher. She's been away from she's cut off everyone for 20 years.
She's talked to anyone. She's been off on her own ship doing something.
We don't know what you don't know what yet, but she's being attacked. There's some weird
aliens and masks. They come in with their guns, weird aliens that we can't understand
through the universe translator. I don't know if it was a writing plot hole or if is significant.
You know what it is? It's the fact that they're making an action show.
That's it. They're making like a dumb action hour show. Yeah.
So they come in, there's a firefight. And of course, you know, Beverly gets hit.
She goes, I'm bleeding. She like shoots them. She incinerates one.
It's a very normal, like sci fi action sequence. There's nothing really special about it.
And then afterwards, she sends like a really overly dramatic coded message to Picard
on a 20 year old translator or on his bed, on his old badge, which is clearly just like fan service.
But it makes sense in that she doesn't want to be picked up by Starfleet. She's like,
don't tell Starfleet I'm doing something secret out here.
I can tell you either. Fuck you. Yeah. And so the message gets to Picard and Picard is back
at the Chateau Picard. And he's like, you know what? Despite my entire character, even my entire,
my entire characterization in seasons when I'm to a Picard, I'm going to sell everything
and get rid of all my shit, including all those artifacts I've collected
before he gets the message, by the way. Yeah. Before he gets even he's even like,
man, this this flute that I got from the inner light, I just want to get rid of this thing.
And his new girlfriend is like this Romulan housekeeper of his who was in season two.
No, she's she wasn't a spy, but she was she was a spy for the Romans.
Yeah, but wasn't she a shell? Shall we are tall?
Tal Shiar. Fuck. You're a racist. I'm not racist. I forgot all the words to everything in the
English language. She was an old Tal Shiar. But then after the Romans collapsed, she like ended
up being a refugee and then she was she was just living at Picard's place. Yeah. OK, so.
Yeah, yeah. Basically, at the end of season two, they've got a relationship. Yeah. And so
also that Picard and Laris was her name there in this relationship and she's moving off to be some
kind of diplomat on another planet. And Picard's like, I'll go with you. Is she? I didn't even.
I know that's why they're moving. Oh, and Picard is like, you know what? Fuck it. I'll go with you.
I want to abandon everything on my old life and get rid of all my old stuff. Give my old painting
of the Enterprise to Geordi. I don't give a shit. I'm done with this stuff. I want to go have a new
adventure with you, my new life partner for the few years I have left. Yeah. He didn't say that.
Even though he's a robot, by the way, he's a robot. Oh, fuck. That's right. They should have
just killed him at the end of season one and then put him put like put him into like a new body or
something. You know, he's a robot. You forgot about that. I. Maybe forgot that they never
mentioned it again. They never mentioned it again. But all throughout season two and season
three, Picard's a robot now. OK, so they're going off. To have this this this new adventure,
and then he gets the message and he's like, oh, and then she looks at it and she's like,
OK, this looks legit. You got to go. And he goes off. He decides to go to ten forward,
which, by the way, now after the season's two events, that was retcon to Guinan is she aged
because she wanted to. Yeah, that was weird. That was such a weird explanation of that.
Just wanted to explain what the Goldberg being like fat in her old age. It's always aged.
Exactly. But here's the here's the issue, though. The issue. Yeah, that's right. They said that she
was ageless. Yeah. Not that she was ageless, but that we saw her back in the eighteen hundreds and
she looked the exact same as she did in the yeah, on the enterprise. Yeah, but that was also weird,
too, because fucking they show like Guinan in twenty twenty four as being really bitter. And
it's like that wasn't Guinan. And also, if they went back in time in TNG for Time's Arrow and
had this this big adventure, why didn't Guinan mention the second adventure that they had
together? It's so every all it's all focus on season one, season three focus. They all go to
ten forward, which is now a bar in L.A. Nope. You said it was L.A.? It was San Francisco. Okay.
It's now a bar in San Francisco. It was just named after deck ten forward. No, fuck. Yeah.
But now it's like apparently it's like a street address, whatever. Okay. They go to the new ten
four, which is actually the old pre enterprise ten forward that existed back in twenty fucking
twenty four in San Francisco. And Picard meets Will Riker there. Yeah. And they look over
and there's always like to try and smooth over how shit the show is. They always throw it through
a few like little references. So they're like, oh, hey, Picard, you wouldn't remember this because
you were you were still recovering from being being fucked up as the cutest. There was there
was a storyline where like there was a computer virus on this. I'm pretty sure this actually
happened. There's a computer virus in the enterprise and it added three to every single
digit in the computer. Yeah. Because Picard couldn't figure out how to get the coordinates
that Beverly had encoded into this transmission on his very old communicator because he didn't know
because of age old history lore reference. Yeah. So Beverly says the name of the virus and Will's
like, I know what that is. You don't, but I do. Yeah. And then adds three to every coordinate.
It turns out it leads to a system outside of Federation space and like, we got to go.
You got to go see what's going on out there. Yeah. So here comes the more stupidity. So this is
the stupid part. So their plan is stupid part. Their plan is to go back to Will Riker's old ship
that he hasn't been captain of in five years now of the Titan, the Titan. He goes back to the
Titan. They pretend to be doing an inspection. For frontier day. This was also a lore reference.
No. Pretty sure. Oh, you know what it was? It was 250 years after the start of enterprise where
Jonathan Archer launched the NX-01. That's what it was. They didn't say it in the show,
but that's what it is. I looked it up. So they're celebrating frontier day. There's going to be a
parade. They're going to go inspect the ship. A space parade. Yep. They get there. Seven of nine
is the second officer, first officer. Yeah. Which was very surprising. Like how did she,
she just joined Starfleet? Well, apparently it's been a while since season two. It's been several,
it's been several years. Yeah. Still only several years. They didn't say that, but yeah. Cause I
think, see, I think seven of nine was like, I mean, this is, this is part of the lore rate
by the way, because in season one, seven of nine was part of the Fenris Rangers, which is some
organization they never fucking explain. It's she was literally just like a lone ranger. Yeah.
And then in season two, she had joined Starfleet and she was like a Lieutenant or something. And
now she's a commander. Oh, did she, was she in Starfleet in season two? Okay. I actually just
forgot, but also this like makes slightly more sense then. Okay. In one year between season
one and season two. All right. They have fucking. All right. Eleanor goes from Ninja to, what was
that? Oh, it was you, Jesus Christ. Eleanor goes, goes from, Eleanor goes from Ninja to graduating
a four year Academy in one, one and a half years or something ridiculous. He's amazing.
You know, he's Legolas. You know, Kirk made a bet he could do it in three. Yeah. Yeah. And
like that was considered a feat. Yep. And then Eleanor does it in 1.5. Yeah. Okay. Sure. All
right. Rios who hates Starfleet is now a captain in Starfleet. Rejoins Starfleet. Rafi who was a
drug addict who was out on the out rejoined Starfleet. She was already part of Starfleet.
And then she just, well, so Rios was too. No, no, I know. But like Rafi, like Rios
stopped because he hated it. Cause he was already a captain, right? I forget. I thought I kind of
forget Rios, the story. I don't care for one. I remember he commanded a star ship. They got in
a battle. He lost people. And he was like, fuck this. I'm out. And then Rafi was just having
personal issues and she turned to drugs. Yeah. Seven of nine joins up. I mean,
maybe like all the stuff she did under Janeway got her some extra credit or something,
but I don't fucking know. She's she's now a Lieutenant. Well, she was also like,
she's still smart. Like you don't see it in the show at all in Picard, but like Janeway
seven and nine is like really, really smart because of all the Borg stuff. Right. So,
um, and, and Jurati, despite being convicted for murder in season one, they hand that away
in season two. They hand, they hand, they hand wave it away in season two by saying,
Oh, I'm out in parole. Cause they need me for this job. I'm helping out. Yep. So stupid. So,
but anyway, like, so all that shit changes in one year between season one and season two.
Now between season two and season three is apparently several years, but I don't know
how long it is exactly. But basically, seven of nine has been promoted. She's now a commander.
She's first mate of the Titan of the Titan. Um, the show really wants to play up the captain of
the Titan as an asshole. But he's actually correct. They, they really, like, I felt it.
Like I was like, Oh, I hate this guy because I, cause like my brain was going TNG rules, TNG.
Like I just kept going. So basically really want you to hate the captain, like really,
Picard and Riker show up and they're like, we got to like sweet talk our way into like getting out
to this, this, what is it called? The Rylak system or something? My brain is like, it was the Rio
system. I think it was Rylas, Rylos. It doesn't matter. It's, it's a, it's a far away system
inside of space. Starts with an R. We got to, we got to get, we got to sweet talk this guy into
doing it. And the guy's like, you think I'm a fucking idiot? No. Like I, I read, I know who
you guys are. You guys play loosey goosey with the rules. You're going to fucking try to get my ship.
You're going to get me fucked up. You're going to get my crew fucked up. All right.
Well, you're going to, the ship's going to get blown up or the fucking like, like, no,
I'm going to follow the rules. Fuck you. Yeah. Like, but like, and he's correct.
Yeah. He's actually correct. But said in a much more assholist way,
like all the passive aggressiveness. Ashholist. Ash, Ashholist.
Yeah.
Go on.
But like said in like the most passive aggressive way, without actually being blunt,
like Dev just wasn't saying all that, you know? He was definitely being a dick towards them.
Cause he was like, he knew something was up though. He's not an idiot.
No. And, and, but also seven of nine hated his guts. That was the one thing I was just like, man.
And also I think that if you guys, if you guys end up watching, I hope you guys don't watch
season season, season three, episode one. But if you do, I actually think that the main reason
that she hates region, I can't fucking talk. Let it go. Let it go. Yes. I think the main reason
that she hates like the captain so much is that she shouldn't actually be a first officer.
She should just be the, uh, no, like the, like head science officer. Yeah. Because that's what
she was doing on a Voyager. She was an officer, but yeah. Yeah. But like, she was pretty much the
head science officer, but come on. And, but like, she was great and really good at that. But now
she's first officer and just hates her fucking job because she has to work immediately under
a cabinet. She doesn't really like, um, just like, okay, so go do science stuff. Cause that's what
made you happy. Yeah. You know, I don't know. Like it feels like it's just the whole thing of
her character being very different, but there being no lead up to her being very different.
So if you think about Voyager, it's like, well, that doesn't exist anymore.
So here's the thing to actually get along with it, with the story though. Uh, so the sweet talking
doesn't work. She doesn't work seven times. Like fuck it. And then they go there anyway.
And then the captain is like, you know what? You just fucked yourself out of your career.
And someone's like, yeah, I did. Um, Picard and Riker steal a shuttle. They fly out. They find
Beverly ship. They dock, um, Beverly's like, by the way, I have another son. No. Okay. Beverly
was unconscious in the ship and she was in a medical thing and this guy just randomly attacks
Will and Picard. And it turns out that it's Beverly's son who knows who the dad is. I have
a feeling it's probably Picard though. They didn't bang though. You sure? I'm pretty sure
it's going to be retcon that they did right before she left. Okay. But basically this kid is old
enough that he could be like 20 or 21, which means that they might've had it. It also could be the
case that she had the kid after they split up. I am 100% telling you right now that it's going to
be Picard's kid who, and part of the reason that she left is because they had like a, like a,
we're going to get back together, bang. And then they didn't and she left, but was pregnant. So
they're just doing the exact story that they did with Kirk. Yes. Where Kirk had like a random son
from like a scientist woman. 100% that's going to be. Do you think he's going to get killed like
Kirk's son did? Maybe. Is this the same story? Maybe. Okay. Here's the thing though. What's
really weird about it is that this kid has to be at least 20 years younger than Wesley.
Yeah. Yeah. Like that's a, that's a weird feeling. It's like, wow. Imagine like having a sibling
that is like 20 or 25 years older than you. Like, holy fuck. For a while I actually thought like,
is this just going to be Wesley with like, like de-aged? Do you go with like a de-aging machine
or did he like, did he get like, like plastic surgery done? He's like, no, it's probably a
new kid. It's probably a new kid. 100%. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I don't think Wesley would have
attacked Will like that. Though it would be good to see Wesley get bitch slapped.
Cause Will just fucking smacks him. You mean Will Wheaton get bitch slapped? Yes.
I like how whenever like Will Wheaton has a bad take on Twitter, people just spin him with,
shut up Wesley. It's really fucking funny. Yeah. That's pretty funny. Funny. Yeah.
Funnily. Funnily. Funnily funny. That's my name. Don't wear it out. But that's the end of the show
because not Will Wheaton. Not Wesley Crusher is like, Hey, by the way, guys look out the window
and they look out and it's like this giant fucking ship that's meant to be really intimidating. But
I'm like, listen, we've seen this with the scimitar and it was at nemesis or insurrection. We've seen
this with the, with the Romulan mining ship and the reboot. There's, there's been a lot of
Star Trek villain ships where they come out of the nub and it's like,
dah, dah, dah. And it's like a central pod with like a bunch of like spiky bits pointing forward
off the sides to make it look like it's yeah. Yeah. And it's like, okay, I get it. You're
trying to be intimidating, but we've seen this in Star Trek so many times now this exact fucking
ship. It's like, okay. Yep. Didn't matter. Yeah. So like clearly this episode that's the end of the
episode. Um, clearly the episode is meant to be, it's like a set up episode. We're not going to
get any of these questions answered right away. Um, and it feels like they were the, uh, for,
for this episode and the season, they're like, listen, we know we fucked up, dude,
can you please just give us another chance? And the reason it feels like that is because
one there's so many old lore call. Oh, wait, we forgot all about, uh, Raffi. Oh, that's right.
Raffi has a completely, completely unconnected story. Yep. So Raffi is like an undercover
officer somewhere, somewhere on some, on some like party planet. Cause every planet is just
like the party planet or the ice planet or the city planet or whatever the bad city planet,
the fire planet, where the bad Orion's hang out the desert planet. Yep. Yeah. So she's like
undercover. She gets information about an incoming terrorist attack. Yep. And she's like, what the
fuck does it mean, dude? And she's talking to like either an AI or a person with like a coded voice
or something. No, no. She's, she's talking to a secret handler. That's what they said. Yeah.
Cause she's part of Starfleet intelligence and Starfleet intelligence is like, doesn't want to
reveal who they are to her. The handler doesn't because it's like, it's undercover. Right. Yeah.
And Raffi is like, listen, dude, there's something, something big is going to happen. They, they,
they stole this experimental portal technology. It's literally portals from the game portal.
You open up two fucking portals. You can walk through it. It's like, that's what it is. All
right. But it's really big. And she like flies into it's not earth. It's like a different planet.
Yeah. And she flies, there's like a Federation like city on a different planet. And she flies
down and she's like, guys, there's like a Starfleet base there. And she's like, listen,
guys, you're going to get fucked. There's a terrorist attack incoming. I need to talk to
someone like several times the words I need to talk to someone right now, like no Starfleet
codes or anything. Just I'm screaming into the PA. I need to talk to someone. Because Raffi is
fucking incompetent. Yeah. Always has been. Yeah. And then, and then she watches like a portal open
up underneath the building and the entire building falls into the portal. Yeah. The portal opens
right above the building to the right. Yeah. It's like, it's like one city block over. Yeah. So it
doesn't even like, it's not even in another part of like the city, like somewhere like, especially
like, Oh God, there's, there's an orphanage here. No, it's just like, Oh, and here's the
building. And I was like, Oh, okay. And the building just like falls onto the street. Yeah.
And like, it's, it's clearly like a big fucking disaster. There's probably a lot of people who
died. There was a lot of screaming. Yeah. Yeah. But then, which is kind of funny because she's
like, how did Raffi hear that? She's in her ship. She's above the city. She's like watching this.
And you're also, even the camera's really far away from it. Like, but basically it was also,
what would be screaming? They're all like dead. Well, the people around the people who didn't get
squished. To be fair, I actually watched because I watched this episode twice, once on my own,
once with you. And I watched like the second time through, I watched all the little cars
driving around the city and like they did a decent job with detail because like cars that
were approaching the disaster stopped and like cars that were on the way away, like sped up.
I was like, they actually made it look like it was nice. Yeah. That was like their big
effect shot for the episode. Yeah. I do always appreciate when, uh, the, a show will go like
in depth and far away shots. Even, even if you don't notice them on a first watch, you notice
them, you'll notice them on like a second or third and be like, Oh, that's neat. Like I,
it does definitely boost points in the, how much do I like the show skill? Yeah. So this
Starfleet outpost or whatever is destroyed and Rafi's like, Oh my God. Didn't she just start
crying? Kind of. I don't remember. Kind of. Her reaction was very kind of blase. Well,
she's not a very good actress to be honest. She's, she's talked about everything the entire show.
No, listen, I actually think that the actress is pretty good. Oh yeah. It's just the character
was really bad. Oh, okay. No, no. I legit like she, cause she's done good because like she isn't
like, she isn't like a Kristen Stewart where like she just hasn't had any like facial changes or
anything. Apparently she's actually a good actress too. It's just the Twilight sucked.
No, because I saw her in, um, snow white. There, there was a snow white movie with
Kristen Stewart as snow white. Yeah. Like it was, it was like a snow white, like not a parody,
not cause of comedy, but like a shitty one. Sure. I don't even remember, but she was in that. I'm
like, she's just doing the same thing with her face. Okay. Apparently though she has a new movie,
I think about some, it has something to do with British royalty and she looks pretty good in that.
I saw different emotions on her face and I was like, Oh shit. For the first time she experienced
emotion. I'm sure she experienced most in other times, but like in, in the very few things I've
seen her in, I haven't really seen her face change very much. Right. But anyway, like it's not the
actress is not like doing that and she's not only just doing one thing, but she has different,
like she has very hammy. Well, yeah, but like the characters hammy, you know, like this character
is like a, like a semi crazed like drug addict who is not a drug addict at the moment, but at least
was, you know, and it has like, it's fucked up her family life. It's fucked up her work life,
like, and just like is very, very emotional person, emotional reacting person first.
But I actually thought that her reaction to the, like the disaster, the disaster was very,
just like, and tears because like she was just getting really frustrated with not being able
to figure out like what was happening. The issue with, with Rafi's story is that it's completely
disconnected and separate from the rest of the story. The moment it is, there's no crossover
scenes. There's definitely going to be, of course there's, but like the main cast doesn't even
mention Rafi. No one knows what she's doing. No one cares. Oh, you know what? I bet it is.
I bet that the aliens who were attacking Beverly's ship are also the ones who have that
portal technology. Yeah. That's going to be what the connection is. Yeah, probably. But anyway,
the episode itself, not very good, but at least not offensively bad. No. Yeah. It's not as bad
as Picard seasons one and two. And that's like high praise for this. That's why it's getting
such high marks on Rotten Tomatoes. Well, also because everyone's like,
Oh my God, everyone's back. Beverly crushers. Well, here's the thing. So they expelled all
the cast of season one and two. Except for Rafi, Seven of Nine and Rafi. And Rafi's in a new
character. What's her name? The housekeeper. Oh, Laris. Yeah, Laris and Laris. Those are the only
three we see. And I have a feeling that Laris is also going to be out for the season. She's not
going to show back up. No, of course she will. No. Me at the very end. Listen, she wasn't in
season two at all. She was a different character. Yeah, but they still had the actress. Yeah, I
know. But still it wasn't Laris. And in season one, she was there for half a season. Yeah,
but that's because she had to protect Picard. Yeah. For a little bit. And she wasn't there
that much. Just when he went back to the Chateau. She wasn't there that much. You're, I think. No,
no, no. Because Picard spent like before he was in the Chateau for like four out of 10 episodes
of season one. Yeah, well, that's because the robot girl, spoilers, you know, had to rest and
heal and not be attacked. No, I know. There was reasons for it. But no, Laris was around for a
good chunk of season one and she came back at the end of season one too. But no, here, let me, let
me, let me put it this way. Let me put it this way, okay? All the characters were so annoying
from season one and two. All the new characters. And they had, they basically had concluded all
of their stories, even though the conclusions were terrible and the stories were terrible.
They were done. So they just kicked all them out and they're like, fuck it. As I mentioned before,
they really wanted this to be like the worst story show. So they brought back all the regulars from
TNG as main story season. Yeah, it was still, it's still the worst story show of the season. But
anyway, they brought back all the regulars of TNG. So Worf's gonna be in it. And that, that,
that's already been announced. Yes. He's not in it yet. But we've seen Will and Beverly
Crusher, but Geordi's coming back. Worf's coming back. Deanna? Deanna Troi's coming back. Data's
dead, but apparently his actor is playing Lor. So Lor's coming back. Okay, one thing I want to
say about the Star Trek universe is that I love the fact that like Data and Lor and all of what's,
what's the scientist's name? The Soong family. Yeah, the Soong family is all just fucking played
by Brent Spiner. That's my favorite trope of Star Trek and it's great. Like even in season two,
Brent Spiner is like, like Asian ancestors, still Brent Spiner. Yeah. It's great. I love it. Yep.
But it's so stupid. But Lor's coming back because you got to have Brent Spiner in the show.
Apparently Tasha Yar's coming back. Okay, you told me she was dead. She is dead.
How? Maybe Picard hallucinates or something on his deathbed again. It's like 15th deathbed.
Who knows? Not Tasha Yar. Tasha Yar is dead. I meant the actress. The actress is dead,
according to Dev. No, you told me. No, I didn't. Yes, you did. You told me the actress was dead.
100%. I said the character was dead. No, you told me the actress was also dead.
Because she was the one that turned to like drug use and such, right? No, no, no, no, no, no.
That was Kesa's actress from Voyager. She's not dead though. She's like a drug-addled freak
living in like Ohio or like fucking Wyoming or something. They're both white and blonde,
mixed it up. Oh, white blonde and short hair? Yeah. No, man. Dude, Kesa's actress. Oh,
fuck. Like you've seen those pictures, right? Okay, no. She's like, she's like running around
like a fucking crack shack, exposing herself, like exposing her naked body of children
on the street. She's like driving while like fucking heroin'd up. Like she, she's fucked.
Yeah. She, she was like, yeah, you know, I, I had a few problems like back in 2012. She was like,
I had a few problems. I got my life turned around. I'm gonna go back to school for like
culinary arts. Nope. She just, she's, she's just, she's just fucking meth. That's all she is now.
She's just meth. She's a person of meth. Okay. No, I thought Tasha Yara's actress was dead.
Nope. Okay. Denise Crosby's still alive. That makes more sense then. Yeah.
There's going to be either time travel, shenanigans or hallucinations then.
Yeah. And I have a feeling it might be hallucinations this time because they already
did the time travel. Yeah. So it's probably hallucinations. Or maybe they'll like bring
back the actress, actress, but have her play that half Romulan child that she had.
Oh, maybe. That might be it. Is there anyone else they're getting from TNG to come back?
I think some side characters. Oh, we're on the Wikipedia right now. Jack Crusher is coming back.
Who's Jack? Oh, that's the kid. That's the spoiler.
Oh, I thought it was, well, wasn't, wasn't her husband named Jack Crusher?
Pretty sure he was not. Is this Jack Crusher Jr.?
Oh yeah. They're adding a couple of the Forge kids.
Which is great.
Yep. Oh, and they're bringing back Professor Moriarty. The holodeck guy.
Oh my God.
They got him back for some reason.
It's going to be bad, but I'm excited, but it's going to be bad.
It is going to be bad. Like he's supposed to be, I guess, a villain in this. Why? Okay.
No, he might just be there to like help them out because he was just stuck in the holodeck,
remember? Like, but they saved his program because he was alive.
Yeah. Yeah.
Because, yeah.
Instead of letting him be like the doctor on Voyager, they just, yeah.
Well, they didn't have, they didn't have, what are they called? Portable, portable emitters.
Oh yeah, that's right. Yeah.
Mobile emitter is what they called it.
Yep.
They didn't have that.
There's not much to say about season three, episode one, because it's...
It's just the setup.
It's just the setup.
But like...
This is why we probably should have waited to do this video.
No. Well, here's the... I didn't have anything else ready for today. So this is my filler.
See, I want to point out that I said that Dev is lazy with his work at the beginning of this.
Get out of here. Get out of here. Get out of here. Get out of here.
I am excited to see Geordi, though.
Yeah.
I'll say that.
Apparently the visor's gone. He has eyes now.
Yeah, but there was always an option for him, Dev.
It was, but remember he said, I don't want them. I like the visor.
He said that he made it a part of his identity that he didn't want to get real eyes.
Then he got real eyes.
Okay. I do want to point out that that one is slightly more okay. Only, only...
No. They're erasing blind representation. It's bigoted.
Fine. Only because he mentioned that the visor gives him headaches every single day.
Yeah.
Yeah. If I'm an old person, I'm already in pain. I don't want the additional pain of headaches.
If I can get rid of it. So...
Yeah, I guess.
And also it's like way in the future. It's probably just visor eyes.
That's what they are, yeah.
Yeah, exactly. That's what I'm saying.
Why wouldn't you give everyone visor eyes, though?
Because not everyone's comfortable with taking their eyes out.
Yeah, I guess, but they're better.
This is not cyberpunk. This doesn't happen that often.
Yeah. I think there's an idea that, in Trek at least, there's this idea that the reason
humans don't augment their body all the time, even though they could, is because they're...
It's partially illegal.
No, no, it's not. Because they gave Nog a fake leg after the Dominion War.
Yeah, because he lost his actual leg.
But here's the thing. They basically say, we don't feel this need anymore to constantly
improve ourselves. We're comfortable the way that we are. And they play it off as some sort
of maturity, where humanity has grown up. They're not vain anymore. They're not greedy anymore.
So they don't feel the need to replace their body with robot parts all the time.
They're comfortable in their own skin, and they only do it if they have to.
So it's almost like a moral component of their society, that they're not doing the cyberpunk
thing.
Yeah, I think... I have a feeling that their morality is probably based around plastic
surgery. You know?
Well, yeah, because we're, at the moment, in real life, society is not at the level
of being able to comfortably replace body parts with much more functional...
We'll get there eventually, I think.
No, no, we definitely will, because we're getting pretty close. But the thing is, there's
also phantom pain and stuff, and you'd have to get past that part first. There's extra
stuff. We're getting close. We're not there yet, though. So since we're not there yet,
the only closest thing that you could associate actual morality to when it comes to cyberpunk
like stuff, like the whole replacing your body with robot parts, is plastic surgery
for vaneness. Because generally, people who are not getting plastic surgery for a specific
medical reason, just to look better, are technically being vain. I am not against plastic
surgery, by the way. I'm not.
You like giant Brazilian butts right in your face?
Sure, why not? I'm attracted to Kim Kardashian, I'll say it.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah.
I'm done with you.
Yeah, but like, I'm not against plastic surgery for people who want to do that. But I think
that if we're just like, especially in the 50s or 60s or whatever, like for the old show,
no one's augmenting anything. You could only really relate that back to probably plastic surgery.
Maybe, yeah.
Yeah. Of course, I don't know how good plastic surgery was in the 50s to make this comparison.
So maybe I'm just totally fucking wrong. I don't fucking know. But I'm just saying,
it probably stems from that. And then, you know, cyberpunk is slightly more newish thing.
Well, in terms of-
More mainstream newish thing.
In terms of Picard, though.
Yeah.
It's not a good show.
No.
I wouldn't recommend anyone watch it.
Nobody should watch it.
There's nothing really like good about it, frankly. I didn't enjoy watching it. I didn't,
I don't think that like, there's lower callbacks, but it's cheap. It feels cheap. Everything does
not, nothing in the show is good. The only plus that I can give this show is that it's not Picard
seasons one and two. That's it. It's still a bad show. Everything's still negative. I still
wouldn't watch it if I was on my own.
No. I would not have missed anything in my life if I'd never watched this.
I have heard some people say that they did the reset button on season three so cleanly
that if you just went from like Nemesis and Insurrection to Picard season three,
You wouldn't have missed anything.
You wouldn't miss anything because nothing that happens in seasons one and two really matter that
Which is a really bad episode. Like that's a such a bad show. Take like, Oh yeah,
you're going to skip the first two seasons of the show and it won't have been anything. It's fine.
I'm just like, wow, that's just sad.
Cause none of the lore stuck. None of the characters stuck around except for Raffi.
Her character can just be explained away by, Oh, she's an intelligence. Obviously has it like,
obviously was a drug addict.
Yeah. Cause she drops the drugs in the scene.
There's there's, you know what I'll say for that moment of,
since I'm watching house currently, I'm binge watching, watching Dr. House.
They did the, her like looking at the drugs and like dropping them. And like, I think she was,
was she still holding drugs in the ship? No.
No. Okay. So she dropped the drugs that she definitely kind of wanted to take.
And they did that moment very well. I enjoy that. I was like, is she going to do it?
Cause I wasn't sure. Cause like with lots of Picard,
as soon as a character encounters a crossroads like that,
I can almost instantly be like, they're going to do that. And then they do.
And I'm always right. Which is like, I'm not smart. So this is like,
that's a really bad sign of a show that I can just immediately tell what a character is going to do
when they come to a crossroads and they don't surprise me.
You know, but they did that moment very well. Like she definitely, she dropped it,
but it was a very uncertain moment. So I th I think they might do that storyline a bit
better than what they currently were doing. Cause in season two, it wasn't an issue at all.
I think she was over it. Yeah. Yeah. But now she's not.
Whatever. Yeah. So that's bad. But if you forget about season two, that is fine.
You can forget about season one. You can forget about the entire show.
Yeah. Well, no, actually, cause. If you forget that all of Picard
existed, your life will probably be better. Your life will be better. Yeah, definitely.
Yeah. So I guess that's, that's what happened in season, in season three, episode one. It's,
it's still not good. I'm still not enjoying watching the show, but it's not, it's not.
I'm now enjoying it. Yeah, no, I, I legitimately have been so scarred by season one and two of
Picard that like my bad, like levels of is media bad or actually ruined. Anything that is not as
bad as season two, Picard and was like, it's good. I can watch this. It's great. Like, like,
like with Velma. Yeah. I can watch this. It's fine. I have been ruined and it's your fault.
Oh, it's my fault. Yes. You made me watch it. I would not have watched it otherwise.
I'd have watched a couple, a few episodes of Picard season one and been like, fuck this show.
I hate everything. I don't want to watch star Trek stuff for a while now.
No, because of you, I've been ruined and you've been kind of ruined too.
And it's all your fault. It's all your fault for making me watch it.
That's okay. We're going to get a good video out of it one day.
No, you'll get a good video. I will just be ruined with nothing to show for it.
I'll put you into the video.
Don't watch Picard. Don't do it. It's bad.
