When that comic that was the starting point of the last video went viral, there was actually a pretty common progressive defense for its attitude.
Just in case you missed that video very quickly then, the centrist says both sides have good points, the leftist gets angry and attacks the centrist who falls into the right's camp, the rightist helps him up, and the leftist asks him why he's siding with the bad guys.
The progressive defense of this, and has been for some time as far as I can tell, is that the left and right are fundamentally different, that the left-right scale is actually a good-evil scale, where the more left you are, it's not only that you're more factually correct, but also more moral and virtuous.
This is wrong for obvious reasons, and if progressives actually believed this, then there would be no reason not to engage in total war with not only the right, but with those leftists who aren't left enough, again, the purity spiral from the last video.
Their position is distilled nicely by a boy motor supreme here. The left, we should improve society somewhat. The right, we should expel all minorities and accelerate the rate at which we destroy the planet.
Both sides make a good argument. The problem with this critique is that it's assuming the absolute worst rightist position is the default rightist position. Let's give the devil his due, that worst position does exist, but it's not the whole of the right.
And on the other side, well, I would say it assumes the absolute best leftist position, but we should improve society somewhat is rather anemic, isn't it?
I don't think this passage is the most positive possible interpretation of leftism. I actually think there's better ones, but I guess this person doesn't think highly of their own movement.
Now see, I could flip it around. I could say something like, the right, we should give people the freedom to own property and live private lives, and the left, we should steal everybody's shit, riot and burn cities down, enforce a communist revolution on the people.
It's easy to point at the worst of your opponent while presenting the best you have to offer and then declare yourself morally superior, but that's not the whole story.
However, downstream from this left is defined as good and right as evil attitude is the planist position. You know how the left was presented as we should improve society somewhat? That belies the planist mindset.
Planism initially referred to planned markets, meaning rather than supply and demand determining the flow of goods, and rather than the individual private owners of businesses providing these goods, the government plans the economy.
The government determines what is produced and how much, the government sets the prices, and the government sells the goods, all without a feedback mechanism from the people who buy the goods.
In my housing video I go over how, in a liberal society, the market feedback mechanism of items sold per price and location allows the sellers of at least some products to adjust production and allocation based on those sales figures.
A planned economy lacks these feedback mechanisms, which is why both the Soviet states and the fascist states had more inefficient economies.
But in a more general sense, the concept of planism implies a belief that if you just have enough top down, or even middle management or oversight, you can solve any problem.
This isn't without its merits, obviously some projects require large scale coordination or a big picture vision, but there's also the possibility of having too many cooks, too many middle managers who don't contribute anything worthwhile, too many far flung bureaucrats who know nothing about the situation on the ground, deciding things they have no knowledge or experience about.
If you unpack the phrase, we should improve society somewhat, you have to ask, what is improvement? And who is the we?
Most leftists would likely say something like, the people, collectively, should work to make society better.
Where better generally means whatever pet projects the speaker personally believes in, whether or not most people agree with them.
Just to be clear, I'm not arguing against the concept of improvement itself, I'm not a postmodernist.
But a lot of leftism seems to boil down to big ideas that somebody else will do the hard work of implementing.
And downstream from, I guess we'll call it, a neo-planist mindset, is the idea that everything matters, and so every wasted second, every lost opportunity, is a permanent setback on the road to utopia.
The thing is, that's actually correct.
Consider it like this, let's say I tell you, you have to run a marathon in six months, and let's say you're a fat slob right now who has to lose a whole bunch of weight.
Well, you've got 180 days to prepare, that's 4320 hours.
Let's say you spend one third of that sleeping eight hours a day, that's 1440 hours gone.
You work eight hours a day for five days a week, that's 10,040 hours gone.
That leaves you with 1840 hours left to train.
The average person who jogs for an hour burns about 550 calories, and one pound of pure body fat is 3500 calories.
Working all the math out on that, if you jogged for each one of those 1840 free hours, you'll lose about 290 pounds of body fat across the six months, just from jogging.
There's obviously a billion problems with this math, I'm not including dieting, I'm not including metabolic changes that happen during weight loss, or muscle loss as a result of extreme working out, or physical fatigue, or demoralization.
But the point I'm making is, if your time is finite, and it is, and you have a goal with a time limit, and you do,
with enough data you can actually calculate out the theoretical maximum amount of progress you can make on the goal before time is up.
In this way, the neo-planist position is correct.
Read the memoir of any CEO, or any athlete, or any president, or any successful person.
They all think like this. It's what the sigma grind set meme makes fun of.
When Jordan Peterson says,
You want to have a meaningful life? Everything you do matters.
That's the definition of a meaningful life.
But everything you do matters. You're going to have to carry that with you.
The natural end result of that position, even as the position is great for getting you to take responsibility for your life, is the neo-planist position.
But the problem you inevitably counter is the public-private split.
When the future CEO, or athlete, or president, wakes up at 4am every day to work his butt off, he's understanding that his time is finite.
He has from now until his death to accomplish his goals, and he's not wasting a minute of it.
One second lost may be an opportunity lost, but he's doing it for him, for his goals.
He may seek to eventually improve society through his work, but he's not seeking to force others to wake up at 4am every day and grind it out as hard as he is.
Can the socialist say the same thing?
The socialist position is that society must be radically transformed, that liberalism must be overthrown, capitalism must be smashed, the market must be abolished, products must be decommodified.
It's not hard to see how, downstream from this political position, is the idea that every second of everybody's life be allocated as efficiently as possible to achieve these goals, because ethically they're just that important.
It's not hard to see how this ceases to be the individual choosing to wake up at 4am to grind it out, and a totalitarian body planning everybody's lives.
You've surely seen this phrase before.
Everything is political.
We've been dealing with it for a decade now.
Even longer still if you took gender studies classes in the 2000s like I did.
Pac-Man is political.
Star Trek is political.
ector is political.
Traffic signals are political.
Neckties are political.
Hiking is political.
Smiling is political.
Opening schools is political.
Closing schools is political.
Food is political.
Streets are political.
Teaching is political.
Art is political.
Nickelodeon The Kids' Channel is political.
Botany, uh sorry, ethnobotany is political.
S socks are political.
Outdoor equipment is political.
Smutty card games are political.
Enterprise software is political.
The dictionary is political.
Coffee is political.
Yogurt is political.
yogurt is political. I know a lot of these examples say racist or sexist instead of political
but this is the generalization of the theme. You've heard the Anita Sarkeesian clip right?
This is what is meant by everything is political. To describe it in the leftist tongue, everything
is wrapped up in systems of oppression. Everything can be examined critically and the bigotry
sussed out. Everything impacts people in not just an everyday way but a collective, society-wide
and so everything is political. While some of these examples are obviously stupid, streets
are not black out of hatred of black people, Karen. Like the neo-planist position and unfortunately
for the liberal position, the underlying ethic is once again true. Everything actually can
be political. The coffee in your kitchen is simply a drink you buy at the store and then
have when it suits you. But it's also where it came from. Was slave labour involved in
its creation? Were those workers compensated fairly? Are there injustices that forced those
workers into that position? In the trade deal that was worked out between two governments
to get that coffee from that country to your kitchen was part of the deal fucking over
somebody else somewhere else. This is a political way of viewing coffee. The progressives are
correct. But what they're missing again is the public-private split. They're missing
that liberal society allows people to have a private life. Here's a great example. Nestle
is a shitty company. I try not to buy Nestle for that reason alone but you know what? Drumstick
ice cream cones are just really fucking good. And every once in a while I'll pick one up
from the store. I don't do it all the time but I'm also not willing to rake myself
over the coals over it because everything is political and I need to stick to my principles
all the time or I'm a raging hypocrite. Sticking to your principles is important. Don't
get me wrong. But I also understand that everybody has a cheat meal once in a while. People can
relax a bit if the stakes are low. Not everybody has to be turned on all the time and expecting
them to be is a bit ridiculous, isn't it? Where it counts you should certainly stick
to your principles. I'm never taking a Nestle sponsorship for example. They can go fuck
themselves. But the private life is a place where you don't have to be political. Where
you can recharge your batteries and chill for a little while. To the socialist, whose
view is totalizing, whose ethic is neo-planist, and whose position is that everything is political,
do you think you'd be allowed to live that private life in their world? Do you think
you'd ever be able to just chill out? Because everything is political, suddenly when it's
somebody else's politics on display, the socialists have no choice but to freak out.
A German far right group is trying to recruit kids with a free video game. Death Stranding
is queerphobic and promotes rape culture. Studio Ghibli has failed to deal with Japanese
imperialism in its bright, colorful escapist movies. Six Days in Fallujah needs to be deplatformed
and blocked because it normalizes and promotes the mass murder of Iraqis. Don't play This
Land is My Land because they don't have Native American representation on their development
team. Most people's knee-jerk reactions to these freak-outs is to laugh at them and
say, well, I thought everything was political. Maybe they view these individuals as so joyless
and obsessed with politics that the idea of media that doesn't explicitly address the
political is worthless to them. And sure, for a lot of brain-dead progs marching in
lockstep with the approved points of view, they probably do view it as shallowly as this.
But that's not the ideological core of the ethic being presented here. If everything
is political, and their politics are all about saving the world and creating the utopia,
then every moment and every space must be turned towards their politics. Every moment
where socialism isn't being discussed, every space where socialism isn't present, is
a direct setback. And therefore these people view a mandate to fix it. This is a totalizing
worldview. By design, it leaves nothing out. No private life. No moment where you can disengage.
Be off for a while. Step away from the eternal struggle and just live life. Even though everything
may be political, you can still have places and times where things aren't. Coffee might
be political, but it doesn't mean that there's not a time and place where you just say fuck
it and enjoy your cup of coffee on some pleasant spring morning with your partner. Movies might
be political, but you can still say not today and snuggle up on the couch with somebody
and watch one for fun. Games might be political, but sometimes you just want to play them with
your friends. To the socialist, this view is a waste of precious resources, precious
time, precious space. But to the liberal, this is what makes life worth living. This
divide between the liberal ethic and the socialist one is why you routinely see stuff like this
happen. When base camp banned political speech at their work, regardless of political denomination,
they lost one third of their employees. One of those former employees said on Twitter,
we just ask that if you want to work here, you leave behind everything that makes you
human at the door. These people actually believe their politics is what makes them
human and not those private anti politic moments like drinking coffee with their spouse. Imagine
the mindset you have to have to think like this. Imagine thinking that politics is what
makes you human rather than your humanity making you political. That mindset is best
described by another common leftist phrase, the personal is political. This view flies
in the face of the liberal ethic on privacy. We can accept that everything may have a political
component, but also that there is a time and place to deal with those politics. Addressing
the politics of coffee can be done at another time, not the morning coffee with your partner.
The liberal respects the distinction between the public and the private, between the political
and the personal for this reason. It gives people the space to be people rather than
always on, always emoting politotrons. But just as importantly, it provides the moral
foundations for the limits of state power. If we accept that we have a private personal
life away from political engagement, then it stands to reason that barring the occurrence
of a violent crime or something, that is a realm in which the state has no business
butting in. For example, back during Canada's push to decriminalize homosexuality, Prime
Minister Pierre Trudeau said it best, there is no place for the state in the bedrooms
of the nation. That is an appeal to the personal, to the private life existing outside of the
state's purview. But if everything is political, then certainly the personal is political.
And if the personal is political, then every personal act is also a political act. And
if every act is a political act, then every act is the concern of the state, because the
political is the concern of the state.
If you've noticed that this is starting to sound like classical fascism, you'd be
correct. Mussolini's most famous quote, all within the state, nothing outside the
state, nothing against the state certainly applies here, but it runs deeper than that.
The fascist conception of the state is all embracing, outside of it no human or spiritual
values can exist, much less have value. This understood, fascism is totalitarian, and the
state, a synthesis and a unit inclusive of all values, interprets, develops, and potentiates
the whole life of a people.
The people we're dealing with believe that the personal is political, that everything
is political and must be treated as such, that the private life is something to be scorned.
Just talk to any socialist about something like private ownership, and watch them reject
the liberal values of privacy and consent.
I'm sure at this point I don't need to quote Marx's rejection of liberal privacy
again. I've done it about five times now in different videos, you know the drill at
this point.
Mussolini mentioned synthesis in that quote for a specific reason. Giovanni Gentile, the
philosopher of fascism, was a neo-Hegelian, and in the Hegelian tradition, believed that
a fascist society would necessarily include a synthesis of public and private life, with
the socialist's publicness arising as the antithesis to the liberal's thesis of privateness.
The fascists viewed the distinction between public and private life as non-existent, imposed
by the liberal government, but not actually a real thing. This sounds a lot like the progressive
everything is political position, like the socialist everything must be turned towards
praxis position. What binds these philosophies together is that they are all totalitarian,
and I'm using that word properly to mean a political philosophy that concerns itself
with the total of everything. It is totalizing. There is nothing that exists that the philosophy
considers to be neutral, or unaligned, or outside of its scope. Fascism and socialism,
progressivism and Marxism, all view themselves as complete theories, and therefore there
is no topic in which they have no position. This is not the liberal point of view. For
the liberal, a lot of things are personal. For the liberal, a lot of things are private.
For the liberal, there is a whole section of life where the state's position should
be, do what you want, it's none of my business. A totalitarian philosophy can't tolerate
that appeal to privacy. It's a big part of why socialists don't understand consent,
because consent is fundamentally a private matter. If everything can be political, the
liberal position that allows for a private life is important to being able to actually
live as a human being. These same people who demand that everything be political, are paradoxically
ranting about the violence of speech, or the trauma of mental health issues, even as
their totalizing worldview causes a lot of that shit, or at least makes it a whole lot
worse. These same people who demand that the personal is political, are now shocked to
learn that politics has a profit motive, and rage at what they view as their personal getting
sold out because it's political now, and there's money to be made. These same people
who think that all media, all art, all video games, etc, are political, genuinely believe
that using political themes or engaging in political drama to tell a story, is the same
thing as shoehorning in their contemporary politics in order to push a particular stance
onto the audience, because the creator thinks that this property they've inherited would
make a great soapbox. These same people who talk about the value of the community, who
appeal to the community's greater needs and collective wisdom all the time, also paradoxically
consider the liberal position of, I can get along with people who have different opinions,
to be a personal attack against them, because for them, politics is a zero sum game. And
that brings us back around to the beginning, where no difference can be tolerated, where
the socialist struggle is so real, that if you side with red you're evil even if it's
blue who pushed you there. My good friend and podcast co-host, Lilith
Lovett, said it best, they don't want politics in games, they want preachy indoctrination
courses that confirm their pre-established worldview. A handjob from the author telling
them they're right and everybody else is wrong. They're upset that not every form
of media is propaganda for their cause. If your position is a totalitarian one, that's
how it has to be. Every quiet, peaceful moment is an opportunity to advance towards the utopia.
Every apolitical space is fertile soil to be seeded with ideology. Every liberal insistence
on the sanctity of the private life is an affront to their collective march towards
whatever they've arbitrarily deemed as progress. Sean, formerly of Sean and Jen fame back before
she took the Twitch channel, had this interesting conversation with Big Joel. Sean says, I've
interacted with a few right-wing internet personalities behind the scenes, asking me
to do debates, and it's always striking how polite and business-like they are. This
is not a compliment. Joel responds with, when Sargon wanted to talk to me he was so
polite and seemed vaguely affronted by my privately saying I don't respect him or
the work he does. Genuinely one of the more puzzling moments of my life. Because to these
people the personal is political, we can actually deduce a couple of things about them from
this short exchange. 1. They cannot conceive of the private, personal life. They don't
know why people would be polite to them on a personal level, but still disagree politically.
It's an alien concept to them. If every moment in every space must be filled with
praxis, and if you're talking to an evil reactionary counter-revolutionary alt-right
maga nazi chud, then even that private moment of discussion must be a place where your politics
shine through. Your totalitarian worldview demands it. This is why Sean thinks this is
not a compliment, that somebody would be polite to him if they happen to disagree. His politics
matters more than the private life. 2. If the personal is political, and they act this
toxically towards people on a personal level, what does that have to say about the toxicity
of their politics? If Sargon is kind to Joel personally, what does that say about his politics?
If Joel is cruel in return, what does that say about his? If every act truly is a theoretical
piece of political legislation, what does that say about the type of society that somebody
like Sean or Joel would implement if given the power? What type of person views their
interpersonal connections as expressions of politics? I hear a lot from leftoids about
how people who have been left behind by the left, people who have left the left because
leftists were mean to them, have no principles at all because if you truly cared about your
politics you wouldn't give them up for such shallow reasons as somebody was mean to me.
But if the personal is political, then what does this personal toxic treatment by leftists
say about the left's politics? A private life is something every human needs to have. A
place where you are not a political agent. A place where you can relax and enjoy your
friends or your family or your hobbies. A place where, regardless of the world raging
on the outside, you can retreat to and live quietly in peace. This is an essential component
of liberal political thought, that there is a time and place for politics and that
time is not all the time, that place is not every place. But the totalitarian worldview
of the left cannot abide by this. To them a private life is an attack on their ideology
because their ideology considers all places and all times as needing to be turned towards
them. If, in order to be a leftist, I must reject the liberal idea that there are times
and places in which politics are inappropriate, then I cannot be part of the left. I just
find it ironic that for as much as they cry out for safe spaces everywhere, a safe space
from politics is the one they reject.
