So, for today's episode, halfway through watching the first season, Taftaj has hitched her her
cart to our ride. Welcome aboard.
It's true. Thanks, Deb.
So welcome aboard.
Taftaj.
Taftaj is a friend of mine from a different sector of the internet, and I figured we could
make the worlds collide. We'll see if we can bring you into like the arched Sargon sphere.
You can say hello to some people.
But the plan to infiltrate it begins.
So we are indeed halfway through the season, and you caught up to do this with us, right?
I did.
And how do you how do you feel about the first four episodes?
I'll be controversial and say that I didn't think they were that bad. I thought they were
they were very pretty. I'm not enough of a Lord of the Rings nerd to like notice every
detail and be like, um, actually, this is not correct. I've been enjoying it. I think
the pacing is a little bit slow, but it helps when you watch it on two times speed.
So wait, you've been watching it on two times speed?
I had to catch up somehow.
I mean, each episode is an hour long. I'll grant her that.
And after having watched it at 1x speed, I think, if anything, she's far smarter than
us.
Yeah, maybe it is more enjoyable on two times speed. Who knows?
I glance over I'm like, Oh, thank God, we're getting past the cringy parts and we're getting
straight to the pretty scene. And that's all good.
And you know, to be fair to the show, it does have some pretty good CG.
It does. It looks very expensive.
If you knew absolutely nothing about Lord of the Rings, and you just thought this was
some kind of Game of Thrones ish show, it might seem okay, but
What is your biggest critique of it so far?
Is that it's not Lord of the Rings, because Lord of the Rings has a specific style of
storytelling has a very specific world. And it's just none of those things, at least in
my opinion, what do you guys think?
I kind of feel like it's missing that Tolkien vibe. Because if it was a Tolkien story, everybody
be smoking the pipe. They always smoke pipes.
The man more pipe smoking. That's what it means.
Just hook it up. Everybody. This sorrow old guy should just like spend the show smoking
with the harpets.
Smoking the fireflies.
My biggest complaint is that it is aggressively not a Tolkien show, like they go out of their
way to de-talkinify it.
Disa is a perfect example of this because Disa is actually a quite good character, which
is acted out in a fairly good way. And if it was just that she was black, I'd be like
2022. But no, they also had to shave her, which genuinely annoys me because like, okay,
you had a good character, a good actress here. And then you just have to have a middle finger.
Even in the Peter Jackson films, because I watched Return of the King today, actually,
and one of the scenes where the the Gondorian and Rohirric army are marching towards the
Black Gate. There's actually a Black Gondorian in the background, but it doesn't bother me
in the slightest because, well, it's not done in such a way to be like, oh, we're being
different. We're doing it to modernize the story. It's like, no, they just needed an
extra actor and, you know, he fit the shoes. So good for him.
At the risk of sounding like, I don't know, a little bit racist. I think that the good
thing about the characters that are black in this show is that it doesn't feel like
they're drawing great attention to the fact that they're black. Like, I feel like these
characters are like just characters that happen to be black. And, you know, any sort
of like cultural associations to real world races seem like they're not really there.
So I think that like when I watch these characters, like I can just see them as dwarves and elves
with the only thing and like at the risk of retreading ground that we've already gone
over being like some aesthetic stuff. Like, I agree. It's a little bit weird to see like
very dwarfy characters and she like has barely any beard. I think that like does throw me off
a little bit. But besides that, I think that the skin colors of the characters have been
less jarring than I expected them to be. I will say this. The show is not actually
particularly woke in the traditional sense of the word.
I agree. It is. It is just in the casting choice and the fact that they seem to be making
an effort to undermine Tolkien's work in minigames.
Like, imagine if they played into like strong independent black woman stereotypes or something.
That would be like unbearable.
Imagine if they had contemporary allusions to like modern politics.
Exactly.
Especially like modern racial politics. Imagine if they had this like this is like
Which they haven't done yet.
Or hey, this is dissentus or whatever.
God, that would be awful.
Well, hold on a second, Leith, because we actually missed it in the last episode.
We were joking about something else and we actually let a line slip by
where there's that one rioter who says that elven workers are coming to steal the trades of Numenor.
That's true.
They had that one scene.
And then I DMed you. I was like based to deport the elves.
Notice how the the black elf character, one thing that's weird about him,
that's also kind of jarring, isn't necessarily the fact that he's black,
but it's the fact that he's missing one of the core things that elves have.
Sort of long, you know, beautiful flowing hair.
Also personality.
You're not sure of a few elves.
Because they shouldn't have short hair and stuff like that.
Because they're always described in the books as to have, you know, long, very beautiful flowing hair.
Again, it's one of those middle fingers that they know this isn't how elves look,
but they decide, OK, we got to fuck the communities out of my mind.
I also don't like Adam Deere's actor at all.
I think he's a plank of fucking wood who has precisely one facial expression.
He hasn't either.
They're not throwing him a bone or he's just not really taking the scenes by storm.
Like the what's that one bad guy shows up?
Remember, he stole that scene absolutely from under him.
Is it Adar or Adal?
Adar.
He shows up too.
That's great in terms of his acting.
Diversity higher elf is an actual nectar.
He's a fucking model.
Oh, God.
Is that why you suck so much?
That's why you suck so much in the camera.
Why would you give him like just have him play an extra, not be the front and center?
He does give up.
He does come across as a plank of wood for most of the movie.
I totally see like the model thing because it does seem like he's kind of making faces.
Blue steel.
I need to make a face for the for the cover art of this poster.
Okay.
Oh, God.
I think he's probably the worst character in the show.
There's no character to him.
Like Galadriel, even though she's not Galadriel from from the movies or the books, she at
least has a character.
She's she's angry.
It sort of happens to him.
He wanders around, he gets captured and then he becomes like the only survivor because
he's special or lucky.
Maybe he'll become a character.
And he gets to meet, I don't know, he gets to meet a dar.
He also gets to have some human pussy, some humusy.
Humusy, yes.
A hussy, if you will.
I mentioned last week that I got a package from Amazon with the Lord of the Rings tape.
Since uploading that video, I've been inundated with people posting me their images of Lord
of the Rings packages.
Apparently, everyone's getting this shit right now.
There's Lord of the Rings tape on Amazon boxes.
There's Lord of the Rings boxes.
Like if you order something from Amazon, it's big enough.
You just get it in a giant Lord of the Rings chest.
They're really going all out with the advertisement here for this show.
They really want people to watch this.
I'm kind of curious to see if it has an impact.
I got a Lord of the Rings wrapping with one of my packages.
Not all of them were Lord of the Rings packages, mind you.
Yeah.
They want us to watch the show.
I'm already watching it on Amazon.
I mean, of sorts.
Not paying for it.
Thank you for your sacrifice, Gibbs.
We appreciate it.
I was informed that apparently in the States, you guys get this all the time.
Like apparently, what was that one show called?
The Wheel of Time did it.
They had Wheel of Time advertisements in the packaging.
But this is the first time it's happened in Canada.
This is new to me.
You've also been covering the review scandal and the views and reviews.
I don't know, Taftage, if you heard about what's been going on.
But there's been some evidence that Amazon is drastically inflating their view numbers.
There's some evidence that Amazon is basically putting their finger on the scale of user
reviews to make the show look a lot better than it actually is.
I guess they just can't take the L on this one, you know.
I've got one bit of news to have on that front.
The reviews since the last time we did this dropped by 0.3 from their five star rating.
So they are dipping down slowly.
And the actual reviews that are coming out on mainstream reviews, news sites, you know,
they're finally starting to say by episode four that it's just not a very good show.
And you can see it on Forbes and you can see it on even Screen Rant, which is, you know,
very ideologically inclined.
Even they said that Gladriel at this point is just unlikable.
Oh, how could they say that about such a strong and empowered woman?
Are you just sexist?
Speaking of that on The Guardian, The Rings of Power episode four, the queen stops being angry.
People are just ripping even even the corpos are ripping into the show at this point.
That's a very bad sign.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So here's the most positive corporate review that I've found for the for episode four.
OK.
And this is on CBR dot com.
The Rings of Power episode four expertly blends triumph and tragedy.
The connections between the seemingly disparate plot threads are beginning to come together.
And halfway through season one, The Rings of Power is putting its pieces into motion.
Officially at the halfway to season one.
Yes.
Yes.
The show is briskly moving into its grander story, no longer fixated on introducing new
characters and plot lines officially at the halfway mark.
The Rings of Power season one is ready to cut loose, and the back half of the season
is poised to deliver the high fantasy goods as its story ramps into high gear.
That's that's the praise.
It'll get good guys.
Trust us.
Hold on.
It sounds it's going to get better.
It'll be fair.
The recent episodes happened better than the first one.
Yes.
Yes, I completely agree.
Yeah.
The first two were just nothing like nothing existed.
Nothing happened.
It was just characters being characters.
It was very slow.
Yeah, I agree.
So everyone has been saying about the show that it's a slow burn, guys, the slow burn.
And fair enough.
I've watched some slow burn shows.
You know, I really like Star Trek, Deep Space Nine.
That show is a slow fucking burn.
That's good.
That's like a two season slow burn on that show.
OK.
So I get it.
I understand it builds into something at the end.
That's the nice part.
All of that was building towards a greater idea.
Yes.
That's why the payoff was so good.
So if there's no payoff on this, it's going to be it's going to be really bad by the end of it.
You know what I will say?
So Star Wars and or just came out, right?
And I decided to watch that show.
They launched three episodes on their release day that came out last night.
So I watched that.
And you know what?
It's not super amazing, but it's OK.
And it actually is a real slow burn.
I was pleasantly surprised that now it's got fuck all to do with Star Wars because I don't know,
for some reason, Disney doesn't know what the fuck to do with this property.
But it's like it's an OK show and they're actually doing a slow burn.
Things do happen every scene.
A story is progressing and they're just let there's chew in the fat a bit, you know,
as compared to this show, which just did nothing for the first two hours.
The guys who are making Andal, he he literally said that he couldn't care less about Star Wars.
He wanted to make a spy thriller.
And here's the thing.
It's actually a good spy thriller.
Like, it's not bad.
I'm actually enjoying it, but it shouldn't even have Star Wars attached to it.
You can just make this as like a random sci fi, whatever, and it would be fine.
But they got to use Star Wars.
I don't know.
Huh?
Just make new things.
Just make new things, guys.
Come on.
It's OK.
If you're going to make something that isn't the property, don't make something else.
Simple as like, if I'm going to watch the Star Wars show, odds are I'm going to try
and watch a Star Wars show.
Yeah, I kind of agree.
Like, I want to watch Star Wars as a Star Wars fan.
I I kind of like to watch Star Wars.
I know that's a novel concept, but you don't want to see a rom com set in a Star Wars universe.
Not particularly.
No, you don't want to see a cooking show.
Oh, God, maybe.
I mean, that might be banger.
Well, they did that back in the holiday special.
Remember that?
Yeah, and that went well.
That went really well, didn't it?
God.
And it used to be the worst piece of Star Wars media.
So Taftash.
Yes.
This is the kind of nerds complaining about shit that you've signed up for.
How do you feel about it?
I feel good about it.
Feels great.
Even though I can't give insight on all of these properties, I'm I'm just happy to participate.
There have been like very much in a similar boat.
I'm not like a super like Laura rings nerd, but I like enjoying a shit show with the people.
Yeah, exactly.
And I am like half of a nerd so I can get some of it, you know, half normie.
I think it's time, Kibbs.
I think it's time for us to watch this on one time speed.
Unfortunately.
Sorry, it's gonna be slow.
Ah, not a fucking commercial.
I need to pay for Prime.
Then they fucking have the audacity to show me commercials too.
I need your oath.
Oh my simp.
Maybe you can simp harder, simp.
That's not simping if I'm criticizing it.
Please skip the recap.
Are you sure you want to skip it?
Yes, they're recapping barely anything.
What about the intro?
Skip, skip it.
Skip all of it.
Skip the episode, Kibbs.
We'll just pretend we watched it.
Look at the rocks, Deb.
Look, more rocks.
Oh, you broke it down.
It's all those viewers.
That's what that's what it's so laggy.
Oh God, no, no, no.
Yes, yes.
We've gone too long without seeing them.
Ah, fucking off, it's...
I wish they would clean their hairs.
No.
He's totally getting a makeover later.
So Mauler and I have a friendly bet
of an unspecified sum of money on who this guy actually is.
I say Sauron, he says Gandalf.
I mean, if it's Gandalf, that defies the lore, but okay.
I do think it's like a minor wizard like Gandalf, that's mine.
One of the blue guys?
Yeah, something like that.
What the fuck is on your head?
It's camouflage.
This is fashion.
Singing is very Tolkien.
You guys could have gone around that.
Like, they showed away just over there.
Sure, it's like right next to it.
This has gone on long enough.
This is exactly what the books are like, though.
But it's like she has another long song.
I sang for three days straight.
Wait, don't put that in.
Don't put it in the movie.
That is some high fucking quality iron work in right there.
The entire rest is just a musical.
Oh yeah, I can definitely see the good guy energy.
Yeah.
In that giant eye he left on the ground.
Listen, the sun is a symbol of good.
Mauler, I'm coming to collect, buddy.
Uh oh.
Meesa Malkor.
Are we going to see Eminem?
Yep.
Oh good, they're dressed all in white too.
White's the common color of evil.
Is that a girl or a boy?
I'm genuinely not sure.
I think it's a girl.
Well, it appears to have tits.
Although that means anything these days, but still.
The message of the show is that androgynous people are evil, by the way.
That was like an old demonic trope, wasn't it?
Like demons have both genitals and stuff?
Slimash.
Oh look, the orcs are out in the sun again and don't really care.
Well, he seems to be under a hood.
He looks very uncomfortable.
He's wearing his hijab.
Global warming will block out the sun.
Global warming is actually good because it hurts orcs.
You need SPF 50, at least.
Ah, we're gonna have a speech.
Good.
Wait, how did he get his armor back?
He lost it in the hole.
Details, details dev.
Excuse me, who put you in charge?
The scriptwriter, actually.
She's the only notable woman in this plotline, so she's in charge.
Oh, he's the guy that was corrupted by the sword, right?
Yes, follow the crack addict.
With a random guy over his mother.
I'm enjoying this, actually.
Maybe they can do a real hero's journey with this guy.
Now we just gotta find his Obi-Wan.
Come with me, forgive me for not sending words to you sooner.
Whenever I keep seeing that guy's name, I always think Phazon from Metroid.
When I speak, his ears close up.
It's conditioned.
We skipped ahead a few months.
Yeah, how did he get into prison?
What happened here?
Listen, he's been accepted into the trades guild now, okay?
When did this happen?
Yeah, he's asking questions again.
Make him stop.
I'm just except for the plot that's moving forward.
I'm certain your fellowship will prove just as invaluable once you make landfall.
Don't you dare say the word fellowship.
And 500 men to aid your people and place a crown on your head.
Five hundred?
That's it?
Wow.
Find another head to crown.
Wait, was that his guild crest?
No, I think that was his fancy little.
Okay, yeah.
It was like kind of mixing up in the symbolism there, but okay, yeah.
Guys, get some horses or something.
Jesus.
I mean, I guess they're kind of too small for him.
Get some llamas then.
I don't know.
I guess the nomadic people didn't actually bring any food for the journey.
Don't worry, Harfoot.
You put branches in your hair, they'll never find you.
Yes, perfect camouflage.
Wait, there's gonna be more bad CG dog?
Oh, yeah, they'll never get you in there.
No, that's more of a...
Oh, Lord.
Oh, and he always survived this far.
Whoa, I think it's a different mission.
I very think it's different.
Nothing like casting a thunderclap.
And so Galadriel mocks his force to humiliate some poor motherfucker.
Never mind, I was wrong.
She's gonna humiliate them all.
Like, this is easy.
It's just a woman.
He is an elf.
Humiliation in three...
No?
You gonna slow it down a bit?
When it's so predictable, it's boring.
My dude, you could swing even wider if you tried, but it'd be hard.
You're not even trying to hit her.
Okay, so if all 20 of you jump in, if you're gonna do it like this...
He'd still beat their asses.
He's gonna score a hit on her.
On the bright side, they didn't hate the choreography there.
Yeah, no.
It was slow enough we could actually see what's happening.
Yeah, and you know what?
To be fair, if someone was going to score a hit, it would have to be
like a named character.
Like this guy or Halbrandt, yeah.
Aww, I thought it was gonna be a Sildor.
That would have been a great way to get him back in.
Yeah, he was like a first-guess initiative.
Well, our expectations have been subverted.
And I'm disappointed even.
I was kind of like, oh, that's kind of a clever way to get a Sildor in.
No, no, don't worry.
The no-name character will get in.
Where did your racism go, father?
I've gotten some help with Sili lately.
He's like, what?
No, no.
Daddy's gotten some long-term racism in his sights.
Elves will take orders from us.
No, Marx, no.
You can't be secretly racist against the chosen people.
Man, I'm invested.
Things are happening.
I'm pleasantly surprised.
The story is moving, finally.
This feels like hour three of the season, not hour five.
But still the same.
My fingers aren't really icy in the morning, too.
I feel when it's three a.m.
and your G.F. wants to snuggle and she's freezing cold.
No, I'm not lucky enough that this will kill her.
Typically takes you people weeks just to decide to take her if I may.
But the hand of we shall have to send it home with you so it can be treated with the proper respect.
Only five minute walk.
She'll be fine.
Did he just chew him out of his table to people?
Yep.
It does certainly look that way.
Very impressive.
And he didn't even get the answer that he wanted in return.
Yeah, no, that was a very shrewd act of jury.
I still have a feeling they're going to do the Balrog like 1000 years there.
They're going to do it.
It's probably more in light.
It had wings in that shot.
Very controversial.
Keeping your promise to his people and ensuring the doom of your own.
Well, I guess we're just going to have to have a race war, aren't we?
Jesus.
Peace was never an option.
The light of the Eldar, our light is fading.
Did the dwarves find the orb or not?
I swore an oath to Durin.
To some.
That may now hold little weight.
I mean, that answer basically is yes.
Yeah.
That guy's definitely going to die.
He's got a nice death leg right there.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Those are all of his friends that he fucked over.
You're only apologizing because you think now that I've been promoted.
I can get you on the expedition.
I would.
I would.
I would never.
But yes, he's committing sabotage.
How could he?
Don't you have more pressing things to worry about right now?
Start drinking it, guys.
Oh, wait, no, that's that's not alcohol.
Hand me the lantern.
Don't.
Yeah, yeah, make things worse.
Yeah, see, good job.
Good job, Isolde, you plot fuck.
Good job.
That's not quite how it works, but never mind.
It's an ammo detonation or to black powder.
Where did that one come from?
secondary explosions.
You know, that's how explosions work on another ship.
No, no, I'm the same.
That was the second ship.
Why are you lying for him?
This is how he gets on the expedition.
He's going to be a hero for saving him.
And all it took was sinking their fleet.
I mean, wouldn't it be a hero for cashing the saboteur?
Yeah, two ships.
Yeah.
So I guess the first ship exploded so hard.
The second one just went like, I want to do that, too.
Yep.
They remember Blackwater from Game of Thrones.
We can do that, too.
Enough to saturate every last elf in the light of the valor once more.
And yes.
Yes.
I don't think this is how Mithril works.
Yeah, see, what I remember is that the elves made the rings
to keep themselves from dying and their civilization from decaying.
But Mithril wasn't part of that story, as far as I can remember.
That the High King deceived me.
I'm pretty sure this is all bullshit.
Why do you keep fighting?
Because I cannot stop.
I believe they could no longer distinguish me from the evil I was fighting.
You know, that's not a bad twist.
I'm sorry.
She is a war crazy maniac.
Yeah.
The thing is, she's a very interesting character.
She's just not Galadriel, because this is actually a pretty great scene.
I know what a hammer and tongs is yours.
If she wasn't, yeah.
Yeah.
Even then, though, like, her entire reasoning is based on I can't stop fighting.
Okay.
I don't mind that works, though.
I'm a psychologist.
Yeah, I don't mind the whole PTSD haunted.
Can't give up because, you know, she doesn't have PTSD.
She'd never fought in the fucking war.
Fair enough.
You know, the story of someone who's just consumed by violence.
The problem is she hasn't committed any violence.
That's also true.
They only have half the story here.
And plus, the linchpin is that this kind of character can't be Galadriel.
This is the kind of character who, like,
would have killed someone and then regretted it or something.
It would have worked.
They forgot about the other half of the story.
Yeah.
Didn't like that.
No.
He's a fucking elf, you moron.
He chose poorly.
All of his wounds have closed up, too.
It's that magic human loving.
There's something you don't know.
I've seen this before.
It is a key conjured by some forgotten craft of the enemy to enslave your ancestors.
Black device.
You appear to be mildly outnumbered.
You know, I didn't see the sword hilt being a key.
I didn't call that one.
This is like Helm's Deep Light.
They didn't have the budget, okay?
Okay.
Store brand Helms Deep.
Walmart, you know, it's not very.
Oh, my God.
They brought the fucking tablet.
Wait, they're just carrying it back?
I think elves have horses, though.
All right, that's pretty good.
Give it to me raw.
That was a sudden fucking timeline, but okay.
Yeah.
Do you mean spring and a thousand years or a few months?
This is not how Mithra fucking works.
See, I'm assuming this is a way to make the whole dug too deep,
greedily into less of just a, you know, drew move and more of a move out of necessity.
But this isn't how Mithra works.
Where elven race as in my hands.
Whose hands?
Yours.
I do like that he actually went clean with them, though.
Didn't do anything shenanigans.
Yeah, I like the solution a lot better.
Better than the George R. R. Martin show.
He bought that awfully quick.
Then again, has been honest with him.
Hold on a second.
It's not a long journey back.
It's five minutes.
This is, you know, a screen transition.
Have we seen a horse in this show?
Incidentally, just I want to say yes.
A few times.
I think only a numinar, though, because I don't think the garrison had any horses.
Because of their cow, that fucking enormous slab of stone back.
Yeah, we saw a cow and it had all the black milk.
Oh, don't remind me.
That's gross.
That's like bad chocolate milk.
Maybe the show run is just really don't like horses.
Horses are expensive.
Somebody just stole it.
That's a trend.
He turned back to get it.
Attagon has decided that he wants to be king after all.
It's a thin line of like fucking soldiers.
Oh, my God.
I'm like Hawkeye right now on the lookout for that T-shirt with the printed armor pattern.
I want to see if we can catch it in the wild.
Face looks done.
I thought I'd point that out.
Listen, Kibs, I think she's a cutie.
I'd simp.
You disgust me, Death.
How could you?
I'd sub to her OnlyFans.
Wow, you've got that kind of free spending money.
I think they're wearing the shirt now.
Maybe take a close look at those dudes.
They are in the armpit in the armpit.
Oh, my God.
They actually have it.
Where did she get that from?
Where did she get that from?
She got it from the promotional department.
She swam here, and I'm pretty sure she didn't bring that.
She didn't.
Where was it?
I guess they just made it for her.
Where was it?
I guess they just made it for her.
Maybe they just made it like the same armor and everything.
Yeah, no, that is the exact same armor.
That's right.
Because she wore that suit before at the start of the show,
but she left it behind when she got on the boat.
So they just made her identical armor,
and she just described it to them.
I guess it's very stupid that I want you to know that.
Did the show just forget that she swam here?
I mean, Arch, I wish I could.
So I need mastercrafted elven armor with intricate patterning,
and I need it like next week.
All right, come right up, boss.
We made a styrofoam.
I'm paying you an explosion.
I really hate those sales, by the way.
Listen, Arch, they catch wind, except the wind that goes in between them.
Except for the wind that goes in between there.
That's caught by the front sail, which catches the future wind.
Singing.
No, it's fine.
We don't need singing.
No, we don't need it.
We don't need it, Kyle.
Don't you want it?
That was an episode of a TV show, if nothing else.
I'm still not particularly involved, honestly.
Wait a second, Kibbs.
Kibbs, turn it off.
What was that?
Enormous fuck up.
Jesus.
All right.
OK, so I think I've finally discovered my major issue with this show
after watching this episode.
OK, I formulated my dev thesis.
Oh, here we go.
Everything happening in this show is a mystery box.
It's all mystery box writing and mystery boxes that have become
they've like steadily gained in popularity since since lost back in the 2000s.
Right.
People love their mystery box writing.
The problem with a mystery box in a prequel, though,
is that we know where it's going to go.
You know, like, what's the ore going to be?
Oh, it's going to be mithril.
What are the rings going to do?
Oh, we know all this stuff already because we know where it goes.
So they have to either change the lore, which is no good,
or they have to introduce mystery boxes
that don't really have any consequence to the wider story.
The idea that mithril is solid light that can reinvigorate the elves
does have enormous significance for the wider story.
In fact, it has ridiculous significance for the wider story.
Yeah, and that's the changing the lore part.
Yeah.
And see, that's the problem.
I fucking hate mystery boxes because I view them as lazy ass goddamn writing.
It's simply just.
And then this magical thing appeared because it has no sense or reason.
OK, so the the people were enslaved by a sword.
No, that's that's not how this fucking functions.
The sword of Sauron does not have the power to enslave a people.
So they just have to make that shit up and go like,
there's a mural over there with a sword on it.
That's why it's a key.
You're pulling this out of your ass.
Yeah, it's kind of like there's a key.
It's like, OK, do we know it's a key?
Like, have you what evidence do you have suggestions like,
well, you see, I knew about this mural here from 200 years ago.
It's like, OK, I think that the show is like very safe in a lot of ways.
Like with other shows, there are these moments where like,
oh, my God, that's like crazy.
And it really like I don't know, there's great moments of awe.
I feel like this show is like scared to really give those to you.
Yeah, aside from the CG.
Yeah, just like the everyday CG.
I think they might be trapped in the confines of it being a sequel.
So there's so much they can do a prequel.
Yeah, yeah.
There's only so much they can do with that.
But they have so much lore they could have done something with.
And instead, they're just there's not doing it.
They could have written the story that Tolkien wrote.
They're not interested in that.
They are interested in actively fucking it because they're
interested in actively claiming it.
This is to be Amazon's Lord of the Rings.
That's why they are looking at me.
So now I'm going like, oh, yeah, this is a magic metal that the elves need.
Oh, it isn't the writers.
The new writing team is trying to make this their own project.
And I understand why, because they're trying to adapt it, but into their workflow.
But the issue is you got to have a better understanding of what Tolkien's vision was.
And instead of making your vision,
you should instead being trying to follow in his footsteps
to try to complete what he was going for to begin with.
Well, they did directly say that this is this is
they're like breaking free out from Tolkien's shadow.
And this is this is the Lord of the Rings that Tolkien never wrote.
And they said a lot of that stuff and the lead up to the show.
So they were really they were really setting the stage for them saying, yeah, fuck lore.
Which is very disrespectful to the the fans.
It's disrespectful to the source material.
It's disrespectful to the the author.
You shouldn't you shouldn't try to dismiss the author that came before you.
The guy who built all of this.
Instead, you should honor that work and should do your best
to try to pay homage to his vision.
And well, it's also the fucking hubris of it.
Like these are people that go like, no, no, we can do way better.
Like, I'm sorry, but this is no goddamn Lord of the Rings.
This is not even close.
Like, if I'm being generous now, I might lift the show to like a five or a six.
And they're like, oh, we know better.
Yeah, out of ten out of 100.
Lore complaints aside, how would the show in a vacuum?
What are you all thinking?
Oh, that's the best.
Pretty average.
Impressive scene.
All right.
For a random show.
Yeah, it is there.
They're right.
I feel like it's got them first.
Well, it just feels like it's always on like the precipice
of like something really interesting happening.
Where like you get these scenes with Galadriel and you're like,
oh, like maybe her character is going to go in this direction.
And that would be really interesting.
Or it just happens with like every character.
And it is kind of like the mystery box thing where it's hard to judge it
because it's kind of promising a lot.
It's like, listen, guys, it's going to get really good.
It's kind of what the show is constantly saying.
And if it delivers on that, that's cool.
And then you can just say, well, it was a bit slow.
But if it doesn't deliver on it, then that'll make all the previous moments
feel a lot more cheap.
It hasn't delivered yet, I don't think.
No, it's writing with a presumed presumption.
Like they've made up a story and now they're working their way towards it.
Now suddenly Galadriel is like, oh, no, I just have to fight
because okay, why do you have to fight?
Well, I don't know about that.
But this is my reason, you see, I'm becoming evil and I see it now.
You haven't presented this previously.
This at no point earlier, was there any indication
that Galadriel was doing this for any sort of outside force?
Like the only reasonable rationale appeared to be vengeance for her brother
because that's all where it started.
She didn't fight in the war against Morgoth.
She hasn't seen action.
And this is like, I'm an expert in fighting orcs.
You probably haven't even seen one.
She hasn't deserved any of this.
And now she has a scene, which is a decent scene,
but it's not for her character.
It's for another character.
But I mean, I think it is like, okay, if she's just like delusional a little bit, right?
Like, no, just like someone who's like young and like, I mean in elf years,
but like relatively young and wants to prove themselves and believes
that they can do all of these things,
but ultimately is going to kind of be disillusioned
and then has to move through that disillusionment to like fulfill their character arc.
I think that that's like an interesting character arc.
That's definitely an archetype that can be good.
Issue is one, she's one of the oldest elves alive
and two, she's not going to be moving through anything.
She is like right now though.
She is one of the oldest elves alive.
Damn.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
This is the wrong character to do that story with.
And she is not going to move through it.
She cannot be allowed to fail.
Like she takes on like what, six, seven people and humiliates them utterly.
And the best one manages to do is scratch her clothing,
which doesn't even fulfill the actual.
She is an elf in fairness.
And they're all humans.
That's true.
Yeah, but that's the thing.
Elves aren't that fucking good.
That's that's the thing too.
Hold on, Arch, hold on.
I'm going to disagree with you here,
because Legolas did surf on a shield down a staircase.
Okay, no, elves are like supernaturally talented.
And also she has like hundreds of years of experience on these people.
No, she doesn't.
She does not.
She's been fighting a war for a couple of years, tops.
Yeah, but she's had lots of time to train and practice.
She hasn't.
She's collateral.
She hasn't trained.
She's never picked up a sword before her brother died.
That's like explicitly like she's never trained.
Yes, because there wasn't a war.
Like the concept of war didn't exist until Morgoth appeared.
Yep, that's true.
Yeah, the whole thing about Galadriel is she's not a warrior.
And the story, she's actually a sorcerer.
Yeah, she was a sorceress.
Yeah, she was supposed to be like a backline kind of person.
So it's very weird that she's taking this front line.
Because Galadriel is clever.
She's very powerful.
In fact, very powerful.
She's one of the most powerful characters on the side of good.
I guess you could say in terms of her actual magical capabilities.
But she's always reserved because she's more of a tactician.
She's always thinking ahead about the general positioning of things.
She's never directly involved.
And that's kind of the problem with the show is they've kind of butchered her character.
Her brilliance is diminished and her intellect is diminished.
Because instead of her intellect being her strength, it's not even her strength.
She's kind of an idiot.
She feels I could see that.
She's kind of a warrior.
They've taken away her brilliance.
And that's the part that bothers me.
Because she's supposed to be very, very smart.
She's supposed to see the broader picture.
And she kind of did in the beginning.
She understood Sauron was still around.
But they didn't really, they should have focused on that.
Like, okay, like, all right, how do you understand that?
Like, show us how you put those pieces of the puzzle together so that you came up with it.
Like, no, no, Sauron's still a threat.
And here's why.
Here's all these really, like, well thought out reasons.
All these clues and evidence.
But she saw it at emblem, Kibbs.
Yeah, and they, I know, but they do it.
They just do it like, oh, she found it in an archive and she finally now got the proof.
It's like, that's not very Galadriel.
Galadriel's like, she's supposed to be smarter than this.
I don't know.
It feels like a disservice to the character.
Her, too, get back to the point about the fighting skills.
Even Legolas, who was an exceptional fighter by even elven standards.
He only takes on a couple of enemies at once and kills them quickly.
Like, at no point is Legolas under attack by, like, six,
seven orcs and carrying out a lengthy duel against them whilst not killing them.
I don't know.
I feel like this is not the most unbelievable thing.
Like, these are, like, not super trained recruits that are just like kids.
Yeah, well, two of those people were sea guard trainees.
They were the ones who were kicked out of the sea guard after Isildur did these things.
They are trained fighters.
That's true.
There's at least two of them that are.
I know that they recruited a lot of raw guys, though.
And plus, the boss man said that they had more recruits than they had spaces.
These aren't randos from the street.
He has the pick of the crop.
I don't know.
I mean, like, I feel like these guys have not really seen war either, though.
Like, most of their training is gonna be just, you know, practice.
I think the implication is that they're inexperienced and they haven't seen proper.
Right.
That's like my reading of their characters.
I think that's what that's what they're trying to do,
but I'm not sure if they necessarily got that across, but I kind of see it.
Yeah.
Okay, that'll do it for this week.
Thanks for being here, everyone.
Welcome aboard, Taftash.
Thanks, Dev.
Hey, just a curiosity.
If we do continue to do this stuff, what show do we do next after this one's over?
You guys want to do She-Hulk?
No.
I don't mind doing She-Hulk.
It seems cringy enough.
God, you guys are masochists.
I don't know.
We'll watch the vine boom twerk.
How much cancer do you want to contract?
I'll catch them all, I guess.
