This is going to be a stupid video, I can already tell.
In case you haven't noticed, the past few days, people have been panic buying gasoline.
They're not just filling up their vehicles, but they're also filling up gas canisters,
making sure they have enough to ride out a potential shortage.
And I don't know about you, but already, right off the bat, this looks like something
that a game developer would put into place in a first person shooter.
You know, a car full of gas tanks set in just a specific spot in the level, so that if you
shoot it at the right time, you can get max combo kills.
If this woman gets hit going home, she's going to take out an entire city block.
But hey, people don't care about that.
There's a gas shortage, so people are stocking up, making the shortage even worse.
And if you can't afford gas containers like these people, well, don't worry about it.
Just load up plastic totes, that'll work, right?
You know, I can't believe I have to say this, gasoline evaporates very quickly.
You don't even have lids for these things, I hope there's like lids in the trunk or something.
Also, not only will it evaporate, it'll corrode that cheap ass plastic.
And like, how do you expect to pour it into your car, lady?
There's there's multiple levels of failure in this picture.
And what the fuck are you doing filling like a clear, thin plastic trash bags with gasoline
and throwing that in the back of your trunk?
Like everything, everything that I said about the plastic tote will apply tenfold here.
So yes, as it turns out, 72% of North Carolina gas stations are without fuel.
Experts are warning residents to prepare for another tough day, and it's been like this
for I think three or four days now, maybe even a little bit longer.
And it's not just North Carolina.
Hundreds of gas stations have run out of fuel, and others see massive lines as the shortage
worsens.
The 5,500 mile colonial pipeline has been shut down indefinitely since Friday, which
would have been May 7th, after a cyber attack led its operators to cease operations of the
major arteries supplying gasoline to states all throughout the southeast and mid-Atlantic
regions.
The company hopes to reopen most of the line by the end of the week.
So the pipeline gets hacked, this somehow shuts off all of the gas flow from I think
it's Texas to the to the eastern seaboard, and people start losing their minds over it.
But it's not just those locations, there's a cascading effect of this.
Far from the colonial pipeline, panic buying leaves Florida cities short of gas.
These are people who are not necessarily even affected by this, but they hear it happening
somewhere else in the nation, and so they stock up.
But wait wait wait, the pipeline was hacked.
That's right, a hacking group known as DarkSide, a day before the pipeline was shut down, stole
around 100 gigabytes of data from the company.
They then locked them out of their computers and demanded 5 million dollars in cryptocurrency,
which is, as you know, untraceable.
And Colonial paid them.
After getting paid, the hackers provided the company with a decrypting tool to restore
its disabled computer network.
An audit of the pipeline three years ago found glaring problems, with the auditor saying
that an 8th grader could have hacked into their system.
Now Colonial has not officially said how the hackers penetrated their network, but an anonymous
source at Colonial Pipeline said the hackers were able to gain access to their computer
systems through a phishing scheme.
According to the source, an employee clicked on a link in an email titled More Like Kansas
City.
The email contained an image of a large-breasted female in a Kansas City Chiefs bikini with
a link promising additional pictures.
So 5 million in Bitcoin, one of the biggest pipelines in the world shut down for a week,
and mass panic buying over Booba.
Well, probably worth it.
And of course, the memes coming out of this are great.
I mean, there's no reason we can't have a Coke and Mentos fueled economy instead of
an oil one.
Forget about totes and garbage bags, this guy's got half a basement full of gas.
This idiot filled up his Hummer with five cans of gas and decided to have a smoke.
You did know it's flammable, right?
Considering all this craziness, the US Consumer Product Safety Commission had to come out
and say, do not fill plastic bags with gasoline.
Use only containers approved for fuel.
Follow the gas canister manufacturer instructions for storing and transporting gasoline.
When using a gas canister, never pour gasoline over or near an open flame.
Man, I remember being taught this when I was like five.
What the hell is wrong with people?
Did you like the gas shortage?
We could make it permanent by passing AOC's Green New Deal.
Nobody liked the gas shortage.
Nobody wanted this.
What the fuck are you talking about?
You're literally describing a state of emergency and you want it to be permanent.
What is this acceleration ass bullshit?
Because the Dark Side hacking group is based in Eastern Europe, most probably Russia, there
is a lot of people on the left calling this a Russian attack against the United States.
And damn, it is kind of terrifying to think that hackers, you know, half a world away
can get a bit creative and cause a gas shortage in the United States.
Good thing the CIA is currently promoting diversity and inclusion.
I'm sure that'll help.
Thanks for keeping the state safe, guys.
But for real, here's the actual government response to it.
Because of the fact that there's not a whole lot of other supply.
Now, this particular pipeline also supplies other states, but there are other pipelines
that supply their states as well.
So there's more diversity in this particular region.
That's where we're going to see the crunch.
And this is why we are we know that we have gasoline.
We just have to get it to the right places.
And that's why these next couple of days I think will be challenging and we want to
encourage people.
It's not that we have a gasoline shortage.
It's that we have this supply crunch and that things will be back to normal soon.
And then we're asking people not to hoard.
I got to say there's nothing that comes out of the current Biden administration that sounds
truthful.
A supply crunch, not a gasoline shortage.
What do you think a supply crunch is?
A shortage is when there is a lack of supply.
Meanwhile, Biden's solution to the problem is more education spending.
All right.
I think that this shows that I think we have to make a greater investment in education
as it relates to being able to train and graduate more people proficient in cybersecurity.
Okay, I can I can kind of see the connection here, but I think the extent of the education
is don't click on links promising big titties.
Of course, Newt Gingrich, a bag of gasoline himself, is using the opportunity to shill
for another pointless, terrible war.
Nobody should be surprised by this.
The former Speaker of the House called for military strikes to kill those involved in
an act of war against America.
Now Newt Gingrich is not part of the Democratic Party, but we all know that the Democrats
have been itching for a new war.
And who knows?
Maybe they'll blow enough smoke up everyone's ass to finally get one going here.
I'm sure the neocons would be happy to get on board by the time this became a full fledged
story.
However, it was over.
They paid their five million in crypto.
They got their computer systems back and the pipeline has now restarted.
Normal service will take several days.
But even now, as things return to normal, it has still sparked a round of panic buying.
And that really is the real conversation here.
I did a video last year on panic buying regarding back then it was getting food and toilet paper
before the first wave of coronavirus hit your area.
I'm sure you guys must still remember what it was like a year ago, right?
Toilet paper, along with a lot of grocery staples, started getting completely wiped
out in major population centers.
And I was one of many people back then who were saying, ignore those who claim that prepping
for coronavirus is racism and go out and buy yourself some extra food now while you still
can if you live in an area where there has not yet been runs on this stuff.
And I heard from a lot of you, you guys did so.
You guys went out and bought like a bunch of cheap staples like beans and rice and pasta.
You guys got extra toilet paper and extra cleaning supplies.
And a lot of you were able to ride out that initial wave.
No problem.
I was too.
I actually remember telling Naomi, hey, listen, uh, we've got to get like, you know, a month
or two's worth of extra food here at least.
And she listened to me.
She was a bit skeptical, but she, but she listened to me.
And then as things got worse, she was like, yeah, okay, that was the right call.
We actually had so much toilet paper.
We had, we had bought like triple the amount that we would use throughout an entire year.
And we're still kind of going through it now.
And we actually ended up giving some away to some people because, uh, like some friends
didn't have any, but still I'm sure you remember what it was like.
Other cleaning supplies were vanishing too.
And yeah, idiots were dying after drinking hand sanitizer for, for some fucking reason.
But panic buying seems to be something that we do.
And of course, right.
It would make sense.
That's part of our psychology.
We evolved in an environment of fundamental scarcity.
We see many other animals saving food for lean times.
And in that video, it was, it was called, I think, um, why is preparation problematic
or something like that?
I basically laid out the argument that a lot of socialists don't like the idea of panic
buying or in general prepping for the future is because one, their ideal socialist utopia
is a world where scarcity has been eliminated.
And two, because a lot of them are ignorant of the nuts and bolts of, of how things work.
They think we are a lot closer to that than we actually are.
The number of socialists who have told me that under real socialism, there would never
again be a rainy day and therefore no reason to save up for one has been rather high.
The main reason I can't show you a lot of these conversations specifically is because
they were with an old account that has since been banned, but I'm sure we all remember
this person who said in response to people buying a little bit extra saving for a rainy
day, all houses should be inspected.
Anyone that has more than two weeks food should be fined heavily.
After all, that's not your food.
It's the people's food comrade.
And you're hoarding it like a cool lock.
You're being solipsistic again, socialism will always require a massive surveillance
state to ensure that people are following the rules.
Meanwhile, liberalism doesn't care.
Yeah.
There are sometimes shortages.
There are sometimes bread lines.
And under socialism, you sometimes get bread.
Market fluctuations are inevitable and the temporary disruption of supply is not a good
enough argument against liberal society.
I will end off with just an idle musing here.
It is really funny to me that we're currently facing this situation when this time a year
ago, the value of oil actually dropped below zero.
You remember that shit?
That was a big story back then.
I didn't cover it because it was kind of a flash in the pan thing, but I'm sure you saw
it somewhere.
April 2020, oil became so cheap it was less than a bottle of Coke and people who were
trading barrels of oil buying with the intention to flip it, they actually started losing quite
a bit of money because the price on oil was just so low.
And now look at us.
We have a run on oil without making any other claim about any other political situation
beyond this topic.
I do miss the days when oil was so cheap, we could just pull up to a gas station, fill
up our tank.
And if our car needed a little bit of wash, oh, it's fine.
Just a splash, a little bit of gasoline on it.
It'll be okay.
Oh my gosh.
Okay.
So you go, go in and tell, yeah, somebody's are going and tell somebody she's doing the
whole car and see what she's doing.
Well, also think about how much money she's spending because she's running right now.
This is a lot of money.
This is the most expensive car wash ever.
Wait, wait, actually, what do we, what do you want us to say?
Say stop washing your car with gasoline, maybe.
