Hey, you know that Twitter account Liminal Spaces, or, uh, Space Liminal Bot, if you
want to go by the handle?
It's kinda unique in that it posts images of, well, what it calls liminal spaces.
Sometimes these are pictures of long hallways, dilapidated and dark, or perfectly normal
and well-lit, or appearing like it's a place out of time, like it's still a functioning
location just with an older aesthetic style, like the decor hasn't been updated since
the 80s.
These pictures can sometimes generate a sense of unease, almost like there's something
way down at the end of the hallway that's coming for you, but they can also generate
a feeling of comfort sometimes, like a place that you used to visit but no longer can because
it's gone.
Maybe it's been renovated, maybe it's been torn down, whatever.
And so now it only exists in your memories, or in the picture.
Sometimes the account posts images of pools or cisterns or other aquatic places.
These also come in the two main flavors, dark and unsettling, or pristine and comforting.
Even in the comforting ones, though, there's a sense of loneliness or loss.
No, not that kind of loss.
Sometimes the account posts pictures of evidence of human activity that has since gone dormant,
like something that is out of season or a location after closing, again in those two
main flavors.
Related to this one are pictures of cities and towns that are clearly still in use, but
from a weird angle or location or time of day.
In this case, people would normally be there here and now in the present day, but because
the picture is taken in the middle of a snowstorm or at 3am or something, no one's there.
What each of these different types of photo have in common is that they evoke liminal
feelings, the experience of being neither here nor there, of being in between places,
stuck out of time, falling through the cracks, that sort of thing.
Liminality began as an anthropological term, initially referring to the feeling of ambiguity
or disorientation that occurs in the middle stage of a rite of passage, where the rite's
participants no longer hold their pre-ritual status, but have not yet begun the transition
to the status they will hold when the rite is complete.
During a rite's liminal stage, participants stand at the threshold of the previous way
of structuring their identity, time, or community, and a new way which completing the rite establishes.
Or at least that's what the Wikipedia page says.
This makes a lot of sense to me.
Here's an experience that I had, and I think is relatively common, you can probably relate.
You had a part-time job in high school, right?
Maybe you could only work evenings and weekends because of school, that's pretty normal.
But then when summer break started, suddenly you were able to work different hours during
the weekday if you wanted.
You still held the identity of high school student, but you were working more like an
adult would in that same position.
And then when fall rolled around, you were back to that student's schedule.
This absolutely describes my part-time experience growing up.
Now think to that final summer before you went off to university.
You graduate high school, you're no longer a high school student.
The school building itself, its staff, its routines, and rituals are now cut off to you.
But you're still working that same high school job.
It's no longer a summer break in the same sense.
Maybe you're quitting the job at the end of the summer to move to another city to go
to school.
Maybe you're staying there and just transitioning to working as a normal adult.
Maybe you're going to university in the same city, and you can hold onto your job
for a few more years with a modified schedule.
But that final summer feels unique.
It feels like you're in between the identities of high school student and university student.
And I certainly felt that way looking back.
I didn't quite know what life held in store for me next.
I was in the process of shedding my high school life, but that job was one part of that life
that didn't go at graduation.
So in a way, I felt in limbo for that summer.
Arnold van Genep in his 1909 work, Rites of Passage, examined the various rites of passage
found within small-scale societies.
And this is where he first coined the term liminality to refer to that in-between period.
Previous practices and routines must be broken with a metaphorical death.
The rite must be a strict set of actions guided by a master of ceremonies.
The rite being simultaneously rigid and destructive is what allows for significant changes of
the initiate's identity.
After crossing the liminal threshold, the initiate reintegrates into society with a
new identity as a new person.
It's not hard to see these steps represented.
Not only in various primitive or prehistoric rites of passage, but also in their modern
equivalents.
Marriage, the process by which an outsider is brought into the family.
Graduation, the process by which you move from student to alumni.
Birthdays, New Year celebrations, promotions at work, leaving a workplace, moving out of
an apartment.
They all work roughly like this, more or less.
Even in the least serious events, like when you're watching the clock tick down to midnight
for New Year's, there's that single second of apprehension, of realization when the threshold
is crossed.
That feeling is liminality.
And these pictures seem to capture that feeling.
You can feel it when you look at them.
This is a space that's kind of off the map.
It's an in-between.
It's not explicitly spooky, like you shouldn't be here, that you're not welcome.
It's more like nobody's been here for a very long time.
And isn't that exact what the past is?
Somewhere where no one's been for a very long time?
You can get some of these same feelings if you check out screenshots of old video games
too.
Especially if they're games that you loved to death when you were growing up.
Games that you had totally gone beyond just beating, but you mastered them.
100% of them.
Some participated in online fandoms about them.
But even then, how long has it been since you actually played them?
Metroid Prime is one of my favorite games.
I regularly identify it as being on the list of favorite games, and yet, I haven't picked
up in over 10 years.
How long has it been since you played Half-Life, or System Shock, or Morrowind, or Mario 64?
Even as you stopped engaging with the thing, the feelings remained, and you didn't even
notice as the past began to recede.
Liminality is part of the reason why so many things right now are nostalgia bait.
How many old franchises have we seen that have been revived?
Butchered, yes.
But even the rare moment that they're done well, they still evoke this feeling.
How many indie games are coming out that try to look like Super Nintendo games?
Only not really, but how your child's eye remembers the SNES looking.
Or PlayStation 1 games now too.
Nostalgia can be fun, but I think the amount that we indulge in it can be unhealthy.
Even if all the legitimately new stuff people are making right now sucks.
Nostalgia is often used as a tool by people who want to elevate the good old days into
a product that they can sell you.
You can't buy back your childhood, no matter how hard you try.
And yet, nostalgia and liminality are related, but not the same.
To use liminality's terminology, nostalgia is the feeling after you've gone through
the rite of passage, while thinking back fondly about the old you from before.
That's not quite liminality.
It's normal to think back on a previous era of your life and say, yeah, we got up
to some shit, didn't we?
That was a good time.
But it's not normal to obsess over it, to want to desperately go back.
In fact, it's this tendency that I've seen leftoids online say that it's a major
driver for millennials today to become fascists because nostalgia is a gateway to reactionary
thinking.
But this isn't that kind of video.
Also, that's a retarded idea.
Within the past month or so, I had to return to my hometown to visit my parents.
My dad and I worked on the car that Naomi and I had just bought.
I can't do that kind of work here, but my parents' place is more equipped for it.
My parents also needed some help with moving some furniture and a few other jobs that it's
nice to have a young person around for.
My parents are certainly getting older, and every time I see them, they look more and
more dissimilar from what they look like in my head, which is still an image of them
from what I think are my teenage years.
It sounds strange to say, but sometimes you forget that time isn't only marching on
in places that you pay attention to.
A lot of the businesses in my hometown have closed down.
The buildings are boarded up and abandoned.
About one third of my school year never left town.
Another third left and came back.
Some have started families.
Some have become drug addicts.
There's a lot more heroin in the town than there used to be.
There's no local economy or opportunity in these small towns anymore, and it's not
all just COVID-related either.
I went for a walk through the forest that my friends and I used to hang out in as kids.
A bridge across a creek that a friend of a friend's family built was still there, but
it was beginning to rust and hadn't been kept up.
The old trails were still roughly in the same place, but the amount of overgrowth had drastically
changed.
Not surprising.
It had been 20 years since I went back there.
I wanted to show Naomi an abandoned house in the woods that Dave and I and other kids
would hang out in, but we hiked back far enough to discover that all the land had been cleared
out.
I planned to develop it eventually, but the building was gone, and the only thing left
of the trees were just large stacks of logs.
The town feels a lot emptier than it used to, and I don't just mean because of the
old ghosts of people who don't exist anymore.
Not really.
You're not the you you used to be, floating around in my mind anytime I went to a location
that triggered a memory.
And that was pretty much every location.
No, the town is also just emptier.
Less people there in total.
When I was a kid, during summer you could expect to see people walking around.
Even there, despite its small size.
There were regular summer festivals at the local ballpark.
There were playgrounds for kids to play on.
But now the town is largely dead, and a lot of that infrastructure is just decaying.
It's one of those places that time truly has left behind.
Naomi was even surprised that the local grocery store still uses rollers instead of conveyor
belts.
While I was there I had to get some old stuff from my parents place.
It was getting to the point where, if I didn't get it now I wouldn't be getting it at all.
And fair enough.
I've been gone long enough that my parents didn't want to hang on to it anymore.
It was largely junk, which is why I didn't take it with me when I moved out in the first
place.
Some stuff that I kept, either for nostalgia, or because it had actual value, like for example
my old Pokemon card collection.
I also discovered a pile of counterfeit DVDs.
I actually ran a side hustle in school, back when DVD burners were rare as fuck, and nobody
knew how to use computers.
I burned anime shows and TV shows to DVD, and sold them to kids out of my locker.
I even turned online wallpapers into fancy jewel case inserts.
You can even see lines from my family's failing inkjet printer.
I turned a pretty good profit on these.
But eventually they stopped selling, and the excess went into the back of a closet somewhere.
Also among the pile of stuff that was mine was a box of old school work from when I was
a child.
I remember school being exceptionally easy.
I never did homework, and when homework started counting towards grades, I always managed
to finish it before leaving school.
As I got older, I skipped school a fair bit to play video games.
And frankly, I think I learned more from video games than school.
Calculating out level ups or percentage chances to hit or whatever in an RPG had me caring
about math way more than anything I got out of a classroom.
And I certainly learned more about ethics from video games than I did reading pre-teen
novels too.
When I was at school, I would spend more time doodling than doing work.
Not because I was slacking, but because I finished the work really quickly.
Despite my total lack of care, I managed to get perfect or near perfect on everything
until I hit high school.
And in high school, getting regular 90s was not an issue.
I remember thinking when I was very young how stupid the other kids were, because what
the fuck, this stuff was easy guys.
How are you getting low marks?
But I learned very quickly to keep that view and my marks to myself if I wanted to keep
any friends.
And I remember valuing those friends very highly, even though the only one that I still
talked to was Dave.
I was offered the chance to skip ahead in grades on three separate occasions, though
I turned them all down for my friends.
If I had it all to do again I'd take the skip, if only to get out of school faster
those friends ended up not mattering.
I also got a participation award, yeah I wasn't an athlete in grade school, but I did legitimately
come athletic in high school.
However I had a pretty radical shift in my life from sixteen until graduation that caused
me to stop pursuing athletics and most other things.
And during that time I had some insomnia.
Even this though I have fond memories of, staying up late into the night playing video
games or watching shitty kung fu movies at like 3am where the entire town was asleep,
everything was dark, and the only light source is the blue of the TV.
It was, in a way, liminal.
This entire side conversation so far has been like 90% nostalgia.
And it probably sounds like me just wanking off all over you and wasting your time.
Well maybe, but there's actually something here that should tie it back around.
I've often felt that, in a way, I've existed in a liminal space for most of my adult life.
And I don't necessarily mean that negatively, I'm not suffering, I actually love my life.
But after talking with Naomi about it while wandering around the woods, I've come to
realize that my life has a remarkable lack of closure, all things considered.
There's a lot of normal things that people do, markers of life, transitions between eras
and your journey growing up, that I didn't do.
And I remember exactly why I skipped them all.
Because one, my parents forced me to do them when I didn't want to, so when I could get
away with skipping I would.
And two, because my engagement with the system was, for the most part, a gigantic waste of
time.
I always felt like I was never learning anything at school I hadn't already mastered.
I was being told to sit at a desk, to learn math and spelling I already knew, to read
books I had grown out of years earlier, to follow rules that were arbitrarily stupid,
and to hang out with kids I hated, but I had no other option for socialization because
it's a small town, so the best you get is the kid who's an asshole but also likes the
same kind of cookies that you do, and so there's your friendship.
So like I said, when I could skip, I would.
I was always the last one to get photos taken for my parents to buy.
You know, you have to take that big permission envelope home, and then you're told to dress
up that day at school, and then you can order wallet sized or whatever.
I wanted to skip my grade school graduation, but I wasn't allowed.
Same with high school, though the minute I had that diploma in hand I was at the door.
There was no way I was staying for the rest of the ceremony after my parents got the picture
they wanted.
But I did skip my high school prom.
I spent that night playing Tales of Symphonia on the GameCube.
Great game, totally worth it.
During my last year of high school, in fact, I took on a job as the yearbook editor, and
went on to create the worst yearbook the school had seen in 50 years.
Only because the job gave me my own private office, and me and some friends carried up
a couch and hooked up my GameCube to one of those TVs on carts, and we spent the final
year of school playing Smash Brothers and skipping class.
I skipped my university graduation too, didn't care, and I could at that point.
And my most serious relationship, besides Naomi, never officially ended either.
That's too long of a story to get into right now, but the circumstances were such that
I had moved out without ever having that final we're done conversation.
Same with a lot of the friends I didn't like.
There was never a big blowout fight, there was never a reconciliation, there was never
a goodbye, I just left school and didn't look back.
I never really left a job on a bad note either, but most of the times I've moved on.
It always lacked a definitive feeling of moving on, like if it was seasonal work it always
ended on a see you next year kind of thing.
In fact, one business closed down while I was on vacation.
My life is full of stuff like this, where eras of my life never actually ended, they
just faded.
Naomi pointed out that my negative, not actively or violently negative, but more like boring
and time-wasting negative, engagement with most of the normal institutions during, say,
the first 15 years of life, likely caused me to develop an opt-out personality.
If I can skip out and do my own thing, I will, and the easiest things to skip out on are
those formal rites of passage.
You still legally have the diploma even if you don't physically go through the ritual
of wearing the robe and going up and shaking the hand and then sticking around for the
speeches and all the rest of it.
You don't have to go to your graduation.
And looking back on it, I've left a lot of what many people consider to be the most important
moments in a liminal state.
Sometimes I couldn't get closure like with the ex-girlfriend, sometimes I actively avoided
it, but the result is the same.
In all practical ways, I have very little in my past left undone.
But sometimes it doesn't feel like it.
And being a YouTuber seems to be the ultimate liminal job.
I know you guys watch me, I know that you're there, but physically it's just me and the
mic.
I'm by myself.
I think there's liminality inherent in working from home, where the division between home
time and work time is blurred.
I kind of like it that way.
It feels like an ideal zone to be in, to do some writing or reading for example, to be
constantly on the cusp of a transformative process.
But it also has its problems.
Just like how I might enjoy how liminal certain parts of my life has been, there are still
problems related to closure.
And I can induce all of these feelings just by looking at a liminal image.
That being said, this video shouldn't be taken as some kind of nihilistic millennial screed,
nor should anybody really worry about me.
Naomi was right about my opt-out personality, but only half right.
A lot of millennials who are nihilistic and who opt-out, even my contemporaries at school,
did so to get drunk or high or to fuck around with girls.
I didn't.
I spent a lot of time playing video games, yeah.
But I eventually moved on to coding my own video games, or trying to write novels with
every spare moment that I could get.
In fact, I still think I have some of those old projects.
Also in that box of junk, there was my old card game.
Yeah, I got frustrated with Pokemon and Yu-Gi-Oh and ended up making my own game.
It was full of memes and garbage, but I had fun making it.
I had fun making my own rules, and my friends and I had a lot of fun playing it.
I remember being a kid and hearing them be amazed, saying they could never think of making
their own game.
And I was just there thinking, how could you not?
As an adult, I recognize what that opt-out impulse is.
I didn't spend my youth rejecting normal institutions and losing out on the meaning found within
them, though for a long time I thought that's what was going on with me.
What was actually happening was, I was searching for alternative paths of meaning, because
the normal ones weren't cutting it.
And where possible, I was making my own.
I think that's why I want to run my own business and be my own boss, and why I find working
under other people to be absolutely hellish.
And that's what I appreciate about Luminal Spaces.
That's what I feel when I'm there.
Some people feel scared because of their unsettling nature.
Some people feel comforted, reminded of a good moment in their past.
I've felt both of those things too.
But most of the time I feel energized, like this is the zone.
There was no way for me to do this video without sounding like I am up my own ass because I
know my experiences aren't common, and I also know looking back that I was kind of a smarter
than average child.
That reception is unavoidable, so I've just made my peace with it.
I don't actually view myself as better than anybody else, especially not as an adult.
I'm just different.
And also I know this isn't a political video, it's just a topic that I wanted to talk about
for a bit.
We will return to your scheduled politics content tomorrow.
All right, that does it for me.
Have a good one, guys.
I love you.
