And so Bernie Sanders has dropped out of the race.
I mean, we all saw this coming, right?
I think even a lot of the Bernie bros that I follow on Twitter, they kind of saw it coming
too.
Even if you actually believe that Bernie Sanders isn't a straight up Venezuelan-style socialist
or like a tanky or something, you can't deny that his staffers certainly are.
I think we've all seen the Project Veritas leaks at this point, where you've got Bernie
staff simping for the Soviet Union and talking about how the Gulag was actually pretty good.
Crazy stuff, man.
You on head is probably the only Bernie bro that I support.
Is it really a Bernie bro if it's a girl or is it just like a Bernie supporter or something?
Bernie bro's catchy though.
I don't know, maybe she has a penis.
I don't think so, but it's the internet, so you never really know.
But she's the only Bernie bro that I actually respect, at least of the ones that I've seen
so far.
And I do kind of get where she's coming from.
For example, she says, you've changed the conversation forever.
Things you were saying years ago and people were calling you crazy for are now incredibly
popular.
I look forward to the next election where every candidate on stage is trying to do their
best Bernie impression.
And I mean, fair enough, there's certainly an argument to be made for a universal health
care system.
That's a debate you can actually have where there's good points on both sides.
And there's definitely a part of me that thinks that it's a little bit crazy that the United
States doesn't have some kind of, at least a minimum standard of coverage.
But at the same time, Bernie has rubbed me the wrong way, basically ever since he cucked
out to Hillary in 2016.
And I think I know why.
Shue also said this, the first time I voted for Obama, I started off excited and proud.
I didn't even know what a politic was, but I knew blue team good.
I'm only a couple of years older than Shue, I think.
And this definitely describes me in 2004, where it was Bush versus Kerry.
John Kerry had no charisma.
He had no grassroots backing.
He had no viable plan for the future should he actually become president, but it was very
much a blue team good situation.
And back then you could definitely make the argument that the blue team was good.
In 2004, the United States was still struggling with some very obvious things, like gay marriage.
That's just straight up a personal freedoms issue.
And the only arguments against it are religious in nature.
Back during the Bush era, it was the left that stood for personal freedom, and it was
the right that stood for curtailing those freedoms based on primarily religious grounds.
But as I've said in the past few videos, that's not the political dynamic anymore.
The old religious right has largely been swept away.
The new right seems to be much more libertarian leaning, and the left has become a lot more
authoritarian in the past, say, 20 years.
So for me, when Obama came along, it was more than just blue team good.
It was the fact that he was at least saying he was going to try something new, the whole
hope and change thing.
And then as Obama went through his two terms, I kind of realized that whenever a politician
peddles radical change, they're almost always lying to your face.
This includes Obama, and yes, it also includes Bernie.
By contrast, when a politician comes in and advocates for, say, slow and steady incremental
change, done imperfectly but is a small improvement day by day, not only is that a lot more believable,
it's a lot more achievable.
And frankly, maybe I'm just an old man at this point, but I'll take slow and steady
any day.
Which is why I no longer have the attitude of blue team good.
All of my values still align with the core of the left, as it was 20 years ago.
But in terms of United States politics, it's Republicans that represent that more than
Democrats now.
It's very strange, but blue team good just isn't enough anymore.
There's a lot of trending hashtags about it, this one here is Thank You Bernie.
Of course, not all of them are positive, hashtag Biden 2020 just seems to be full of either
Bernie bros complaining about it, for example, everyone ready to vote for their favorite
rapist in November, or alternatively, Democratic shills going blue team good.
Stop being little bitches and start campaigning.
We cannot survive another four years of this shit.
Really.
If you dislike Trump, is the United States actually this dystopian hellscape?
Things seem to be going okay down there.
Of course, you've got dem exit, and you know what, I'm not surprised.
If you want the DNC to learn its lesson, you are going to have to dem exit.
That is just the way this goes now.
You didn't do it in 2016, you still ended up cucking to Hillary, just like Bernie did,
and you can't do it in 2020 if you want there to be actual change in your party.
If for some ridiculous reason, you want the Democratic party to become a socialist party,
you are going to have to hand them a worse defeat than they faced in 2016, because they
still haven't learned the lesson.
And speaking of blue team good, you also have hashtag vote blue no matter who, because it
seems like both the establishment Democrats and the radical left in the United States
still just haven't learned their lesson yet.
Of course, it's always kind of funny to laugh at people who have completely lost their minds.
Joe Biden is now US presidential nominee, meaning the Democrats can never again attack
the Republicans for choosing a lying, senile, racist, war mongering sex offender.
The resistance have shown themselves to be hypocrites in the most astounding way.
As it turns out, the left is just as morally bankrupt as the right when the chips are down.
I don't know how you can justify blue team good at this point.
Facts.
I'm mad Biden is the nominee, I 100% believe the allegations against him.
I wanted someone much more progressive.
Also facts.
Biden or Trump will win.
For progressive legislation down the road, we need blue courts.
If you don't vote for Biden, you're in the way.
I thought you wanted a revolution.
I thought you wanted to upend the system.
If you're not willing to actually burn everything down, maybe you should stop playing at it.
Because do you know what it'll take to actually get the DNC to change long term?
Losing so hard, they don't come back for a full generation.
But it seems like you're not willing to do that because you want blue courts.
Well, you're not going to get them this way.
Wow, I'm heartbroken about Bernie.
In all this darkness, he made me believe that people together could be the light.
He continues to be an inspiration, and he'll never stop fighting for us.
Thank you, Bernie.
For me, you're right up there with Mr. Rogers.
Sarah Silverman, you know that Bernie's not dead, right?
Like most revolutionaries, you are ahead of your time.
And despite resistance from the most powerful people in America, you never stop fighting
for real change.
You have ushered in a new progressive era, and the fight for justice will go on.
As it turns out, most of the electorate doesn't want revolution.
They want incremental improvement.
Real change comes day by day, slowly building it.
One brick at a time.
I know Americans have this romanticism about revolutions, because, frankly, their country
was founded on a successful one.
But their country was founded on one of the only successful ones.
Most revolutions fail, guys, you have to understand that.
violently turning the whole system on its head doesn't actually create anything stable?
I can't believe I have to be saying this.
And I think most people at least kind of understand this, so Bernie's revolutionary talk just
seems to have alienated a good chunk of the electorate.
I love going back to this Sky City guy, because he seems to be absolutely insane.
Bernie Sanders was my hero before Jeremy Corbyn.
He really ignited the socialist spark in me.
My dream would be for Corbyn and Sanders to start a transatlantic socialist movement with
new political parties.
But alas, I fear both will remain loyal to the corrupt Dems and Labour.
Well, Bernie's gone.
Jeremy Corbyn's gone.
Trudeau is facing some serious trouble up here.
Let's hope this is the end of socialism.
19th century economic philosophy, trying to solve industrial revolution era problems,
problems that have already been solved by modern capitalism, by the way, needs to stay
in the dustbin of history as a failed theory.
Leave communism and socialism in the 20th century, along with Nazism and fascism, as
the failed murderous experiments that they are.
But of course, we're going down the road of delusion again, aren't we?
Now that Biden's got the nomination, it seems like he's projected to win the presidency.
Of course he is.
Polling numbers show Biden with 351 delegates to Trump's 187.
Yeah, I'm sure this is how November 2020 will go.
The Dems are literally doing the exact same thing again, and they don't seem to understand
that at least some of Bernie's support comes from the fact that he's outside the political
system in the same way that Trump is.
15% of Sanders supporters will vote for Trump if Biden is the nominee.
I mean, 80 would still back Biden, but that still means that 15% of people that wanted
Bernie are going to go Trump instead of Biden.
That's not an insignificant amount.
And let's be honest, it's completely predictable.
This 2017 article from Newsweek titled, Bernie Sanders Voters Help Trump Win and Here's
Proof, goes through some of the stats and basically determines that 12% of Bernie supporters
were only supporters of Bernie because they were anti-establishment and therefore ended
going up Trump over Hillary.
It's no surprise to me that the same thing would happen to Biden.
Do you recall back in, I think it was 2012, maybe 2000, I think it was 2012 though, when
the Republicans just kept losing to Obama and Obama's mandate seemed to be quite secure.
It was Rachel Maddow who basically made fun of them and basically said that the Republicans
keep trying their old failed shtick and they keep losing.
Even without Florida being decided, we now know that President Obama won in pretty much
exactly the way the state by state polls said he was going to win.
He won with more than 300 electoral votes.
It was not magic.
It was just math, math that was completely invisible to the political right.
Yes, that's right.
No that's not.
Wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong.
But Republicans and conservatives plainly really believed this stuff.
I mean, they were talking each other into it a little bit, but it's not like they were
faking it.
They were so, so, so, so, so, so sure they would win.
They were so sure that these polls must be wrong and that they must be right.
And when the real math of the real world came barreling out of the dark at them last night,
they hid from it.
They could not believe it.
Ohio really did go to President Obama last night and he really did win.
And he really was born in Hawaii.
And he really is legitimately president of the United States, again.
And the Bureau of Labor Statistics did not make up a fake unemployment rate last month.
And the Congressional Research Service really can find no evidence that cutting taxes on
rich people grows the economy.
And the polls were not skewed to oversample Democrats.
And Nate Silver was not making up fake projections about the election to make conservatives feel
bad.
Nate Silver was doing math.
And climate change is real.
And rape really does cause pregnancy sometimes.
And evolution is a thing.
And Benghazi was an attack on us.
It was not a scandal by us.
And nobody is taking away anyone's guns.
And taxes have not gone up.
And the deficit is dropping, actually.
And Saddam Hussein did not have weapons of mass destruction.
And the moon landing was real.
And FEMA is not building concentration camps.
And U.N. election observers are not taking over Texas.
And moderate reforms of the regulations on the insurance industry and the financial services
industry in this country are not the same thing as communism.
Listen, last night was a good night for liberals and for Democrats for very obvious reasons.
But it was also possibly a good night for this country as a whole.
Because in this country, we have a two-party system in government.
And the idea is supposed to be that the two sides both come up with ways to confront and
fix the real problems facing our country.
They both propose possible solutions to our real problems.
And we debate between those possible solutions.
And by the process of debate, we pick the best idea.
That competition between good ideas from both sides about real problems in the real country
should result in our country having better choices, better options than if only one side
is really working on the hard stuff.
And if the Republican Party and the conservative movement and the conservative media is stuck
in a vacuum-sealed door-locked spin cycle of telling each other what makes them feel
good and denying the factual lived truth of the world, then we are all deprived as a nation
of the constructive debate between competing, feasible ideas about real problems.
Last night, the Republicans got shellacked, and they had no idea it was coming.
And we saw them in real time, in a real humiliating time, not believe it even as it was happening
to them.
And unless they are going to secede, they are going to have to pop the factual bubble
they have been so happy living inside if they do not want to get shellacked again.
And that will be a painful process for them, I'm sure.
But it will be good for the whole country, left, right, and center.
You guys, we're counting on you.
Wake up.
There's real problems in the world.
There are real, knowable facts in the world.
Let's accept those and talk about how we might approach our problems differently.
Let's move on from there.
If the Republican Party and the conservative movement and conservative media are forced
to do that by the humiliation they were dealt last night, we will all be better off as a
nation.
Now, Rachel Maddow isn't actually smart enough to understand that this is the exact
same thing happening to the Democrats right now.
Rather than four more years of stamping your feet, screaming orange man bad, talking about
how everyone who doesn't vote for your candidate is a racist or whatever, you need to figure
out what's actually going wrong, or you will keep losing.
The Republicans are all but guaranteed to win 2020, and if the Democrats don't have
some humility about this, the Republicans are going to win 2024 as well.
