Geographically speaking, South Korea should be poor.
Fractionally larger than the state of Indiana, South Korea isn't big, and unlike Indiana,
it's not agriculturally productive.
The nation is rugged and steep to the extent that only 22% of its land is actually arable.
Worse still, this rocky disposition doesn't make up for its agricultural shortcomings
through any sort of mineral wealth.
South Korea has coal, but not much, as it ranks 49th globally in proven reserves—far
behind even its dirt-poor neighbor to the north.
And perhaps most problematic is the fact that the country's 81st in the world in natural
gas reserves and is tied dead last in oil with none at all.
And all of these are only the domestic challenges.
Zoom out from the Rocky Peninsula and the region's a who's who of past and present
powerhouses.
Squeezed through history by empires around it and limited natural resources, South Korea
should be poor.
But it's not—it's rich.
By nominal GDP, South Korea has the 10th largest economy in the world—a fact that has much
to do with a single company.
Before there was a republic of Korea, and before there was a war to define the economic
doctrine of Korea, there was a grocery-trading shop in the southern city of Daegu that dealt
in fish and noodles and went by the name of Samsung.
While the shop's owner, Lee Byung-chui, couldn't have known it in 1938, his business
would soon serve as the backbone of one of the most dramatic economic transformations
of the 20th century—what economists would come to call the Miracle on the Han River.
Now, Miracle is a bit of a misnomer.
Ultimately, what took South Korean GDP from here to here, on 100-fold growth over 40 years,
was extraordinary but also explainable.
It was a function of successful long-term planning combining forces with savvy opportunists.
It was also, in part, a function of the fact that in 1950, South Korea nearly ceased to
exist at all.
By August of that year, South Korean forces had little land left to defend after the communist
north had taken all but this corner of the peninsula.
From a southern perspective, it was the bleakest point in the war.
But war, and South Korea's reversal of fortunes in the years that followed, created opportunity.
In the midst of the Korean War's wreckage, Lee pivoted.
In 1953, with leftover Japanese colonial assets selling for cents on the dollar, and much
of South Korea's already meager industrial infrastructure in ruin, Lee launched Choe
Jidang, a sugar refinery, then, in the year following, Choe Majik, a wool mill, both under
what could now be considered the Samsung Group.
For Lee, it was a logical progression, as South Koreans desperately needed everyday
products and food while South Korea's first president, Syngman Rhee, had begun funneling
international aid to allied industrialists in hopes of reducing reliance on imports.
Rhee's government funded the construction of facilities and the importation of raw sugar
for Lee's new projects and soon, with few to compete with in a war-torn nation and after
a few timely expansions, the Samsung Group became the nation's fourth largest borrower.
With cozy political connections and a stronghold over critical industry, the Samsung Group
took off.
In the years that followed, it acquired An Kook Fire and Marine Insurance and Cho Hung
Bank while also becoming a major shareholder in four other banks.
Less than a decade after acquiring that first sugar refinery, Samsung was the peninsula's
most powerful conglomerate, and Lee's net worth was estimated to represent 19% of all
South Korean wealth.
The company had burst into a massive success.
The problem was, while South Korea had distributed Western recovery funds and done away with
feudal land practices, South Koreans were still poor and the country was still overwhelmingly
agricultural and underdeveloped—issues that came to a head when the military overthrew
Rhee's government in 1961.
South Korea's economic rise began under a new leader—Park Chung-hee.
With a laser-like focus on expanding industrial exports and maximizing South Korea's human
capital, GDP growth shot skyward, only dipping under 9% annually on three occasions from
1963 to 1978.
Driving this growth more than anything were the conglomerates.
While Park had publicly stated plans of crushing Korean monopolies that rose through shady
dealings in the post-war period during his rise to power, his presidency took a different
approach.
Rather than breaking the conglomerates up, he assigned them the exportation era's most
critical task—getting Korean-made goods to the wider world.
With the government providing cheap steel, a plethora of subsidies, lenient loans, and
tax breaks to major manufacturers, the likes of Samsung, LG, Hyundai, and SK Group did
just that, expanding vertically and horizontally.
These family-controlled, government-aided corporate groups came to be known as Chapels—a
term that entered common Korean parlance during the 60s and 70s as the institutions grew.
In the 70s and 80s, Chapels dominated, pulling the South Korean economy up as they pushed
their products out to the world.
Samsung launched TVs, then semiconductors, then mobile phones for export.
Hyundai sold cars on the international market, and LG opened up a factory in Huntsville,
Alabama.
Though South Korean citizens came to argue over the role of Chapels in politics and society,
what wasn't up for debate was the remarkably positive impacts they had on everyday standards
of life.
Life expectancy doubled from 1950 to 1990, while infant mortality cratered to less than
a tenth of what it was at the war's end.
All the while, Chapels showed no sign of slowing.
Through the turn of the century, South Korea's GDP continued to grow, and even with the death
of Yibongchui in 1987, Samsung continued to expand globally and dominate domestically
under the guidance of his son, Yikong He.
Today, just seven decades on from the company's prescient pivot, South Korea is Samsung, and
Samsung is South Korea.
For the average resident, it's a relationship with a corporation as deep as that with the
government itself, perhaps best demonstrated through a single, eye-popping statistic.
Year after year, just about 20% of the entire nation's GDP is made up of Samsung Group
revenue.
The only single entity that can rival that is the South Korean government, whose spending
typically makes up 20-25% of GDP.
This staggering degree of economic concentration makes even the most extreme examples in the
rest of the world appear routine.
Japan's biggest company, Toyota, accounts for about 5% of GDP, while the US's, Walmart,
sits at just 2.5%.
An entire fifth of an economy being attributed to a single company, especially a single company
controlled by a single family in a major, advanced, diversified economy is absolutely
unparalleled, even at a global scale.
Undoubtedly, this exceptional centrality permeates into everyday life.
Young people, and especially their parents, tend to fixate on the singular path towards
becoming the so-called Samsung Man.
It's considered the pinnacle of success to have passed all the academic and social
hurdles necessary to be deemed worthy to work at the country's largest company, and therefore
this idealistic vision is encapsulated across South Korean society.
Characters in pursuit of a position of the company even borders on cliché as a plot
point in the country's film and television.
Just as American youth might fixate on moving to LA to make it into Hollywood or living
in New York to break into big business, Korean kids prepare their entire childhood to apply
for the opportunity to pack into testing centers along with 100,000 others to take the bi-annual
Samsung Aptitude Test, hoping to score high enough to get recruiters' attention.
Hundreds of thousands won't even be allowed to take the test, then all but a few thousand
won't advance past it, leaving legions of disappointed youth who move on to the next
layer in the social hierarchy of careers, working for the smaller, lesser chables like
Hyundai or LG.
For those that don't succeed there, they move on to the country's small and medium-sized
employers—a fact they will try to hide from extended family and friends due to its
characterization as failure.
This centrality of focus can perhaps be attributed partially to the extent that Samsung has permeated
into South Korean life.
When you buy a smartphone in South Korea, you buy it from Samsung.
When you need life insurance in South Korea, you purchase a policy with Samsung.
When you take the ferry in South Korea, you step onto a ship built by Samsung.
When you go to the theme park in South Korea, you once again pay your money to Samsung.
This convoluted, seemingly scattershot structure of the conglomerate is reflective of the way
that Samsung has followed and captured opportunity wherever it exists through history, and has
actually been a critical factor in the Yi family's continued grip on power.
Today, there are 59 major Samsung affiliate companies, although, like many aspects of
Samsung's ownership structure, this is a soft, subjective definition, as so much of
the way in which controls held across the empire is soft and subjective.
But let's say there were just two affiliates—one of which wholly owned by the Yi family, one
of which wholly owned by outside investors—both worth $50 million, respectively.
Now, most major business decisions are settled with a simple majority, meaning to approve
a budget for the next year, for example, just 50% worth of shareholders plus one needs to
vote affirmatively.
So that's to say, 49.9% of the Yi family ownership in the first affiliate is effectively
worthless from a control perspective, at least for most decisions.
So what they could do is sell that 49.9%, buy 49.9% of the other affiliate, then use
a tiny bit of extra cash to get up to 50% plus one ownership of both affiliates.
It's essentially the same amount of money invested, but two companies under Yi family
control instead of one.
But now using their control of both of these companies, they could instruct each to use
annual operating profit to buy up 50% plus one ownership in a third affiliate, rather
than paying it back to themselves and the other owners, which would be subject to income
tax, and while they wouldn't directly own the third affiliate, they would control it
because they control the first two affiliates, which control the third.
And even then, while 50% plus one ownership is technically needed for control, in practice
it's often overkill as it only becomes relevant in a case of complete dissent by every other
investor, which is rare, especially when one has generated the degree of cult of personality
that the Yi family has.
So the Yi family might only need 30 or 40% direct or indirect control of a given affiliate
if another 10 or 20% is owned by trustworthy, allied, outside investors.
Through the decades, these and other systems have compounded to create this—a scattered,
convoluted web of ownership that can confuse even the savviest financial analysts, but
ultimately result in what matters to the Yi family most.
They need control of the entire empire.
But these structures are tenuous, especially when someone dies.
South Korea has one of the highest inheritance taxes in the world—50%.
That means that 50% of the value of assets goes to the government when they're passed
from one generation to the next.
Therefore, if Lee Kong-hee, for example, passed $5 billion in shares to his son, Lee Jae-yong,
the heir would have to find some $2.5 billion to pay the government, which he likely could
only do by selling $2.5 billion worth of shares—therefore losing the voting power that they bestow.
This hypothetical started to feel far more concrete in May of 2014 due to this—the
heart attack of Lee Kong-hee.
The chairman survived, but only barely.
As he sat comatose in a hospital bed at the Samsung Medical Center for days, weeks, months,
and eventually years, his children were thrown into a power struggle as they used the time
to craft a plan that would keep Samsung in family control after paying inheritance taxes
upon their father's inevitable and seemingly impending death.
This was difficult, the numbers were tough, and so it required some creativity—perhaps
too much.
Two of the most critical links in the e-family ownership web were Samsung Construction and
Trading, or CNT, and Choi Industries—each of which, as two of the oldest Samsung affiliates,
acted primarily as de facto holding companies of sorts.
But e-family control of CNT, and therefore electronics, engineering, chemicals, and the
other affiliates partially owned by CNT, was fading as outside, increasingly hostile investors
continued to buy in.
If Lee Kong-hee never awoke from his coma, the 50% inheritance tax would be a death blow,
and the house of cards would crumble.
Therefore, a plan.
They'd merge CNT and Choi.
While quantifying their control of each is difficult due to the extent of their soft,
informal control, what's important to note is that e-control of Choi was much stronger
than that of CNT, so what would make the restructuring productive for them would be if it overvalued
Choi and undervalued CNT so that post-merger, they'd effectively end up with more relative
control over the new combined de facto holding company, and therefore more control over the
entire empire without having spent a cent.
So they proposed exactly that—an objectively bad deal.
One CNT share would convert to 0.35 Choi shares.
CNT shareholders, and specifically its largest, American hedge fund Elliott, started campaigning
against the merger, arguing that Choi was objectively worth about $3.42 billion, but
a merger ratio of 0.35 inflated its value to $4.08 billion, effectively gifting hundreds
of millions of dollars in value to the ease straight from the pockets of CNT shareholders.
It was an unbelievably good deal for the family, but they couldn't do it alone.
Unlike most business decisions, which the e-family could directly control through their
de facto simple majority, mergers and acquisitions require supermajority approval of two-thirds
of shareholders.
They could get most of the way there themselves, but to push it over the edge, they needed
to convince CNT shareholders to vote against their own interests.
But there was one whale.
The single largest outside shareholder, with 11.6% of ownership, was the South Korean National
Pension Service, which was run by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which was run by the
South Korean government, which at the time was run by President Park Geun-hye.
That's to say, if they could get to President Park, she might be able to get to the pension
service.
Conveniently, they had a backdoor—long-time Park confidant and daughter of an influential
cult leader Choi Sun-si.
It was an open secret among South Korea's power brokers that Choi, despite holding no
official position in Park's government, exerted deep influence over the President's
decision-making—even to the extent of picking out outfits, editing speeches, and making
specific policy propositions.
On the surface, Choi worked as the owner of an Italian restaurant in Seoul's Ritsi Gangam
neighborhood, but politicians and businesspeople were often seen walking up to the third floor,
to her office, where she solicited donations for two nonprofits she had set up—the Mir
and K Sports Foundations, supposedly dealing with cultural exchanges and sports-related
projects, but in practice acting as the top of the funnel in a complex, globe-spanning,
money laundering scheme.
Samsung, at the direction of E.J.
Young, donated a combined $36 million to Choi's foundations, and while still little is known
about the specific inner workings, soon after, the state pension fund voted in favor of C&T
and Choi's merger, the measure passed, the two companies combined, and the E family shored
up control of the Samsung empire into the next generation.
Of course, we now know about this.
We know how Park influenced the pension fund, we know how Choi influenced Park, and we know
how E.J.
Young influenced Choi.
Clearly, the secret was built, a massive scandal erupted, Park was impeached and jailed, E.J.
Young was indicted and jailed, but today, everything's pretty much back to normal.
Park was pardoned and freed in 2021, then one year later, so too was E.J.
Young, and as of October 27th, 2022, following the death of his father in 2020 after years
in that hospital bed, E.J.
Young was appointed chairman of the Samsung group.
Social order was returned.
The E family power was maintained.
This is a familiar refrain.
In fact, E.J.
Young's legal troubles are practically a mirror image of his father's from a decade
before.
Lee Kun-hee was sentenced to three years in jail in 2008 for, among other things, bribery,
but only one year later was pardoned by the President so that he could remain on the International
Olympic Committee and shepherd South Korea's bid for the 2018 Games through.
While that was the publicly stated reason, Lee Kun-hee was later revealed to have used
bribery to convince the President to pardon him for his bribery charges.
Later justifications were used in summer 2022 with the pardon of E.J.
Young.
Samsung, South Korean business groups, and even the US Chamber of Commerce had been lobbying
for years for a pardon, and while on parole, Lee still acted as de facto leader of Samsung,
even meeting with President Biden in May 2022.
So two months on, President Jung-seok Yoy justified Lee's pardon in a straightforward
manner, saying that, as the only realistic family heir to the Samsung chairmanship, his
leadership was necessary to guide the country's largest company as both recovered from the
COVID-19 pandemic.
This justification isn't that far-fetched.
While undoubtedly unfair, considering the sheer degree of economic influence Samsung
has on South Korea, it might be pragmatic.
The ends might genuinely justify the means.
But it does perpetuate the cycle that seemingly cannot be broken.
South Korea, and especially South Korean politicians, cannot survive without Samsung.
But to an extent, Samsung can survive without South Korea.
It can always restructure, relocate, and refocus away from the nation in the long term.
This power structure of enterprise above nation is inherent to a situation where such a large
company exists in such a small country, but it's hard to believe it's tenable.
Companies can't run countries, and public dissent towards Samsung is growing in younger
generations, lacking the sympathy borne from viewing the company's integral role in the
nation's ascent, are increasingly fighting back against the cronyism and corruption.
It's tough to know which house of cards will crumble first.
Will it be the convoluted ownership structure that keeps the Lee family in control, or will
it be the tenuous power balance between Samsung and South Korea, knocked down by the very
people that make up the entirety of both venerable institutions?
For those of you that have demonstrated that you like this type of video by staying till
the end, I have some suggestions on what to watch next that I'm sure you'll like.
First I'd start with Polymatter's excellent series China Actually, which demystifies how
one of the world's most consequential countries really works by answering questions like why
China won't abandon its zero-COVID policies, and how the nation manages to survive without
essentially any major international allies.
Then I'd watch the episode of RealLifeLore's series Modern Conflicts on the Korean conflict
in the 21st century—it provides amazing insight into what's kept the tenuous peace,
and how that could crumble and threaten major multinationals like Samsung.
Both of these series, and far, far more, are exclusive to Nebula, which is no surprise
considering Polymatter, RealLifeLore, myself, and loads of other creators teamed up, founded
Nebula, and designed it from the ground floor to be the best home to the stuff we make.
Over 50,000 Wendover viewers have believed that enough to sign up so far, but to explain
to those of you who haven't, the idea behind Nebula was to remove many of the perverse
incentives that compromises video quality on ad-supported platforms like YouTube.
By putting it behind a paywall, we're incentivized as creators to make the absolute best videos
that will keep you all subscribed, rather than incentivized to just make the videos
that will make you click and zone out.
We use these subscription fees to pay to run the service, to provide ongoing revenue to
Nebula creators, and to fund our big-budget Nebula originals, which allows creators to
pursue their big, ambitious passion projects, which has led to some really good stuff, including
all of these made by the Wendover team.
Of course, even while being a good deal for the creators, we also want it to be a good
deal for you all, our audience, and it really is thanks to our partnership with CuriosityStream.
You see, they're an entirely different streaming service with a huge catalog of non-fiction
shows and documentaries like David Attenborough's Light on the Earth about the amazing world
of bioluminescent animals.
They're running a deal where by subscribing to any of their memberships at CuriosityStream.com
slash Wendover, they'll give you a Nebula subscription for free for as long as you stay
subscribed.
They've even discounted their annual plan to under $15 a year, which means you get two
streaming sites, both of which have great stuff that you'll actually watch, for less
than you'd probably pay for a month of one of the big streamers, and even while doing
that, you'll be helping support hundreds of independent creators that you probably
already watch.
So click the button on screen or head over to CuriosityStream.com slash Wendover to sign
up, and thanks in advance for your support.
