What's up guys, Dev here.
Welcome to TikTok Tuesday once again.
For those of you who actually do watch TikTok Tuesday
and don't skip these videos,
because, I mean, they are kind of trash,
I'm going to give you guys a sneak peek,
a hint at the upcoming content.
I've spent a good chunk of today working on a script
for the Skullgirls censorship controversy.
Now, a lot of channels have talked about this, right?
I think V has talked about it.
Sid Alpha's talked about it.
Affabend's talked about it.
A whole bunch of these culture war channels
have talked about Skullgirls getting censored.
And I figured since I'm trying to work
through some writer's block,
that would be a pretty easy topic for me to tackle.
I'll quickly whip up like a 10 minute video
and put it out and we'll be on our way.
But as I began researching for it,
I found a whole bunch of stuff,
a completely new angle
that most people aren't really talking about.
And I was like, oh my God,
this story goes way further
than just censoring old problematic content
for a modern audience
by a bunch of new woke game developers
who took the IP from the original creators.
No, no, no, no.
That's actually surface level.
My tiny 10 minute script turned
into a Skullgirls deep dive
and that'll be something that you guys will see soon.
But for now, your TikToks.
Let's roll them.
Know your local fascists.
We keep us, is it like publicly available?
Oh, and it's just like everyone's docs.
Okay, let's see what it says here.
A list of prominent bigots transphobes
working to advanced, advanced white Christian nationalism.
You could at least spell check this, you know.
But okay, this group is apparently,
I don't know what city this is,
but they're putting out a booklet
where you can see the people
that they call bigots and transphobes
who live in the area.
This is more of the apprehensible.
This will be used by some extremist as a hit list.
One, who the fuck even says these people
are actually bigots or transphobes
or Christian nationalists?
And two, they shouldn't be randomly attacked
in the street, even if they are.
This is simply a political hit list.
The publishing of this book
should be treated as a call to violence.
Also, I like how the first person they flip to
isn't even a white person.
Good job.
Good job, you fucking retards.
What is this?
Just eating a burger.
Oh, were they like vegan activists or something?
That has to be it, hold on.
Let's watch that again.
He's eating like a chicken burger.
Yeah, they gotta be vegan activists or something
doing this sort of like sit-down protest.
Yeah, look at how this person's looking at him.
It's like, how dare you?
How dare you eat a chicken burger in my vicinity?
That's pretty good.
That's a pretty good troll.
This one's called Portland Core.
Oh, here we go.
This the inside of a subway?
Hey, you left your backpack, sir.
No, I know I did.
Give me my sandwich.
I need you to take your backpack in, please, please.
Give me my sandwich.
Give me my sandwich, bitch.
Give me my sandwich, you fucking bitch.
Do you think he was holding a gun?
Like, yeah, that guy.
Sir, I need you to take yours.
Give me my sandwich, bitch.
Please.
Give me my sandwich, bitch.
Give me my sandwich, bitch.
What the fuck?
Give me my shit, bitch.
That's a knocked over chip display.
Did he knock that over when he was here before?
Okay, take the chips, please leave.
No, I need you to give me my fucking shit, bitch.
Oh my God.
How about that, bitch?
You think I'm stupid?
Drugs, not even once, guys.
Holy shit.
Oh, the cops got him.
What a fucking rude.
Yeah, man, fuck that guy.
Hey, man, like I said in my Portland video,
get the fuck out of there.
Inner city drug users are no joke.
I mean, that guy kind of was.
All he did was knock a few stands over.
That's kind of annoying, but it wasn't really dangerous.
He could have been, I guess,
but he ended up just being a fucking loser.
Still, these people are degenerates.
Oh, another smash and grab.
Looks like they're breaking into a jewelry store this time.
Yeah, yeah.
You got to redistribute the goods to the community, guys.
That's what's going on.
Oh, why'd you turn it sideways, dude?
Come on.
That's what's going on here, though.
It's for the good of the whole community.
This is expropriation, guys.
They need these jewels, you know what I mean?
I hate fucking looting at this point.
I've seen so many goddamn looting videos
and like shop listing videos, Christ.
This can't continue indefinitely.
Like either these stores pull out
and let these places rot or they start having security
or they start having police
and the police got to arrest people who were doing this.
You can't live like this in perpetuity.
Why would companies just keep throwing money
into a pit like this where everything keeps getting stolen?
These people are destroying the social fabric
of the places in which they live.
He's just saying he doesn't want a girl
who has dude friends and posts thirst traps.
Wow, so abusive.
It's wild to me that this has been normalized.
Yes, trying to control who your partner can
and cannot be friends with is controlling
abusive, unacceptable behavior.
In those texts, he was saying,
not only can you not be friends with men,
but you can't be friends with women
that I deem troubled or a bad influence.
Yeah, this is Jonah Hill things, okay.
This is like paternalistic behavior.
Who gives you the right to determine
who your partner gets to be friends with?
Listen, listen, it's part of being
in a fucking relationship, honey.
That's just how it is, you know what?
There are certain restrictions I place on my girlfriend.
There are certain restrictions she places on me in turn.
It's almost like you think this should only go one way
because you're an empowered woman and men are oppressors.
It's okay to want your girlfriend to not have dude friends
because, you know, who knows what it could turn into.
No, no, that same logic can then lead to,
well, it's okay to not want your girlfriend
to go out at night without you
because who knows what that could lead to.
You need to trust your partner,
trust your partner and not try to control them.
And this same logic, by the way,
leads to bisexual women being told in abusive relationships
that they can't have any friends
because whether it's a female friend or a male friend,
who knows what that could lead to.
It is so concerning to me that we have come to a point
culturally where people think it's acceptable
to control your partner's friendships.
It is entirely acceptable to have boundaries
with your partner and you know what?
If they don't wanna follow them, they can just leave.
It's not like Jonah was beating this chick
to try to keep her around.
He said, listen, I have certain things that I want.
If you can't do them, that's fine.
No hate against you, just not what I'm looking for.
That's fine, having a standard is okay.
Now, in terms of the thirst traps,
I feel like if you want to be with someone
that values like modesty and that doesn't believe
in posting thirst traps online,
then you should find someone from the get-go
that shares those values with you.
The thing with Jonah Hill is that he literally
was sliding into her DMs, like heart eyeing her photos
of her in a bikini on a surfboard,
which by the way, they were not thirst traps.
She's a professional surfer and they were just photos
of her like existing in a bathing suit.
Existing, fuck this, this person's a fucking retard.
Okay, listen, listen, listen, listen, all right?
It is completely reasonable to like see a hot girl
who posts certain photos of herself.
You're attracted to that, you start dating her.
And then after the relationship gets going,
you're like, hey, listen, about those like pictures
that you're posting, I actually don't want you
to do that anymore now that we're together.
It's like, yes, you can actually do that.
Yes, you can.
It is 100% normal and reasonable for someone to say,
yeah, I know that you acted in a certain way
before we started dating, but now that we're dating,
you can't act that way anymore.
Relationships are necessarily restrictive.
You negotiate the restrictions, but there are restrictions.
You restrict your behavior for the benefit
of your partner and vice versa.
Now he thinks that he has the right to ask her
to delete all those photos and change her entire lifestyle.
So this is some distorted toxic ass thinking.
This is, this is just fucking stupid.
Sorry guys, I got a, I got a halls
in the middle of that one because it was so long
and boring and also I have a sore throat coming on.
But yeah, this is just really fucking dumb.
It's not abusive to ask your girlfriend
to stop posting lewd pictures of herself online,
even if she posted lewd pictures
of herself before you started dating her.
Now you can say that maybe Jonah Hill should have known
what he was getting into, maybe,
but we don't gotta talk about him specifically
because I covered that in a previous video.
In a more general sense, yes, there is a number
of reasonable restrictions that you can introduce
to a partner after you started dating them,
where it's like, yep, you know what?
You did X, Y, Z before I started dating you,
but now that we're dating, you can't do X, Y, Z anymore.
And if those restrictions don't jive with you,
then you leave them and you're not compatible.
But it's not abusive to have restrictions.
That's just not how this works.
These people think that women should just be free
to do anything they want.
I've even heard that like guys complaining
that their girls cheated on them as abusive.
No man, that's a sacrifice of a relationship.
If you can't handle it, don't get in one.
Hey Wendy's boy, wait, what the fuck are you doing?
Just jump into the fish tank?
Oh my God.
Oh, you moron.
You fucking idiot.
The lengths that people will go to to go viral.
That's right.
I want to be known as the guy who wore the Wendy's shirt
and then jumped into the aquarium.
Yeah, I'm that guy.
Guys, follow me on Instagram.
Fuck.
What the fuck?
I'm awake lady.
Okay.
Jesus.
Guys, I feel like at this point,
the joke is on me now, isn't it?
It's like, let's send Dev the dumbest shit we can.
Here's just some random retard
acting like a moron in public.
Let's just send that to Dev
so he can like groan at the state of humanity.
Is that where the show is devolved into?
Okay, kiddos, that was TikTok Tuesday for another week.
Thanks very much for all your contributions.
Thanks for being here.
And yes, new videos coming soon.
They're coming, I promise.
I'm working on them.
You will see the fruits of my labor eventually.
Thanks for sticking with me, guys.
I will see you next time.
Have a good one.
I love you.
