In the Western world, we've got two predominant views on ethics, deontology, where the morality
of an action is based on if the action is right or wrong under a set of rules, and consequentialism,
where the morality of an action is based on if the action produces a good outcome. Put simply,
it's good is good rules versus good is good ends. The most obvious example of deontological ethics
is a religious code, and due to this, deontological ethics is considered by a lot of fedora tippers
and neckbeard growers to exclusively be the domain of uneducated quasi-religious dumb hicks.
And there's some truth to this view for sure. If you're a 75 IQ pleb just trying to get by in
life with no understanding aptitude or desire to learn about ethical philosophy, it's probably a
lot easier for someone to tell you that there's a simple enough set of rules to follow to get a
mostly good life. You know, say your prayers and eat your vitamins kind of stuff. The practical
function religion serves for most people is a way to be ethical enough to fit into society
without having to think about it too hard. And that's a big help for those people who
aren't thinking about it. It's for this reason that excuses to violate a deontological code are
a lot less persuasive than they otherwise would appear to be. The obvious problem with this view
is what do you do when the rules you're following are actually bad rules? Or how do you recognize a
rule is bad at all if the source of morality is the rules themselves? The flaw here is that there
can be an inability to update the morals when they need to be updated. In the face of that flaw,
it's hard to argue with a consequentialist critique of religion or culture. Screw the
rules, they hold us back. Goodness comes from a good result. That's a very appealing argument.
Who doesn't want good ends? Who doesn't want the world to be better? And who wouldn't do the hard
but necessary work to make it happen? It makes sense that if an action's outcome creates goodness
but is still against some law or rule, shouldn't we do the action anyway? Shouldn't that law or
rule be updated or discarded as not being congruent with the new reality? Considering
it like this, I am not surprised at all that the internet's favorite pseudo-intellectuals
are all consequentialists, to the point that they use deontology like a slur. But if it
sounds like I'm simping for consequentialism, I'm not. Consequential ethics forms the core
justification of every utopian ideology and underpins the logic of both Marxism and fascism.
If you can identify equality as having infinite value, then you can commit any number of
atrocities to obtain that value, and your ethical calculations will still come out in the green.
What does it matter if you kill six million Jews if the end result is that you create a
thousand-year Reich? What does it matter if you collectivize all property and purge any who resist
you as reactionaries if the end result is you create the stateless, classless, moneyless society
and bring about the end of history? If the final end is good enough, you can justify any number of
smaller bad ends along the way, because the ethical calculation will ultimately still turn
up positive. Which brings us to the topic of consent. Let me ask you this question. It's
going to seem obvious, but bear with me. Why is rape bad? The deontological answer to this question
is easy enough, assuming you subscribe to a set of rules that defines rape as bad. But that's not
a satisfying answer, is it? Rape is bad because it's bad? I mean, yes, but that still doesn't
explain it. At the same time, what is the consequentialist answer to this question?
Well, firstly, you'll quickly discover that it's actually deontological. In fact,
all of consequentialist ethics is deontological if you dig deeply enough. Here's a great example.
Take the question, should we kill gay people for being gay? You and I will likely say no,
we shouldn't. But a radical Islamist who wants to see Sharia law implemented on everybody worldwide
will say yes, of course. And consequentialist thinking can justify both positions. We can say,
well, killing gay people is a bad end. We're violating their rights. Death and suffering is
bad, etc. And the radical Islamists can say, well, killing gay people is a good end,
one less sinner on earth. God's will has been enforced, etc, etc. It turns out,
in any consequentialist calculation, what constitutes good ends is ultimately derived
by a previously held deontological position. This was one of the greatest discoveries of
Jonathan Haidt's work, that all of morality is ultimately just how you feel. With this in mind,
let's return to that question about consent. You can make the argument that if person A
rapes person B, any pleasure that person A gains from the encounter is dwarfed by person B's pain,
making it a bad outcome. That seems reasonable. What if 10 people gang rape somebody, or 100,
or a million? It becomes harder and harder to argue that the overwhelming amounts of
satisfaction from such a situation doesn't outweigh the anguish of just one individual.
This is why consequentialism always becomes a tyranny of the majority, because the majority
superior number of positive ends can be directly garnered through the minority's exploitation.
Most consequentialists, at this point, will reply with the following argument. I've even heard
Destiny make it. At some point, an act is so morally bankrupt that regardless of any moral
calculations of the event itself in a vacuum, normalizing that event creates a much worse
society. Destiny calls these hidden ends. Again, this seems reasonable, right? A society where 100
people are allowed to gang rape somebody, because the ethical calculations of that event in a vacuum
might be positive, would still be an unstable, nightmarish society to live in, as those attitudes
towards consent, bodily autonomy, and sex would permeate into other areas of life. You can't really
argue with that. These other negatives are the hidden ends. And it is these hidden ends that
make the action immoral, because the action doesn't happen in a vacuum. So, let's set up
a hypothetical. This will be my analog to Vashj's Coconut Island. Let's call it Dev's Spaceship.
Let's say there's a large group of people on a spaceship. The spaceship is massively damaged,
and is slowly drifting towards Earth. There is no contact between the ship and anybody outside,
due to the damage to the communication system. There is no hope for survival of anyone,
because the damage upon re-entry will be so catastrophic that nobody on Earth will ever
know what transpired on that ship in its final hours. In this situation, is it morally permissible
from a consequentialist point of view for all of the ship's occupants to gang rape somebody?
If not, then why not? The act itself pleasures more people than it harms. There will be no
normalization of the act in wider society, because the destruction of the ship will completely wipe
away any evidence that it actually happened. This act does exist in a permanent vacuum,
where no matter what happens, the wider society doesn't change. Destiny's hidden ends have been
accounted for. So what is the consequentialist objection? To any normal person, this still
seems like an obviously immoral act. But consequentialist ethics leaves us entirely
unable to describe why. And the reason for that is simple. Because consent is fundamentally a
deontological value. Let me explain. Consent is a person's voluntary agreement to fulfill
the desires of somebody else. This applies to not only sexual consent, but all consent.
Let's say you're looking for a job. Some jobs might be farther than you're willing to travel.
Some jobs might have demands on your time that's incompatible with other obligations. Some jobs
might be in a different field than you're willing to work. In all of these examples, what you're
willing to do and what they're willing to pay you for aren't congruent. You can't come to an
agreement. But let's say you do find a job where it's congruent, where you are willing to do what
your boss pays you to do. In this situation, your boss doesn't have the right to force you to work
at gunpoint. Indeed, you don't have to show up. But in exchange for your consent to that job,
he consents to give you money. You both have a desire, and you both consent to giving up
something to see that desire met. Additionally, while you're consenting to work, you're also
consenting not to do any range of other possible things during that time period. Consider this red
circle to be all the possible things you can do at any given moment. Now consider this green circle
is what your boss wants you to do. If you want to get paid, aka you want your boss to consent to
give you his money, you have to consent to do only the things within the green circle and to consent
not to do the other things in the red circle. In other words, in exchange for the money you want,
you are consenting to narrow your range of possible actions. And your boss's behaviors also
overlap with a similar diagram. He is also consenting to narrow his range of possible actions
too. This is what a voluntary exchange is when both parties are being honest, consenting to do
a specific thing at the expense of other possibilities. And the trade-off for that loss
of possibility is that you satisfy each other's desires. Sex works the same way. When you consent
to sex with another person, they're also, presumably, consenting to sex with you. And
additionally, whatever else comes along with that relationship, whether it be casual or serious.
This is why informed consent actually makes sense, at least to some reasonable degree. For example,
if one person is consenting to sex under some preconceived notion of exclusivity and the other
person violates that notion, it absolutely feels like a violation of consent. Just ask anybody
who's been cheated on. But what's important for our discussion is that all of this stuff describes
a non-religious deontological framework. When you enter into a friendship, a romantic relationship,
a business relationship, there are rules for your interactions within that framework, whether
they're explicitly stated or not. When you consent to bind yourself to a series of rules in exchange
for some benefit at the expense of other possible options, you are choosing to operate within a
deontological framework. And then if you violate those rules, even if there's no bad outcome that
a consequentialist could point to, you've still violated the agreement. But this is why your
average consequentialist will never actually consider somebody's word to have any worth.
This is why socialists online will lie to your face if it means that they win. And sometimes
they're dumb enough to tell you that. You call it selling out your principles. I call it fucking
winning. And that's my principle. To win as a socialist, not to lose as a socialist. That's
not my principle. I don't give a fuck about principled failure. Principled failure is worth
dog shit. What is honor to a person who only believes in material conditions, who thinks that
the word of another carries no weight? There's a series of two examples, both related to labor,
that can prove my point here. The first one is workplace safety. Consider a boss who is violating
the safety code in order to cut corners and be a bit more productive at the expense of his workers.
A socialist might appeal to the deontological consideration of the code itself, but when pushed,
they will fall back to the consequentialist answer of actual safety and harm. The safety code exists
to avoid accidents. So even if the boss's corner cutting doesn't result in any accidents this time,
it absolutely could later. And we don't want to normalize that behavior and cause more accidents
down the line. The second example is arriving to work on time. Consider a worker who is routinely
late for a shift. Every dumb twitter commie will say something like, good on you, fight the power,
boss makes a dollar, I make a dime, fuck the man over every possible way you can, steal back from
them, etc. The consequences of this act doesn't affect them but the bosses they hate so much.
And the deontological concern, that you gave your word to be at a specific place and time,
that you gave your consent in exchange for your boss's consent to give you money, in fact,
doesn't actually matter to them. If you can violate consent to get a better deal,
the socialist will advise you to do it because the better deal is a good outcome and consent
is deontological. It is a product of agreements, not outcomes. Understanding that consent works
in this way explains why people on the left have such a hard time with respecting it. And while
I'm certainly being cheeky right now, I don't only mean in the context of sexual assault or
pedophilia. Let's return to employment. A common socialist position is that workers cannot truly
consent to employment because of power imbalances. The workers will die without getting paid and
buying the food they need and so their boss is willing to exploit that need. Because starvation
is a gun to the worker's head, to use the socialist phrasing, no negotiation between workers
and bosses ever actually constitutes consent because workers are always being coerced by bosses.
By the way, this is the point that Vosch's Coconut Island tries to illustrate. The problem with this
view is that it rests atop the idea that two parties who negotiate from different positions
of power can never truly be negotiating because they aren't holding the exact same cards in their
hand. One person will always have a better position and therefore they will always be
exploiting the weaker party and so it's never truly consent. The natural end result of this
view is the complete destruction of the very concept of negotiation since nobody is ever
perfectly equal. And if you were a revolutionary communist who only believed in consequentialist
ethics and was willing to do any number of deontologically bad things to achieve your ideal
end, undermining the concept of negotiation itself by rendering it invalid and therefore
only leaving violence on the table is absolutely something that you would want to do. But what
makes negotiation legitimate is not the relative bargaining strength of the various parties,
it's consent. If you are a person who wants negotiation destroyed, if you don't consider
agreements to be valid because of their deontological nature, then there is absolutely no
way in hell you can actually value consent. There is no consequentialist justification for consent
itself. Only a vague understanding that a society which devalues consent can be a bad
society to live in and if you think that society is somehow good then there is just no reason to
value consent at all. Consent seems to rest atop of some understanding of natural law. If we are
individuals with free will then we can both give consent and be held responsible for our actions.
Marxism as a school of thought entirely rejects this notion. I love going back to this essay,
the title always makes me laugh, but in Marx's On the Jewish Question, he devotes the middle
third of the essay to condemning France's 1789 declaration of the rights of man and of the
citizen for offering up a definition of rights that is too liberal. Here are his criticisms and
bear with me, it will be a little bit long but I want to make the point clear. Above all we note
the fact that the so-called rights of man are nothing but the rights of a member of civil
society, i.e. the rights of egotistic man, of man separated from other men and from the community.
Article two, these rights are equality, liberty, security and property. What constitutes liberty?
Article six, liberty is the power which man has to do everything that does not harm the rights of
others. Liberty therefore is the right to do everything that harms no one else. The limits
within which anyone can act without harming someone else are defined by law just as the
boundary between two fields determined by a post. It is the question of the liberty of man as an
isolated monad withdrawn into himself but the right of man to liberty is based not on the
association of man with man but on the separation of man from man. It is the right of this
separation, the right of the restricted individual, withdrawn into himself. The practical application
of man's right to liberty is man's right to private property. What constitutes man's right to
private property? Article 16, the right of property is that which every citizen has of enjoying and of
disposing at his discretion of his goods and income of the fruits of his labor and industry.
The right of man to private property is, therefore, the right to enjoy one's property
and to dispose of it at one's discretion, without regard to other men, independently of society,
the right of self-interest. This individual liberty and its application form the basis of
civil society. It makes every man see another man not the realization of his own freedom
but the barrier to it. Equality used here in its non-political sense is nothing but the equality
of liberty as described above. Namely each man is to the same extent regarded as such a
self-sufficient monad. In security, Article 8, security consists in the protection afforded
by society to each of its members for the preservation of his person, his rights, and his
property. Security is the highest social concept of civil society, the concept of police, expressing
the fact that the whole of society exists only in order to guarantee to each of its members the
preservation of his person, his rights, and his property. The concept of security does not raise
a civil society above its egoism. On the contrary, security is the insurance of egoism. None of the
so-called rights of man, therefore, go beyond egotistic man, beyond man as a member of civil
society, that is, an individual withdrawn into himself, into the confines of his private interests
and private caprice, and separated from his community. In the rights of man, he is far from
being conceived as a species being. On the contrary, species life itself, society, appears as
a framework external to the individual, as a restriction of their original independence. The
sole bond holding them together is natural necessity, need, and private interest. The
preservation of their property, and their egotistic selves. It is puzzling enough that
a people which is just beginning to liberate itself, to tear down all barriers between its
various sections, and to establish a political community, that such a people solemnly proclaim
the rights of egotistic man separated from his fellow men and from the community. Here's what
Marx said in a lot fewer words. The liberal conception of rights as being a product of
natural law, aka natural rights, is too individualistic. It ignores collective concerns.
This passage forms the Marxist basis for the rejection of rights. It is the right of people
to stand apart, but not the right of people to be brought closer together. One of the biggest
reasons as to why Marx is incredibly stupid, is that the individual does not actually need a right
to be brought closer together, but the individual does need the right to stand apart. If people want
to be closer, they can voluntarily choose to do so. No rights are required for that beyond consent,
but if people do not want to be closer, if they actually want to be disassociated, disconnected,
if in more practical terms they want to be free of an abuser or a rapist or a manipulator,
then in a liberal society they have that right to stand apart. Imagine a Marxist society where the
right to be brought closer together is enshrined. Imagine an abuser having the right to be close to
their victim out of a sense of Marxist illiberal anti-individualism. That is what Marx is saying
when he critiques the liberal idea of rights as an individual withdrawn into himself, into the
confines of his private interests. When he says, the right of man to liberty is based not on the
association of man with man, but on the separation of man from man, his critique is that the liberal
conception of rights does not allow people to be forced together. It is for this reason that
Marxists have never respected consent. Not consent to ownership, not consent to labor, and not sexual
consent. It is in their ideology to actively reject consent as part of liberal egoism,
of bourgeois privacy. Consent is deontological in nature, and deontological ethics are ultimately
just capitalist constructions that the Marxist needs to see torn down, and because to the Marxist
individual concerns are second rate, the consent of the individual is not required within a Marxist
society. At this point in my ethical understanding I'm not a consequentialist or a deontologician,
but a virtue ethicist. Thanks Sargon's reading suggestions for that. Virtue ethics posits that
it's not only good rules or good ends that create goodness, though both of those things play a role,
but it's also good habits. In other words, you are what you consistently do. Cultivating a character
with positive traits, aka virtues, and not with negative traits, aka vices, creates good people.
Moreover, in virtue ethics moral content lies not just in the deliberation of an act, or the
outcome of an act, but in the act itself. Consider saving somebody from a car accident. You may have
a deontological reason to do so, some legal or religious rule to follow. You may understand the
positive outcome of doing so. Somebody is alive afterward. But the action of saving the life
itself also has moral content, because it shows and builds good moral character in your personality.
The bravery, the honor, the self-sacrifice. Consent may be deontological, but it also speaks to virtue.
To consent to do something means, assuming you honor that consent and actually do it,
you're building your character. This is why what you choose to consent to, and not consent to,
is of the utmost importance. And at the same time, you'll also realize that we are far outside of the
socialist framework right now. Socialists don't have proper language within their lens to describe
any of these concepts I'm talking about. They certainly don't practice any of these concepts,
and I think that's why you can pluck any random socialist out of a crowd, and they will probably
be entirely lacking in any sort of virtue. They may pay lip service to the idea of consent,
but they cannot truly understand why it is so vitally important, and what it actually does to
you, and to others, when you give consent and follow through. For all of consequentialism's
good components, and give the devil his due, there are a lot of them, there is no room within
a consequentialist framework for the concept of consent. If you value consent, then you must value
your honor, and you must be able to trust others at their word. This requires some notion of
deontological ethics. If you meet a person who just completely ignores deontological ethics on
principle, you will likely discover that they actually have no principles at all.
