This is a Wendover Productions video made possible by VideoBlox.
Get an exclusive 7-day free trial of VideoBlox with up to 140 free stock footage clips for
your videos by using the link videoblox.com slash future.
Before I start, I want to quickly mention that I started a podcast with Brian from Real
Engineering called Showmakers.
In the very first episode, which is out now, we chat with none other than Hank Green.
I'd really appreciate it if you give it a try and the link is down in the description.
Trains are expensive.
So expensive, in fact, that on three of the most traveled routes in three countries—New
York to Washington in the US, Edinburgh to London in the UK, and Paris to Lyon in France—they're
pretty much the same price as the plane.
These routes start at $49, 30 pounds, and 30 euros respectively on the train and $52,
13 pounds, and 53 euros on the plane.
On a longer route like New York to Chicago, the difference is even more pronounced.
$59 for the plane, $108 for the train.
And that's keeping in mind that trains are subsidized or government run in almost every
country while airlines are highly profitable commercial enterprises.
The planes flying between DC and New York are $49 million machines while the trains
traveling the route cost no more than $10 million total.
The plane has to burn 1.7 gallons of fuel per mile flown while the train relies on clean
electric power.
All this therefore begs the question, why are trains so expensive?
Now, I mentioned that fares between DC and New York start at $49, but that's far from
the average price—$73.
Let's look at the expenses that go into that fare.
The single largest expense for Amtrak is staffing.
Trains require a lot of people to operate.
85,000 passengers journey on Amtrak daily, but for that Amtrak employs 20,000 people.
Meaning that, daily, Amtrak requires one employee for every four passengers.
On top of that, the majority of those working for Amtrak are highly specialized, unionized
workers who demand high salaries.
Amtrak's financial reports tell us that they spend $105,000 per employee, but that's
not to say that everyone at Amtrak is making six figures.
Taxes and benefits typically cost an employer 30-40% of a salary so the actual average salary
for an Amtrak employee is around $75,000.
These salary costs are so high that they account for over a third of the ticket price between
DC and New York—$25.82 total.
The cost of employees is so high for train operators largely because trains are so slow.
For a flight from DC to New York, an airline would only have to pay employees for an hour
of work while Amtrak has to pay their employees for three and a half hours of work.
The difference is even more striking on the long-haul routes—Chicago to Los Angeles,
for example.
An airline would have to pay for four hours of work while Amtrak pays for 44 hours of
work.
In addition, trains have physical infrastructure to maintain along the journey—the rails.
Airlines also have infrastructure to pay for on each end—the airports—but between those
they just use the sky, which is free.
Amtrak only owns 730 miles of those 21,000 miles of track they use, but they still indirectly
pay for the employees who maintain those 20,000 miles of rented track through the fees charged
by the track owners for their use.
The next largest cost for train operators is that of the trains themselves.
Trains aren't that expensive compared to airplanes, but they still cost millions of
dollars.
The locomotive pulling the train from DC to New York costs $6.5 million and then each
one of the passenger cars costs an additional $400,000.
With a seven car train, that works out to $9.4 million which accounts for $9.67 on this
particular ticket.
The other part of infrastructure, rails, costs Amtrak an additional $3.66 on this ticket.
Railroad tracks are extraordinarily expensive to build, typically more than $1 million per
mile, but on routes like DC to New York they're just used so much that the per train or per
ticket cost is negligible.
Amtrak is a business so it also needs to pay to run the business.
$2.15 of this ticket goes to administrative costs and then another $1.31 to advertising.
Moving on, trains are extremely safe compared to cars, but you're still more than three
times as likely to be killed on or by a train than a plane.
Trains do occasionally crash and they also crash into people.
When this happens, Amtrak often has to pay a settlement to the victims and the fees associated
with that account for $0.79 on the DC to New York ticket.
That does mean that when traveling between DC and New York, in essence, you're paying
$0.79 in order for Amtrak to kill or injure people.
Those were all the major costs to run a train, but there's still another $5.91 on that
ticket that just represents other minor costs.
So, the total expense for Amtrak to run that train is $50.14.
The remaining $22.86 is pure profit.
You see, the train from DC to New York, the Northeast Regional, is one of the few Amtrak
routes to make a profit.
The demand, speed, and frequency of the train helps it succeed financially where other routes
fail.
Per passenger per mile, Amtrak makes 8 cents of profit on the Northeast Regional, the low
speed train, and 29 cents per passenger mile on the Acela Express, the high speed train.
These profitable routes help pay for Amtrak's unprofitable routes and there are a lot of
them.
Some routes, like the Sunset Limited between New Orleans and Los Angeles, lose as many
as 21.7 cents per passenger per mile and when passengers can travel 2,000 miles on that
route, that's a lot of loss.
As I mentioned, that $49 fare is not the average ticket price to travel between DC and New
York.
The $49 fare is the price at which Amtrak starts selling tickets, but as the date of
travel nears, the price can increase to hundreds of dollars.
That might seem like price gouging, but it's actually a way to make sure everyone can afford
a ticket.
That's not to say Amtrak and other train companies are these altruistic organizations
trying to bring travel to the masses.
It just makes more money.
Especially with trains where it costs the operator roughly the same to transport five
passengers as it does to transport 500, the operator always wants to have as many seats
as possible filled even if that means selling cheap tickets.
In a perfect world for the operator, they could ask every potential passenger what the
maximum amount they'd be willing to pay for the journey is.
If they adapt the ticket price to every passenger's maximum price then they can fill each seat
with passengers paying the highest possible amount.
However, in practice, nobody would ever answer the question truthfully so it would never
work.
Ticketing systems, however, try to ask this question subliminally.
Going back to that route from Edinburgh to London, the operator, Virgin Trains East Coast,
sells three types of tickets—advance, off-peak, and anytime.
The advance tickets range anywhere from 30 pounds to 140 pounds, the off-peak fares cost
137 pounds, and the anytime fares cost 148.5 pounds.
For the advance fares, there are a certain unknown number of tickets at different price
levels on sale and once they're gone, they're gone.
For example, there might be 15 tickets at 30 pounds and once they're sold, the price
increases to 35, then 40, 45, and so on and so forth.
That encourages those who can buy early to buy early.
Normally, that means tourists.
Travelers tend to plan far in advance and are more budget conscious since they're
paying for their own costs.
They're also more likely to travel down to London on the often cheaper plane since
they're less attracted by the convenience of the train.
These advance fares are only valid for the exact route, day, and time bought which is
fine for leisure travelers, but business travelers typically want more flexibility.
Buying advance fares often doesn't work for business travelers since their plans are
only made a few weeks or days in advance and, since they don't personally pay for
their tickets, it's no problem for them to pay for the convenience of taking the train
on a flexible ticket.
That's why they often pay 148.5 pounds for an anytime ticket.
With these, you can just hop on a train whenever.
It doesn't matter if it's in ten minutes or ten days.
You just step on the train and take a seat.
The middle ground between those two is the off-peak single which lets you take any train
that arrives in London after 11.17 am or is on the weekend.
These fares are still geared towards business travelers but by restricting against the early
morning trains, they give a discount for those who can avoid the busiest morning trains.
For each of these fares there are equivalents in first class.
On top of that, young, disabled, and elderly people get up to one third off their fares
with a railcard.
That all means that there are essentially twelve different types of tickets for sale
and that one person heading to London might be paying 20 pounds while the person sitting
right next to them is paying 200, but what they're really paying for is convenience.
Now, back in the US, if Amtrak only operated profitable routes, their route map would look
like this, but the routes that don't make money are the ones that really matter.
Amtrak serves over 500 destinations in 46 states, many of which are small towns with
no other means of public transportation.
While trains are normally the more expensive means of transport, they are less expensive
than planes to service small communities.
The small airports in the rural parts of America are extraordinarily expensive to operate.
Even if there are just two or three flights a day, they still need a runway, terminal,
security, and air traffic control while a rural train station needs barely any infrastructure
or maintenance.
In fact, it's cheaper to fly from Chicago to London than it is to fly from Haver, Montana
to Chicago whereas Amtrak brings passengers from Haver to Chicago for only a few hundred
dollars—much more in budget for the average resident of Haver who makes only $22,000 per
year.
Of course this is a political issue, but a part of why trains are so expensive is to
allow train operators to fulfill obligations to serve small communities who need solid
transport links.
Research has shown that ease of access to transport has a stronger influence on whether
someone will earn more than their parents did, than the level of crime in their area,
or whether they grew up in a two-parent household and so keeping trains running through rural
America is incredibly important.
Next time you take the train from DC to New York, just keep in mind that that $22.86 a
profit goes to making sure that someone from Haver can get to Chicago for less than you
can fly to Europe.
So you see this number?
That's how much these last few seconds would cost if I were buying footage from a traditional
stock footage provider.
Luckily, I get my footage from Videoblocks where with their membership you can use as
many of the 115,000 clips in their unlimited library as you want.
Since I started Wendover Productions, I've used 686 clips from Videoblocks.
Almost every piece of footage you see in my videos is from them and that means I've
saved $54,194 with my Videoblocks subscription.
Without Videoblocks, there's no way that my videos would look as professional.
I simply would not be able to afford it and whether you already have a YouTube channel
or plan to start one, Videoblocks will do amazing things for your production value.
I can honestly say that it's one of the best purchases I've ever made and I've
used Videoblocks since day one.
You can try out Videoblocks exclusively for seven days with the link videoblocks.com slash
future.
That is not a publicly available trial so please go try them out.
Not only is that a great way to help Wendover Productions make more videos, you'll also
get a chance to use what is truly an amazing service.
You can also support Wendover Productions on Patreon here, follow me on Twitter at WendoverPro,
watch my last video here, check out my fan-moderated subreddit here, and lastly, subscribe to this
channel by clicking here.
Thanks again for watching and I'll see you in two weeks for another Wendover Productions
video.
