Trump's back, baby, and it's probably not going to go nearly as well as everyone thinks.
We all saw this coming, obviously. In that Piers Morgan interview a few weeks back, Trump
said it was illegal for him to comment, but that he had plans to announce something very
soon. But even before that, was there ever any doubt that Trump was going to run in 2024?
Seems obvious to me. There's one big issue, though, and that is DeSantis. Like him or
hate him, he's popular with the Republicans right now. Libertarian-oriented voters are
happy that he refused to implement long-term COVID-related policies like mask mandates,
lockdowns, or vaccine passes. Though they do tend to forget, he did implement an initial
lockdown in the summer of 2020, while the more religious conservative types are happy
about the Don't Say Gay bill that his government passed earlier this year. In 2016, Trump basically
bulldozed through the entire Republican establishment entirely on the force of his personality.
But it didn't hurt him that the Republican field was pretty boring aside from him. Was
anybody really excited about Rand Paul or Ted Cruz or heaven forbid Jeb Bush? Not really.
To contrast, DeSantis is relatively young, well-spoken, liked by the GOP establishment
— at least in comparison to Trump — popular among the core rightoid voter base, and unlike
all of Trump's 2016 opponents, he's charismatic enough that Trump can't just steamroll over
him like he did with Jeb. Trump isn't stupid, though. He recognizes DeSantis as his main
rival for the Republican nomination, which is why he's gone on the attack, nicknaming
him — in true Trumpian style — DeSanctimonious. And DeSantis fired back by doing nothing.
No, really. Here's an interview that DeSantis gave after the failure of the red wave to
materialize in the 2022 midterms. And it's long, so I won't play the whole thing for
you. But when reporters ask him about Trump entering the race and Trump's comments and
things like that, he just doesn't respond. He talks about how he won the Florida governorship
by the largest margins for a Republican in the history of the state, how the Republicans
now have a supermajority in the state's legislature, and how Florida has shown itself to be a model
for how to elect Republicans nationwide by appealing to the Independent Center. All of
which, by the way, are true statements.
Well, the one place I think that people can look to is the blueprint is Florida. Because
what have we done? I mean, you know, we came in at a very close election. In fact, before
I became governor, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2018, all the major races, governor, presidential,
were one point or less for that time. So in my race was less than a point in 2018. And
so we came in to a very, very large, diverse swing state. And we led. And we were on offense.
And we didn't shy away from big issues. We took on those issues. And we won victory after
victory for the people of Florida.
But the Trump comments? He had nothing to say. DeSantis just isn't engaging with Trump
baiting him. And it makes Trump look, to use one of his own terms, sad. Trump's out here
flailing around, and DeSantis just isn't falling for it. 2016 was a lesson on how,
if you engage with Trump's bluster, you pretty much automatically lose. Trump loves rolling
in the mud. He's a TV guy. He knows how to do it well. And DeSantis is making Trump look
worse, simply by ignoring him. Hell, maybe DeSantis even learned from the constant four-year
leftoid meltdown over Trump's presidency, where everybody from politicians to journalists
to pundits to YouTubers completely shredded their own credibility to take potshots at
Trump. And ironically enough, the person who didn't learn the lesson that Trump taught
seems to be Trump himself.
I'll talk about the Elon Twitter kerfuffle in a future video. Don't you worry. That
story is hyper on my radar for sure. But let's just go over one droplet from it today. Elon
unbanning Trump's Twitter account. The legendary at Real Donald Trump. The day it happened,
my Twitter timeline was full of retweeting the legendary old Trump tweets about fucked
up losers and garbage diet coke. All of it. It was glorious. What was also glorious was
the immense amount of salt unearthed by his return. Look at all of these blue checkmarks
running scared. A lot of them are decreeing they refuse to use Twitter if Trump returns.
And that really speaks to the mindset of these people. They've all stuck to Twitter because
it was basically the place that leftoids always de facto won. You could find leftists calling
for violence and whatever else. No problem. Their accounts remain unbanned. But if you're
not a leftist, you are shared to luck. And the crown jewel, the apex, was Trump getting
banned after January 6th. This was their playground. Only their narrative was allowed. And now
that Twitter isn't their playground, it's not even explicitly their opponent's playground.
Leftoids are still allowed to spout leftoid nonsense, as far as I can tell. They don't
want to play on it anymore. Except they still kind of do. Because Twitter is hyper addicting.
That's why the goalposts eventually shifted to if Trump tweets once, I'm out. All right,
dude. You always say you're done right after that one final hit. But as it turns out, Trump
actually hasn't tweeted once since getting unbanned. And apparently he's not going to.
When asked if he would, he said he didn't feel the need to because he now runs his own
social media platform, Truth Social. And sure, if you're a Trumpster, you might think
this is a gigachad move. But I don't. 2016 Trump would have come back to Twitter after
getting unbanned. 2022 Trump seems to be too proud to do so. There's been a fundamental
shift in his personality that I think makes DeSantis a better shot at winning the 2024
race. If you go back and listen to Trump's debates in 2016, he doesn't sound like a radical
at all. He sounds like a 90s era Democrat. Probably because he was a 90s era Democrat.
But as you examine his behavior during the course of his presidency, I think it slowly
became clear he did not know how to actually be the president of the United States. Now,
almost all the Trump derangement syndrome stuff that you heard back then was false.
Trump was never actually going to round up Latinos and the Muslims and put into the sword
or whatever. But really, what did Trump actually get done during his term? The first step act
was pretty good. Operation Warp Speed to kickstart the vaccine production seems to have worked
out. He built what, 25% of the wall? It's better than zero. The Supreme Court is a big
one. But any Republican president would have probably made the same picks that he did.
The actual accomplishments of the Trump administration are few and far between. He was overwhelmingly
a seat warmer. This means that he wasn't actually a crypto-fascist hidden and playing
the long game who orchestrated this masterful dismantling of American democratic institutions.
At best, you can say he gave a limp-wrist attempt at the very end while high in his
own copium. If he actually planned to steal the election from the get-go, he would have
done a lot more a lot earlier. But this also means he didn't actually do anything good
with his office either. And the reason he did almost nothing, positive or negative,
is because Trump doesn't actually know how to lead people. Trump sold himself as this
great negotiator, the art of the deal, guys. But over the course of his term, he became
the most obstinate president in recent memory, barely willing to cut deals with Democrats
at all. Trump's idea of a deal seems to be, I get everything I want, and in return, you
get nothing. And yeah, okay, giga chad. But that's not going to get anything done. And
that just doesn't seem to be the guy that Trump was in 2016. I don't know what changed.
Maybe the nature of actually having political power fucked him up. You know, take the throne
to act and the throne acts upon you. Maybe he actually was a Twitter addict like everyone
else's. Too terminally online to see the real world around him. A digital denithor.
Maybe he legitimately believed his own propaganda. That in his heart of hearts, he actually thinks
he won 2020. That everyone loves him. And it was entirely stolen from him by a corrupt
establishment. In fact, it's probably all three. In 2016, Trump embodied a heroic narrative.
You've got the American Uniparty aiming for a completely banal election between Hillary
and Jeb. Bernie, the outsider on the left, has already been cucked out of the race. Meanwhile,
Trump, with massive popular support among the common working man, is a wrecking ball
crashing through the Republican establishment, destroying political careers and dynasties
in the process, overcoming all odds and all common sense to capture the institution from
the inside. He's the rebellion winning against the empire. But what is the Trumpian heroic
narrative now? That he's a loser? That he was robbed two years ago and he won't stop
whining to anyone who will listen? You know, like, boo hoo, the game was rigged against
me. This isn't fair. Okay, let's accept for the argument, the game was actually rigged
against Trump. Heroes face unfair odds all the time. Part of the heroic narrative is
having the game stacked against you and still overcoming. Your enemy is corrupted, underhanded.
You are righteous and pure. You might take a few hits sticking to your principles, but
by golly, good wins in the end and you overcome. Now, real life isn't a story, obviously.
If Trump actually did have the election stolen from him, saying, haha, you didn't stick
to the heroic narrative and overcome the impossible odds, isn't really a criticism. But what
it does mean is that Trump's story for 2024 is no longer a heroic narrative, and the heroic
narrative is what attracted people to Trump in the first place. It is frankly the only
thing he had going for him in 2016. All that charisma that everyone loved, that was built
atop the heroic foundation, that he was this outsider taking on the establishment, speaking
in the voice of the common person, and now that's all gone. Which is why when Trump prowls
around the stage and calls DeSantis names, and DeSantis just ignores him, and continues
on diligently working, Trump looks desperate and pathetic. Maybe I'll be proven wrong,
who knows. It wouldn't be the first time I've had egg on my face, but I think the lifeblood
of the MAGA movement is spent. GOP Senate candidates in 2022 consistently outperformed
Trump in 2020. MAGA-aligned or Trump-endorsed candidates in the midterms either significantly
underperformed their expectations or outright lost, while more traditional GOP candidates
were more successful. The final death knell for the MAGA Republicans might even be Trump
himself. If DeSantis wins the Republican primaries fair and square, do you think Trump is humble
enough to stand aside? Hell no. He'll just run as independent, split the right-wing vote,
and give Biden, or whoever, another Democratic White House. And if Trump does win the GOP
primary, he will have to destroy the party's only true rising star in order to do it. In
other words, unless DeSantis just chooses not to run and waits six more years for a
shot at the big seat, Trump will have to destroy the future of right-wing politics in America
in order to even have a shot at redeeming himself. And as we all know, Trump is egotistical
enough to do it. Which probably means, for the foreseeable future, the American right
is fucked.
