It's time to talk about Andrew Tate again, for the third time in fact.
I really should just make this into a semi-regular mini-series, I'll call it The Uptate, haha.
I gave a basic overview about Andrew Tate on the TUBcast a while ago.
I also did a second video on him, going over his history as a fighter, his transition into
a celebrity role after he aged out of fighting, the creation of his webcam business, where
he employed some pretty shady behavior, and his poor treatment of women all throughout.
But there is some new info since the last time I talked about him, that we should probably
check out.
And just so we're clear, the latest news in this story doesn't involve Andrew Tate's
hairline receding faster than the Ukrainian border.
These pictures were taken after he'd been in prison for a while, and enabled to keep
his head shaved.
Andrew Tate claimed once that he chose to be bald, but I have a feeling that he didn't
really have any other choice.
No, the newest Andrew Tate news has to do, primarily, with how his legal case is progressing.
If you'll recall, his home in Romania was raided by the cops, who currently have him
locked away pending further investigation, as he is considered a flight risk.
Good thing, too, as it came out that the Tates were in the middle of planning to flee to
Dubai when they were caught.
The body cam footage of the home raid showed money, passports, and weapons laying around
the Tate's pad, as well as a gorilla made of cash.
I guess the rich really do have some strange tastes.
Unfortunately for them, a lot of that stuff has since been seized by the Romanian state,
most notably all of his supercars.
Well, the incarceration of the Tate brothers has since been extended multiple times, up
to 180 days at this point, and, during this period, more scraps of evidence keep mounting
against them, regarding the sex trafficking allegations.
The case hinges on proving the Tate brothers employed the loverboy method of sex trafficking,
where you enter into a real relationship with a woman, get her to fall in love with you,
and then once you've moved her to another country, taking her passport and making her
do sex work.
And in a recently resurfaced interview from November of 2021, you can hear Tristan Tate
say that is exactly what he and his brother have done.
Typically, my setup was, for many, many years, I would approach women and meet them and seduce
them in the old-fashioned way, and within a few months, they were earning money for
me to make me richer, either on webcam or a platform like OnlyFans or something like that.
So I see myself on a higher level because I distinguish the difference between being
a customer and being a provider of the service.
You know, I'm the guy who gets money because he has women, not the guy who spends his money
to get women near him.
I can get a beautiful girlfriend and tell her and manage her and drag $40,000 to $50,000
a month out of thin air.
If I concentrate all of my effort on one 10 out of 10 female and she'll do whatever I
say, I can conjure $40,000 or $50,000 a month out of thin air.
And that's what I know how to do.
That's always going to be my default.
I couldn't lose all I have now.
That isn't possible.
So many things would have to go wrong.
But if I did, I'd find a pretty girlfriend and I'd start dragging $50,000 a month out
of thin air and I would build from there.
You can also hear Tristan Tate talk about how he treats women who try to build up some
side money in an attempt to leave their control.
The admins need to be people you trust.
Your management and your admins have to be people you trust.
They absolutely do.
Because if they're not watching your girls and you're not watching them personally, girls
will run wild.
There are a million ways to take money from a guy who likes this girl.
So if you let the girl be in charge of her own phone contact with members who like her,
you are setting yourself up to get scammed.
All she has to do is type a sort code and account number to a member.
And that has happened to me before.
I went to the room, smashed the room up, told her I knew what she did.
She sent me all the money.
But that has happened to me before.
She was talking to this guy online a lot.
She didn't have an admin because she was very successful and very high up doing this on
her own.
But I noticed her token numbers had fallen down.
But she was on Skype every day to her best member, a guy who used to tip her loads.
So I was thinking, why is she on Skype to this guy all the time but her token numbers
are low and this guy doesn't seem to be tipping her?
And I got wise to it.
Because she had been talking to him on the phone, she had been getting him to send money
directly to her bank account from his bank account, bank to bank transfers.
Talking to him for one or two hours every day, doing her shift.
But that was money I wasn't seeing a part of.
These girls will scam you.
If you let them take full control over their accounts, they will run away.
I like to keep the girls' passwords.
I log them in and log them out.
If you give the girl the password to her account, there's a chance she could run away and try
it by herself.
I've had that happen.
Girls are usually a lot less successful when they don't have a management structure and
a boss in place because girls are fucking lazy.
They're lazy, they don't want to do the work.
They'll work three or four hours a day and think, oh, that's enough.
So they become very unproductive and you've lost a good potential earner.
So keep the passwords to their accounts, certainly.
Don't let them have direct contact with their members.
Have the admins have direct contact with their members instead.
And make sure you're paying the admins, how you structure your business is up to you,
but pay the admins a percentage on what the girls make.
That way they'll keep the tokens coming into the girls' accounts and they won't try to
scam you themselves.
If a girl is talking to a member in any way, they have their Twitters, they have their
Instagrams, you do have to be wary of it because you can't ban them from having Twitter and
Instagram.
In fact, you need to encourage it because it helps their following on cam.
You need to make sure, have a look at their computer.
I have screen share set up on all the Macs in the house, so when they're on their Facebook
pages, et cetera, sometimes I'm just watching in, not because I'm a weird creep, but because
they talk to members on there.
And they can get Western Union transfers, they can get anything, cash app, PayPals,
they can get anything sent to them that cuts you out and you're not knowledgeable.
So not just members trying to scam girls, that shouldn't be your concern.
It is, but you get wise to their stuff very quickly and if you stick to the don't do anything
until you get the money rule, the members aren't really the threat.
The threat to your business, to your webcam company is the girls.
Watch them like you can't trust women.
You got to watch them like you've got eyes in the back of your head.
You can also hear Andrew Tate talk about how to control women, how it's essential to fuck
your employees to keep them under you, how to control their finances, how it's vital
that they be in love with you.
Truth is this man, before I had this webcam business, I fucked girls, I've got PhD, I've
always been the best, but I never really, I wasn't militant with it.
I'd get a girlfriend, I'd fuck here, there, I didn't really care, but after I started
this business and realized that the only way I can get girls to work for me is to fuck
them first, I became militant.
It became my job to fuck girls.
I was, I was fucking ruthless.
I mean, every day I send 20 Instagrams, every day I was on a date, I was fucking four girls,
five girls a week because that's how I made, built my business.
I built my business off the back of my dick.
That's how I built it.
That's how I got rich.
So I became militant with the pimping and my bottom bitch understood it and she understood
that perfectly.
So that is the recruitment structure and that is extremely important.
It's always going to be difficult to manage.
It's never going to be easy for you as a one man to have all these women working for you
because you have to fuck the girls.
This is a fucking super important, you're probably sitting there with a smile on your
face right now, looking at you fuckers, they're all like, yes, you have to fuck the girls.
You cannot sit and do a purely professional business relationship with a female.
It doesn't work.
Women have sex with somebody.
If they're not fucking you, they're fucking somebody else.
Now a woman's always going to be the most loyal to the guy she's fucking as opposed
to anyone else for any other reason.
If you have a girl work for you and you say, look, we're going to go to be business partners,
we're going to make money.
Here's your cut.
Here's my cut.
We're going to work together.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Here's a fucking, I've had dudes.
I've known loads of guys who've like tried to do a contract with a girl, tried to sit
there and talk common sense to a girl.
When's the last time talking common sense to a girl has ever worked ever?
If you're not fucking the girl, she is fucking someone else and that other person she's fucking
is going to have the control over her mind as opposed to you and if he controls her mind
and you don't control her mind, once she starts to pick it up a bit after a few weeks, a few
months, whatever, and realizes how to make money on her own, is she going to stay and
keep paying you or is she going to run off and pay her boyfriend or them to really go
traveling in Southeast Asia and she's going to work as she goes or she's going to go to
her boyfriend and say, look, fuck it, you type for me.
She's going to run off.
She's going to leave.
There's no way I've been doing, I did this business for a long time.
There's no such thing as having girls who work for you who you've not fucked.
It's impossible.
You have to fuck them and they have to love you.
It's essential to the business because otherwise women have no loyalty.
If you sit and say to a man, look, I'm going to show you how to make unlimited money on
your computer from home and we're going to do it together and after a few months he can
do on his own, he'll still sit there and go, yeah, but we started this together, so let's
just stick at it together.
Women showed me how without him, I wouldn't have any of this, so I'll give him his cup.
Women don't think that way.
Women don't have any loyalty like that.
They'll think, oh, fuck it.
I can do it without him now.
Fuck him.
And they'll run off.
Women are snakes.
They have to be in love with you, which means you have to have sex with them.
So this is why your Bolton bitch is so important because your Bolton bitch is going to be there
from the beginning and if you ever want to grow the business, you have to be having sex
with other women and your Bolton bitch has to understand that.
So the dynamic you pull there with your number one girl, your Bolton bitch, your first girl
is after you've been working a few weeks or whatever, whatever, after things are going
well, you'd say to her, you know what, me and you can get even richer and she'll say
how and you'll say, if me and you got some other girls, me and you, not me, if me and
you got some other girls to work, then we'd have even more money and also what we could
do is I could give you a percentage of their money so you could teach them and train them
to be like you and I can give you a cup of their money as well so you have more money
as well and we can buy a house and buy a car and we can invest in crypto, whatever, sell
them a dream, sell them some dream and we'll then buy this big property in fucking the
Bahamas and she'll go, oh yeah, but where are we going to find girls from?
Say, well, I'm going to find the girl and I'm going to bring her to you and you can
tell her how good it is to work for me and how great it is to do this webcamming thing
and how smart we are.
I don't mention webcam until after I've had sex with the girl.
If you're on dates and you're trying to mention it and shit, it just doesn't work.
It puts them off.
I'd never do that.
That's disgusting.
I'm not a whore.
It's just not going to work.
You continue as normal, no mention of webcam.
You fuck the girl.
After you fuck the girl, you do the PhD test.
If she passes the PhD test and she wants to be with you, then you start mentioning things
like, yeah, but you know, you're always busy.
You're always at work.
You can come work for me.
Or if you're doing what?
Say, well, I have a webcam business.
Oh, I don't want to do that.
Okay.
I know you don't want to do that, but listen.
Come, let's have a meeting.
Let's just talk about it.
If you don't want to do it, don't do it.
Fine.
But let me explain it to you properly.
In fact, I'll bring one of the girls who works with me.
You, your bottom bitch, the new girl, you go out for fucking a nice dinner.
Your bottom bitch is the one who does the selling.
You don't do the selling.
The girl has to hear from a girl and this is where your bottom bitch has to be trained.
So I said, it's so important to have a good first girl.
My first girl was so good.
It was easy.
My girls had to go, Oh my God, before this, I was a waitress and it was shit.
And now I do this.
I make so much money and the guys all love me and they adore me and on my birthday they
send me presents.
I get so much money, blah, blah, blah.
And it's so much fun.
And we stay at home and dah, dah, dah, dah, or we're gonna go to Thailand soon or we'll
be working in Thailand and we're stay there for as long as we want.
You should come with us.
It's gonna be so much fun.
Dah, dah, dah, dah.
Martinis, martinis, martinis, bang, threesome.
Slam them both.
Your bottom bitch knows this girl's like, okay, well I'll try it.
Put both girls on camera together the first day.
So the new girl can sit there and just sit with the other girl and get drunk.
Give them a bottle of vodka, put on the fucking chatterbait, a hundred tokens per shot.
The guys will send loads of money to get the girls drunk because guys like drunk girls.
Girls will sit there, get drunk, have a great time and say, it's your new job now.
You haven't got to work ever again.
That's how you recruit girls.
And then there's the Tate's War Room, which is the most expensive, most inner circle of
Hustler University, which is basically another of those online universities where you pay
the influencer at the top to get simple tips on how to self-improve and motivational talks
and other nonsense like that.
Kind of like Jack Murphy's Liminal Order, which Andrew Tate claimed was ripped off from
him, by the way.
Well, the War Room's logs have been leaked.
They show that the guys in the War Room talk about using the loverboy method, just like
the Tate's, to recruit women into prostitution, take their money and beat them, just like
they were taught.
A lot of those previous video clips come from War Room tutorials and talks.
These same War Room guys are also all running sock puppet accounts, using very similar branding
to promote Andrew Tate clips and messages all across the internet.
All these accounts have been made three to four months ago around the same time.
It seems like every few days, there's another article with another girl's story about how
she was lured to Romania by the Tate's.
It seems to be the case that a good chunk of the girls did not want to be there.
They were there under threat of violence, including some that might be under 18.
Here's one girl's anonymous testimony.
We were just sitting on the bed and Andrew punched me in my arm.
I went to the bathroom and cried.
It really, really hurt to have someone just hit me in the arm for no reason.
I was very confused.
Sorry.
Sorry, I don't want to cry.
It's OK.
I just witnessed so much, like verbal, physical, not just to me, but the other women involved,
and it just got worse over time.
I saw him smack girls with a belt because she wanted a lion.
He used to strangle us as well.
There was another time when he came into the bedroom.
Me and the other girl, we would sleep in the same bed with Andrew, but at this time the
girl had a partner, so she was not interested in Andrew at all.
And I had gone to the shower, I came back and I noticed he was, like, I saw him raping
her.
And that being said, there are girls who are still loyal to the Tates, who are saying that
they're all there consensually.
And you can hear their testimony too.
I, uh, I would also like to say, I think it's pretty embarrassing that nine months after
the first raid in April last year, we gave our statement in which clearly we said we
weren't the victims.
It wasn't until a couple of days ago, I think, yeah, a couple of days ago that we found out
about the whole situation.
So I'm pretty annoyed and upset.
So your opinion and also the paratrist's opinion is that the brother states are very honest
and they don't do...
I honestly think that justice should be made, because this is very unfair.
They don't deserve it.
Uh, those are just made up stories that go around the internet.
If you don't have, I don't understand if you, we've been, the prosecutors, we're victims
in this case.
When we obviously declared we are not the victim.
And that happened in April of last year, right?
So this case is basically built on lies in my opinion.
How can I trust the Romanian authorities?
How can I trust their words?
It does seem to be the case, however, that these girls are the bottom bitches, prostitution
parlance for women who are at the top of the pecking order, who help a pimp recruit and
control other women, enforce order and collect money.
And there are in fact videos of the Tate's bottom bitches doing exactly that.
Is this what's been counted so far?
Because it takes like 76,000.
And that's been counted or not?
Not yet.
The funniest part about all of this is, is that part of the court proceedings, if Google
Translate is to be believed, shows that the judge in this case is specifically looking
at all of the shit the Tate's have said online and using it as justification for holding
them and the investigation and all of it.
It turns out, guys, the Tate's are not smart people.
If they were, they would have shut the fuck up.
They would absolutely shut the fuck up when in jail and not order their underlings on
the outside to start destroying evidence.
Yes, they were actually dumb enough to do that, at least according to this translated
Romanian article.
You know that in jail cells and visitation rooms, they listen to you, right?
You know that the Romanian government can translate what you say, right?
The Tate's are fucking retarded.
And this confirms it.
The world is full of Andrew Tate simps right now, filming the hashtag free top G and whatever.
And a lot of them are just sad, lonely dudes who are ignored by the mainstream progressive
apparatus.
The left had nothing to tell these people except that they were the source of all the
world's problems.
So I'm not surprised that they ran into the arms of the only person who actually offered
them an empowering perspective, despite the toxicity.
But you don't want to be Andrew Tate, man.
Even disregarding that he is probably going to pound you in the ass prison for the rest
of his life, the hedonistic lifestyle stops being fun for most people pretty quick.
Disposable women won't make you happy like a real relationship will.
Despite this, there's a bunch of rightoid influencers who are constantly running interference
for him.
Mike Cernovich, yeah, from the Gamergate days, was heavily involved in the war room.
Candace Owens and Paul Joseph Watson have both gone to bat for him, mainly because they're
all anti-woke and they know him personally.
I have to believe because of how public of a figure that Andrew Tate has been, because
of how honest he has been about his expectations and relationships and in his views of the
women that he is with or what he would do in a scenario if he was dating a girl that
did this or that, that the women that were messaging Andrew Tate, engaging in conversations
with Andrew Tate on the internet, on Instagram, via direct messaging, knew what they were
getting into.
And I feel that that is important to say because I am so sick of this idea by that we should
always accept that in every situation a woman is a victim.
I'm not empowered by that.
I don't find that to be empowering, right?
The Me Too movement to me disempowered women because it said, women never know what they're
doing.
They just are always little flowers and men take advantage.
The truth is that women take advantage too.
And the easiest thing for women to sell to get what they want is sex, right?
This is what tagless sponsor proves.
I want to be rich.
I want to have money and I don't want to work, so I'm going to sell sex.
I have no talent and I want to be an actress, so I'm going to sell sex.
With Paul Joseph Watson actually being one of the simps that watches some of Tate's girls.
This bitch next to you, she's not attractive, right?
I'm sure she's a nice girl, but she's not hot.
She's rubbish.
I mean, what can you get away with, like what is the most extreme physical act that you
can perform?
And there's no end to the video clips of Andrew Tate's American lawyer running interference
for him in the English-speaking media.
Or his manager saying, hey guys, everything's actually okay.
Of course you would say that.
You're his fucking manager.
You're getting paid to push the pro-Tate position.
That's your job.
In fact, in so far as Andrew Tate's manager is concerned, the funniest bit has to do with
the Vice expose.
Vice sent a reporter to Romania to hang out with Andrew Tate for a while, which he stupidly
agreed to.
Again, the Tates are stupid.
They had to know that this was an investigation into their actions by a media company.
That's what they're there for.
It's fucking Vice, dude.
We all know what they're about.
Well, the Tate's manager had this to say about it on a Twitter space.
What would you say is the biggest misrepresentation made in that Vice interview?
Okay, thanks for the question.
I'd say the biggest misrepresentation, first of all, is Matt himself.
When you interact with him, pretty regular guy, in front of the camera, he was always,
I'm timid, I'm a little bit scared, all these big bad guys around me.
When the camera's off, he's laughing, he's shaking hands, he's having a good time.
He himself was acting a certain role for the camera.
To me, that's the biggest lack of congruence.
The guy is lying.
He was having fun, he was smiling, he was laughing, he was joking.
Then when the camera went on and we noticed it, he goes into this timid, all these bad
men around me and they're doing violent things.
When the event comes out, it's just pure hit job.
These guys are evil.
It was a joke.
At the end of it, when he'd already got all the footage he wanted, he was still saying
positive things because the reality is it was a very positive event and he took part
in it.
He was welcomed into it and he benefited from it.
How naive is this fucking guy?
Yeah, he's there to do a job, dude.
He's there to ask the hard questions.
I know Vice definitely puts out some shit-ribbed reporting sometimes, but this is exactly what
a reporter should be doing.
The fact that he's nice to you personally does not mean that you've bought his undying
fucking loyalty.
Speaking of Vice, probably the biggest bit of copium I've heard comes from the Fresh
and Fit podcast.
Listen to this insanity.
Really, this whole situation, it's just so slimy.
What Vice is doing, they're really living up to that filthy media production company
that they own.
Oh, yeah.
And do you know it's 44% owned by George Soros?
Oh, shit.
Are you serious?
Yeah.
Damn.
The Soros Fund, 44% owner in Vice Media.
Holy fuck, dude.
Well, that explains a lot.
Yeah.
I don't want to be a conspiracy theorist or not, whatever the case may be, but I mean,
you know.
Yeah, there are no coincidences.
Coincidences, dude.
Yeah, because Vice is 44% owned by the George Soros Fund, they're clearly not capable of
reporting on Andrew Tate in a neutral way.
The Deep State, The Matrix, or whatever is coming for him.
George Soros is giving the orders himself, guys, except this numbskull doesn't know how
to fucking read.
Here's where he got that 44% number from, and I guess he just couldn't parse this list
because the 44% actually goes to TPG Capital.
Soros Fund management only owns 10%.
As a final Hail Mary, Andrew Tate decided to play the cancer card.
A few days ago, a bunch of his followers all dropped at once the claim that Andrew Tate
has lung cancer and that his lawyer is petitioning for a compassionate release so he could leave
Romania and get treatment.
Of course, the countries with the best cancer specialists, it turns out, are all countries
with no extradition treaties to Romania.
But a subsequent investigation has shown that although Andrew Tate does have a tumor, a
biopsy has confirmed that it is in fact benign, not cancerous.
So Andrew Tate is going to trial.
At the end of the day, the Tates prey on lonely men.
They don't help them, they exploit them.
They take their money through Hustler University and they take it through webcam donations.
There's a crowd of aimless young men out there and the progressives have entirely vilified
and abandoned.
And they've been driven right into the arms of somebody who is just as bad.
It's no surprise to me that we're starting to see scenes like this out there.
And that's not even mentioning how bad the Tates are to women.
These are not good dudes, guys.
They're not who you want to emulate.
They're not who you want to hold up as anti-woke heroes or some shit.
Rhytoids are stuck in this rut right now of simply accepting anything that is anti-left,
regardless of whether or not it's actually, you know, good.
And that has led to an alarming rise of people who are pro-Tate.
Hell, I know this doesn't mean much, since anybody can cite anything as a reason for
their madness.
But we've even got an Andrew Tate shooter now, at least an attempted shooter.
On January 5th, 2023, a 19-year-old Florida man, yes, Florida man, was arrested for threatening
a mass shooting at Florida State University.
He posted online a picture of his AR-15, as well as the address of the university, along
with the message, faggots will die, under the name BloodstainedSand0088.
He claimed the post was a joke, meant to get laughs in a Discord server.
And it might have been.
But he also has a previous record of violence and aggressive confrontation.
And yes, his Twitter account history showed him liking almost exclusively tons of Andrew
Tate content.
As I say with any other shooter that I talk about on this channel, the YouTuber or streamer
or whatever that a shooter watches is not really responsible for what the shooter does.
So I don't feel comfortable pinning this on Andrew Tate, but he's clearly not a good person.
I've felt that there was a significant values difference between myself and the people who
are actually on the right wing, such that I am not a right winger, and I never have
been, despite what leftists say.
And don't worry, I'm not a left winger either.
The unapologetic throwing that right wingers give to a scumbag like Andrew Tate all but
confirms that I'm not one of them.
Jokes aside, I will certainly never be a fucking communist.
But if this is what the right is nowadays, then I don't want any part of it.
