🎵
🎵 Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo 🎵
Hi everyone, I'm the pro.
Here we fucking go!
Rest on no talent, k.
This is like kind of an odd, very odd episode.
Is it? Is it odd?
It's a mixture of- I know why it's odd! We're on a new couch!
Oh yeah!
Look at this beautiful fucking thing.
It's Navajo print.
Cabbage said, I feel really comfortable in this for some strange reason.
And Megan thought it was cool.
It's pretty comfortable. It's better than that one that sucks so much.
Yeah.
I mean, you'll see-
Definitely tip it down the stairs and it broke.
We were getting an idea.
It broke even more.
You'll see the other couch for a while because of backlogs of episodes and stuff.
This is recent.
This is the new. This is the new couch.
Anyways, the couch is awesome.
The couch is great.
That's all I have to say about the couch.
What couch manufacturer makes these cushions come off?
These should be stuck on the back of the couch.
Okay, I'm gonna go Rick James. I'm gonna say fuck your couch.
People clicked on this link because it said Zoe Quinn.
So we should probably talk about Zoe Quinn.
She's the one that made this game.
It's more of a depression simulator.
It's an educational tool.
You know what this game is?
It's when you get one of those shitty pick your own adventure novels where you just choose through.
Yeah, it is like a choose your own adventure.
All it is is reading.
It's not a game. This is not a video game.
People talk about visual novels being video games.
Visual novels. Phoenix Wright.
What else was there?
That's the only one that comes to mind for me.
Cacho Sojo.
Yeah.
The one about all the crippled girls. He ended up banging.
Oh yeah.
He's like a burn victim. The girl who's mute.
Oh yeah.
Let's begin the game.
Let's play Depression Quest.
Well, I kind of wanted to give a little bit of a...
Shut the fuck up.
This is like the week after Robin Williams killed himself.
Why is Robin... Don't sully Robin Williams' name by dragging him through Zoe Quinn's vagina.
Too bad.
Let's resume the game. Click on resume the game already.
I'm...
This emotional character is probably mostly describable except as a sort of double bind which any
clash all the alternatives associated with...
This is an ugly font.
Sitting or standing, doing or resting, speaking or keeping silent, living or dying are not just unpleasant but literally horrible.
You know, when she brought this game on Steam I thought she'd actually make it look like a game and not just like the HTML click through links that it was.
Yeah.
Nope. Looks the exact same.
Depression Quest is a game that deals with living and depression and very little...
You don't need to read everything.
View controls. How to play the game.
Yeah. Scroll page, select next... Oh.
You can also have a mouse. Use the mouse.
Yeah.
Fucking example of one.
Example of one.
I can use a controller. Can we use a controller?
Why would you want...
I don't.
Yes, just begin.
Embark on your journey!
Here's the thing about the person that made this game...
Let me get into what I'm doing, okay?
I learned this game because Camera Lady showed it to me.
And what went down with Camera Lady was Zoe Quinn, the maker of this game, was doing a live stream.
And Camera Lady shows up and she's kind of like watching it and seeing what's going on.
And they talk about Depression Quest and some guy plays Depression Quest and they have this very serious conversation about Depression Quest.
And Camera Lady's like, well listen, I have autism and this does not really describe my experience with depression because people with autism and depression both have completely different symptoms.
Well, yeah.
Because she mentioned people with autism don't become lethargic when they have depression like regular people do.
They just become very disorganized.
Because people with autism are always constantly fucking going.
She's like, no, I have focus now. I didn't have focus before.
So my experience with depression is kind of different from this and she wanted to have a conversation about it.
And then Zoe Quinn just blocked her.
Because she's like, no, do not disagree with my vision.
So, welcome to Zoe Quinn everybody.
Yeah. Okay, so Dev just made sure to sit me down before this.
Yes.
And Camera Lady, she said in the past, you know, there's something that happened before.
Well, Camera Lady showed me what went down with Zoe and then I showed Dev.
That was kind of the chain of events.
That's always the chain of events.
She mentioned the stuff that happened before. It's just the stuff that happened yesterday.
Mid-20s, I have a girlfriend or boyfriend.
No, it's girlfriend. But also you can be a male or female, but the girl is definitely a girl.
Okay, girl is a girl.
Yeah, girls are girls.
Girls are girls.
Oh yeah, that's true.
That's true.
I kissed a girl and I liked it.
And I got a job.
Yeah.
I got a job.
Okay, I remember when I first played this, I tried to get her to kill herself and she didn't.
Like, I picked every terrible wrong answer and she's like, no, I'm not going to kill myself. I'm just going to be a bum.
I was like, oh, okay.
Well, uh-huh.
You're a bum rack.
So, this woman that made this game.
Oh, this is a music.
You want a symmetrical Docker breast, Dave?
No.
I'm going to sip my beer.
You sip my Pabst Blue Ribbon.
I'm white trash and I'm in trouble.
Okay, so Zoe Quinn, Kimberly can provide all the interesting pictures and links to things.
Yeah, she tried to get this on the Green Light Project.
But she did because we're playing it on Steam right now.
Yeah, she did.
And it didn't take.
It only took. It's right here.
Ah, no, here's the thing.
She, it initially didn't take.
Then someone from this troll, this troll wiki.
Yeah, Wizard Champ.
They trolled, well, they trolled Wizard Champ.
It's like basically a bunch of male versions and there's solidarity there, you know, by all means.
A couple of anonymous posters said...
Fuck Zoe Quinn.
I think they said she's a cunt.
And this is something like a place where she never would have gone otherwise.
This troll links her to this forum and then she saw it as a reason to become a victim and utilize that to get Green Light percentages.
A couple of people didn't like Zoe Quinn.
Zoe Quinn then pretended that it was a giant raid on her by the entire 4chan-based internet.
And used that exposure to get like a bunch of people floating and like white knighting for her and...
Oh, by the way, she also has like a bingo on her site where she's like...
One of the panels in the bingo is white knight.
If someone says that someone white knighted for you, check that off your bingo.
Well, Zoe Quinn, if you're watching, you can check it off your bingo because you know what?
Even if that's part of your bingo, people did white knight for you.
You caused a bunch of assholes to show up and watch shitty Netflix.
No, you caused a bunch of assholes to show up and jump to your defense because they were stupid.
And you were just smart enough to make them do it.
Oh, manipulate them enough.
So, she gets Green Light and now she has some e-fame and she has like...
I'm an actual indie games developer and I'm doing stuff and I cut myself open and put fucking microchips underneath my skin because I'm hardcore like that.
And she basically just attention cores another spot in her bingo.
But it's true. It's funny how all the spots in the bingo are actually true criticisms of her as a human being.
Oh, it gets better.
Here's the thing. If a male did this, I'd be just as critical.
Zoe Darham, it's not that you have a vagina. It's that you're a terrible human.
That's where the criticism is coming from.
Yeah, yeah.
Because I would do this to a man. I would call him a terrible piece of shit as well.
Oh, instantly.
I'm gonna call him a bitch.
You're gonna call him Mumsy? Oh no, you're calling him...
My girl.
Yeah, the girlfriend.
You know what this is? That's the medication I'm taking.
Really?
It's exactly the same kind in exactly the same dose.
Oh.
So do you think Zoe Quinn broke into your house and took a picture of your meds to vote in the game?
Yes.
Well, you know, here's the thing. It gets worse.
Yesterday...
Yes, yesterday.
Her ex-boyfriend.
She's filming this. It might be two or three days by the time it comes out, because I know Cameron Lee's gonna rush this one out.
Yesterday, her ex-boyfriend shows up on the internets.
With a mountain of evidence.
A mountain of evidence against her, basically showing how she lies, manipulates, cheats on him.
The TLDR. The two of them didn't read. The two of them didn't read.
He calls her burgers and fries. Like five guys burgers and fries.
Because she had sex with five guys.
Two of them when they were broken up, briefly, and three of them while they were still dating.
One of whom was married.
If you're broken up and you're on a break, and you have sex with somebody else, and you get back together with them,
I mean, you didn't cheat on them, because you're on a break. You are free. You're single at that point.
You should tell them when you get back together.
And then, of course, have it, cheating on him with three fucking people.
That's terrible.
Your buddy on lines? I just found out I got cheated on.
Oh no, that's horrible.
Was Attic dating Zoe Quinn?
Here's the thing, too.
One of the biggest problems that this guy had with her was that she'd always go on this moral high ground.
Especially when they first met and said, oh, cheating of any kind is reprehensible.
It's reprehensible, it's anti-feminist, it's kind of related to rape, because it involves a withdrawal of consent and still doing something behind their back anyway.
It's always not the same as rape, but it involves fucking with consent, so it's kind of in the same category.
She says all this shit, and yet she's a pathological liar, and then she just bangs a bunch of dudes.
The worst part about all of this is that basically everything Zoe Quinn has right now, she got through underhanded means.
In any sort of e-fame, any sort of e-fame, any sort of credibility as this woman feminist queer icon within gaming, all of it, it's all based on her exposing a philosophy that she cannot live herself.
Oh, we finished the game already. What happened? Did we die?
No.
Did we defeat the aliens?
Yes. Okay, so I just did this, I did that, and I did okay. Basically the kind of way that I feel like I'm doing right now.
But as a social worker, it seems like Zoe Quinn is very much the product of a poisonous environment, because the way that her ex talked about her, she had a really shitty upbringing.
That still doesn't excuse doing shitty things, though.
Oh, it doesn't excuse it? It gives context to it. It gives reasoning behind it.
Hey Dave, you should unlock the secret medication.
Do it! Do it! I'm going to try doing the shittiest choices now.
Yeah, just call it the lower ones.
Yeah, like this guy too, he even had a video of him showing his computer and her old Facebook account.
Yeah, showing that it's all real. Also, here's the worst part about it. A regular person, when they get caught in a lie, and they fuck up, if it's a serious lie, they'll break down, they'll cry, they'll beg forgiveness, they'll be sincerely sorry.
And they'll at the very least try to make things better.
Sorry, I just noticed something. The worse your options are, the grayer it gets and the more it looks like there's static. Because that's what it kind of feels like.
And they usually try to make up for it, make it better, do their best. They'll be like, I fucked up.
Someone like Zoe Quinn, when caught in her lies, she becomes very, very remorseful for the things she's been caught in. She doesn't fess up to anything.
She doesn't seriously feel any kind of remorse. She's just doing damage control on herself.
And immediately making new lies to cover the old ones, or try to repair the old ones. There's snowballs on her.
And at the very end of everything, after she's lied about cheating, she's lied about her life philosophy, she's lied about everything she's gained in the gaming community, once that's all been revealed to her now ex as a lie,
her only interactions with him from that point on are to try and ensure he doesn't basically reveal everything. Which he did.
He did. I say good for him. Can we do this in real life so that there's no evidence of what I'm going to say to you? Shit like that, you know?
Yeah, cause I mean, he's not that much of a, I mean, he has amassed a grand amount of evidence, but he doesn't seem like the type of guy, he sounds like a pretty stand up guy.
He's pointing all this stuff out there, but I mean, the guy's been, he's just been jerked around for months.
Oh, you, uh...
Oh, I doubt if that'll kill. I'm going to try to go for middle ground now.
You're in middle ground.
There across the table, your mother, weekly, meeting her gaze, we're dropping her ass to the floor, you open your mouth to answer but no words come out, you don't even bother pretending to try and think of what to say.
This is like the worst ending where your mom says, are you okay? And you just collapse.
Yeah.
She doesn't start crying, she just kind of goes...
But no, see, here's the problem. Why doesn't this game have an ending where you kill yourself?
Because that is the ending, that is the worst ending of Depression Quest. Game over.
Yeah.
So she kind of fucked up.
Well, yeah, this is minor. This is the most minor part of her fucking up.
Yeah, that's true.
Lady, you have...
Go for the best ending this time, dude.
I am.
Yeah, because you're in the middle ground.
They don't allow this, they don't allow you to be going through the best stuff.
No, but you can still work your way to the best possible ending just by being smart about it, right?
Here's the thing, like drinking earnest, maybe?
No.
I don't know, avoid the crowd?
Yeah, avoid the crowd. I avoided the crowd when I got my best ending.
She's like, thanks for coming, sweetheart.
Anyway, oh, by the way, the writing is not really that good in this game.
It's okay, it's passable, it gets the point across.
It's utilitarian.
Yeah, it does what it needs to do.
Yeah, get the cat.
Oh, yeah.
How do you like camera lady's dog?
It's always easy to be happy to see me whenever I go downstairs.
Does it hump your leg? Does it blow its load inside of your...
Inside of my leg?
No, inside of your...
Inside of my butthole?
Your butthole, really.
No, I actually don't know if it's male or female.
Yeah, you have to notice that your hands are shaking so she'll help you at this point.
Yeah.
And then you go to therapy and things are okay.
And then teeth grinding.
Yeah, just be honest about everything.
This lying is bad.
Lying is bad.
You should probably learn the lesson here at your own game.
What the fuck, man?
If you play this game and it's not bad, the intent is actually very honorable, then why?
You know what I think?
Is that the other people, she programmed it and the other people just wrote it.
Programmed it?
You mean made an HTML page and clicked through links?
Yeah.
Something I could do when I was 12 years old?
I got the best ending.
No.
Did you lose?
No, you didn't. No, it's not.
I'm good, man.
Really? Because I remember doing one where I actually was able to move in with Alex.
Didn't you?
Well, I don't think so.
Let's see, let's see.
Doing the job?
The biggest change in your life has been your relationship with Alex.
You're terrified about it?
Yeah.
Yeah, you're thinking about it but you're not actually doing it.
Oh, you did? You didn't get the best ending?
Oh, no.
You got to print in the Contra code for this motherfucker.
God damn it.
Okay.
The game sucks.
To finish up our Depression Quest episode, Zoe doesn't follow her own philosophy, obviously.
No, she's very, very, very hypocritical.
Regarding feminism, regarding consent, regarding love, regarding relationships, regarding being an interesting game developer, regarding any kind of decent morality.
A lot of the stuff she has is basically based on a lie because she straight up fucked her way up through the ranks rather than actually...
Or lied. Play the victim.
Yeah, play the victim. Basically anything other than get their own merit.
I think it's a sad state when a person has to use evidence from their own relationship.
But it's a high profile thing now because she's made herself well known through...
One of the most overwhelming opinions on Twitter is, I never liked Zoe. I couldn't pinpoint why. Now I know.
There was something a bit too fake about how she acted in her YouTube videos and her livestream. There was something too fake about it but I couldn't figure it out.
Now I have the full picture. Now I understand what kind of person Zoe Quinn actually is.
And yeah, it's truly a shame because there are real female queer icons out there who should be front and center in their fight to get recognized in the gaming industry.
And here she is, doing this bullshit. Dave, you gotta unlock the golden mouse cursor.
Here's a great example. Machinima, the YouTube network. They will not speak in written form or on Skype if the Skype call is being recorded for their contracts for YouTube channels.
Zoe Quinn is acting like machinima in their business dealings. They're shady, underhanded, everyone hates machinima business dealings.
And Zoe Quinn is doing the same thing. And she turns around and is like, no, I don't want there to be any more evidence of what I'm doing. Please don't release this because it would ruin my life.
I don't care that I actually trampled over you, but this would hurt me so let me try to convince you.
She is, I guess to finish it off, she's like a truly heartless human being. She is sociopathic, at least in her actions.
It definitely comes across as sociopathic. At the very least it comes across as someone that has sociopathic tendencies because of being raised in a poisonous environment.
I'll end it with this. I'll end our episode with this. The only reason we even deal with this, because usually we don't talk about too much internet drama on this show. We just kind of just play games and watch anime and have fun.
The main reason we do this today is because Zoe treated camera lady like such shit. Camera lady comes to me yesterday or whatever and is like, you gotta see this. We gotta put out a video. And I was like, okay, let's fucking do it.
You know what I think is the worst kind of hell? Having to do this game over and over again. That's my Sisyphean hellishness.
You know what I think the worst kind of hell would probably be? Having to deal with Zoe Quinn.
You know what the worst part is? The absolute worst part is? On the off chance should Zoe actually watch this video? You know what she'll say?
What's that? These are just some white guys. So obviously what they're saying has no very own reality. Even though I've been honest?
That's how social justice words kind of just discredit their opponents. They just pick out by what barometer they may be part of a majority in society. Like a privileged majority and just say, oh you're that. Obviously nothing you say is valid.
Dude, there was a controversy like a couple weeks ago where JonTron said the word retired. And people said he looks white. Even though he's not white, he looks white. Therefore any objection he has to our criticism is rendered invalid.
Even though he's not white, he's Persian.
Let's get this shit out of here. Goodbye. Fuck you Depression Quest. You're a bad video game.
Alright, alright.
Stop, stop. I can't, I can't. I'm too depressed. I'm in a glass cage. Oh no. Shut up.
Ah.
Ah.
Ah.
Ah.
Ah.
Ah.
Ah.
Ah.
