I've been trying to figure out why I like Destiny so much recently, and I really do
think it all stems from that one part in the most recent Vaush vs Destiny debate where
Destiny says, I try to live my principles.
I think that it would be unethical for me to maximize my existence in a capitalist society.
I've turned down a lot of money for stuff that would maximize my existence in a capitalist
society, because I think it's unethical to do so. I don't agree that, like,
because it doesn't further what I believe in, and it doesn't further what you've turned down.
I've turned down a ton of fucking gambling sponsorships. There was so much money flying
around in the CSGO skin days. There was so much of that shit that I fucking turned down.
Okay, good. And you've turned down, and I, for my part, have turned down every sponsorship,
because it's not a part of my aesthetic. I don't want to.
Okay, wait, then don't make those things the same. Wait, wait, don't compare that to me, okay?
In my opinion, this is where he really caught Vaush in the hypocrisy. If Vaush is willing to
say that the most egregious parts of capitalism, from his point of view obviously, are not as bad
simply because it's a socialist who's doing it, and therefore there's no actual obligation for
a socialist to live by their principles. And, you know, start a worker co-op, or pay people
at higher than normal rates for the market, or rent out property at lower than normal rates for
the market. If a socialist simply behaves the same as every other capitalist, and Vaush considers
that better just because they're a socialist, then there's no actual principles there. It's
just tribalism. Abstinence, in one sense, is you just stand by and you watch a person drown.
And abstinence, which is negative. And abstinence, in the business sense, is you just stand by and
you watch another business open up and exploit workers. Which would be neutral, but the death
is negative. How is that? Okay, I never ever ever want you to say again that, like, capitalism is
negative, or business owners are bad, because you understand my argument enough. I guess not,
because you've bit the neutral bullet on basically every single actor in a capitalist system. And
since that moment, I've been watching more and more Destiny, and I've realized that even when
I disagree with him, I can respect him because I do think he actually believes what he's saying.
And, you know, a couple years ago I thought he was completely out to lunch. So, hey, maybe that's
how you actually convince people to at least listen to you, is to, you know, be honest, be
sincere. What I'm getting to, though, is that in a previous video, I mentioned that this difference
between Destiny and Vaush is why I thought, and still do think, that Vaush is a grifter.
He misunderstood that comment. He thought that I was saying he was a fake leftist.
But the truth is, I wasn't saying that at all. Vaush is absolutely 100%
the most real leftist out there. It's just that leftism itself is the grift.
How many breadtubers and leftytubers and whatever else do you need to see who are explicitly not
living by their principles? How many of them do you need to encounter before you realize that
something's actually up here? The only one out of all of them that I actually think
runs their channel like a worker co-op, for example, is the serfs. Vaush certainly doesn't
do it, and whenever he's asked, he runs himself in circles trying to explain why. You think Contra
does it? Hell, how about Philosophy Tube, the whole thing that started the debate between
Vaush and Destiny in the first place, where Philosophy Tube was indirectly calling for some
kind of rent strike action with rhetoric like, we need to rise up, even though I promise you
that YouTube channel is pulling in a lot of money. There is definitely this feeling that I get
regarding all these champagne socialists who talk about revolutions while simply taking the paycheck
and not actually doing anything themselves to further their cause. But it's not just Destiny.
Even if you don't like Sargon, you have to admit, he started a company, he's hired six people,
he is a liberal, and he's running his business on those liberal principles. And you know what? All
of those people seem to be actually doing well because of it. Their lives seem to be better
working for the Lotus Eaters rather than doing whatever it was they were doing before. And hell,
look at Kraut. Even if you don't like Kraut, you should go check out his, I don't even know what to
call it, Workers Manifesto? Basically Kraut wrote down and made public how he intends to operate his
business in the future, since it being a YouTube channel, it's run primarily on ad revenue and
donations. And in it, he points out that he plans to live by his principles as well. He intends to
give everyone working under him a living wage. The excess money will go into making his content
higher quality. He will not complain about having to pay taxes like Hassan Piker and others. And he
even changed his private discord where this happens to be called Workers Union. I'm not sure
if people under him actually have a union or not, but I do know just from personally talking to
Kraut that he intends to treat them fairly. This is what living your principles is. It costs money.
But you know what? It makes those working for you have better lives. In turn, they are likely to
create a better product. And then you yourself, as the owner of the business, you profit in the long
term too. And for all of the screaming and crying about the socialist revolution that comes out of
BreadTube, they are absolutely unwilling to actually live their principles. Additionally,
if for some reason you were curious whether or not I live my principles, the answer is I try to
the best that I can. I have never hidden from you where the money that you guys so generously give
me actually goes to. Yes, I'm paying for food and rent and other essential bills. I'm also paying
the artists who work for me. And I do reinvest back into the channel, though at this point I
only need to buy one CPU and then I think I'm good for equipment. That doesn't mean I've been perfect
though. For example, recently there was kind of a scandal that you may not know about if you're not
in my discord or follow my Twitch, where my roommate who has worked on the show before, he
found himself in some financial and potentially legal trouble. And so because he works with me on
the channel sometimes, people gave a shit ton of donations on the Twitch channel that we both co-host
hoping to help him out in a hard time. And now for reasons that I'm not going to get into,
he hasn't been on the channel in about a month and a half. And people are starting to ask me,
hey, we gave all this money to help him out. Where is he? And the honest truth is I have no answer.
And personally, I feel kind of bad that like people gave money that ended up being under
false pretenses and I can refund it if you really want, but it will go towards the channel in some
form or another. It's just one of those situations where I feel kind of bad about it. But even though
I'm not perfect, I do try to live my principles and not lie to you about where your money goes.
In a previous video, I talked about where the Black Lives Matter money goes. When you donate
to, I think it's blacklivesmatter.com or .org or something, it goes into a Democratic slush fund,
gets laundered around a bit, and then ends up in the pockets of people like this. Atlanta
activist spent $200,000 in Black Lives Matter donations on his house and personal expenses.
The FBI has arrested the founder of a Black Lives Matter group in Atlanta on
fraud and money laundering charges. And more recently, Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrice
Con Colors lands Topanga Canyon compound for $1.4 million, 2,400 square feet, three bedrooms,
two bathrooms, plus one bed, one bath guest house in Topanga Canyon, Los Angeles. This place,
by the way, it's pretty beautiful. The only way this house is getting bought is with that
race grifter money, you know? Laughing all the way to the fucking bank. Remember, Patrice Con
Colors was the woman who said this. We actually do have an ideological frame. Myself and Alicia
in particular are trained organizers. We are trained Marxists. We are super
versed on sort of ideological theories. This is how it always goes with people who are
super versed in Marxist theory. They do not redistribute wealth or power, they simply
centralize it. Now, on a moral level, I'm not against the idea of somebody getting rich,
even if it's through something ridiculous like this, and then buying themselves a nice house.
But if you're like a true socialist, a true believer in Black Lives Matter, you have to
be looking at this with disgust right now. With egg on your face, in fact, for even contributing
one cent of your own money to this mess. While I was editing the video, this article showed up.
Inside, BLM co-founder Patrice Con Colors' million-dollar real estate buying binge.
As protests broke out across the country in the name of Black Lives Matter,
the group's co-founder went on a real estate buying binge, snagging four high-end homes.
So it's not just one anymore, guys. It's not just the one that I showed pictures of. She was eyeing
property in the Bahamas, and there's also luxury apartments and townhouses alongside that LA home.
Here's her home in Georgia. It's quite the indoor pool. Here's her house in Englewood, California.
And here's a place in South LA. I have heard so many socialists tell me that it should be
illegal for people to own multiple homes. And yet, here is a socialist who has the means to do so,
absolutely buying that shit up. The hypocrisy is incredible.
Also, while I was editing this video, I was tipped off about another instance like this.
It's obviously not to the same scale as the whole owning four homes thing, but you can see this to
different levels all over the place on the left. When the George Floyd protests happened, the blog
Stefano.me posted a big list of black-owned kawaii brands. So basically, if you're looking for
original hyper cute anime style art, lolita fashion, and other Japanese type stuff, there are
many shops out there that do that sort of thing. And since 2020 was the big push of support black
businesses, here's a list of them. One that I want to point out here is called Otaku Apparel.
It's Otaku Apparel, I guess. It's based in Houston, Texas, and offers cute, colorful apparel
and accessories in multiple sizes. In October 9th, 2020, the owner of Otaku says, I'm going to have
to close the store down for a couple months to catch up on all my orders. Please read the full
post for additional information. Now that was what, six months ago? Check out these comments.
I've sent multiple emails in September, October, January, and now with no response. Could you
please provide official communication or status updates? I ordered on June 5th. It's too late to
do a chargeback. I would like to be either refunded or get the stuff that was purchased.
I love how you lied on your friend's post saying that you would finally address us
as the brand owner, only to go back into hiding for another two weeks on top of the four months
of ghosting us. I placed an order in September of 2020 and waited until January to inquire.
Still haven't received a reply or any update of any kind. Just so y'all know, the owner will
not respond to emails and said no June refunds because your money was unknowingly donated to
Black Lives Matter. Make your disputes with the bank if you can. No refunds or cancellations.
Same thing on her Instagram. I ordered from you back in July and never got what I paid for.
Why you scamming people? Come on now. I ordered from your place in June. I tried to be
understanding but it's literally almost a year and no updates. It's more frustrating on our end
because we spent our own money. Socialists do not respect the concept of money. Therefore,
you should not expect them to be responsible with yours. And this isn't new. It's been going on for
a while. In Manning Johnson's book, Color, Communism, and Common Sense, where he talks
about both the race grifters and the commie grifters, he writes,
And I think, in a separate video,
I brought up this very old quote, but I'll do it again just to make sure we're all on
the same page here. These are the words of Booker T. Washington from an era long before
any of the things we're talking about today.
Some of these people do not want the negro to lose his grievances,
because they do not want to lose their jobs. We see this everywhere. The feminists in academia
do not actually want to solve any gender problems that may exist, because then they would be out of
a job. The race hustlers do not want to solve any race problems that may actually exist,
because then they would be out of a job. And the breadtubers? I think most of all,
they definitely want to keep the grift going. These are people who have built an entire
industry and now profit off of identity politics. And no, no, there is no identity
politics on the right. Identity politics is a very specific thing. I know people on Twitter,
I know breadtubers, I know streamers, all these people who say, the right's idpol,
they also love it, no no no no, you misunderstand. What you're talking about is just tribalism,
okay? There is definitely race tribalism, gender tribalism, class tribalism,
political affiliation tribalism, identifying with a group, or talking for that group collectively,
or something like that. That's not idpol, that's just tribalism. Identity politics is a very
specific thing. And yes, it is uniquely leftist if we are using the left-right binary, because it
comes out of a 1960s French intellectual movement that repurposed Marxist analysis for group
dynamics other than class. So when the Marxists look at the proletariat and the bourgeoisie,
the new left, meaning leftism from 1960s onwards, takes that framework and applies it to things like
race and gender. That's what idpol is. The right wing of politics for all of their many problems
do not engage in idpol. They do engage in tribalism, but not identity politics.
And this is what makes the left, specifically, a giant grift. It doesn't matter if you're
Robin DiAngelo publishing White Fragility, it doesn't matter if you're Patrice Khan Colors
buying a giant house using your Black Lives Matter money, it doesn't matter if you're a
breadtuber raking in donations while never actually living your principles.
What connects these separate types of leftism together is their grifting nature. They're
fundamentally anti-individual, which is by the way why they're an anti-individual solution for
your life's problems, and instead talk about collective solutions, collective action,
stuff like this. The implication there is that you can't actually fix what's wrong with your life,
you have to be part of a collective that gets it done. Of course, they just so happen to have
the entry to that collective, and it's not going to cost you very much to join.
It's the exact same kind of thing that cults and super churches do on the right.
Those are also grifts. They will sell you spiritual salvation for the low price of 1999.
The left will sell you material salvation for the same price. Does this mean that I consider
the right to also be a grift? Um, yeah. But at that point it really depends on what you mean by
left and right. From where I'm standing, the center seems to be the only non-grift position
on the traditional French Revolution era spectrum, where you'll find the classical
liberals and some of the libertarians as well. But outside of the center, the rest of politics
is just a toll booth. Though this applies to both the left and the right, it's most prominent with
socialism. Come on in, we'll fix things, guys, everything will be better. Also, pay at the door.
Thank you for watching, my friends. If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around
and do all of the other algorithm-positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like,
I don't know. Sub for more or hit up my Patreon or SubscribeStar if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So, I'll see you tomorrow. I love you.
