If you've watched my content, it should be no surprise to you that I don't actually
consider myself to be a die-hard Trump fan.
I have said consistently that I'm neutral on him.
I think, if I were an American, I would probably vote for him.
And I supported Bernie back in 2016.
But really, I was hoping for Tulsi.
However, the reason that people like me, the non-communist, non-socialist left, you know,
the social liberal that wants democracy and capitalism intact, but doesn't mind the
idea of a social safety net funded by taxation, that kind of person.
People like me generally gravitate towards Trump because the left has ceded the sensible
center left.
It's either socialists or neoliberal, and people like me don't like either.
And the right is no longer the religious right, now it's the populist right.
And they are taking that center ground.
They're taking up those issues that the left abandoned.
That doesn't mean that I think Trump's perfect.
Far from it.
Because there does seem to be, for some reason, this preconception that I'm a Trump superfan.
I'm not.
And here are the things he's done that I really don't like.
For example, I think Trump's recent debate performance was only so-so.
I think it could have done a lot better.
He bullied Biden, he got him flustered, which is what he had to do.
But he didn't let Biden expand on his own mistakes a little bit more.
And he certainly fell into that white supremacist trap.
But are you willing, tonight, to condemn white supremacists and militia groups and to say
that they need to stand down and not add to the violence in a number of these cities,
as we saw in Kenosha and as we've seen in Portland?
Are you prepared to specifically do it?
I would say almost everything I see is from the left wing, not from the right wing.
What are you saying?
I'm willing to do anything.
I want to see peace.
Then do it, sir.
Say it.
Do it.
What do you want to call him?
What do you want to call him?
Give me a name.
Give me a name.
What would you like me to condemn?
Proud Boys.
Proud Boys, stand back and stand by.
But I'll tell you what.
I'll tell you what.
Somebody's got to do something about Antifa and the left, because this is not a right
wing problem.
This is a left wing problem.
This is a left wing problem.
Antifa is an idea, not an organization.
You gotta be kidding me.
I know it's a product of his speaking style, because he's kind of bombastic and out there.
But when asked to directly repudiate white supremacists, he should have just done it,
because he's done it before, many times.
We've got the neo-Nazis and the white nationalists because they should be condemned totally.
Racism is evil.
And those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis,
white supremacists, and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold dear
as Americans.
In one voice, our nation must condemn racism, bigotry, and white supremacy.
And yes, that means you shouldn't have to keep doing it, but this is a national debate.
If there was one time you were going to repeat yourself again, this would be the time.
I also think that sometimes Trump's chaotic nature makes dealing with America's enemies
a bit too unpredictable.
For example, this is from 2018, remember this?
Donald Trump denies discussing assassination of Syria's Assad.
US President Donald Trump has denied assertions by prominent journalist Bob Woodward in his
new book that he ordered the assassination of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Mr. Trump said the idea was never even discussed with defense officials.
Defense Secretary James Mattis also denied words attributed to him in Woodward's book.
The book says Mr. Trump had ordered the Pentagon to arrange the assassination of the Syrian
president after a chemical attack on civilians in April 2017 that was blamed on the Syrian
government.
Let's effin kill him, let's go in, let's kill the effin lot of him.
Mr. Trump is reported to have told Mr. Mattis.
Of course, at the time everyone said there was no way this is the case, this is just
somebody writing yet another book where Trump says some wild off the cuff thing, there's
been like a dozen of these that have come out over the past four years.
And Trump himself said the same thing in an interview, question, is Bob Woodward a liar
sir?
Do you believe Bob Woodward is lying?
President Trump, oh yeah sure, he's lying, sure.
The book, you mean on the book?
Yes sir.
The book means nothing, it's a work of fiction.
Already General Mattis has come out very very strongly, and I think you know General Mattis,
he does what he wants to do, he's a very independent guy, he was insulted by the remarks that were
attributed to him, and he came up with a very strong statement, I assume you read it,
I hope you read it last night.
Except a couple of weeks ago, Donald Trump completely flipped on that story, and said
that he actually wanted to kill President Bashar al-Assad, and that it was General Mattis
that prevented him from doing so.
And is it true that after Assad gassed children for the second time, that it was you that
wanted to take out Assad, that you had a good side on him, and that it was General Mattis
who talked you out of it, and if it is true do you regret not taking him out, being that
he's not, because he is a mass murderer?
I would have rather taken him out, I had it all set, Mattis didn't want to do it.
Mattis was a highly overrated general, and I let him go, he worked for Obama, he got
fired by Obama also, and I thought that was maybe just a fluke, maybe they had different
views, and he wanted the job very badly, I gave him the job, I didn't like him, I fired
him, and to me he was a terrible general, he was a bad leader, and he wasn't doing the
job with ISIS, he was not doing the job in Syria or Iraq with respect to ISIS, I got
rid of ISIS after he was gone, I did a great job on ISIS, 100% of the caliphate.
Transgender could be defined out of existence under Trump administration, that headline
is a bit hyperbolic, but I personally still do not want to see any rollback of trans rights
or gay marriage or anything like that.
The Trump administration is considering narrowly defining gender as a biological immutable
condition determined by genitalia at birth, the most drastic move yet in a government-wide
effort to rollback recognition and protections of transgender people under federal civil
rights law.
Now for even the most right-leaning of you, you have to understand, gender is not the
same thing as biological sex, gender is not the biological immutable condition determined
by genitalia at birth, that's sex.
Gender is the social role, now I'm not going to be some kind of idiot and say that you
can change your biological sex, no you can't, I'm also not going to say that there's no
link between biological sex and gender role, there very clearly is, but they are not the
same thing, and I do think that it's just another part of the freedom of the individual
to choose to take on a different gender role than the one that normally goes with your
biological sex.
Nobody is obligated to treat you that way, but then again, nobody is obligated to treat
you anyway, because being rude is not illegal, nor should it be.
A series of decisions by the Obama administration loosened the legal concept of gender in federal
programs including in education and healthcare, recognizing gender largely as an individual's
choice and not determined by the sex assigned at birth.
Well frankly, both of these are wrong, aren't they?
Gender is not determined by the sex assigned at birth, gender is a related concept but
it is its own thing, however gender is not the individual choice, because people don't
choose to be trans, unless the intersectional logic has changed over the past 15 years,
trans women may be women but not simply because they identify as them, and to be honest the
Trump administration's rollback of this seems to be conflating sex and gender, and in the
same vein we have transgender health protections reversed by the Trump administration, this
happened a little over two months ago.
I was actually on board with him removing trans people from the military, at least in
active combat roles, because in situations where there may be fighting, there may be
a lack of supply lines or something, there's no guarantee they're going to get their squishy
skittles on time, and people who have to take medication are generally not allowed in those
roles.
But for me, this is too far.
The Trump administration on Friday finalized a rule that would remove non-discrimination
protections for LGBTQ people when it comes to healthcare and health insurance.
The new rule defines sex discrimination as only applying when someone faces discrimination
for being female or male and does not protect people from discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation or gender identity.
Supporters of the new rule say that this is a necessary reversal of Obama era executive
overreach and will reduce confusion about the legal meaning of sex discrimination.
Critics argue that the rule could further harm an already vulnerable group, transgender
people in the midst of a pandemic, and the historic uprest spurred by the killing of
George Floyd.
I can't help but wonder if the timing of this rule is by design so that this is something
people won't pay attention to.
And here's what the rule does.
The rule focuses on non-discrimination protections laid out in section 1557 of the Affordable
Care Act.
That federal law established that it is illegal to discriminate on the basis of race, color,
national origin, sex, age, or disability in certain health programs and activities.
In 2016 an Obama era rule explained that the protections regarding sex encompassed those
based on gender identity which it defined as male, female, neither, or a combination
of male and female.
And of course the Trump administration said, we're going back to the plain meaning of those
terms which is based on biological sex.
Now I get it because this is actually a problem with the wording of the Affordable Care Act.
The Affordable Care Act protected based on race, color, national origin, sex, age, or
disability.
It did not protect for sexuality or gender identity.
And Obama simply decided to define the word sex as including sexuality and gender identity
which it clearly doesn't.
But the solution here does leave those people open to potential discrimination.
And frankly this rule reversal shouldn't have been done until section 1557 of the Affordable
Care Act was changed to actually include gender identity and sexuality.
Simple as that.
And then of course we've got this clip.
I remember this guy, Welche, he got hit on the knee with a canister of tear gas and he
went down.
He didn't, he was down.
My knee, my knee.
Nobody cared.
These guys didn't care.
They moved him aside.
And they just walked right through.
It was like, it was the most beautiful thing.
No because after we take all that crap for weeks and weeks, they would take this crap
and then you finally see men get up there and go right through.
Wasn't it really a beautiful sight?
Of course he's talking about Ali Welche, a reporter at MSNBC.
You'll probably recognize this guy as the idiot who was on the scene saying that the
protests were mostly peaceful as a fire raged around him.
I want to be clear in how I characterize this, this is mostly a protest, it is not generally
speaking unruly.
Yes he is America's bagdaddy Bob.
But frankly, whatever you think about the state of journalism right now, and it is pretty
shit.
Or about MSNBC, or about Ali Welche himself.
The journalists that are covering the riots, especially the journalists that are covering
the peaceful protests, should not be attacked by the cops.
I get it, you have the fog of war, you don't know what's going on, you might not know who's
who, people get caught up in the crossfire, these things happen.
But man, it's not something to jeer about.
Yes we get it, journalists are shit.
We have to be better than them.
Trump won't commit to a peaceful post-election transfer of power.
In a response to a question the president complained about mail-in ballots and said
there won't be a transfer frankly, there will be a continuation.
In my opinion this is absolutely unconscionable.
Every election that I can remember, up until 2016, the candidates said, regardless of who
won, yes we will of course respect the outcome of the election.
And in 2016 Hillary herself said it, until she lost, and then suddenly the left rioted
for 4 years.
But again, we have to be better than them.
If Trump loses the election, fair and square, he has to go.
In that situation, any attempt by him to hang on to the office would be monstrously authoritarian.
Asking whether he would commit here today for a peaceful transfer of power after the
November election, Mr. Trump demurred, passing on a chance to call for a calm and orderly
election process.
We're going to have to see what happens, he told a reporter.
You know that I've been complaining very strongly about the ballots, and the ballots are a disaster.
Get rid of the ballots and you'll be very peaceful, there won't be a transfer frankly,
there will be a continuation.
That was an apparent reference to mail-in ballots, which for months he has railed against.
And no article not without evidence, there has definitely been some evidence of ballots
disappearing and stuff like that.
But still, what he has to say is, if I lose, if the evidence has been looked over, and
I've lost fair and square, I will step down.
His opponents already imagine him to be a tyrant.
The winning move, as always, is to beat them on their level.
To directly address and rebuke their claims.
And just like with the debate question, his Trumpisms, I guess we'll call them, often
do him more harm than good.
And of course, probably most infamously, there was his clearing of Lafayette Square.
From what I understand, Lafayette Square is kind of like Canada's Parliament Hill, or
the UK's Speaker's Corner, where people show up and protest, and they protest all the time,
and that is in fact the purpose of the location, is for people to have a public central place
where they may protest whatever and whenever they like.
Well, on June 1st, 2020, there was a peaceful protest in Lafayette Square.
And yes, it was actually peaceful.
Under the direction of Attorney General William Barr, hundreds of officers in riot gear cleared
the square so that Trump could walk through it, go to St. John's Church, and pose for
a photo-op.
Many, many journalists, from NBC, from CNN, from ABC, from the Australian show Sunrise,
as well as a lot of on-the-ground footage taken by protesters themselves, show that
the protest was indeed peaceful until the troops were sent in to clear the square.
As far as I can tell, and I might be wrong, Lafayette Square has never been cleared of
protesters in this manner.
Not during the civil rights movement, not during the protests against the Vietnam War,
9-11, George Bush, Tea Party, whatever.
But this time, it was cleared.
And it was cleared for Trump's photo-op.
It's a blatant violation of the First Amendment right to freedom of assembly, federal lawsuits
have been filed, and General Mark Milley, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
has broken ranks with the administration and apologized for his part in this debacle.
This will go down in history as one of the defining negative moments of Trump's presidency.
And anybody who values their First Amendment rights should be outraged by his and the administration's
behavior in this matter.
Now, despite all of these things, I still think Trump's a better pick than Biden.
I still think Trump's a better pick than Bernie.
But not because I'm a die-hard Trump lover.
But because yes, even with all of these points against Trump, he's still better than the
alternatives.
He's still better than a neoliberal with Alzheimer's, and he's still better than
a socialist.
And in general, he's doing a much better job than either of them would.
But that is no reason to lose our heads, become partisans, and start inventing wild excuses
for the actual bad things he's done.
Nobody's perfect, Trump least of all.
