Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time, and a legacy,
something that I'm sure many of us have pondered. The age-old question beckons, when we all move on from this world,
what will we leave behind? The truth is, none of us can ever know for certain, because the moment we pass on,
we relinquish most control of the narrative surrounding how we're remembered. People who have been considered
controversial and problematic have been recontextualised by their death, and sometimes, figures previously revered
have had their involvement in some very seedy antics revealed post-mortem. In some cases, a perspective will take
centuries to form, in other times it will take merely days. However, one thing that remains central in analysis of
individuals is the existence of art. I use the term art liberally, of course, here. I'm not just talking about a painting
or a sculpture, I'm talking about the general product of any form of creative process that can affect someone's life in a
meaningful way. An artist's direct words or thoughts may be long forgotten, but their creations will always serve as a window
to their mind. What these works may say specifically is often down to interpretation, but there are often general themes
that many people identify with, which is what provides them with a following and a reputation. Upon analysis of such
content, many of us draw parallels between the pieces and the person behind them. After all, art should be a part of
oneself, we enjoy identifying with others, even when it extends to maestros who we could never really hope to get near in
terms of genius. For the new generation of aspiring creatives, times have somewhat evolved, particularly with the presence
of social media, which enables many people to speak more directly to their chosen audience. For those who choose to use
it, you may have a close-up on the person behind a beloved work, and based on their behaviour, you may be able to make a
summary judgement if you want to delve into their works much further. However, with all the benefits that such an experience
can provide, it can also play into unhealthy parasocial relationships, one that we've spoken about in the past,
particularly when said art may not appear to reflect a person's character. Yes, every now and then, anomalies appear on the
system, people who may have created something wonderful that many find to be an uplifting and positive force in their life
may also have negatively affected others in a marked way, either due to their actions or words separate to their art.
This is where the discourse surrounding distinguishing art form from the artist originates. Appreciating good workmanship
doesn't necessarily presuppose a complete endorsement of the person behind it. However, over time, the bar for this sort of
standard has definitely been lowered a little. With the rise of social media, and people perhaps having a bit too much time to
argue, this sort of distinction has become more and more regularly employed. A prime example of such a trend is JK Rowling,
a previously renowned celebrity who took a political position that was contrary to many of her colleagues and fans.
If she'd never sent out a tweet on the matter, many people who probably regard her with disdain would still adore her.
Humans are complex, multi-faster creatures, many of whom are deeply troubled and don't necessarily benefit from the public spotlight,
sometimes leaving us to wonder whether we knew them as well as we thought we did, and perhaps wishing we didn't know them
quite as well now. This is what leads us to probably the most quintessentially Gen-Z example, a gentleman by the name of Marcus
Persson, or as he is known to many online, Notch.
Notch is a Swedish game developer, who in 2009 began a humble little project known as Minecraft. I feel like I shouldn't have to
elaborate too much here, but Minecraft is a sandbox video game which enables the user to build a multitude of structures
and face off against a variety of monsters who descend upon the player at dusk. It has four modes, creative, survival,
hardcore, and adventure, each with its own type of gamer, allowing for a very broad appeal indeed. Over the last decade
and a bit, it has amassed cross-platform sales in excess of $230 million, making it the best-selling video game of all time
by a significant margin. It has also received numerous awards, franchised itself to a dizzying extent, and established itself
as a cultural force to be reckoned with, its timeless appeal being typified by its continued creation of public figures
who are likely just as publicly visible as the man behind the game. But in a way, I suppose it makes sense, many individual
developers are barely a fraction as well known as the games they create, they're most comfortable making the magic happen
behind the scenes, and in the case of many games, it's hardly a singular effort, and very few people end up being standout
figures. Audiences can't expect to learn the entire roster of a video game studio. Notch was different though, as the
big head behind Minecraft, he set himself apart from faceless corporations and created a unique bond with his audience,
utilising the game's network and accompanying social media platforms to create this almost legendary figure in gaming
circles, who would interact and respond to feedback from many of the devoted audience. To many, Minecraft and Notch
were inseparable. Well, until they weren't.
Maybe, I don't know, were you the Minecraft guy? No.
Cut to 2022 though, and trying to find any remnants of even the word Notch on Minecraft's servers would be a challenge
to even the most ardent user. Person unsurprisingly had cashed out his shares in 2014, making a tidy 1.7 billion dollars,
and adopting a lifestyle that supported that. In many ways, he had done what many creatives wished they could do,
walk away with a shithole of money, and have your legacy commemorated and honoured by many users and creators.
However, barely a couple of years after he'd become a billionaire, Notch began to publicly head down a curious path,
one that gradually became more and more questionable to those who looked on, and eventually resulted in Microsoft,
the company who had bought out Minecraft, to cuddle public ties with him in the hopes that a PR nightmare would be averted.
It seems that in spite of his undeniable contribution to modern culture, certain people believe he would be better off
forgotten altogether. Well, today we're going to be paying him a bit of time, taking a look at the man behind Minecraft,
the mind that married the creation, the eventual and painful divorce, and what legacy may be left behind.
Ladies, gentlemen, and all other flavours of quarks, I think it's best we go to the start,
dare I say it, to a world without Minecraft. Let's go.
This video is sponsored by Aura, and the following ad is only suitable for US citizens,
so if you're with me and old Blighty, then put on a cup of tea or something.
Austin, you're f***ing healing me. Heal me, you f***ing w- what, are you dumb b***h?
Harley, Harley, Harley, I don't really think you deserve heals, to be honest.
Hey, it's me, Bored Oranges, from YouTube.
Let the f***ing game, Oranges, stop flogging your channel.
Um, guys, I think my channel just got hacked.
Wow.
Jesus, really?
Holy shit.
I feel like, guys, I'm totally quitting Twitter, and you should give me all your money for, like, Tesla and crap and stuff.
Can somebody pick off that Moira?
Oh yeah, oh yeah, you're flogging Teslas now, Austin.
Elon's gonna be really, really hyped about that.
Shit, what am I even supposed to do right now? Do I contact support?
I do have one idea.
Have you heard of Aura?
No, uh, what is it?
Here, let me send you a link.
It's a privacy and security app. Sounds like something you might need.
I don't even think I could afford something like that, and how exactly is that going to help me now?
Well, thanks to a special deal I've been cooking up.
You can get two weeks absolutely free, so you don't have to worry about the cost while you are testing it out.
www.aura.com slash opinion.
Preferably, you'd make use of Aura before something bad happens,
but as it already has, we're going to try and stop the hackers in their tracks.
Do you still have access to your accounts?
Okay, hold on a sec.
Please heal me. Focus on the game.
Yes.
Okay, good, then this will be easy.
What we're going to do is kick out the hackers from your accounts before they change anything else,
and then make use of Aura's 256 AES encrypted password manager
to generate new, stronger passwords to make sure they never do this again.
Aura also lets you know if your current passwords are weak, and crucially,
if your passwords have been involved in data breaches and are exposed on the dark web.
Is anyone going to sort out that Reinhardt who keeps hitting my arse?
Oh, wow, that was really easy.
I was honestly worried there for a second.
Well, Aura makes staying safe online easy.
If you think that's good, wait till you hear about what else it can do.
My friend's been getting all these spam calls and emails due to data brokers
profiting off selling private information.
Aura will identify those data brokers that are selling your information
and automatically send them opt-out requests on your behalf.
Aura also does real-time credit and identity theft monitoring and has a VPN with an antivirus.
Typically, you'd have to pay for those separate features, but here you can get it all in one app.
Thank you, James.
And I mean it seriously.
Thank you.
You're most welcome, Austin.
You're most welcome.
Let Aura do the hard work of keeping you safe online.
If you sign up right now with my link, www.aura.com slash opinion,
Aura will give you a two-week free trial.
Now, back to the video.
Can we group up already?
The decade is the 1980s.
Technology is emerging pretty quickly, with various movements in the industry
taking the world by storm, with many pieces of media romanticizing its popularity.
However, enthusiasm for that sector was still treated with disdain by some,
and as many 80s coming-of-age films will likely tell you,
the cool kids were still the ones who could flatten some poor sod in a game of football.
For many, forms of technology were an outlet to keep them away from the
toxic social hierarchies they felt they couldn't compete in,
and by the 80s, one of the very important branches of technology was the video game.
In early times, you would have to commute to the arcade to have a taste of what video games
actually entailed, but with the increased commercial reach and accessibility of consoles,
the market opened up much more to those who enjoyed the pastime of gaming,
not just one of those people who wasn't really interested in being the coolest at school.
Deeply fascinated by mechanics from a young age, he spent much of his time indoors,
initially taking a keen interest in Lego, but soon turning his attention to his personal
Commodore 1 to a computer, either playing it or programming it, much of the time with codes
from a magazine network that his father was subscribed to.
At the age of eight, he produced his first video game,
one that he reassuringly informed an interviewer was basic.
Back then, these sorts of pastimes were vocational to many,
very few people knew exactly where artificial intelligence would be in 20 years time,
with some still arguing the idea that an online network could never be achieved,
and others claiming it would just be a fad regardless.
But over the years, it continued to defy many of its detractors,
with persisting developments and watershed moments that set the bar higher and higher
in scientific accomplishment.
With an expanding industry in an expanding market,
a person who had dropped out of high school likely sensed an opportunity.
His mother put him on a programming course to hone his talent,
and by the time he was 18, he had his first job.
After a few rocky periods in between, he was one of the first developers hired by a Stockholm-based
company then known as Midas Player, later to become King, the corporation who made the
legendary Candy Crush Stargut, inescapable from the daily lives of all, from our phones to our
skylines. The person worked on a fair few games during his 4-5 years stint at the company,
however he always kept one of his eyes on a few side projects that he would work on in his free
time, developing a fair few games to boot. In 2006, he released the Java-based game Worm Online,
a game he had developed with long-time friend Rolf Jensen, a sandbox MMO where players could
construct buildings, mine for materials, and craft tools. Sound familiar?
Well, there were a few differences, it's definitely a bit more complex, probably leaning more into
games like RuneScape for its more detailed visuals and skill level system that provides people with
a clear roadmap to mastery of the arts. However, there is also a more factional element that allows
people to join villages and allies, declare on others if they want, alongside a religious system
that allows people to worship a certain deity, each one having their own unique perks. It provides
an arrangement where users essentially create their own lore and history within the game.
It's a clever system, and the game does appear to have some popularity to this day, but in 2007,
the year after Worm was first released, Notch stepped away from his commitment to the game,
and the studio, then known as Mojang Specifications AB. Despite moving on from this
venture, person wished to retain the namesake Mojang for his next project. However, afraid of
market competition, Midas player barred him, and all employees from making games in their free time.
However, clearly valuing his individual creativity, Notch responded by quitting his job,
taking up work at a friendlier employer, and dedicating the following months to replicating
a game by the name of Infiniminer.
Infiniminer is a block-based sandbox game in which a player harvests minerals by cutting through
procedurally generated maps. Sound familiar? Well, yeah, this one should really. Infiniminer was
released by indie developer Zachtronics, named after its founder, Zach Barr. It wasn't particularly
hyped on release, and hadn't created large grounds well after, but it caught the attention of Marcus,
who said that although it had a clear character, still left a lot to the imagination. At the time
Marcus had been working on a project known as Ruby Dunk, a base building game in which he had
experimented with a feature that enabled first person perspective, but ultimately felt it was
too undeveloped in its current format. Although Person admired many aspects of Infiniminer,
he wished to create an environment that leaned into the more RPG theme, one that would emphasize
survival in the wilderness. He also wanted to focus on details of the in-game experience,
sound effects that would relate to each individual action, and how a player base may respond to that.
On May the 13th, 2009, Notch, using an account by the name of Ninzotch on YouTube, posted a video
titled Cave Game Tech Test. This upload was well received by users at the time, and a couple days
later, he seemed to have settled on a name, Minecraft.
In this time, Notch continued to post updates to his YouTube channel and personal Tumblr blog that
followed progress on the game pretty closely. Four days after posting Cave Game Tech Test,
he opened up the game to the public, providing users with a link if they wish to play it
themselves. Notch predominantly used forums for the independent game source to distribute his
new project, the same one that he had found Infiniminer on. There wasn't any real big
promotional push, nor was there any large investment from companies who believed in
the project, it was the true definition of an indie game. Just over 20 years after he had
created his first game on the Commodore 128, he had published a humble sandbox game on Java,
but the world was a lot larger now and dominated by companies who had a million times the resources
of a person like Persons. Indie games were a dime a dozen, and Notch's couldn't have been that unique, right?
Intro
Very few people know when they're making their magnum opus that it will be their magnum opus.
Intro
You can speculate how people will receive it, but you can never foresee public reaction,
and you can never account for every single issue that a consumer might point out.
When Notch first made the game playable, there were more than enough issues to count,
and many people were the first to let him know. However, there was definitely something unique
about Minecraft from the off. I'm not going to go through every detail, because there are creators
out there who are much more enthusiastic than me and have made it far more in-depth videos, but I
think the best way to summarise would be to say that it on one hand being a rather simple sandbox
allowed for a rather broad range of virtual realities, one where a world could be built around
your vision. At the same time, the RPG element, the first person perspective, gave it a more
competitive element and rewarded a person for the proficiency and skills required for survival.
Whereas Notch's previous game Worm had a system built on levels that was meant to supply an outward
motive for mastery, Minecraft was inherent. It was a simple system, but it was one that works,
and one that you progress through naturally. A bedrock so basic that can create a world so
complex. I think the best thing that can be said about the game is that you never have the exact
same experience twice, and for many that was embodied by the existence of Minecraft. The
familiar aspects were there, you never had to relearn the fundamentals, there was never an
alienation of experience, and many of the processes were as simple as a few clicks,
but the opportunities branched off each time you decided to take your experience to the world in a
new direction. The visual design was unvarnished, making it undemanding to be seized and accessible
to many users, still retaining its own charm and feeling that it was intentional. It was also
assisted by a barebones yet effective soundtrack and sound design by C418, another frequent user
of the independent game source forum. His work can be identified by most from a single chord,
and that's impressive. Yet a game is more than its premise, and can never be flawless on launch.
That couldn't be more applicable to a game like Minecraft, which Notch decided to make
playable from the preliminary stages of production. Notch couldn't necessarily afford
his own game testers, so he relied on the feedback from users. You could tell that when it was first
published it was still in its teething era. Although many people enjoyed it, Marcus was
inundated with recommendations and requests from gamers who felt their experience could be enhanced,
and Notch was on it, regularly responding to people and applying updates as soon as his day
job was finished. Within three days of making the alpha open to all users, he had added a variety of
features and continued to do so over the coming weeks, including a multiplayer mode at the turn
of June. Much of this was conferred through the forums, but it soon expanded to his personal blog
and equivalent social media that became dedicated to following the progress of the game as it
garnered more and more interest from the wider internet. With the increasing popularity and
knowledge that he would probably need funds to sustain development, Notch moved the game into
a paid alpha stage for those who wanted a few more modes at their disposal. Unlike a lot of indie
games trying to capitalise on the popularity, Notch actually made a decision to make his game
a bit more expensive than he had initially valued it, linking an essay explaining the importance of
not underselling indie games. In spite of this, many people happily obliged and continued to
spread the word, leading to a snowball effect that resulted in more and more users. Videos, tweets,
posts, onto a variety of social media websites continued to serve as Notch's own unpaid
promotional campaign, and gave person all the time he wanted to focus on quality control,
and to be fair to him, that's exactly what he did. With the rate of unexpected success
that Notch was experiencing, it would have been easy for him to rest on his laurels or
sell his work onto an eager investor. However, with each passing day he only seemed to dedicate
more and more time to perfecting and updating the craft of this humble mining game. His
proactiveness in actually attending to problems and responding to feedback didn't seem to let up,
even as the game seemingly expanded beyond a single person's capability. He switched his day job
to part-time, hired a couple people to help him manage designs, but still placed himself at the
creative control panel of this undertaking, maintaining activity and status in the forums
that had so graciously supported his project. He was still a one-man army, and amongst many was
quickly obtaining status as a bit of a cult figure. However, things were beginning to spiral
out of control a little. In the first year the game moved around 25,000 copies, pretty good for
an indie game, but in 2010 it began to garner even more traction, selling thousands of copies in the
space of a day. So much income was being generated from sales that, suspecting fraud, PayPal froze
his account, which subsequently just generated more publicity. I mean, the dude was literally
keeping hundreds of thousands in his PayPal. Although Notch was on top of his game, he didn't
seem to be on top of his fame, there were some things that he just could not do on his own.
Enter stage right now, the video game's mammoth headed by another popular figure, Gabe Newell.
Noticing the success of Minecraft and the man behind it, they invited him over to Bellevue,
Washington to see what the prospects of future work could be. They showed him around the
headquarters, made him take some programming assessments, even having him meet with President
Mr. Newell himself. All in all, it was quite the experience, and although they believed he
had a bit to learn, they were happy to offer him a job that would hopefully provide him with a bit
of stability. However, that wasn't the only thing that happened in Bellevue.
When Notch announced he was travelling to Valve headquarters in the US, many people asked him if
a meetup was possible. Person, thinking it could be a nice initiative, decided to announce the
meeting on his Tumblr blog, jovially labelling it MinecraftCon, saying that it could be a good
idea even if it's just three people sitting around in uncomfortable silence for 20 minutes.
It wasn't quite that though, in fact over 50 people turned up, including one person in a full
creeper costume. Although it didn't last for more than a few hours, it might just have been enough
to convince Notch that although Valve's offer was likely flattering, there may be something
more worthwhile in what he already had. So he turned down the move to Valve, and instead called
up his longtime friend Jakob Pulsa, expressing the desire to take this whole little Minecraft
gig a little bit more seriously. But was that what Notch wanted?
Upon returning to Sweden, Person and Pulsa incorporated their business as Mojang AB,
later to be Mojang Studios, and brought on some additional manpower to their workforce.
They decided to commit a bit more time to game development in general, even beginning to work on
another game called Scrolls, though it's now known as Call as Bane. It seems the wheels were firmly
in motion on the Mojang machine, and not too soon after Notch was vindicated for his decision made
in September, because Minecraft's growth didn't slow, in fact it did quite the opposite, even
beginning to capture the attention of mainstream media sources. Less than 20 days after his visit
to Bellevue, a YouTube video on Minecraft topped the platform's gaming charts for the first time,
and by the end of October they had moved 500,000 copies, and by the end of the year PC Gamer UK had
heralded it as the game of the year, all while still in beta. In many ways the offer on Valve
is just what someone like Notch needed. This was a dude who had seemed a bit out of his depth at
the time, hell, he was storing hundreds of thousands of pounds in his Paypal account,
it felt like the backing of a more stable source of income was just what he needed. However,
something tells me Notch didn't bank his success on the amount of income his little project generated.
Nobody could have foreseen the success of a humble game initially posted onto an independent forum,
especially Person, and really his ability to follow this through wouldn't depend on the
amount of money he made, but more his own spark for the game, something that he clearly still
believed he possessed.
Does it just still make you happy to just keep working on the game every day?
Yeah, so far yes. We got another game being prototyped and it's really fun to think about that,
but so far the most fun is when I can actually just work on Minecraft.
With the attention of major developers like Valve, it would have been very easy to let his elevated
status get to him, but like a lot of accidental celebrities, Notch didn't really seem to view
himself as one, he just wanted to keep working on his project, but that was at least somewhat
difficult as the user base continued to manifest. He didn't make the game early access to the entire
world with the intent of having the entire world play it, he had to adapt, and the new business
model seemed like the best way forward. With a new business, there are new responsibilities,
particularly if a game wants to continue to rule the market.
In 2011, to consolidate their prosperity, the Mojang crew began to work on new versions for
other platforms, initially for mobile devices, but console projects followed not too long after.
The company also made the decision to start publishing games from other indie studios,
additionally after the success of the spontaneous meetup in 2010, it was decided that MineCon would
become an official event, it was planned to occur from the 18th to the 19th of October in Las Vegas.
Everything was moving forward pretty smoothly, but was that the case for our title character?
Notch really was the first of his kind in many ways, and he was certainly one of the first who
became known among many for just being a developer. Although that was partly attributable to the
success of the game, it was also a credit to his hands on nature and actual interest in the
community that surrounded it. It was clear that he didn't wish to take any single person for
granted, however there's a reason that sort of approach isn't typically linked to celebrities,
to put it plainly, it's impossible to maintain. I'd say the best allegory is that of the YouTube
channel really, there are people who when they start their channel will respond to every single
comment and try and give as much attention to anybody who takes an interest in their work,
but the attention may grow to the point where you cannot tangibly engage with everyone without
sacrificing other aspects of the creative process. What people loved Notch for was a quality that
would inevitably become incompatible with his status, and with that comes a few complications.
When you have a small project, the first people who believe in it and support it are some of the
most important supporters you can have, as they're the ones who may help you find your feet in
momentum. If you reciprocate that positive attention, then these people will enjoy engaging
with you because many of them appreciate being listened to, and their voice actually having
influence. As a project grows, their voice will be diluted though, and this leads to more
dissatisfaction, the allegations that you sold out, that you're not who you used to be, you've
become lazy, etc, and you're going to come across people with completely conflicting visions of what
you should do with your content, which often just leads to nobody being satisfied. Some of these
dedicated individuals were also becoming increasingly obsessed with Notch's life,
including to the point where someone created a timeline of his in-work absences. Even if he
tried his utmost hardest, there was no way that Notch's position was sustainable, and over 2011
as pressure continued to rise it was clear that he was, as they would say, suffering from success.
In a Reddit AMA in April 2011, Notch acknowledges his nature to overstress and focus on the
negativity, particularly over a runaway success like Minecraft. Hava also says he has made a
commitment to managing it better, he seemed to be doing an okay job at managing that at first,
but over the year this struggle appeared to resurface. This likely wasn't alleviated when
Bethesda filed a lawsuit claiming the game's scrolls were too similar to the Elder Scrolls,
which led to a months-long legal back and forth. Notch prevailed, but at what cost? This seemed to
climax in the 2011 Minecon, which also marked the official release of Minecraft. There was every
reason to celebrate, however it was marked by an incident involving a couple YouTubers,
part of the channel known as the Yogscast.
In their time, the Yogscast were one of the largest and most influential gaming channels
on YouTube. Some of their members were also enthusiastic devotees of Minecraft, and Notch
in return sang his praises for their work, so their appearance of Minecon 2011 should have been
a match made in heaven. However, not too long after their appearance on the final night,
a sleep-deprived Notch sent a series of enraged tweets that called out the pair for their supposed
delinquent behaviour which included cursing, insulting, and all-around incendiary behaviour.
Yogscast responded on their subreddit, disputing Notch's version of events and criticising the
general organisation of Minecon. This tension persisted for a day or so before Notch relented
and put out another statement apologising for his approach, and admitting it was likely a
stress-related misunderstanding. At the height of his success, Notch should have at least been
enjoying himself, yet it seemed that it was anything but that, and it's not surprising.
He was never a person who enjoyed the public spotlight, and this increased level of tension,
especially at an event like Minecon, was only going to escalate that further.
The guy needed a break, but would he ever get it?
As noted, Notch's approach to management wasn't really one that adapted to the levels of
attention that he received. He didn't do it badly for what it was worth, but eventually you can't
keep up with the continued public analysis of your existence, particularly when it's committed to a
game that should really enable you to block out the world around you. So approximately a couple
weeks after the official launch of Minecraft and Notch's little incident with the Yogscast,
he announced he was stepping down as head programmer.
The title of the post is in Swedish, a statement meaning with those words
I hand over the microphone, with the rest of the short blog elaborating on a statement.
The new head designer Jens Bergensten, also known as Jeb, had been working hard on developing the
game's scrolls. The person was impressed by his work, and felt like he was the right person to
take the game forward. He doesn't really talk too much about his own mental state, only saying that
he will rest for a while, but intends to continue to help out Minecraft. With all things considered,
this was probably the right decision, it would ease the public expectation while still allowing
him to offer insight and ideas for his brainchild. Bergensten is by no means anonymous, and I don't
want to suggest that, but Notch was still the face of the company in many regards, just one that had
been stretched a bit too thin over the past few years, but would that be enough? Well, I think
the key is perspective really. The move as it had been presented was one for a person's own
wellbeing, however I think that Notch had to believe it himself, because whether he liked it
or not, people still primarily associated Minecraft with him above anything else, and with that in
mind there were still going to be people who held him responsible for the upkeep of the game,
even if it wasn't technically his obligation at all. Notch had to simply accept that these people
would exist, and stop caring about them. I think one of the problems with Notch is that he couldn't
really escape his status, I think the move lifted some mandate to do work off his shoulders,
but otherwise he was still the centre of attention, particularly as now I have a Twitter user. He also
wasn't really much of a professional when it came to his content, this wasn't an insult really,
but as you know many companies make their public representation as bereft in personality as
possible. Notch always presented himself as a friend of the user, unlike a lot of large
companies, his stance on piracy was mostly different, occasionally even encouraging people.
He resented large companies for their acquisitions such as Google taking over YouTube, he came across
as a video game populist, but I think having such stances is always going to come with his perils.
Notch was still a significant force in a lot of decisions made around Mojang. Sure he wasn't the
number one guy for design, but as I'm sure he found out soon enough, running a company came with
more than enough baggage of its own, and eventually although you can find his position as an advocate
respectable, you soon realise why a lot of companies don't have that sort of representation.
Ultimately, Notch still bore the brunt of the decisions made by the company, even ones not
made by himself, so he was regularly bombarded with requests that he could not fulfil without
going over Jeff's head, something that he had pledged not to do, however if he didn't enact
those changes he'd be subject to a litany of rather unpleasant words, something that he took
more personally than he should have. He was an inherently high stress person who wanted to solve
every person's issue, but knew he shouldn't. Being the video game populist isn't easy when
he was no longer the friendly game developer behind the screen, and had a multi-million dollar
franchise to oversee. In the end Notch became much more preoccupied with covering the decisions
that concerned business, sometimes dealing with complaints from large companies who weren't happy
that people were recreating their content in Minecraft. On the other side, people were
dissatisfied every time he made an executive decision that people felt may have affected a
player's in-game experience, even if it was one he felt was the right thing to do or absolutely
necessary. The sandbox format, which in many ways with the game's core appeal also began to
generate some controversy of its own over the years, now in many ways what happens in a game
like Minecraft is a player's own discretion, and developers can't be expected to intervene in every
server that offends people's sensibilities, particularly on a game with the number of servers
that Minecraft has. However, as the antics became more and more far-fetched, pressure began to mount
ultimately climaxing in a situation regarding in-game transactions. It was mid-2014, summer was
approaching quickly, but it was not all sunshine on the Minecraft servers. Discourse had flared up
on Twitter, as it always does, on the issue of donating to servers that offer certain services.
Responding to this, Mojang spokesperson Owen Hill explained that although people are more than
welcome to donate to servers, it couldn't be an exchange for equipment that gave you an in-game
advantage. Soft pay-to-win essentially. However, many users didn't agree with this and began a
hashtag titled SaveMinecraft. Although this stance was not new for Mojang, they were not known to
have enforced it, and this newfound attention drew ire from many users, who felt there were
many good servers whose existence relied on such transactions. Not frustrated by the decision
surrounding the topic did what he did best, and took to his personal blog to write a response
explaining his perspective, and explained that nothing had changed. This had always been their
stance on the matter, as written in the EULA, the End User Licence Agreement. They did not want to
sacrifice the don't pay for the gameplay principle that had motivated them all this time. Nevertheless,
the user base did not subside, some of whom pointing towards the recent Minecraft Realms
release as being a motivating factor for Mojang's decision to turn their attention towards other
paid servers. Realms was launched the month before, and allowed a person to pay £8 a month
to have private servers for up to 20 friends. This large-scale service drew comparisons that
maybe Minecraft was trying to decrease competition, not truly acting in the interest of users,
which likely provoked a more cynical response from gamers. Notch from his perspective clearly
felt like he was doing the right thing, and he always took a lot of pride in it. He was always
facing off with the sect of people who believed he was acting in his own self-interest, and with
the large-scale movement against the decision that he felt was pretty cut and dry was the final straw.
So on the 16th of June, a frustrated and enraged Notch typed out a tweet in the heat of the moment,
and everything changed.
Anyone want to buy my share of Mojang so I can move on with my life? Getting hate for
trying to do the right thing is not my gig. The tweet in question wasn't a serious business
proposition, but it did catch the attention of a few serious businesses, who contacted Notch's
colleagues and asked him if he was for real. At first unsure, the idea of being able to completely
disassociate from all the burdens he felt saddled with began to inspire some ideas. Every major
company knew the cash cow that Mojang was, a business with less than 50 employees, yet
generating hundreds of millions in revenue each year. It was a corporate wet dream, and if they
were going to sell, there was hardly a gaming behemoth that didn't want a slice. However,
it didn't take too long for the frontrunner to emerge. That frontrunner was the humble,
full-scale firm known as Microsoft.
So how do you run your Minecraft company? Have you sold out to the evil corporations yet?
No, not yet. We hope not to.
Now, to be fair, the company had to be somewhat large to even afford to buy out the shares on
offer. We'll get to the price of the deal in a bit, but Notch wanted a company who were in
touch with the preservation of what made Minecraft special. He had dealt with Microsoft before,
occasionally expressing frustration with their practices, but regularly also demonstrating
affection for those who he worked with to bring Minecraft to their platforms, even at some points
promoting rumours of an exclusivity deal, which he seemed to sarcastically refer to. All I can
affirmatively say is they were probably a better choice to Notch than EA. With this in mind,
Microsoft moved in to close the deal. They had the additional motive of the ever wholesome subject
of tax avoidance due to our functioning economic system, a deal with Mojang would facilitate.
You'd love to see it. So they were prepared to offer the big bucks, and when I say big,
I mean hard to even quantify. Person's shares totaled just shy of 1.8 billion dollars,
Paul's shares around 300 million, and then CEO Carl Manet's shares 100 million,
not your average shopping bill to say the least. This was all finalised and officially announced
on the 15th of September 2014, with a post on Notch's Tumblr titled I'm Leaving Mojang,
which goes more into depth about how interactions with his user base had shaped his current
perspective. He already knew he would never be able to recreate a success like Minecraft,
but wanted to stay on as the figurehead because he believed there was some symbolic value to that.
Javi came to the conclusion that he didn't enjoy it, he was just really this space on a game that
he didn't really feel attached to anymore, a source of people's enjoyment and pain that he
didn't understand. In his words, he's merely a nerdy computer programmer who likes to have
opinions on Twitter. Although the money was nothing to turn your nose at, he stresses that
it wasn't about the money, it was about the sanity. I wonder how people would respond to that.
Well, most of them took it pretty well actually, there were a few people who regarded him as a
sellout, but he'd been called a sellout by plenty of people in his time, and that wasn't anything
new. It was obviously difficult for some people to rationalise given that the person had always
been outspoken about a lot of the threatening overreach of big tech, but his move wasn't really
one for any of the companies, it wasn't an endorsement of such, it was just what he thought
was best for himself, he had to get out, and that was his way. Among other people affected by this
were the members of staff, upon learning on his departure they were reported to be disappointed,
and that makes sense especially given they were now under the gaze of a much more cutthroat company,
but Notch had taken steps to ensure that no layoffs would occur, which given the modest
numbers of Mojang's workforce, Microsoft were happy to abide by. All staff members who remained
at the company for the next six months also received a $300,000 bonus from Notch's share,
which obviously wasn't anything near the levels of money Marcus had been paid, but it wasn't
derisory either. It was generally reported that Microsoft mostly took a hands-off approach and
merely offered their resources and investment to the team over at Mojang in exchange for the
profits they were making. Overall it was considered by most to be an example of a transaction done
right, one that didn't lead to the immediate demise of a product or those who worked tirelessly
on it. At the same time, although you'd be hard-pressed not to understand Person's viewpoint,
it's hard not to feel a bit solemn about the circumstances that precipitated it.
Although Person's tenure probably did centralise his status a bit too much, I mean hell, he once
placed above Barack Obama in a time person of the year poll. His success was still an inspiration to
many, he'd become representative of an individual creative using the online world to make something
greater than any major studio could ever concoct, and his concern for personally involving himself
in creating a consumer-based experience felt refreshing for many who played the game. It
created a community with an identifiable figure at the centre of it. His departure didn't mean
the game was suddenly going to take a nosedive, and in a way some people's fallacious belief that
he was one of the key factors in maintaining the game's appeal was disproven after he left,
but it did reduce the power of the community on a large company who isn't really known for their
consumer empowerment. Eventually those aspects of corporatism were going to seep in, and there'd
be nothing that anyone could do about it. Sometimes it's nice just to have someone there to listen.
Ultimately this was all rooted in a situation though where the person who listened had heard
enough. Anyone who cares that much about a game is not going to be able to withstand the pressure
of maintaining it. Minecraft was one person's passion that became so much greater than that.
In Notch's statement he writes, if I ever accidentally make something that seems to gain
traction, I'll probably abandon it immediately. Some people may have been able to navigate the
tricky social environment better, but Notch was not that person, he never was. That's what made
him popular, that's what made him like, he was the everyman, he was the underdog who rose up to change
the gaming industry, he didn't have politically adept social skills or a decade-long college
education, he was a guy who just did what he felt like doing. He showed that the stereotype
for the nerd staying in his room on his computer wasn't as negative as some thought it to be.
In the end the popularity made his status untenable though, he couldn't be everybody's
everyman, but he still walked away from a game that would revere him as one of the greatest
examples of independent enterprise in modern history. Well, he could have.
Marcus Persson was rich, and everyone knew it.
It's hard not to let success change you in some way, and often you should change with success,
because it typically places you in a different position than one you were in previously.
Even if you didn't intend on becoming famous, if you're going to continue operating in that
domain you have to adapt. While he was working on Minecraft, Notch seemed hesitant to do that.
In 2011 he made over 100 million dollars, and his response to questions on how he was going
to spend it was perhaps obtaining a driver's license and a car, almost comedically modest.
When he did splash out it was only really with other people, such as work trips and conventions.
He obviously cared less about his shopping bill than most, but he never seemed to let that wealth
distract him from the lifestyle he was accustomed to. However, the sale of his shares in Minecraft
changed that, not just because it earned him an obscene amount of money at once, but because it
removed a commitment that he had felt attached to for years. As long as he was tied to that game,
no matter how much money he made, Notch seemed almost paranoid that it could still collapse
at any moment. He waited over a year to fully quit his job, despite the fact that Minecraft
was generating far more income. Even when success seemed near guaranteed, Notch felt the reputation
of a game weighing on his actions. That was gone now, and he had all the time to do what he wanted
to. Well, what would he do? He decided to treat himself, it seems. First on his list of goodies
was a new abode. Person went for the ever popular celebrity location in Beverly Hills,
spending 70 million dollars and outbidding Jay-Z and Beyonce on a 23,000 square foot mansion with
its own carlift. How quaint. It was soon reported that he had been spending his nights in Las Vegas
blowing upwards of 100k in a single outing to the nightclubs, casinos, and the rest. In interviews,
his mantra appeared that he was making up for lost time, and everything he was never able to do as a
young adult working his ass off in the industry. He acknowledged that it wasn't the wisest way to
spend one's fortunes, but it was for him. He was living the high life, that much is true,
private rooftop pools, crystal champagne, and Skrillex, the ultimate triad. This was all shared
through his Twitter and Instagram, which now served a very different purpose for Notch, and
his attitude certainly reflected that. When people tried to dunk on him, he'd regularly respond with
memes and lighthearted jives to show that ultimately, whatever people said wouldn't change
where he was at with life. In spite of all this, he had pledged to donate a fair sum of his money
to charity, and set some aside for family, but life is more than what you want to do with money.
What other plans did he have? Well, it appeared uncertain. On the 3rd of March 2015,
an interview was published with Forbes that delved into the headspace of Notch following the sale.
It reported that he had since started a new company known as Rubberbrain, located in central
Stockholm. Him and his colleagues had been throwing around some new ideas and occasionally
testing them, but mostly just trying to have a good time. Whatever their plans were, it wasn't
to create a new blockbuster. On the question of his place in the current gaming environment,
he didn't really know where he wanted to be, but one thing was certain, that he hadn't regretted
selling his shares, he just wanted to pass away the days having a good time with his friends.
But how long would that last? I have a good friend who posted a principle in a philosophical
discussion we were having a few months ago, the necessity of human struggle. His argument
basically suggested that we as people need to experience some aspect of adversity to truly feel
fulfilled. He likened it to a room that closes in on a person, the idea that many of us need those
walls to push back against, something of a challenge, or what else if we ultimately lose our
own purpose in the world. Now obviously some people struggle far too much, and other people
get by alright without struggling, but I think there is a relevance, particularly for people who
are used to some form of pressure, to have that completely removed from them. It's a very difficult
environment to adapt to. Struggle is relative, and if you've spent your whole life with this strong
sense of purpose, to have yourself completely absolved of that purpose is quite jarring,
and barely a few months after the Forbes article was published, Notch's celebratory tone appeared
to take a turn towards something more pessimistic. On August the 29th, Notch sent out a series of
tweets that appeared to lament his current lifestyle, initiating with the statement,
the problem with getting everything is you run out of reasons to keep trying, and human interaction
becomes impossible due to imbalance. Notch then proceeds to talk about how although he has
everything, he feels completely alienated, unable to create a human connection with those around
him, especially on an intimate basis as people find his lifestyle overwhelming. He also seems
frustrated at the fact that many of his former colleagues still seem to resent him, despite
him believing that he treated them well. When one of the employees says that much of the response
was just the initial shock, he completely flips out on them, saying fuck all of you, which seemed
a bit much for many people at the time. He had no trust for the world around him, and it shows.
The mail cloud may have been momentary for many, but it certainly outlined a real cloud to the
silver lining of selling out. Unfortunately Notch had reached this stage of success and influence
where people treat you differently because of it. Even people close to you can seem distant,
and you can't really trust their intent. You need mental fortitude to manage that, and to be frank,
Marcus was a somewhat fragile person, and once the initial euphoria of that newfound wealth wore out,
he probably wondered what was left. This brief tirade inspired a few reports and response articles
from people who didn't necessarily have great sympathy for his predicament, but probably prompted
the same suggestion for a solution. Person needed to find a way to alienate himself from that wealth
and status. It's not an easy solution to undertake, but the problem will continue to be inescapable as
long as he had nothing to work for and nobody to actually share it with. Snoop Dogg even weighed
in on the matter, reminding persons that knowing who your real ones are is much more important than
any material wealth. I don't think anyone needs Notch's level of money to be happy. You shouldn't
have to give away your wealth to be happy necessarily, but you need to have something that can
transcend the purpose of that money, whether that be friends, work, or an alternative outlet. Reflecting
on Notch's life, maybe his purpose was rooted in a struggle of sorts with Minecraft, and optimizing
it, and now that it ended, so had Person's own greater sense of self. Marcus Person was rich,
and everyone knew it, but for someone like him, that was seeming more like a curse and a blessing,
and his rant, although aggressive, was to show great vulnerability. He needed something greater
to latch on to, but maybe we got something worse.
A few days after his venting session on the social media website, Notch decided to respond
to those who suggested that he give his wealth away, stating that money wasn't the problem,
it was the lifestyle, and although he may not be wrong, if you let your money influence your
lifestyle then you're feeding the problem, and less than a couple months later he was back in
Vegas. He seemed to attribute his current downcast mindset to the success, but he'd been successful
for a while, it was just that this time round he had something else to account for that success,
and it simply wasn't enough. It distanced himself from nearly everyone in his life, and made him
untrusting of the world around him. Notch was the paranoid wreck who had no idea of where he was
meant to go from here, and expressing it online wasn't going to help, as the whole place can often
feel like you're headed in circles. You'd think that after he sold his shares he'd have a lot less
to say on the world wide web, but for someone who didn't want to be the centre of attention anymore,
he often still seemed obsessed with social media platforms. In his departure post he characterised
himself as a nerdy computer programmer who likes to have opinions on Twitter, but it seemed more
than just the occasional hot takes at this point, to be honest he seemed ever more invested with the
goings on around him, and that only continued to manifest itself as the online world became
increasingly political. As we all know, 2016 was a strange time for the internet on reflection,
particularly with the cosmic rise of Donald Trump, and the general movement towards anti-SJW content
that seemed to target people who were not always the best at expressing their beliefs. When working
on Minecraft, Notch had generally seemed to adopt quite progressive ideas towards his game. Although
not overtly political, he said that every character was genderless, and that people had a right to
interpret each of them to their own liking. It was part of Minecraft after all, the fact that
an individual can have an experience personal to them. Despite not explicitly endorsing anyone
before 2016, Notch was someone who would have been mostly aware of the discourse within political
spheres, and throughout 2015 he had mostly expressed disdain for the prospective Republican
candidate, Donald Trump, calling him a loon, and exhibited genuine confusion at people's
belief in his suitability for office. He'd interacted with a few YouTubers who expressed
anti-SJW beliefs, and stated that he would support Bernie Sanders if choosing between him and Hillary.
As the US election approached, he seemed to become more and more invested in the issue though.
Although it is vocal that he was not a fan of Trump's, he turned most of his eye towards Hillary
Clinton, who he felt had acted dishonestly. I'm not going to go into every single detail
regarding his political beliefs at this specific point in time, but as election day approached,
his stance on Trump continued to soften, and eventually he admitted that if he was forced
to choose between Trump and Clinton, he would probably choose Trump. This wasn't an exceptional
stance at the time, particularly online, people's resentment for Clinton was very palpable, and many
didn't want her to win just for the principle that they thought the Democrats had the opportunity to
present a genuinely radical candidate, well at least by the standards of US politics. Trump
became the anti-hero, anti-establishment figure that in spite of his very visible flaws became
a punishment to all those happy to settle for a miserable status quo, therefore although his
opinions were a little outspoken for a person of his status, these didn't exactly strike anyone as
truly frightening. I think establishment is a very important word to use when analysing these
figures, because Notch is an independent game developer who cared deeply about the game he
designed, similarly saw himself as a figure taking on the long entrenched bureaucracies and structures
that they employed to stay in power. He'd always believed that many in the industry
players sacrificed user experience for their own gain, and they would try and
oppress any actual innovation. Notch was one of the few large gaming entrepreneurs who didn't
outwardly attack masses like piracy, he was an advocate for the little guy in in-game experience.
Additionally, he had always been largely skeptical of national governments, and expressed deep
concern about a surveillance state, particularly that relating to the US. That is where we
introduce the sort of SJW that he also seemed to rally against during the election of Donald Trump,
additionally crediting their behaviour as much to the reason that the Don got elected. The sort
of political correctness that many of them preached was not something Notch had ever related to.
Sure, he wasn't the sort of person who was particularly offensive or hurtful to people,
but he always saw issues like freedom of speech as being non-negotiable, he saw any attack on it as
an act of tyranny, designed to oppress people who may speak truth to power. He wanted to fight
against what he saw as this corporate sterilisation of people's expression. He was also becoming
increasingly involved in issues relating to the treatment of quote white men, and the use of
identity politics in general. Now, I wouldn't describe any of his positions as hateful, or even
with the intent to do harm at this point. Sometimes I think he spoke from a point of genuine frustration
towards toxic factions in many movements who were advocating for otherwise righteous causes.
However, his frustration didn't subside in the year following, particularly with the online world further contorting.
But why should it matter to someone like Marcus Person? The dude wasn't the target of this,
and it's not like his freedom was being affected by it. Well at the start of 2017,
a few large YouTubers, most notably PewDiePie came under scrutiny for their behaviour online.
At the time, many who sympathised with these creators saw large corporations punching down
on the freedom of expression previously held by many creators, whether or not the humour was in
good taste. In particular, this sort of battle emerged all over the internet between traditional
standards and the sort of wild west approach that other parts of the online world possessed,
and how increasingly influential in modern culture they were becoming. The online world and their
communities were facing down reproval from many angles, especially from those who felt it excluded
and alienated marginalised groups who deserved a space as much as anyone else. This all then
reached into the video game industry, particularly given the aftermath of the gamergate, something
that Notch had previously stayed rather neutral on, but now seemed to feel quite strongly about.
This criticism of the current online culture was often advocated by progressively identifying
people, the SJWs per se, who were also vociferously anti-Trump. I think a fair few people who were
attached to that sort of wild west of the internet drew a correlation between Trump and a specific way
of online life, particularly that freedom of speech given how Trump was a pretty unfiltered
person to say it lightly. Well, with infinite time and money, I guess Notch had finally found
another struggle, but was this one worth fighting for?
Marcus Person had always held a sort of morbid curiosity for these sorts of areas,
discussing the often contentious 4chan in an early interview, he describes it as possibly
being one of the closest things we've got to a self-conscious virtual entity on the internet,
even referencing it in an old intro screen for the game. In many ways, that sort of independent
minded section of the internet was what put Minecraft on the map, and so it wasn't completely
beyond belief why he felt protective about it. I think in many ways, people like Notch saw these
establishment types coming in and trying to dictate their own standards that much of the
internet didn't perceive similarly. I think it's fair to say that although Notch's opinions on the
matters in the previous part weren't completely out of nowhere given his background, they were
somewhat different to many around him at the time, and it definitely alienated some people.
When someone asked him why it seemed like everyone hated him now, he replied they didn't hate him,
they agreed, but were just afraid to speak up, and as what he said received pushback,
he became more and more stubborn, and in turn more and more irrational. Even if he agreed with
any point he was making, it was lost in the sense that he was fighting a greater cultural battle.
When an incident occurred at VidCon involving Anita Sarkeesian clashing heads with her critics,
and Ant Green responding, he tagged Green telling him to be on the right side of history.
That's a strong term for a situation that related to a commentary spat at a panel. At the end of
Pride Month in 2017, there was a movement called Heterosexual Pride Day. Notch noticed this and
stated that if you didn't support it, you deserve to be shot. Eventually, he did retract this
statement and apologise, but it was clear that he was taking this all a little too seriously.
It was clear that this was a historic battle to person for the soul of society, and this seemed
to be influencing his political beliefs as well. In a May 2017 interview, then President Donald
Trump made the bold claim that he invented the phrase priming the pump, which is particularly
impressive given that in modern terms, it was first applied in the 1930s, the decade before
Trump was born. Mockery ensued, and many people took to their favourite social media site to take
the piss, including video game writer and YouTube critic Mikey Newman. Person after having the
reference explained to him makes the judgment that it is just more baseless Trump bashing because
they are afraid, which certainly prompted some confusion. It seemed that as the months passed,
Notch had become more preoccupied with his idea that every narrative against Trump was part of
some great conspiracy to prevent him from making America great again, and well, it's a bit far
fetched. The thing about a lot of conspiracy theories is that they do often start with one
genuine observation. Were certain echelons of the media disproportionately outraged with Trump's
presidency when they'd given others a pass? You could make an argument for it. You could say that
they weren't anywhere near as critical as previous presidencies when they enacted policy that could
significantly harm a population. However, the fallacious link comes when you conclude that
therefore they hate Trump because he's finally doing the right thing, rather than the fact that
he's unorthodox and generates views for financially focused businesses. There were plenty of people
online who were quite aware of establishment's shortcomings, but also felt like it was still
bad to point out issues regarding Trump. When he makes a claim that he invented a term that
existed before he was born, then yeah, I don't think it's unjustified to have a bit of a chuckle
about it. However, Notch didn't seem to be seeing it this way, and neither were a lot of Americans.
So with that in mind, let's talk about a little conspiracy theory that occurred the year before,
known as Pizzagate. Pizzagate was the allegation that there was an insidious, satanic underground
sex ring being operated by the Clintons and Democrats out of a Washington DC pizzeria. It was
rooted in an email link from a Clinton campaigner which theorists claimed contained a secret code
that tied all of this together, and eventually resulted in a gunman turning up to the pizzeria
and firing his rifle at the institution. There were deluge of other related incidents to the
theory which has widely been discredited by mainstream institutions, emphasis on the
mainstream institutions here. Now that's not to say it has credit, I personally don't think it does,
but when you believe a theory that dictates all authority figures are in on something,
them telling you it doesn't exist isn't going to be convincing enough. Pizzagate mostly fizzled out
after the 2016 election, particularly given that Donald Trump actually won, but in August 2017,
Notch published a tweet stating that in fact, Pizzagate was real. A bit late to the party,
all things considered, but quite the claim regardless. In elaborating on his stance,
he rants about binary politics, and how there might actually be pieces of evidence that have
supported this theory, but that it might also be drugs, though the pedestrians do look like people
in a police sketch, and the pizza place has weird art and branding, etc. There were already a lot of
retorts online to the claims made in Notch's very long thread, but he seems certain something is up,
and although people may perceive his thread as being a bit behind the current political discourse,
it may not have been as unprompted as some people thought. On the forums like 4chan,
this narrative had been brewing, but one that integrated a new perspective, that Donald Trump
was aware, and working to bring this worldwide satanic cabal down, and there would only be a
matter of time until many significant public figures were reprimanded and charged. Similar
versions of this story had already been promoted on the polls section of 4chan, but come October
this began to escalate. On the 27th of the aforementioned month, a user by the name of
QClarencePatriot claimed that Hillary Clinton was soon going to be arrested, and civil unrest
would follow. QClarence is a level of clearance used for the Department of Energy, it gives you
access to a variety of data that would otherwise be restricted to the public, the inference here
being that this guy was someone high up in government, and he was speaking out due to his
patriotic nature. This seemed to capture the imagination for many in the forum, and was
followed quickly by another post that seemed to incriminate other popular democratic figureheads
and donors, implying that there would soon be a large-scale reckoning for all those who Trump
viewed as criminal rogue elements. This would quickly manifest and grow, receiving more and
more media attention, and garnering a following from many committed Trump devotees. I think what
happens to many people is the feeling of a greater cause and explanation for Trump's actions. He had
always pledged to drain the swamp, and deliver justice to a system that legitimately been rigged
against so many people. Q himself occupied this position of unfalsifiability, whose content could
only be proven by time, and often leveraged on the belief of the individual, and it turned out that
many were actually quite prepared to believe. Although Notch was not necessarily directly
involved with anything QAnon related in its inception, and there's no direct evidence
tying him to that, the correlation between his interest in Pizzagate and the founding of this
sector of the internet seemed to imply that he was spending a bit too much time in these forums,
and as he became more and more outspoken, people began to take notice.
Make no mistake, Notch had definitely been pushing people's buttons online, but overall,
this hadn't affected his status related to his work at this point, likely because most of his
tweets didn't have much staying power online, and people didn't really care enough about some dude
shouting into the void. He held steadfast on most of his opinions, but up to the end of 2018,
he didn't seem to garner much attention outside the discourse sphere that he was involved in.
However, there was the occasional reference to Operation Mockingbird, a theory that refers to
the alleged brainwashing of the public through media propaganda, and had been regularly mentioned
by those on QAnon, and Q himself who mentions it in his original post. Although it never attracted
that much media attention, it was indicative of what he was doing with his time. However,
as Notch's takes grew increasingly strong, there was a sense that what he was saying couldn't be
ignored. This began in December 2018, which was met with a flurry of statements by person,
some relating to race, some relating to general political identity, and just some relating to
whatever the hell this is. He still presented himself as someone on the side of the little guy,
but it seems he had identified a greater battle against those who were at the top, and the far
left who were controlling every aspect of his life. If you were with them, you were ontologically
evil. There was no two ways about it. Now, these tweets were definitely more concerning than the
previous sets. The least you could say about his comments up to this point was that although they
were often provocative, the intended targets were often general concepts of political correctness,
SJWs, and establishment figures, all of which were not without their flaws, even if the obsession
with them was a bit overwrought on Notch's behalf. However, these tweets seem to harp on some other
more questionable theories, in particular relating to IQ differences between racial
populations. Now, this has been the subject of debate in certain scientific circles, with many
broadly on the side of the opinion that IQ is not affected by race, more due to other environmental
factors that may coincide with race. However, how does a human generated spectrum of intelligence
help discussion on racial differences? How would it dictate the world we live in? The truth is that
people are still individuals, and anyone from any race can be really smart or really stupid.
Notch had clearly grown to hate the general state of the gaming industry, as he felt it was dictated
by a small proportion of easily offended people. The left received a lot of the blame when companies
made decisions that others thought they were being pressured into, but many of them were decisions
ultimately made by the company. What would anyone who actually felt strongly about these matters
done if the businesses in this industry just turned around to them and said no we're not doing
that, or just ignored them? Probably not much, maybe some angry tweets, but that would be it.
And Notch has survived alright to this point. Despite the fact that he didn't have direct ties
to any companies, he was still symbolically associated with Minecraft and commemorated in
the game. However, come March 2019, Notch was once again ready to test that, and this time he was
going all out. First mentioning Operation Mockingbird again, but then dropping any innuendo
and just outwardly stating that Q was legit, and that we should not be trusting the media.
To be honest, I don't trust the media too much either, but for someone who doesn't like binary
politics, he sure likes to make binary choices. After a couple days of continuing to push these
general narratives that the populace was being lied to by the establishment, he takes it to it
to make the interesting observation that suddenly all the requests for him to stream and podcast
have stopped. How curious, I guess the establishment decided that his time was none,
but his Twitter was still growing, which is something I guess. I mean, he was making up to
100 tweets a day. With Notch fully embracing the QAnon movement and the man behind it,
he definitely raised a few eyebrows, with articles being published on his recent turn to
conspiracy theories. However, not finished to his crusade, he turns his attention to a variety of
matters, first drawing a comparison between dressing as another race and dressing as the
opposite gender, and saying there is no difference. This opinion didn't seem to attract
too much traffic, as it could be seen as referring to cross-dressing. However, not too long after,
Notch was back to business on a plethora of fronts, sometimes posting rather vaguely,
which attracted some QAnon responses, other times just cutting the chase and reminding
people that casual murdering of infants for organ harvesting purposes is not acceptable.
Hard agree on that one Notch. He then writes a thread seemingly going truth mode on society,
you cannot negotiate with these people who are trying to destroy human civilization as we know
it. At least that's what I take from the thread, though the last two tweets seemed more direct to
the trans community, mentioning gender dysphoria and pronouns, including the claim that trans
people are trying to make it illegal to use the wrong pronouns, even though actually it's them
who have the pronouns wrong. This began to receive some serious pushback, especially from some of his
trans followers who are particularly enthusiastic about Minecraft, with one sharing a pro-trans
message in a My Little Pony format stating that trans women are women. Notch didn't appreciate
that, and quote tweeted the person stating that they were wrong, and although trans women were
deserving of support as much as anyone else, that anyone advocating for this position was evil,
and feeding into a dangerous mentally ill delusion, using his sister's body dysmorphia as an example.
When further challenged on this, it seems he's more concerned about the authoritarian nature
of many people to quote demand that they be addressed by specific pronouns. He stands his
ground, states that it is illegal in many places already, and agree with another tweet that if they
do this unquestionably they will also be walking back women's rights, seemingly adopting a more
trans-exclusionary radical feminist standpoint. Now, I do not know the law in every country or
region, but the fact that Notch did not seem to cite any sources or even anecdotal content made
these claims rather hard to work with, and when being asked what this all was about he commented
the Great Awakening, which is another event commonly referenced on QAnon where the greater
population becomes aware of the truth, Notch seemed to be framing his tweets from the lens
that he was punching up against an oppressive regime, but many people didn't seem to agree.
Although it was true that certain industries were striving towards greater diversity,
many didn't think it was really at the request of any specific demographic. It was more just a
financially intelligent thing to do to give products greater appeal, as the number of people
in certain groups outnumbered the people who were annoyed by these groups' existence. As someone who
made a game whose whole existence can be defined by the individual, and as a person who emphasised
that in the past, this shouldn't be new information to Notch, but he came to the conclusion that this
time it was state mandated. However, in the end it just seemed like he was targeting a group of
people, whereas misinformation could be making targets out of them. It seemed that as time passed,
he was growing only more conspiratorial.
Throughout most of March, Notch continued to back its position unapologetically, responding in an
increasingly blasé manner to those who showed hostility to them, and if there was any doubt
about it you could just look at his bio, which contained a link to the website where Q would
regularly post. Safe to say, Notch was definitely testing the patience of those who didn't hold his
beliefs and still associated with him, most notably Munkraft itself. The person's recent
turn to conspiracy theories had almost locked him in a self-inflicted cycle. As he became more and
more extreme, fewer and fewer people felt truly comfortable with his ideas, and consequently
probably weren't as keen to entertain his presence. Notch observed this and embraced his alienation.
He's been an outcast before, and he was ready to be an outcast again, likely attributing part of the
reason to the fact that they couldn't handle him speaking the truth. Many of these people would
probably be in on it as well. In 2019 though, after the string of tweets we've just covered,
Microsoft began to decouple their casual, if still meaningful, relationship. It first began
with the simple removal of references to him in the loading screen. This seemed to be rather
insignificant on the surface, however up to this point it was extremely rare for any splash text
to be erased, only happening a handful of times in Minecraft's lifespan. At the time, many suspected
this to be related to the incidents analysed in the previous part, however Microsoft refused to
comment on the matter, and ultimately this was deemed rather trivial. However, there was another
event round the corner that would test Microsoft's position on the matter, that being the 10th
anniversary of Minecraft's publication to the internet. It made sense that Notch wasn't involved
with the public image of Minecraft as it was, but at the end of the day, without him, Minecraft
wouldn't exist, and the 10th anniversary was a celebration of just that. By not commenting on the
removal of the splash text that credits him, Microsoft had the choice open so they wouldn't
seem hypocritical if they did invite him, however barely a month after it seems they had made
a decision that he would not be included in the landmark festival for all things Minecraft,
with the spokesperson telling the press, his comments and opinions do not reflect those of
Microsoft or Mojang and are not representative of Minecraft. Notch didn't seem to make any public
comment himself, he moved on to playing the game Factorio, he seemed to be having fun with it at
least. In the run up to the event he made a couple vague posts here and there which were hard to
interpret, but on the day of the anniversary he put out a single tweet reading, Happy Birthday,
smiley face. It reached almost 30,000 likes, which is far more than any of his previous argumentative
tweets had reached, and in these moments of wholesomeness you almost forget what he was
tweeting barely a couple months before. In a way, Minecraft's decision was probably in the best
interests of everyone, if Notch still held his beliefs pretty ardently at this point, I'm sure
he probably saw his exclusion as a badge of honour above anything else. If you believe in that sort
of satanic cabal, Microsoft is definitely a part of it, however I think Notch likely had a different
viewpoint that could be illuminated by a few tweets. Although not commenting on his exclusion
from the anniversary event, Notch did briefly comment on Microsoft removing the in-game
references to him. After expressing regret for something assumedly relating to his position on
trans people, he responds to a comment to someone saying that Minecraft removing references to him
may be a way to help him process what he had been saying and doing. This comment seems to demonstrate
some contrition for his recent antics, and seemingly accepts his fate for whatever happens
next. People had additionally started a movement to recognise Hatsune Miku as the creator of
Minecraft, and Notch appeared to take it on the chin, stating that letting go is key. It's hard to
retell where Notch stood on his comments, as he neither issued a formal retraction, or reassertion
following them. He seemed to regret how he'd phrased it himself, and that he had hurt people,
but didn't elaborate on whether he stood by his opinions. Regardless, he seemed to accept that
where he was, and where Minecraft was, were not the same place, and for that much, he was right,
they weren't. Over the following year, he mostly refrained from talking politics directly,
the occasional comment about Trump or Hillary, but ones that were not too hard to read into.
I honestly find a fair few of his tweets hard to completely understand sometimes, and his use of
the word evil seems to have lost its meaning, to be honest. There was a hoax that he had passed away
from a drug overdose, which was obviously not true, I think it once again likely arose from
someone who was probably not a fan, but it was quickly debunked given that Notch was still firing
off tweets every other hour. Although it was safe to say that Notch had been less provocative than
he had been, he was still quite loud with his opinions when he chose to be, he still gave off
the energy of one of those people who says they're not being political, but they clearly
are at points. In August of 2020, a YouTuber by the name of Game Maker's Toolkit decided to try
and run some ads on their channel. They posted their conclusion on their twitter and referenced
certain re-election ads from Mr Trump. Notch, seemingly displeased with this comment, requested
them to drop the politics, which GMTK said they would if Notch in return deleted his twitter
account. Surprisingly, the person decided to agree. GMTK took down their tweet, and Notch took
down his account, taking the world back to the blissful days before people cared about who their
president was and that crap. Except a few days later Notch came back, explained that he was worried
someone would claim his name tag so had to do it for security reasons, and at that point just felt
he had to start tweeting anyway, which doesn't make much sense, but his return to twitter couldn't be
a surprise. I think it's fair to observe the fact that although many tweets covered in the last
couple parts obviously did generate controversy amongst communities, they didn't really attract
too much attention from those outside the immediate sphere. A few articles and responses,
but otherwise it was pretty quiet. You have to be an avid follower of the industry to notice.
Notch never really farmed the attention that he was receiving, when most celebrities go rogue they
at least take an interview slot on Tucker Carson or something. Notch never seemed to sacrifice his
hatred of public life for publicity of his opinions, amongst many he was still that guy who
made the game that their kids play, and they still heralded him from the era that had him as one of
the most powerful people in the world. It's likely why Microsoft was so hesitant to drop him,
but eventually they realised that their name attached to an article could yield a bit more
cares, especially if Notch said something ill timed at the event, prospectively poisoning sales.
Ultimately the benefits of hosting someone like Notch, who had no technical connection to Minecraft
in its then present form, did not outweigh the drawbacks, and thus the disconnect was complete.
But what was left behind?
Now you're mostly up to date, the year is whatever it is right now, who bloody knows,
and Notch has mostly faded into the ether, which given the current escalating political climate
is probably for the best. As said, many do likely not know about all the antics over the previous
years, some probably hate him for it, a few probably think he's based, but I wonder how he
feels after all. The person who was previously so open about his feelings has become quite quiet,
his twitter mostly observations now, with the occasional tweet of affection to those still
there. You can't help but wonder when looking back at his career if he thinks it was all worth it.
Person occupies this strange position of having so much, yet having so little. With a money and
lack of commitment he really had to anyone or anything, he became this social media drifter,
just kinda coasting from one topic to the next without any real continuity, free to speak his
mind without proper material consequence, emphasis on material. Meanwhile though, the spoils of being
a popular figure had dried up as soon as he'd ventured down the conspiratorial path. Although
Microsoft were the only people to officially cut ties with him, there were likely many other
opportunities that didn't present themselves due to these comments. Companies, conventions,
associates would likely see him as a liability, and where some people might actually care about
their reputation with Microsoft ending their association with him, Notch just seemed to
accept that he had made his bet, but acceptance doesn't equate to happiness. I think a lot of
people felt a sort of confusion as to what exactly led us to this scenario, and to be honest it is
understandable. The first thing when analysing a person's behaviour is often to search for motive,
to find some discernible cause, and a cursory look at Notch's background and existence wouldn't really
point to anything that would lead to such behaviour, particularly given that most people
knew him from Minecraft, and what it represented to them. Throughout much of his lifespan,
Minecraft garnered a significant audience who didn't necessarily fit into traditional societal
norms, and that wasn't necessarily a surprise given that the guy who created it also didn't
when he was growing up. Loads of people played Minecraft, likely many with extremely diverse
backgrounds and political views, and it never possessed a specific identity per se,
but over the years it garnered a reputation as probably the most inclusive and accessible games
of modern history. Probably a good example of this is how it benefited the social skills of
many who have lacked them otherwise. Minecraft has been shown to really aid children who experience
certain neurodevelopmental conditions such as autism, with many parents singing their praises
of the game's transformative effect for their loved ones, finding a community and escape that
actually helps them be more comfortable in their own skin. In the last few decades society has
become increasingly aware and sensitive to those who encounter such conditions, and the social
challenges that they may have to traverse as a result of it. While many regular social
environments were still learning to evolve to the needs of those who may or may not thrive in those
places, Minecraft was already there, and I don't think that was restricted to any specific
demographic. I think it's also applied to many marginalised LGBT individuals, particularly those
in the trans community who found solacing a game where your entire life is essentially customisable.
It's not just an escape from the real world, it's the entrance to a completely different one.
We discussed how a game can often represent its creator, and Minecraft represented a place that
remedied people who experienced the often isolating life growing up that Notch did.
That's a principle that doesn't end on the basis of personal identity, and therefore if anyone was
going to understand the contemporary struggle of marginalised groups to fit in with society,
it should have been him right? Even if you believe that there wasn't any relationship between the
creator and his game, even if perhaps people projected too much of the game onto the creator,
it wasn't like Notch was ever vocal about any views that would contradict this image.
On the contrary, in fact, as I've already documented, the dude announced that every
character is genderless, and even facetiously claimed that that made them all gay,
thus owning the homophobes. He didn't seem to have much respect for traditional gamer toxicity,
criticising tropes such as calling someone gay as weird attempts at insults, and said that although
he hadn't been attracted to a man, he tried to keep an open mind, and he's pretty cuddly.
After he was informed that a Kickstarter he'd promoted was started by someone who
seemingly helped homophobic views, he expressed disappointment, and said people should be sane.
At a time where video game companies often stayed out of debates surrounding political issues,
Notch's opinions on issues affecting marginalised communities always felt authentic. These days,
it's often hard to tell which companies are actually interested in advancing the rights
of those they claim to care about, and those who are just playing to the crowd as they always have.
You could probably say that disingenuous support is better than none at all, but sometimes you also
want to know who's not going to throw your rights under the bus when it's no longer profitable to
them. Notch seemed like that guy, people might claim he was just being politically correct back
when he had an audience to commit to, but I'd say all evidence suggests otherwise. As a guy
whose success wasn't concerned by PR or even dependent on the game's sales, Notch was free
to take whatever positions that he wished to, and he did take many in a time where they weren't
necessarily widespread. His views on issues like piracy and big tech were considered different
for their time in that industry, particularly when it was out of step with big tech itself.
He was the anti-establishment figure whose success inadvertently tore up the status quo.
The establishment's position on such matters has always been to predominantly follow popular
opinion or play to the largest present market. Notch was never like that, and his game didn't
conform to those boundaries either which is what made it such a success. I'm sure for many people
who didn't identify with the traditional brand of gamer, Minecraft was their introduction to
video games as a whole. I think that's what made his outburst on the matter of transgender rights
the breaking point for corporate relations. Despite the numerous concerning statements
prior, Notch had created this game based on principles that he seemed to advocate for
before brutally turning on. It's not out of the question for people to change their opinions that
much is true, but this just didn't make sense with what he'd created before. I don't think
anyone ever saw these tweets as a grift, he didn't have anything to gain from his actions,
and didn't seem to want to gain anything from them. On the other hand, looking at the evidence,
I don't think you can say he was being dishonest or corporate with his views before, I don't think
selling his share in Minecraft necessarily freed his opinions anymore, but how can we reconcile
two parts of an individual's life that seem so contradictory? Maybe we need to get into his shoes
a little more. When analysing two apparently contradictory patterns of thoughtful behaviour,
sometimes it's important to look at the wider picture and causes, and how they may have
interacted with each other. With Notch, I think the clues to understanding his about-turn in
political positions can be defined by a few constants and variables that impacted his
previously rather innocent worldview. So let's talk about some of these factors.
The most important factor is that of community. I think if there's one thing that matters to Notch,
it's community. It's a complicated aspect of video game creation that he wrangled with for
much of his career, but although he wasn't always a media darling, and often definitely took pride
in having some sort of control in the direction of his projects, he definitely valued the input
from those around him, particularly those who actually sampled his output. This began the
community of indie developers, some of whom he would go on to work with in creating Minecraft.
He would regularly post his projects and interact with other developments, providing feedback and
accepting it for his own works. It's not a surprise that in spite of the game's traction outside the
forums, the person remained active there on his account until the end of 2010, continuing to
discuss Minecraft and general gaming matters with other budding developers. This was a similar
pattern with his audience, although it was difficult to necessarily orchestrate a close
relationship with your user base, Notch did his best, using a combination of Twitter and Tumblr
to provide a balance between informal expressions of personal opinion and official announcements.
He enjoyed attending conferences and interacting with fans, being a part of something so much
greater gave him a sense of purpose. Person also reaped the benefits of a tight-knit workforce in
the company that he founded, maintaining the total number of staff under 50 during his tenure at the
business. Notch reportedly held a strong personal camaraderie with his employees. Mojang's office
was based on the design of a regular home, and filled to the brim with amenities. Workers would
be treated to lucrative bonuses, and company trips involving the entire workforce would be made to
luxurious spots to celebrate the game's continued prosperity. Community mattered to Minecraft,
as a grassroots game with no investors, it was what kept the game untethered and unimpeded by
ulterior interests, and if it mattered to Minecraft, it mattered to Marcus. I think the
enjoyment of community resulted from the fact that Notch assumed the role of a working-class
hero of sorts, a lot of people from this sort of background could have easily let the spoils of
stardust come to them, it almost had the opposite effect on Person, who seemed determined to
demonstrate his allegiance to the everyday gamer. It should be no secret, Notch liked to be liked.
I don't think this core set of beliefs ever deserted him, however as the circumstances
surrounding his popularity evolved, his position and that of others influenced his perspectives
on said communities. As his fanbase grew, his activity on the developer's forum quietened down,
the increase in gulf between him and those who enjoyed the game also expanded. In spite of the
claims he was acting the user's best interests, the situation regarding in-game transactions
ultimately broke him because people alleged he was prioritising corporate interests,
something that clearly upset him so much that he decided to sell his shares.
Think about it for a moment, one of the most successful figures in the video game industry
sold the shares to his company because he was upset at what people online were saying.
This may have solved one issue, but it opened up another after many of its staff seemed dissatisfied
with the outcome of the deal. This was a guy who had turned down any and all investors up until
this point, and although he did secure protections and bonuses for many of his employees, the
principal of going with something he'd previously opposed, ferociously too seemed to hurt them.
In many ways he gained a lot, but he'd lost what mattered to him for so long, and with the
increased distance between him and the surrounding world, he gradually grew more listless and
languid. Eventually he was left with no community, nobody to properly identify with, and it wasn't
like the wealth was the inherent root of the problem, but it was the result of decisions
that inevitably isolated him from a lot of people. He wanted to rid himself of the crippling
responsibilities that had come with being part of these communities, but had nothing to fill it with
until the internet began to move in a different direction, a more political one.
Like that's ever gonna happen.
Politics is something that many people understandably avoid, but it's also something that many people
can be sucked into, particularly if they have nothing better to do than firing up the old blue
bird and picking the first hot take that rubs others the wrong way. Not to have been outspoken
on many of his political opinions, but never seem to attach too much meaning to it personally,
but as a perpetually bored person looking for a cause to latch onto, what happened in 2016 was the
perfect catalyst. The campaign and subsequent election of Donald Trump, and the reaction from
mainstream sources to much of his behaviour sparked a backlash amongst many on the internet,
not necessarily because people identified with him particularly, to be frank he wasn't very
related, but because they saw him as a sort of symbol in an enduring culture war against people
who wished to restrict online freedoms that had long been enjoyed by those who had used it.
Trump hated the establishment, big tech, and many of the organisations that Notch had rallied
against in the past, even though I'd say Trump had very different gripes to someone like Notch,
as an influential person his cause was enough, and in a way it was the resistance that provoked
people. It's also important to note that a lot of mainstream businesses that had long been
apolitical in many ways became outspoken on certain social issues that Trump was thought
to possibly hold power over, particularly given their increasing prominence on social media,
and the new generation using it who were somewhat more progressive in their viewpoints.
I think this sort of corporate movement probably alarmed someone like Notch, as to him they always
seem like the bellwether of cynical self-serving opinions, and sometimes the enemy of your enemy
is your friend. This is what started it at least, although he had mostly avoided taking positions
in past controversies and even larger scale situations, something about defending internet
culture seemed to galvanise him, as that guy who essentially had his career launched by the online
world, he was obviously going to be defensive of his characteristics that enabled his success.
After selling his shares he had lost his cause and community, but a new one was emerging,
one where he was part of the last line against a culture that could sterilise everything that made
it great. However, that still doesn't fully explain how we go from this, to this. There's
still a degree of disconnect, well, it wasn't a solo effort.
Intro
To understand the final stage of Notch's rabbit hole of conspiratorial behaviour, you have to
understand the conspiracies behind it, and how they took their grasp on corners of the internet.
The American political world was certainly being shaken up in 2016, and it's not hard to understand
why. Many people have made the valid observation there was a huge gulf between those in government,
the media, large corporations, and practically everyone else. Many Americans saw their lives
going nowhere, and they wanted something that could give them a purpose. I already spoke about
the connection between hating the establishment and loving someone like Trump, but the Forum of
QAnon took that idea one step further, and vied this elaborate explanation for everything occurring,
rooted in this idea that Donald Trump was the person to overhaul the broken system as we know it,
and bring the power abusing elite to justice. It took off because it targeted a certain demographic
of Americans who felt taken for granted by those in charge, it provided an explanation that played
into that moral black and white sort of thinking, presented people with a clear villain, a hero,
and a purpose to actually support. Person wasn't like many people part of this movement though,
firstly he wasn't American, he spent a fair amount of time there, but if everything did go to the
dogs he could easily just go back to his cushy residence in Stockholm. Person also wasn't someone
who was disenfranchised at that point, he lived a life of relative privilege, of course it was
roots from his own product, but it wasn't like he had anything to resent about his current lifestyle
at its core. At some points in conversation he had mentioned the financial aspects of American
politics which may lead some people to thinking he had ulterior motives, however he didn't have
any business interest in grifting because he'd sold them all, and these opinions probably cost
him a lot more in actual opportunities. Even many of those on the right avoided the realms
of QAnon because of how it was based mostly in speculation, for many people such a site was the
most unattractive setting of ideas to subscribe to. There's little doubt that Notch's tweets were
not designed to reap the words of those agreed with him, so what was it? First let's talk about
the sense of purpose that appealed to someone like Notch, who had clearly been understimulated
for too long by the world around him. We already knew that he had sympathies towards Trump in life
the position he occupied in much of the media, and the culture war that was occurring online.
QAnon elevated this idea of a culture war to fantastical levels, and made everyone who was
a part of it feel like a soldier for a cause that underscored the fabric of society. To many
outsiders it seemed so dangerously far-fetched, that's what made it exciting in the eyes of those
who were actually there. It could easily be the plot to a dystopian video game where you're the
resistance against a worldwide cannibalistic cabal. There are plenty of conspiracy theories
online, but this one had a plot and a finale, one where everyone who stood with the people against
the powers would be rewarded. Although it's just my perspective, I think Notch emotionally connected
with that, we're already aware of how seriously he took these issues. There is one more aspect
about a lot of these radical causes that often brings people together though, and that is the
absence of judgement between many people involved in these movements. Notch had clearly struggled to
find community after selling his share in Mojang, particularly given that he was a paranoid person
and didn't trust many in his own life, especially now that there could be superficial motives to
befriending him. He seemed to genuinely believe that most of the high society that he was part of
was corrupt and self-serving, sometimes seeming to long for more organic connections. I think the
problem with the real world is that when you become such a well-known figure your reputation
precedes you, and you don't get the chance to make first impressions because they've already
been made through publicity and media. By existing in online, often anonymous spaces, Notch probably
rediscovered a sense of community that transcended his existence outside of those real-world circles.
Notch enjoyed the forums of 4chan because he believed that it was people at their most honest
and unfiltered, but also a lot of what united people was just the fact that they could be
themselves. QAnon was more than that though, as a cause that provided an unquestioning community
for all those who united under its banner, a real us versus them, something where who you were came
secondary to everything else, and to hell to those who doubted you. For a lot of people this becomes
a very damaging cycle though, because the more divisive a conspiracy theory, the more it might
actually affect personal interactions. A lot of people believed if you followed QAnon then you
were just too delusional to even have a conversation with, so you could be distanced
from people completely and left with like-minded people who may not be the most beneficial to your
well-being. The other problem is that QAnon possessed what I would call explicable dissonance,
a concept common to a lot of conspiracy theories that provides an explanation for why outsiders
may expound otherwise logical reputations of the core doctrine in question. These sorts of
dismissals assign ignorance, brainwashing, and the very common idea that all will be revealed soon
to discredit critiques of QAnon's proposed dogma. People have turned their nose up at it, but it's
a powerful logical bind, albeit fallacious. QAnon did appeal to many disenfranchised people,
but it also appealed to individuals who were starved of some form of purpose in life or
community, things that every person really needs to feel emotionally fulfilled. A lot of old Q's
predictions ended up not occurring, and at any point these could be signalled to bring the
credibility of such a figure into question, but the truth was the cause was greater than
even the verity of any individual claim. Ideology came before anything else, even sometimes the
lives and well-being of those who were actually part of the movement, some would rather be a martyr
for the cause. These communities also became very insular, when you surround yourself with people
who only see things one way, you're very susceptible to succumbing to those perspectives, even if
otherwise in a normal environment you would dismiss them. Although Notch did not express his support
for the movement until 2019, the fact that he was promoting Pizzagate theories barely a few months
before QAnon was founded shows the sort of places that he was frequenting, but I think more
indicative was how he went about it. In his tweets, Person didn't seem to have a clear thought process
behind exactly why these things were legit, he regularly appeared to contradict himself and seemed
panicked and confused, even manic to a degree. Notch always saw himself as a man of the people,
a guy who was fighting against the establishment, and in a way QAnon presented itself as that too.
That was the entry point, but once you're in you're introduced to a lot of new ideas that build onto
each other, and eventually you're hooked on something greater than that and you're in a bubble
where you won't even listen to anything else outside of it. It's a chain reaction to what those
Florida tweets could easily be the result of, and in many cases was honestly one of the milder
results. The moral gravitas placed onto QAnon theories makes that fantasy very very real for
some people, and it has led to tragedy in multiple instances, with a subreddit even dedicated to
people whose friends and family members have been drawn in by those beliefs, many accounts describing
them as previously perfectly reasonable individuals. What many saw as a public outburst
in Notch's tweets was something that had long been building up behind the scenes, a product of
under-stimulation, wealth-induced paranoia, and existential emptiness, and ironically the desire
to be on the right side of history. But what will history say about him now?
At the start of the video, I invoked JK Rowling when talking about people who have become
controversial through their social media presence, however the one thing I would say about JK Rowling
is that she does have conviction with her beliefs, even if I believe they're wrong. For someone like
Notch, I feel there's a more relevant and recent example. This is Kanye West, a rapper and producer
whose music has been widely acclaimed for nearly two decades. His outspoken nature on political
issues garnered him a reputation for sure, but one that still commanded a level of respect for
its independence. However, that good faith offered to him has ultimately been put under
great strain in the wake of a plethora of anti-Semitic comments that do not even seek
to disguise the dangerous connotations. Similarly with Notch, it was hard to work out exactly what
motivated Ye's sudden spiral into such unabashed backing of extreme beliefs, to the point where
some even question whether it was an intentional move to tank his career. Although I wouldn't go
that far, I would say that a life where you have an abundance of resources but a lack of healthy
relationships can cause one to lash out in a way that antagonises those around you. There are many
ways of doing this, but turning to extreme beliefs is definitely one of them. It's an appeal to make
yourself as ugly as possible, challenge people to disown you, turn public opinion against you,
to change that superficiality. Both Kanye and Notch subscribed to beliefs that advocated this idea
that some elite class were fundamentally working against the interests of the people, and as
individuals who believed they were on the side of the underdog, what might seem like public meltdowns
to others seem like acts of personal and public resistance to them. It's a dangerous technique
though because you could easily just convert people to extreme beliefs, but sometimes people
don't think about that, especially when they feel like everything's already been said and done,
you feel like there's nothing else worthwhile left. We spoke about legacy, how one wishes to
be remembered after they're gone. It's a complicated conversation, because as much as the thought of
being revered by some around you may be alluring, you don't really have the privilege of living that
legacy. If you live your life for a legacy then you're not really doing it on your own terms,
for an artist sometimes it's about pursuing a personal vision first, even if those around you
don't necessarily approve. Notch's story isn't like that of many artists though, he's one of the
few people who has actually seen his legacy play out while he was still alive. Even public figures
who have been in broad in far more serious controversies seem to have some control over
the direction of their image, yet to many the conclusion for someone like Marcus Person had
already been written when he moved on from Minecraft. I'd argue there are many who still
probably have their thoughts dictated on the guy more from their opinion of his most famous
video game above anything else, despite the fact that he hasn't worked on it for a decade.
I think Notch was quietly aware of this, when being asked about his legacy he seemed to show
disregard for the idea, and although I'm not entirely sure I buy his dismissive attitude,
we'll get to that in a bit, I think he had to emotionally disconnect from it to an extent,
or else he would have been a relic in his own mind. There was no way to properly follow up a
game like Minecraft, a game so built on grassroots appeal, by the time that Notch acquired wealth and
fame he could never naturally replicate something so organic unless he created a whole new anonymous
persona, crafting a magnum opus of such a scale at such a young age with nothing else publicly
notable under his belt, becoming a personality so intertwined with that work, when he walked away it
was a death of some sorts. The nature of what he did, essentially opting out of his career with
such final effect, giving him no commitment to anything and a massive paycheck that allowed him
to switch his life to sandbox mode. If life was a video game then Notch reached the end credits
before he even turned 40.
Notch- Right now I'm just, you know, buying houses in LA and partying.
But the thing about the sandbox is that it does grow tiresome, having everything at the tip of
your fingers can often do more harm than good, particularly when you're not a person who ever
really had a strong connection to the reward of the process. Notch wanted to fulfil this idea of
being a rich person, the next stage of his life, the way he spoke about it sometimes made it seem
like its own occupation, but the truth is that it's not a job, and the only perceptual upsides
of becoming a socialite was the public attention, something that person was vocal about not
necessarily enjoying. He wanted to be a part of something, but not the centre of it. In the end,
his prosperity merely made him even more distant and bitter than his work already left him,
occasionally externalising that angst online, and in spite of some people offering their support
or assistance, Big Snoop even offering a trip to the doggy den, eventually the new lifestyle
wore out its welcome. Notch was an individual who cared about that community and that vision,
but by the time the next cause to commit to came around, all he had was a fucked-up cache and some
social media presence. That sandbox began to transform into a straightjacket, a naturally
paranoid and unsettled person, he seemed to find new purpose in being outspoken and politically
inclined, but gradually it grew into a set of beliefs much more antithetical to the world he
had previously created, who knows how long it was ultimately brewing. His tweets were a momentous
climax in their own regard, but almost as soon as he expounded the theories that drew the greatest
response he dropped them, never really addressing it, just kind of moving on. As is with the idea
with sacrificing your own public image, maybe Notch got what he wanted, the detachment from
the fear that his relationships were transactional, the ones who'll stick around in that scenario are
the ones who genuinely care about your well being. Unlike Kanye, he didn't seem to make any new
friends from his outburst nor did he end up on the Alex Jones show, but it still wasn't without
its bruising. Ultimately, it's not really rid him of the title of the creator of Minecraft,
just the title of the creator of Minecraft who then became a conspiracy theorist and racist,
and a fair few other isths. Although I'm sure he sleeps okay on whatever mattress a couple billion
can allow you to afford, there's still a lingering sadness that the outcome of years of hard work
was a name that many would rather forget, but still struggle to, and the bittersweet connotations
that come with the mention of it. He became a man both known for his best and worst moments,
and neither seemed to cancel each other out in people's minds. So what now?
I said Notch's Twitter has been pretty inoffensive over the past couple years,
which is largely true, but recently the original composer for the Minecraft soundtrack C418 decided
to put out a tweet expressing support for BLM and trans people, in light of a perceived rise in hate
speech. Notch in return decides to sarcastically reply, there we go, that should fix it, not
actively opposing the statement, but more snidely highlighting the futility of such a sentiment.
And maybe he's not wrong, maybe a tweet won't largely make a difference, but you'd think that
the creator of Minecraft would be the first person to understand that great oaks can grow from small
acorns, and even if only one person's life is changed for the better from it, it's still better
than no change at all. Unfortunately though, I think it reflects the rather nihilistic worldview
that Notch has adopted in the past few years, one that didn't seem present before. I probably
understand more than most that it's easy to catch yourself in that train of thought, but for a man
who's always seemed concerned about how to change people's lives for the better, he doesn't seem to
know what's best for himself. If he did, I doubt we'd be here discussing it today. Notch's behaviour
post Minecraft has definitely promoted a strange relationship for many people with the game,
and bringing his name up in conversation to those passionate about the game, there's not a sense of
great anger, but more just frustration and disappointment. Like with other celebrities,
it's caused people to look back at creative decisions and question whether the science
were always there, whether they can truly enjoy a game anymore in the context of what he said,
what if they're just supporting a game with dangerous stereotypes and connotations themselves?
It's hard to deal with the implications of speech, and you can't blame people for feeling conflicted
about a game that they may have previously held very close to them throughout most of their life.
As he sold his shares, possessing or buying Minecraft doesn't really help him directly,
but even if they removed his credits, it'll always be his framework, and it's understandable
if that makes people feel a bit ambivalent. What happened to that guy that so many knew and loved?
I don't think the Marcus person that people thought they knew ever disappeared, nor do I
think that he was an inherently hateful person, but I think over the years he definitely became
a more challenging and troubled figure. He was never equipped to be a big time figurehead,
he yearned for close interpersonal bonds, the simple pleasures of a creative's life,
and he thought that cashing out his shares would allow him to get back to some form of normalcy,
but to put it as concisely as possible, his position opened up a lot of old wounds and
vulnerabilities that led him down a very dangerous path, and only seemed to halt when
he revealed how far he was down there. It traded one form of status for another, possibly worse,
form of status. He could've settled down to a long life of video game panels, Ted Talks,
and meet and greets, become a visiting professor at a state university, or just gradually work on
maintaining strong social bonds that would keep him from losing his mind. Instead, his handprints
on a game have mostly been erased, his mention provokes uncertain groans, and some people would
credit a fictional figure for the creation of one of the most universal experiences in recent
history. He always seemed to have set this, but over the years has continued to name drop
his magnum opus in many tweets, still reflecting on that era of his life, maybe only beginning to
appreciate some of it properly now, it feels like he's still not over it. Whether all his previous
actions were attempts to move past it is something only he knows, but when so much of your life is
still tied to one game and its legacy, it's hard to create a new one. I think back to one quote I
read in his blog post that if he ever accidentally ends up creating anything that might garner
attention, he'll just scrap it immediately. Notch never seemed to find a position in life
where he was truly comfortable. I think it came down to three things, resources, time,
and purpose. When he started his work he had time and purpose, but a lack of resources. As the game
took off he had resources and purpose, but no time, and after he sold his shares he had resources
and time, but no purpose, and his fear of ever gracing the spotlight again has often left him
in that limbo. In the time that he was in the public spotlight it was hard to pinpoint a moment
where Notch was ever comfortable with his life, and that eternal restlessness is something that
can really corrupt the mind. I think it put him in a spot where he consigned himself to a stasis
that he didn't want to live with. He loved programming but didn't enjoy the human aspects
of success, but didn't want to be defined by one thing, but didn't know how to escape that
definition. His love of community and desire to please people was replaced with this distrust
and resentment towards all those around him, and eventually manifested in more and more destructive
ways, leaving me to wonder if he could really rebuild his public image after it all.
One of Notch's resolutions this year was to create a new game, him making wry commentary
on his own commitment to do that. It still doesn't feel like he entirely knows what he wants.
Minecraft was one of the most stressful areas of his life, it's understandable that he doesn't want
to relive that, but sometimes you wonder if he still craves a bit of the taste. He's at a
different stage of his life now, and so is Minecraft, to the point where you wonder if they
even recognise each other. People draw parallels still, and wonder how the two grew so far apart.
However, amongst the politics, the business interests, the billions of dollars, the social
media meltdowns, the far right conspiracy theories, they still came from the same place.
That was existent before any individual or business could dip their fingers in the pie,
and although a person's evolving ideas can retroactively impact their art, the truth is that
the place that Minecraft came from could never be represented by any tweet, and the game will always
transcend whatever people put on social media accounts. We talk about art, but Minecraft isn't
just a painting, it's the whole damn gallery, and so many people would create such great work
on that canvas for years, decades, and maybe even centuries to come. So when Microsoft says
that Notch doesn't really represent Minecraft's values, I don't think they're entirely wrong,
but it was still a part of him. Minecraft is greater than any single person, even Notch
himself, but maybe Notch needs to be greater than Minecraft. As most avid Minecraft players
will probably know, upon completion of Minecraft Survival Mode, you reach the end credits of the
game, accompanied by a verse composition known as the End Poem. It lasts just shy of 9 minutes,
and takes the structure of a conversation between two beings that present themselves as all that
isn't the player, essentially the universe. It analyses many themes that Minecraft represents,
but appears to conclude that the player themselves is the answer to all the questions they may have.
You control your own destiny, you control your own fates.
At the end of 2022, the author of the poem wrote a post on the blogging site Substack,
explaining that he had made the decision to place the poem in the public domain as he had
not contractually handed over his rights to Microsoft or Mojang. However, it's the reason
behind this, and the story that inspired it, that is far more interesting. As Gough explained,
he was hired in 2012 by Person to work on the final text, and quickly struck up a camaraderie
with our Minecraft lead. However, when involving Karl Manet, the business' CEO, things quickly
turned sour as they attempted to enter business negotiations. In the end, all Gough saw from his
contributions was a single $20,000 check. The contract itself was a pretty standard but
stringent hand over all exclusive rights to Mojang, including an NDA which would've obviously
prevented Gough from even mentioning this agreement at all. However, that wasn't the kicker.
Now that came in 2014, when Gough received an email from Karl following up on the agreement,
requesting the signature once more. Gough explains that Manet had framed this as housekeeping,
when in reality research showed this was just around the time the shareholders were looking
to cash out, and were merely tying up some loose ends. With the buyout estimated to be $2.5 billion,
Gough felt a bit deceived and shortchanged, especially with how he had been treated up to
that point. He felt disrespected by people he considered friends, and although he ultimately
didn't sign the contract, it still offended him. In spite of this and the heated exchange that
followed, he didn't seek legal counsel, he didn't formally request his poem be removed from the game
despite the furor it could've caused, he merely let it be. He ultimately did nothing, and gained
nothing from it, and at first he felt bitter and resentful, but since states he has found peace.
As a matter of fact, he argues that it was an important learning curve, and although he could've
pursued it a bit more aggressively and ended up financially better off, he seems thankful he
wasn't, as he probably learned more from losing out. However, he can't properly move on until
he addresses the outstanding issue surrounding the copyright, not wishing to grant Microsoft
the exclusive rights but also not wishing to remove it from the game. He ultimately relinquishes
it to the public domain, and tells people to do whatever the hell they want with it. He was giving
his work back to the world and drawing a line under it. Originally I wrote a paragraph here
explaining why I included this anecdote, but I think I'm going to let it speak for itself.
All I'll say is that, as written at the end, you are the answer to your own questions, it's never
too late to add some chapters to your story and give people a more satisfying conclusion, you just
need to turn the page. Maybe Notch needs to be greater than Minecraft.
Yep, so there we have it, that's the video. Hard one to end honestly, it's really hard to think of a
way to wrap it up, but hopefully I have given you some food for thought at least, and maybe something
to provoke discussion. I'd really like to thank my editors, they've once again done an outstanding
job, I'm forever grateful for their contribution, it means a lot to me guys, and be sure to check
them out if you have the time, their credits are all in the pinned comment below. I'd also like to
give a thanks to my patrons, $10 patrons on screen now, or $10 plus at least, thank you very much guys,
really appreciate it, and more personal shout out to my $50 patrons, Hypercube, Esther Bedoya,
Laura Woodward, and Seri Tisch, thank you so much, your support genuinely means a lot. I'd also like
to thank the thumbnail creator, Starfo, he does great work, great work as always, and the post
editors, Scam, and Grumpy, two fantastically industrious people who did not stop at anything
to get the job done. I'd also like to thank my sponsor, Aura, it was a pleasure working with you,
they've been very very good to me, and hopefully if you enjoy using their app they can be good to
you as well. Otherwise, I hope you guys are doing well, and I hope you took something away from this
at least, this little ramble, and be sure to take care of yourselves. I don't really have too much
else to add, so I'm The Right Opinion, and I will see you in the next one.
