So, I missed the boat on this one a little bit, but super straight is a thing apparently.
With the representation flag of black, orange, and sometimes white, super straight people
are attracted to individuals of the opposite sex, excluding trans people. Of course, that
whole excluding thing has people up in arms because we're on the internet, so maybe I
can parse it a little bit better. If a trans woman is biologically male but adopts the
gender role of a woman, and that is how I understand it to be the case, then your average
straight man, by the intersectional definition, is somebody who is attracted to people who
adopt the gender role of woman, meaning cis women and trans women, regardless of their
biology. Okay, fair enough. If this is the case, then a super straight man is somebody
who is attracted to people who adopt the gender role of woman and have the biology of a female.
And I guess to simplify it, super straightness is being attracted to people whose biology
and gender role match, and who are the opposite of you in both respects. There we go. No more
use of the word excluding in the definition. No more exclusion. Is everybody happy now?
Yeah, I figured not. This whole super straight thing was started by a viral TikTok. Damn,
TikToks are still going viral. Maybe I should start one. Yo, guys, I made a new sexuality
now, actually. It's called super straight, okay? Since straight people or straight men
is myself, I get called transphobic because I wouldn't date a trans woman. You know, they're
like, would you date a trans woman? I'm like, no. Why? That's a female. No, like that's
not a real woman to me. Like I want a real woman. No, you're just transphobic. So now
I'm super straight. I only date the opposite gender, women that are born women. So you
can't say I'm transphobic now because that's just my sexuality, you know? And this spawned
a whole bunch of other people who were doing it, presumably just to troll. I'm super straight
and I'm proud. Just so you know, I support the super straights. I can't believe how heterophobic
people have gone. We just want our partner to be biologically clean and natural and we
still accept trans people and super phobia. Did you know that there's a lot of super people
are getting harassed and getting death threats every day? Stop the super phobia. Hashtag
super straight hate is real. That's what super straight means. Stop calling us homophobes.
Oh, look, the super straight community even raised $6,500 to benefit the Vancouver Rape
Relief Society. We care super straight. Like and retweet if you're super straight and proud.
And see, this is how it works. Here's a handy dandy guide. Learn the difference and stop
being a bigot. But of course, straightphobes do what all other phobes do. They rewrite
history and push their own ideology. Now you're a transphobe if you only date cis people and
not trans people of the opposite gender. Some of them just don't seem to understand that
you can be both a super straight ally and a trans ally. Fuck transphobia. Repost if
you're super phobic. Retweet if your account is not a safe space for super straight people.
Stop the hate, guys. But it gets even worse. If I ever see anyone calling themselves a
super straight, I won't hesitate to kill them. I'm going to attack and kill anyone identifying
as super straight. I wish all super straight people an ugly evening. I'm coming for you.
The amount of open death threats against the super straight community is astronomical.
Of course, they outright admit that they believe super straight is transphobic because, say
it with me, it excludes trans people. And that is the first argument against the idea
of the super straight. It's an argument that predates super straight, in fact. It's that
if trans women are women, then refusing to date trans women as a straight man or as a
lesbian cis woman is transphobia. In other words, you don't see them as the gender they
identify as, and therefore you are rejecting their existence as that gender, and therefore
you're transphobic. Obviously, not all trans activists think this way. Certainly not all
trans people are saying a suck the dick bigot. But hey, that was a joke phrase just a few
years ago, and with this new reaction to super straight, as well as the corresponding super gay
and super lesbian, we're actually approaching that spot now. We're obviously just having a
laugh here, guys, but the underlying question beneath everything ultimately is, when do you
have the right to be prejudicial? Or do you at all? There is this assumption on the broader left
that prejudice is always bad, period. But we already have a good idea of what happens if you
take that position to its logical conclusion. As one of many examples, in Huxley's Brave New
World, the futuristic society of the world state prioritizes science, efficiency, and communal
ownership, and one of its mottos is, everyone belongs to everyone else. In this world, it is
illegal to reject any sexual advance from anyone else, because it's considered solipsistic,
discriminatory, and prejudicial. But to a liberal, and to our liberal society, which prioritizes
self-ownership, property, and speech, this idea is monstrous. We have the right to our prejudices
as part of the right of association. And while it might sound a little bit silly to have to say
this, if you've entered into an exclusive monogamous relationship, on some level that is the ultimate
prejudice. You've publicly declared that you're limiting your sexuality for you and your partner,
nobody else. In order to have that kind of relationship, you must, by necessity, discriminate
against everybody you're not with, in order to privilege your partner. And clearly we consider
this to be justifiable, because in order to operate in the world we have to rank order things in terms
of how they are valuable to us. We've even got biological brain structure set up to do this sort
of thing. Again, it feels weird that I have to say this, but everything is not the same about every
other thing all the time. Once again, we're back to the conversation about hierarchy and value,
because these concepts are inescapable to the human experience, and this is likely the source
of the heavy crossover between trans activism and radical socialism. Their shared disdain for the
concepts of value, preference, rank ordering, and hierarchy. There is a second reason that such an
obvious lark as supersexual has received this kind of a pushback though, and it's that it punches a
huge hole in the intersectionalist self-definition is king type of ideology. This sort of thing has
been bubbling up in the lesbian community for a lot longer than anywhere else, where cis lesbians
have been told they're bigoted for not being interested in trans women, where lesbian exclusive
dating apps have opened the door to trans women in the name of diversity. I'm not opposed to any
of these people having sex or forming relationships with whoever they want for whatever reason, but if
to use the current meme terminology, a super lesbian wants to go on a dating app meant exclusively
for other super lesbians, that doesn't seem too objectionable to me. Remember, it's the right of
association, but not to some of these people. To them, it's instead the cotton ceiling. These
preferences must not be respected, but smashed through as if they were akin to the glass ceiling.
People who were radical leftist feminists a decade ago are now considered right-wing bigots due to
this shift in the discourse, and I gotta say it's been a wild ride watching it all go down. But
remember, identification is the name of the game. If you can pull out an entire book of newly defined
different sexualities to differentiate the minute granular differences between other types of sexual
preference, what is the basis for the objection to this one? I mean, in that list you'll find
scoliosexual, a sexual orientation that describes those who are sexually attracted to people with
non cisgender identities, such as people who are non-binary, genderqueer, or trans, otherwise known
as a chaser. Alright, if this exists, why is there such an overreaction to its opposite? Is it because
it's called super straight? Were the implication buried deep in there as that trans women aren't
women? Okay, well why don't we just rename it? What if we called it anti-scoliosexual? Maybe we
just call it femalesexual? Cissexual? If the complaint really is just the meme-like nature
of the name, like say, with trap, then there shouldn't be any problem with the action of men
actually excluding trans women from their pool of potential partners, however you want to call
that action. If genital preferences do have a huge impact on your sexuality, maybe look into
impresexual? What the? Alright. Impresexual is a term for those who have such specific sexual
preferences, it may feel as though it matters more than one's orientation itself. So this is
literally an LGBT friendly variant of super straight, where the sexual orientation is
whatever preference you have. Alright? The funniest bit is, this page was made by a trans person as a
non-transphobic alternative to super straight. It's already been rejected by feminist and lesbian
blogs. And over on reddit, r slash impresexual was made by a progressive who is currently trying to
popularize the term with other progressives. And other progressives are instead attacking them,
thinking that the idea was made as a parody by those feminist and lesbian blogs that have
rejected the idea. The amount of infighting happening over this dumb shit is amazing.
However, we all know why there's so much anger directed at what is obviously a troll-op. The
observed rules of intersectional theory have been that you can identify as a sexuality, slap a label
on it, and it's now valid. Heckin cute and valid in fact. By those same rules, there's no reason
you can't simply identify as super sexual, and claim to be oppressed whenever you receive criticism
of it. You can even point to any number of institutions that are explicitly pro-trans,
and announce that they systemically discriminate against you. Not because those institutions are
actually super phobic, but because they normalize and clandestinely promote super phobia through
their passive neutrality. There's no standing still on a moving train after all. You can even
make a blatant power play, and have Donkey Kong say super straight rights. Or anybody else, really.
Why not? It's the same thing as when trans activists shoehorn in their ideology in a place that is
explicitly non-political, under the argument of, this isn't politics, it's our existence. Okay,
it's all fair game then. And so there is no actual coherent argument when somebody comes along and
says, I identify as super straight. This is why they can only reply with either death threats,
or long threads that are immediately self contradictory, or end with, yeah you can do it,
I just don't like how you do it. Yes, super straight is obviously a joke, but the punchline
of the joke is everybody who got so mad about it, that they actually believe it was started by
neo-nazis as a 4chan op, in order to literally kill trans people literally, and not just a guy
making a tiktok in his car about his sexual preference. And there's been some good memes
and funny burns out of it, like that girl who said super straight is a mental disorder and got owned
by the dude replying with, it used to be, but we successfully harassed enough people in the American
Psychological Association to have it removed from the DSM-5. Damn dude. Whenever trans activists
bitch about straight men not being into them, it honestly sounds like the radical feminists,
who complain that gay men are only gay because they're misogynists. At the end of the day,
it's just another way to try and overwrite and invalidate somebody else's consent because you
want to fuck them and they don't want to fuck you. And we've seen this sort of thing before,
multiple times. Last year, it was the LGB Alliance, where some gay people wanted the
T out of LGBT, because the struggles that gays, lesbians, and bisexuals face are all related to
each other, and yet distinct from the struggles that trans people face. There is some intersectional
and lefty logic to this. In one of my university gender studies classes, I learned that the history
of the movement saw LGBT lumped in not out of a concrete shared solidarity, but because back in
the 1950s, there was a predominant view among the cishet patriarchal society that we live in that
gay men, pedophiles, transsexuals as they were called back then, cross dressers, and drag queens
were all the same thing, or at least had a lot of heavy overlap. The dominant culture did not
conceive of these things as fully separate and distinct, and so the activism surrounding them
emerged reflecting that. But it's 2021, and nowadays, forcing the LGB and the T together
artificially for that 1950s era reason sounds rather transphobic by our modern standards,
doesn't it? And the year before that, it was LGBTS, making the LGBT movement more inclusive
by adding S for straight. Because why not? It covers more people that way. And again,
by the rules of intersectionality, these are all valid identities that need protection and
acceptance from bigots. It even got to the point that Boston approved a straight pride
permit with the event's organizer, John Hugo, saying, We don't hate anyone. We just want to
have our own celebration, just like everybody else has a right to. All people from all communities
are welcome as long as they show respect. Each of these events are, on their face, ridiculous
and unnecessary. But every time one of them goes down, there is a contingent of always on Twitter
people who publicly and spectacularly self-destruct in waves of unbridled rage over
what your average disinterested, unengaged normie can clearly recognize as an obvious joke by internet
trolls meant to stir the pot. Intersectional activists are their own downfall. Every time
someone pokes fun at them, they publicly shit themselves. And the silent majority has been
watching it happen for years. LGBT activists are the reason that LGBT acceptance is on the decline.
In the end, if you actually identify as super straight, you're probably just an idiot getting
a bit too sucked into what's obviously this month's flash-in-the-pan meme. On the flip side,
if you're actually angry at super straight, well, you're the very reason it's going to keep happening.
Thank you for watching, my friends. If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around
and do all of the other algorithm-positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like,
I don't know. Sub for more or hit up my Patreon or SubscribeStar if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So I'll see you tomorrow. I love you.
