Hey guys, we just got back from watching The Hobbit. So I thought we'd just do a run through. We got some
AMW burgers
and tea. Should we break them out while we talk? Yeah, you know, it's kind of tradition for us to
Eat crappy food on camera. So
anyways
For those of you who don't really know me. I mean, if they didn't know you, why would they be here? That's true
Anyways, okay, what I'm trying to get at is that I
Have been a
Owls over there. He's playing Red Faction. Thank God I can talk. I was gonna say you can dish while you dish. Excellent!
Right anyways back on the topic. I have been an avid Lord of the Rings fan since I was about 15
Um
These new burgers what for me is actually pretty good
Let's review the burgers instead cuz they're pretty good. Well, I see there's like it's a burger with mayo and cheese and ketchup
Okay, so when I was 15
My my mom tried to get me to read her copy of The Hobbit which I have right here
As my mom's copy. It's missing the back cover
Wonderful and it was um
she
actually purchased a copy of the Sommarillion, which if
You don't know why the fuck would you ever read this? Sommarillion is the history book
it's like the Bible of
Middle Earth it has everything from the beginning or
So they say Eru the one the alluvatar God whatever in halls
I knew also known as well angels and they had this this
This holy symphony and you know, there's more goth or Melkor was like if you haven't noticed
Oh blah blah blah case. You haven't noticed Dave is the ultimate fucking Lord of the Rings nerd asshole
I'm really not and I just I just I that's what I remember though and me
I I don't really care one way either by the series
So we're just kind of I'm the average guy and you're the ultimate fan blood. Oh, so you've been third? Yeah, I did notice
You guys so you got two casuals and pretty much hard for
It was pretty easy to say I mean again I fell asleep during it is there anything less than casual
Apathetic. Oh, okay. So apathetic casual hardcore. We got three levels lethargic
Anyways
so I got pretty hardcore into Lord of the Rings from there I
Watched all I was actually the movie I watch it. What do the movie?
Well, I'm just giving a precursor
Precursors like here's Dave's life regarding Tolkien how much whatever I love. I love Tolkien's work. I love the Hobbit
I love Lord of the Rings. I mean, I've seen all the movies like a thousand times
I own this dick at least three, you know, I you went back in time
Wow, it must show me this
I
Loved the movie I thought was very well done. There are definitely some things that I
wasn't as
overjoyed about but
Here's the thing
they put elements of
something called the unfinished tales into this movie and the unfinished tale is essentially just a collection of
Exactly what it sounds like unfinished tales
That Tolkien wrote during between 1914 and
while basically up to his death and
He never really got them published, but they are all
Relevant to different ages in the Middle Earth universe and one of them is actually a tale of
The the expedition to Erebor
Told through Gandalf's eyes and he goes on a bit about this battle
between the dwarves and the orcs at Moria and
mentions I pretty damn sure he mentions a song and
It was really cool to see all this stuff. That was so originally
That hard that that that that big armless orc guy. Yeah, he wasn't in the Hobbit original. I
Don't think so, I think he was there don't read a book right now to try and find
Thinking he was
Somewhere in there. Maybe but there's so many there's so many characters
Yeah to remember that I mean
Like there this is only the first movie of three and I'll be wrong. They're like halfway through it. Here's here's the thing
This is this is the Hobbit book. Mm-hmm. This is about the same size
One of the three books that make it the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Yep, that trilogy got three movies
This book is getting three movies
That it this this movie is about an hour too long. I think
In our hours two hours too long
So you want you want like a one hour?
50 minute movie. It's like it's like an HBO show
Yeah
It's Game of Thrones watch Game of Thrones. I do have to admit that there were parts that dragged on
The beginning half-hour did think it takes a long time to get going. No, but that's the thing though
I thought it was awesome because
This is a general audience. You have to set up a history
There has to be something established there and I thought the fact that they're showing Erebor is showing the Dwarven Kingdom
They they show Dale they show everything, you know, they show the entire environment around there because
They're not gonna get there until the second movie. Yeah, so they want to show you know
It's not just it's not just a few scribbles on a map. It's a real place with you know, real real towns real people
It's very beautiful. It's very stark
I understand on that but I feel like they could have saved it until the beginning of the second movie to show us my
That it's just not really relevant right now. We're just like and also I also mean like the stuff that's happening with
Bilbo hanging out in his house and they got like all the kind of what's proto. Oh, no
No, well partially that that went a little bit too long
You just had you know Elijah would show up for like a five-second cameo in it
Well, I thought it was and then he's always going they actually have
Even a prologue a prologue to the prologue. Yeah
In Lord of the Rings, it was really weird. I mean it's cool and it kind of like a slice of white
Slice of life
style
Slice of white slice it your way
Yeah, slice of lifestyle. I thought it was kind of cool
They're just kind of padding it's like padding. Oh here here is my I think my biggest personal problem with this movie
Mm-hmm. It was still an alright movie. I'd still definitely recommend people watch it, but
They're taking
They're going out of their way too much to try and link it back to the original three movies
Yeah, like like Frodo shows up for like 20 minutes at the start of the movie and he kind of overstays as welcome
then like later on it has
Gandalf's hanging out with another wizard guy in the two elves. I saw him on and glad you're all yeah
They're all just talking about like
Well, that's the thing though
There is some kind of council. There's something that goes on believe they actually talk about this necromancer
Yeah, it's only mentioned in the books though. They don't go into detail
Here's my movie the necromancer scene was basically just them trying to talk about you think hook it to the to the three
Movies a little bit more and it has nothing to do with this story
If you cut that scene out this movie would be the exact same. It would not lose anything
Well, they have they should at least mention this the necromancer because they do in the book
It's very really if everything that happens to Gandalf. He just explains it. He says oh I ran into Radagast
And he told me about the necromancer and dull Golder. That's it
Like they don't actually really show Radagast
They don't go on about although
I love the fact that he says the there's he says like there's the five wizards and he says the two was blue wizards
like I don't remember their names because
They don't they don't give the names like I think they give
Elvish names or something that they don't give any human names to them
Yeah, they have the original because the Wizards are actually my are they're all the spirits from the basically from heaven
They're like miners. They're like minor spirits. I got there turned into old men and I know
But I love it. Yeah, and they have a lot of in jokes that really really
Hardcore fan that was kind of funny. How did you just like? Oh, yeah
There's these these two blue guys, and I don't know I don't remember their name
I like how the brown wizard was covered in shit. Yeah
See you make the shit roll down Radagast. Yeah, Radagast was kind of a joke
Don't get me wrong. And he had like a bobsled with like rabbits. Was that from the book too? No
No
No, it was not. I saw it with my mom. She loved that. Wait, where did Radagast go even? I don't even remember him leaving the movie
What happened to him? I remember he was um, he was trying to bait the the war riders. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah
Well, he's least well, yeah, he fucked off because he saw that they were
So they were going after the others and he couldn't get their attention anymore. So I was like, oh shit
I'm just gonna get the hell out of here. I guess let's go home and forget the quest. What an asshole
Like he could fight
He's a proud wizard. What's he gonna do play the brown note?
weird
It's said that Radagast becomes more and more animalistic as years go on. Yeah
Yeah, I don't know if he I don't I don't think he ever actually
Goes because on the end of the Lord of the Rings I actually like they go off to the West or whatever
Right. I don't think it Radagast ever leaves middle
I think he just becomes more and more wild as the years go on more and more crazy
Cuz like Saruman even says that guy he eats too many mushrooms and they add all his brains and they make his teeth yellow
It's like pretty obvious. What kind of mushrooms he's eating
But no, it was a pretty good movie
but my only my only real problems that they seem to shoehorn scenes in to try and link it back to the
The Lord of the Rings trilogy movies that didn't really seem to belong there
Like yeah, if you usually if you're making a movie out of a book you don't
You don't like add things to the book you cut things from the book and I think the mention
They did that Lord of the Rings too though, but like if they were going to
Cut anything from this movie and make it not, you know an ass-numbing three hours of a movie
The first thing to cut would be all the references to the original
Get the necromancy stuff out of there because the movie wouldn't suffer for it
The movie is about the you know, the 13 dwarves hanging out and then fighting but it's it's it's an overarching story though
It's an overarching story connects the Hobbit and Lord of the Rings
It's part of it's part of the overarching story of even just Middle Earth in general
Sauron was the second command of like the of the devil. He is like the devil's right-hand man. He's bail
He's Mephistopheles. He's whatever he's whatever
Everything you're saying but in terms of this movie as
A single day could have just a referenced him and that's it
It didn't need to be they didn't have to didn't have to go to such detail about about the fucking
Fortress then have to go in such detail about about this necromancer
And show him they didn't have to you know, show the the witch kings dagger and all
I mean, I don't remember that that that that doesn't work that that doesn't seem right to me
And don't get me wrong. I mean, well, let's talk about the things we liked about it now. Oh
I
Mean the setting was the exact, you know, the setting for all the same was really nice to see the old
settings from that they were using Lord of the Rings
Rivendell and in the river Brunin and the trolls the trolls were awesome. Yeah, they're hilarious. Oh, man
Okay, I actually wanted to lean over and whisper this to you
India I
Wanted to lean over a student theater context. Yeah, I wanted to lean over and whisper this student theater
but it's like the scene kept going really quickly, so I just didn't but when when you see Galadriel for the first time and
Like she's staying there. She's like that long long ass gala kind of flowers out onto the floor
Yeah, and then like she rotates in place rather than just stepping she rotates in place
You could turn I think and I could down like twists up her as she just turns out. It's like hey guys
I was thinking she was on one of those
Um, oh like a turntable those shitty ad machines like you sound like you just like move your hips and you swing back
I was like that's the first thing comes in your mind
There were a lot of
Moments in this in this movie that were goofy and we're forgivable because it's a fantasy movie
Well, because it's like it's a it's a children's book. Yeah, it's well it was marketed as a children's book
Yeah, don't get me wrong. They made it a lot darker. Yeah a lot darker. I mean
They even right from the beginning I mean
We're showing up and I think they wanted to keep the same audience in the same
Yeah to say the same tone as the original three movie, but they were all singing. They kept the singing in
Yeah, that's kind of good. It wasn't. Oh, but it wasn't it wasn't like all
Ponce here like that. It wasn't quite I know there. There are some ponds to like that first song where they're singing
Yeah, well cracking the plates and all that. Yeah
That's just a thing though, they they gotta keep stuff like that in because it it's part of what made
It added that that or of whimsy to the original book
Yeah, so I mean they took they took so much out of Lord of the Rings. That was that was whimsical
There was a there was a lot of singing there was a lot of
light hard
Somewhat light harness to the elves themselves, but more in the Hobbit
They are they're like they're actually a bunch of well trolls and I'm talking internet trolls
Joking around with people they like fucking with people's minds. Oh, here's a fucking thing. What's the book? Sorry?
Here's the thing. I remember the
big thing about Lord of the Rings is how come Gandalf didn't get those fucking birds and like fly fly the fucking ring over and
Everyone who says that everyone who replies that says well Gandalf didn't have the birds yet
Yeah, and like by the time the end of the third fucking movie comes around he has the birds to use it's like, okay
Fine in this movie. He uses the birds. No, the birds are there and this is before the first
I could have sworn he uses that boss an asshole. Yeah. Yes. Um, it's up to the birds to decide but okay
If he they just get dumped off like that
It takes away all these all these events. I mean the whole point of these stories. It's not okay. It's a story
Development at the same time
In the context of the people living in that world. Why wouldn't they oh, I know I know
I know under the context of the in the in-world process. It would make so much more sense just to get a lift
I mean, what would you rather walk?
We're gonna ride. So I've heard some people say that like
Sirens tower there how they can have like a laser eye beam coming to the eye that would like shoot the Eagles maybe
But I'm not sure if that's actually a thing. Well, yeah, why won't you knock it off?
If that's the case then why wouldn't the I be shooting lasers at the army from from Gondor
No, I think people are just being idiots I mean seriously laser I also know
The the undead human kings there who had like those 13 other rings. Yeah, they had like they were riding dragons, right?
They're right dragon that's cool. Yeah. Yeah. So like I guess they could like done like
Air support type thing
Against against the Eagles. I don't why wasn't it like an aerial battle in Lord of the Rings like Eagles vs. Dragons, man
Or sure, they did attack them at the end. Yeah, it was like like a two-second scene
Yeah, that should have been like the main focus of the entire fucking war was like the aerial battle
This isn't World War one
dog fights
The whole point of this you've gotten away the fuck off track. Yeah, you're going on these tangents about about things that
Okay. Yeah, I mean you're the English guy
Here's here's the thing is that
One thing that I mean it didn't ruin the movie for me
But I did wonder this constantly throughout the movie is how come some of the dwarves?
Had like the big beards the big noses the big hands and arms
They had like the dwarven body and some of them were just like tiny humans. Yeah. Yeah
Billy Kelly Thorin they just didn't put the makeup on those guys. I wonder why they didn't do that
Are they actually they're actually different types of dwarf that are just like less nosy. No
Well, there are I think there are different types of dwarves but these but these guys are all Arab war doors
They're all they're all from the same place. Yes, but at the same time
Maybe you just wanted some of the doors to look goofy and something to look serious
I think there's like the guy there's the one guy who had just the beard not the the mustache
He was like a younger guy with the like the ginger beard. I think they're trying to make him look younger and kind of dopey
Philly and Kelly, you know Thorin's these are actually thorns cut first cousins. Yeah, that's why they're there
They're so they're so tight with them. Yeah
They are they are very young by dwarven standards that I and that's that's why they make them
They're their beards are much shorter that sort of thing. Yeah, I'm Thorin
I think they just wanted to give them more of a sense of nobility. I
Feel like they just wanted to at least put a couple of hot toddies
Yeah, pretty much good-looking male actors into the movie just they all weren't because Martin Freeman's kind of like just mr. Average
I think they just they they just wanted to put in a couple of decent looking
Human looking actors and have it the right instead of like having an entire cast like an old man
And like a bunch of midgets with like big noses
You know, they actually wanted to make someone look half half human creams machines old man
That's some some midgets. Yeah
Old man the midget source
Well
Yeah, I also I'm disappointed that
We didn't get to the dragon this time
That it's build up
I know but like they but you can't spend a full movie on Bill
I think if you build up for the first third of a movie they can't show them at all
But they should have like they spend this entire time talking about the dragon as being the biggest threat and it doesn't show up
Until the very end where it like blinks out of the gold pot. I was like, yeah
As soon as I saw the dragon slowly it's a hook as soon as I saw the dragon slowly emerge from the pile of gold
I was like this movie's ending on his eye
Probably opening up into it
It did yeah. Yeah, there was some predictability there. Yeah, it's it's unfortunate
Why do dragons that go
What's the deal with that? Uh, they're just wicked cruel greedy, but they can't spend it. They don't they don't care
That's the whole thing it's like a crow they just grab shiny things a lot of ancient mythology, you know
He's drawing ancient mythology, right?
Why are you question? You know, I read way more
Mythological because this he's a literature that I have so basically
Because I like things to be explained
Okay, okay here here's something that you may not have learned right by now is not everything spoon-fed
You have to sometimes it takes learning things on your own
I'm not doing homework to go to a fucking movie
Or or or okay, sometimes just take things as I are
Not question that shit out of them. No, no, that's what we do. That's what we do here on the site
That's what I've been doing all this time, yep, okay
No, it was it was a good movie I liked it
I was uh, you know, they all all my nitpicks are just nitpicks and it was overall pretty good. No, I
For the most part. I agree
The actor plays Gandalf looks significantly older this time though, sir. You become yeah, he's ten years older. Yeah
Yeah, that's one thing I didn't worry. He's supposed to be younger, but he looks older. Yeah
Well, that is the thing. Yeah, that is a thing with it. Well, yeah
That's one of those things that you just sometimes can't get around with all the makeup in the world don't necessarily get around it
Yeah, it's just one of those things
Especially if he's got any allergy to the makeup, you know, yeah, it's gonna screw him up
And you think guys are old like I mean, he's got to be he's got to be about 80 by now
But is he Christopher Lee's got to be older than that even Christopher Christopher Lee is like 88
I swear to God and he's like hand this movie to you for a little bit
Yeah, I think I see is always only show up in the book too. Yeah, I think I'm pretty sure he did
It's really was in the book. Yes, Chris
Yes, Christopher Lee as
Christopher Lee as the necromancer. He actually turns out to be Dracula to show up in the book. It's actually a hammer film
You know, it's it's it's it's a it's a huge tribute to hammer films. They're just gonna have you know
Gandalf be a a
Vampire Slayer
God
What's wrong with me
anyways
For anyone who is a hardcore fan hasn't seen it. Why haven't you seen it yet? Why the hell happens?
Like we had a good excuse
We're we're in our home. Yeah, we're in our hometown for Christmas. Yeah, there's no theater there
So you so guys they're useful. Yeah, it closed 17 years ago then it became a strip club
then we came to strip club and now it is a
Education center slash temp agency is it not and it's also like a
Don't know. Oh, yeah. It's a cry dojo. Yeah, forget that. Yeah
Anyways, yeah, so for hardcore fans definitely definitely a must-see
There's a lot of things that I get thrown in there. I
Probably didn't even recognize half of them because I mean it's been a while. I haven't read Unfinished Tales in like five years
I
Hadn't read the Hobbit in a few years either
So there's all you know, this is one of those things one of the movies definitely
I definitely recommend watching more than once just to catch it all def is this you just to catch all of the
All these little things they add in it's it's amazing how much you want to see it already in 2d in 1d or?
Or an avx because we only watch the 3d we didn't watch the avx one
So I actually do want to see the avx one the hyper real version
3d wasn't really
That good. No, it wasn't the 3d 3d was it was very lackluster. I thought that I mean, I don't I know
I got I don't know if you guys do this
But like sometimes during a 3d movie I like take off the glasses and see if there's any difference everyone
There's there's barely any yeah, it's ridiculous. I mean during during like the
Every single action set piece
Yeah, there was always like there's like there's like rocks flying at the camera from like a sword impact in the ground
And there was like a piece of wood flake. There's always stuff. Yeah
You see you see some 3d there, but like rest of the movies just flat. Yeah, it's pretty it's pretty flat
I mean if I was gonna watch this, I just watch some blu-ray when they watch
TV or anything like that. I wouldn't bother it. I have a 3d TV. So that's easy. Well, I know exactly
Just makes things easier for everyone
Yeah, I really um, I wonder what the the extended edition of this movie is gonna be like
16 hours some of the dramatic pauses just I can't wait hours. This is the guy who watched like
Every not only to watch all the extended editions
But I watched I made sure every thing cuz I would get two thousand one thousand two
2003 they do have the extensions coming out and I'd sit there and I'd watch all the special features like back to back to back
You're fucking loser. I was I was a nice kid. I had almost free time. I had nothing else to do
So I was like fuck and I'm just gonna watch all the special feature stuff
And then I saw there's this guy there who's like a elvish language expert and he's in more
But he's like the geekiest guy I've ever seen my ladies. This guy is single
Anyways, yeah, it's an alright movie
I
Is definitely more just alright, I feel like it is an average movie that most people will enjoy
Um, but you know, we're gonna touch on something was major to like it's the Gollum scene
Well, we're not too long to that. Yes, I agree
I think went on too long what I really hope they would have done instead and I know it's because they've already established
Gollum is a is a character because this is a prequel it's coming out after yeah after Lord of the Rings if they showed him
less debilitated
If they hadn't really shown him at all
They've just shown him it look the only times that I really got the creeps was when they showed him up in the background
And with his eyes shining like that because in the book in the book, they established Gollum very very well
It's very very creepy. There's this vibe
The way that we okay describes Gollum. He's just this little this slide questions in the book with the riddles. Yes
Yes, they do that. I love I love the fact they kept that in they kept that the whole context in there
Is it in the book?
It's like they don't really show him. I mean, yes as a book the way it's described it, you know in the movie
I would just barely show him. I just show the eyes. I wouldn't have him actually, you know grappling with them or anything like that
um
It just it felt like they're they're more or less just showcasing the technology like oh look what we can do now
It's ten years later. He looks so much better. Yeah
Yes, we're aware the technology is advanced that much you don't have to show it in the terms of just
In just terms of build-up, it would have been all show up later
In the rest of the book. No, so he won't be in like a movie two and three unless they just do something stupid
Yeah, that's exactly it. He'll just show up the background. No, yeah. Hi guys. He doesn't this is this is it
Like this is how he gets the ring
Gollum he sees Gollum. He's about to you know, he's about to kill him or whatever and you know
He feels sorry for him and you know what when I saw that that I actually got him up my throat
When I'm gone, but like this the single tear and all that
Um, he just looks so pitiful. He really does
He looks like the saddest motherfucker of all time. Like he just lost his entire family because that's all he has
This is like a Native American looking out at his wasteland of a country
as like single to
There's
Just walking through the waters are eating and just eating McDonald's and throwing shit all over the reading a W and throwing
No, no, he just he seemed he's just seems so pathetic and I felt I felt really bad for the character the kinship
Well, he's he's an it's it's now a game ship
Between you and him. Yeah, sure
He's more like an act full of drug addicts
This is exactly what it's supposed to be is he's addicted to the power that that the ring gives them
and it's all he knows and
Once he realizes it's gone from that. He may not ever get it back. He he's a you know, he becomes what?
He really is just a crushed old hobbit
That's all he is just an empty shell of a hobbit or whatever the hell he has like close to
So from here on Bilbo just basically keeps the ring in his pocket
He gets home and keeps in his trunk and then like yeah for like the next 60 years
No ill effects despite like it just fucks up everybody else. Uh, what are you talking about?
Well, no, there's no ill effects per se other than a game. He becomes addicted to it and it gave me a screamer face
Yeah, and
You know and kept him looking young of course
he's very he looks basically the same the thing is like I can understand why they get a
Younger guy to play him because I mean Ian home is he's no spring-chicken either. He's got to be about 70 by now
I mean like all the shit that they make him. Oh, that's okay. Um
They fall so far in this movie everyone falls like oh all the time
It's true. They're in the this cave with all these goblins and shit and they fall like
500 feet and none of them are injured like maybe bruised
But no eternal Henry like I don't see anyone spitting up blood. I don't see any broken bones
I don't you know, I don't see any cuts any lacerations or was it?
lacerations
There's three of them lacerations evisceration eviscerations in
Incineration. Yeah
Yeah, there's there are none of those things when when they fall
Well, I mean obviously like the incineration isn't relevant, but the other two they fall so fucking much
Nobody ever gets like super injured just scrapes and bruises. It's like that that doesn't seem right. I know dwarves are hardy, but
It doesn't seem very also
like it must have happened at least three times in this movie where like Gandalf fucks off and
Like in the moment, they've been like the party gets in trouble and get over. Yeah, that's how I did
Yeah, that happens. I'm back guys. It just kills him
That's how it happens in the book because in the book Gandalf is supposed to have an air of mystery to him
He's an enigma
You know, they make him seem a little bit more human in the movie
They really do because they show what he does but in the book, it's just like he'll he'll come back, you know
He'll shit. He'll save their ass and then he'll kind of give a somewhat vague answer or you know, like
Maybe
One or two occasions. He'll actually explain what he was doing, but that's it. It's just an explanation
It's not actually showing him going to you know, they'll go there and blah blah blah
Yeah, yeah
You tried to end this thing now for like three three times and David, you know, I was like, oh I remember something else
I know there's so there are so many things to discuss about it. Well, I mean, that's just like the movie itself
They keep on trying to end it
And
Personally, I'm I'm not offended by it. I didn't at no point did I feel bored
Actually, you know what? Technically this movie is not called The Hobbit. It's called an unexpected. Well, it's The Hobbit
colon unexpected journey, but you didn't see the words The Hobbit weren't in the movie
When you finally see the opening title card of the movie it just says an unexpected journey actually
Yeah, they should have just said The Hobbit because it's in the Lord of the Rings. It started off Lord of the Rings
And then you know Lord of the Rings and then Fellowship of the Rings but like Lord of the Rings
I mean they started off a little because it's it's it's technically one book
Yeah, yeah
PJ you're
Kind of you're kind of hit or miss everybody
Fuck Oh Peter Jackson. Gotcha. It's you know what? I think it is losing all that weight
He lost all the weight in his brain. No, I'm just fucking no no I
Yeah, I really I really thought it was well done, you know, everything every movie has its warts
So I you know, I'm not gonna give it like a numerical value like that because really yeah
I don't see much point if you're if you don't like fantasy this won't convert you
If you're not a big Lord of the Rings fan, but you just want to watch something just just to watch it
This will entertain you for a while, but then you'll forget about it
It's really only gonna be memorable to see you care in the first place. I
Think and yet it's the highest grossing movie of the year. It's one of the highest
It's possibly the highest grossing movie of all time. So I don't think you're on the button there, man
I really don't because if it made that much money, that means people are going back from multiple viewings
Multiple which means it must be good enough for a lot of people or that people are just becoming more more
Fantasy, I think that's an ad. Yes
For sure, but no if this is a movie that you don't like this won't change your mind
But about me if you don't like fantasy, this isn't gonna make you love something about fantasy. This is not a gateway movie
Yeah, oh god now if you actually want to get into fantasy I'd suggest watching the Brit
Mmm
Fuck yeah
Yeah, it's a hands-on approach really really wet to all the ideas
If you want to get into fantasy watch willow
Oh
My watch labyrinth. All right, we've got that's a wrong fantasy
Oh
That's the kind of fantasy if you want like, you know
With his bulge with this bulge. Oh, yeah, cuz he reminds me of the babe
So say what babe oh no
That one's completely over my head and what babe the baby the power what power the power of voodoo who do you know?
Okay. Anyways, whatever
This has become completely irreverent completely irrelevant. Anyway
Anyways, definitely two thumbs up for me
Okay, that is a numerical thing. Yeah, it's two. Oh, no. I just ripped off Cisco neighbor
Definitely definitely
Very very high recommendation from me as a hardcore fan it it really does appeal
This is this is not the fifth time you've said it's because it's true and to the casual person
I still recommend it because it is a blockbuster. It does have a lot of
you know great effects and
incredible environments
very
You know wonderful music the score is is pretty much impeccable
They tied a lot of Lord of the Rings themes in there because a lot of the characters
No, but like some of the characters are still there. So they keep their themes and I thought it flowed very nicely
So yeah overall it was it was very good
Anyways, I look back in a bit and talk about the trailers that came before the movie
Wow
That is opposed to the ones after them. So the trailer is gonna be talking about the trailer. Yes
Okay. Okay. We're back in a bit to actually talk about the trailers
Okay, the trailers what shows you even get we got man of steel we got
a
Side red faction really fucked up. Yeah, I was just kind of
Jumping humping the ground even though he was like buried in the ground. Okay, whatever
Yeah, we got man of steel
You got Will Smith's vehicle for his child, yeah after earth
Yeah
See Al gone I said I said welcome to earth to Daphne he didn't get it. I was like you fucking suck
Yeah, yeah, I have to giant killer that's it and of course it is a good date a good day to die hard
Yeah, I didn't get that wasn't there? No, no. Okay. Well, I saw it
What else was there Star Trek? Oh, it's our truck. Yes. Yes. Yes. That's a lot of jumping off buildings
Yeah, times a job, but I feel like a lot a lot of breaking the only thing I have to say about just trailers nowadays
in general is
Wow
That's that is what every soundtrack for every trailer is now it's like
It's yeah something and then cuts a black
Wow
It really is like they sample two seconds from a dubstep song
I was like once the movie to start Gandalf would be like, yeah, there's that rat a guy's guy
Actually if they just did they showed one one little blip of him that would be fucking creepy
This old man in a brown just brown robes with shit all over his face
He's looking like this when he knows there's like dark magic food he's like
It was like the you know, the the dramatic chipmunk or direct school or whatever the hell it is. Yeah
Yeah, like that shit all over space that's exactly what it looks like
You got to poop on I gotta say
I don't know you you really you really impressed with the die-hard one
I I've only seen the first one so I can't really say. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I like I like yeah, I had movies
They're pretty cool. They're the best Christmas movies
Like this, you know, I like to say Bad Santa's one of the best ones yeah
How many times is Alan Rickman fall out of a window in Bad Santa
a lot
Well, there's the deleted scenes
But actually he goes he goes into the set of every Christmas movie ever made since Die Hard and he insists on being dropped
out of the window
Harry Marvin
I think
Oh
Okay, yeah, so
Die hard looked look like a good trailer, but I mean, you know
Like you don't need a trailer for Die Hard. You know what it is. Yeah, it's Die Hard
It's it's John McClane going out and getting shot at and falling and falling really far and apparently not dying
Having a foot meter. Yes
Wait, you'll get that one. No, you know diehard NES game. Oh fuck. Oh god
Okay, that's why I probably stabbed some part of my brain after I saw that
Partial lobotomy what else we had then Man of Steel came up that looks at that, you know, I'm excited
I mean, I like there was no wow
Yeah, there's no walk to it and you know
I love this the setup him walking around in the Arctic. They don't show the fortress of solitude, but that's okay
It's like I love the fact it's Kevin. It's Kevin Costner playing. It's playing. It's dad adopted dad
Well, I don't know who plays his mom, but that's okay
I mean, he's like sure the villain in the trailer if you noticed that yeah, yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah
I don't I don't really know who it is. I don't recognize general Zod. Yeah, Neil before Zod
Okay, nevermind it just it's I guess it's on I remember for the longest time the reason why they didn't want to
Make make any more Superman movies after
the sixth room Christopher Reeve Oh
Had done his bit is because they couldn't find good villains to go up against Superman. You know, yeah
Cuz I don't but Kevin Spacey
Like with Batman you have the Joker. He has his
Easy intent this is right there his his really famous arch-nemesis that always gives him a run for his money. Yeah
With Superman, there's not really anybody like that Lex Luthor. Yeah, but he's not quite filmable Lex Luthor
Brainiac Zod
It's really just Zod. I do today in terms of
In terms of making it work for a film it really is just general Zod
Yeah, I guess
It's good
Now speculation
About the Star Trek movie into darkness. Oh, we're done talking Superman. Well, there's not really much else to say
You're gonna say Connor. Oh, here's what you're gonna say Todd. I I was like, I don't know. I don't even yeah
No, no, no, it's calm
You saw it. What if it's gone before we move on?
Okay, um a good nice little loop that the Superman
Trailer has created is that the first teaser trailer for Superman used the soundtrack from Lord of the Rings?
When Gandalf died in the first movie you remember that?
You guys they're right when you when you saw the
Yeah, and they I saw the YouTube Collins and everyone's like you guys are seeing like from Lord of the Rings
Walk. Yeah, just like Lord of the Rings stole the the theme from wrecking for a dream for the two towers trailer
Yeah, that's true. That's kind of bizarre
We'll see. I think I've been sorry, man. Just doing a double-end
Anal
Yeah, I
Didn't actually know what record right? Like I knew a record Jim was I've heard of it
But I'd never actually seen I didn't know that was the theme. So I thought it was badass if they had that in there
Yeah
Yeah
Anyways, okay. So moving on Star Trek looks very promising
That first is for wine. No, I don't you you
Know I see in the theater. I said or what a lot of people think it's calm, but I don't think it's calm
Okay. Okay. I didn't hear that
There's a I don't think it is
There's a character from the original series and you didn't hear this part because we're over using
Something was psychic guy, right?
There's a character from the original series and it was like a really a really well-made episode
And it was this guy who was kind of introverted. He was like a circular officer. Mm-hmm
He was a little bit introverted. He was kind of picked on he wasn't really treated that well by anybody
But he was really smart
And he had like Lee he had latent psychic powers that were brought out by some kind of
Phenomenon that the the ship encountered you mean like John Travolta and phenomena
Like
He became
basically all-powerful
So he did change the world
He was like wrecking the fucking ship and shit and like and then of course Kirk like beats the shit out of them because it's care
But everyone is saying that the villain in this is this guy
They're doing that story that's
That makes sense. I mean, I'm not opposed to that though. We were like, I've never seen the original episode
I'm actually tempted to go back and watch the original episode because there's a lot of Star Trek. I haven't seen more of a Star Wars guy
So yeah, yeah. Yeah, I don't be wrong. I mean I do like Star Trek to a degree
I just haven't gotten into it as much so this should be educational for sure
Really at the very least at the very least watching that one episode. Yeah
We're just watching all a lot of people are saying on the internet that that that's also instead of it being conx
He doesn't look like Connie's that he doesn't act like con. It's literally a regular, dude
Yeah, and that's what this guy was. Well, he doesn't have the fake muscles, but it still could be him
Ricardo Montalban
You know, I don't know man Radley Con was a good fucking movie. I think he was kind of overrated to be honest
Yeah, yeah same here. I really I really do. I I thought it was good, but I didn't think it was
You know best movie ever good. I didn't think it was it wasn't even I don't even say it's my favorite of the entire series
I have the Star Trek series. Yeah
Favorite of all the
first contact
That was like that's kind of different cuz like now you're talking about next generation or generations
I thought generations was very well done too. I don't agree with the first contact though. I didn't like generations at all. Really?
Otherwise, I'd say see it for me. I didn't think the first one was that fantastic
The original cast I think it's a toss-up between Wrath of Khan and the one with the whales
And then I actually know maybe that one was my favorite for generation for next generation
It's obviously going to be first. Yeah. Well, I need to be honest. I haven't even seen I mean ones after that
I haven't seen insurrection or nemesis because I thought they looked stupid and they ended up being quite shit. Yeah in the last one
Basically, they played war basically said yeah, we put like a dune buggy action scene in this cuz I like dune buggies
He even said that like in the fucking interview for the movie
Well, he did change his voice for that show. So I guess I had to give him that
This is very distracting actually watching I'll play red facts in the background. What else what other chatter was that?
Jacking the giant Slayer
That looks like it
That'd be like kind of thing. I'd bring my kid to if I had a kid. I don't have kids
That seems like McDonald's toy pillar, yes, it feels like basically
People are jumping on the Disney bandwagon like 20 years too late
Yeah, and there's there's grabbing out every single old tale they can and trying to make an epic. Oh, yeah, because it's it's it's
licensed right, yeah
So there's like taking every old not even mythological
There's a couple hundred years old story and you're just like let's make an epic fucking period piece out of this thing
Yeah, let's let's like him go over his travels. We can't fuck that one at all
Wait, are they actually others? They already made it man. It came out late 2005 or 2006 at Jack Black is Gulliver
Where the fuck was I?
Not watching it, obviously
Netflix I watched it as Jason Segel doing possibly the worst English accent I've ever
Mean like I could do a better English accent than that. He's like yours pretty good
It
Was it was fucking because go I love girls Travers go I love Gulliver's travel it is my of all classic literature
I'd say it's my favorite book because
It's just it's very it's very
sarcastic
tongue-in-cheek
Just really really biting the satirical look on the society at the time and but it's got this whole fancy kind of element to it
So if you haven't read it, I definitely recommend don't watch. Why are you recommending like a random book? No, you've related to Jack and the
It gets in the literature anyway
Nobody should make another travel movie ever again unless they know I'm decent. Yeah. Okay. Well Jack
Yeah, Jack and the Beanstalk, of course, and apparently the guy played Hurley or you like voices a giant. I think I heard yeah
I think I had heard that Jorge Garcia. I think he voices one of the one of the Giants in yeah
Only good basically tell who it is to if it if it is him because he's got this massive fro
Only point you actually see them in the trailer is him going
Yeah, it might be good for a few laughs but I don't see it being it looks pretty vapid
It's
Isn't it vapid if you have kids it'll shut them up for like an hour then they'll get bored
And then you'll never see the end. Yeah
it looks like it's gonna end up being really similar to um, I
Can see bombing like horribly the Red Riding Hood the Little Red Riding Hood. Yeah, I could hear you piece
I mean, I could see that that was done destroying itself. Yeah
Is that it?
I feel there was fun. There is a Will Smith one. Oh
Yeah, welcome to after earth. They're more
Teaser trailer, right? So there's not much to say and Will Smith and his kid are
Survivors of some kind of spaceship crash. You're right. I go with that at the very end of the trailer Will Smith
It's like it's like this planet is
And it's like well, yes
It's earth obviously, I thought it was after earth
For some reason all I could think of is after birth
In after earth you can pick up after 8 instead of just a Christmas how you're thinking of this
God
Yeah, I don't I'm not attacking after birth I think it's kind of it's pretty funny how much
How much?
Jaden Smith looks like his old man now, but
That's it. Was that kid who was within the same guy who did the karate kid? Yeah. Yeah. Yes. I'm straight
Well, the karate kid came out how many years ago? I
Don't remember. It was 2008. I think so. Is that 2008 or 2009?
Either way
It's been at least two or three years since since he filmed so the kids grown up a lot
So he looks like his old man. Anyways, uh, yeah, so all the lot I'd say the most
I'd probably want to see Superman steel the most and for me it's Star Trek and Superman
Yeah, Superman or just man of steel. Why is it Superman steel suddenly for us? It's man of steel. Yeah. Yeah, it's man of steel
Yeah, I'd say man steel and then start right. I'd actually want to see Star Trek more. I like the last movie
It was it was fantastic. It was really JJ Abrams
Actually making something that made sense
Wasn't just a bunch of loose ends. That was nice. Although that's also
Damon Lindelof and Carlton Cuse too. I don't think Carlton Cuse did anything on
the writing
Well on lost. Yeah, but I mean it's the first Star Trek. Oh, well, no, I'm not talking about that
I'm talking about lost. I think the first Star Trek was
Damon Lindelof and JJ Abrams. Yeah, there was no Carlton Cuse involved
Either way, it was it was tight made sense. That's the thing
Okay. Anyways, that's that's it for trailer talk. Yeah. Yeah, I'm done. I'm totally done. Isn't there one more?
You wrote something in your in your phone Oh warm body. Oh, yeah. Oh my god
Okay, okay first off for anyone out there who hates Twilight
You will hate this even more and I had never even heard of it until Devon. Devon even mentioned it
That thing on your head
Okay, so warm bodies is apparently the love story between a zombie and a human
Zombie somehow sees this woman and his heart starts beating again and he regained some kind of
some kind of consciousness some kind of
Sense of morality. I don't know
I get I'm guessing he still has the taste for human flesh and all that sort of thing because he'll always be haunted by his
desire for
You know for actually eating her
She's gonna love that it's it's the stupidest looking movie yeah, it's
Horrible, it's just absolutely atrocious. I only know I believe this shit will exist
I can only hope that the riff tracks guys do a riff track. Oh, you know, they're going to so I can watch it
Yeah, I'm not gonna watch it
I've even finished watching the Twilight movies with riff tracks. I've been putting it off putting it off, but you know what?
Yeah, I actually just watched them all of this before I before we went on brick
Christmas break I just I basically I had like a bunch of work around the house to do
Yeah, so I just put on my wireless headphones and I just listened to them for like
Ten hours you listen to it. Just yeah, cuz I'm not gonna watch the fucking the going around those cleaning stuff
Yeah, see that today like I'm thinking of actually sitting down and watching them
Even though it doesn't make any sense
I mean, I mean it doesn't make sense, but also make sense us to actually do what you're doing
Yeah, that's actually a really good idea
God
Just filth. I mean
They must know they're just like cashing in. Oh, yeah
They have how could they not be cashing in?
I mean, it's a love story between a supernatural creature and a human they were doing interviews on it
Remember like the short little interview ets and like they're yeah, they're trying to talk about like with a straight face
Yeah, they're actually that's the best acting
Much better than the movie itself. Well, maybe the girl ended be in
Better than and Bella's actress fuck. Yeah, she's pretty bland. I still can't believe she's gonna be an on the road
She's basically the real-life Brock
Yeah with warm bodies just
Jesus Christ that yeah, yeah, I think that's pretty much it more bodies Jesus Christ
You wanna go see are you saying that Jesus Christ is a zombie? Yes
I'm gonna wait for it to come to the discount theater that way that we can go and we'll probably get the entire theater ourselves
So we could sit there and like throw popcorn at the screen or like actually talk and actually talk
Here's the thing if we can actually put theater to ourselves we could actually film ourselves
Wow, that's not illegal. No film ourselves watching it and making fun of it. No actually filming the movie
So stop by apathetic teenagers. I don't think they're gonna care
Yeah, that's the great thing about the discount heater he wanted it's a discount
Yeah, but also that because it's in like an area of town
It's not quite as populated anymore. And you know that mall isn't quite get as much business
Oh and like when when you actually would watch a movie there, it's usually pretty empty
Yeah, I remember going there and just having like the entire place to yourself. Yeah
I would see Ted and there was yeah, there was just there's a two of us of the just do how do they stay in business?
Because some nights are better than others food
Yeah on the food to always the food cheap. Oh god. Yeah. No, no, it's not cheap. Sorry to so bad
It's like reasonable. It's not it's reader. Yeah, I mean, it's like half
It's still highly half like Austin Silver City fuck or simplex or whatever and your your average movie theater. It's so
That was like I don't go to movies that often
So I find it really fucking ridiculous when I like I'm looking at the prices for food 12 bucks for a hot dog and nachos
Oh my gosh, it was like fucking $8
Yeah, yeah, it's five bucks yeah, I got I bought a large and I ended up paying like
723 I think which sucks but at the same time there's a lot of food in a large bed
Yeah, actually, that's that's pretty considerable. I mean, you'll get I think popcorn farts, but that's okay
That's a risky take right high fiber content
I eat high-fiber like normally though with with yeah, I know but it was like fake butter on it
Yeah, that that's man horrible. Oh, man that big butter
Like here's the thing at this theater
You can like buy butter for like 20 cents or something to put on your popcorn, right?
And then I said I didn't know you do or you do it for free because this stuff was like I didn't buy the butter
But then they grape aside the interest of the theater. There is another station
There's like a free there's like a free but I want you just do this and then and Dave's like wall because this better
Try to I put it under and I press the button and what comes out is like apple juice. Yeah consistency of
Incredibly melted butter. Yeah, it's like pure yellow waters like piss. Just that's basically yeah fucking essentially
It's kind of tastes like it too. It just it didn't have a taste to it. It just basically moved up the popcorn
Grease, it's extra grease on your popcorn. It's not even like your sock work wherever you want to insert it
Just like pouring canola oil onto your popcorn essentially, yeah, that's our butter. It's kind of a little oil. Yeah
Okay. Well, that's enough trailer talk. We've been getting incredibly off-base. So I'm gonna enter right here. Anyways, fuck
I'm thanks for watching and I'm going what the fuck was that coming in your mouth? That was me saying have a good one
What was the sound?
What is that sound?
You're adorable
Oh, yeah
