I was in the middle of working on the next how cucked is Canada part when I found out that Count Dankila had actually been
Convicted in his court case for those of you who don't know he taught his girlfriend's pug
To do a Hitler salute as a way to annoy her. He made a video out of it. And now he's being charged under
What is it? Is it the Communications Act of 2003 for grossly offensive speech?
I'm sure you guys don't need to be told how ridiculous this actually is
But today he was found guilty and the judge said, okay come back in an hour
And I'm going to sentence you to whatever prison length or whatever punishment
I'm going to to meet her out and an hour later. They go back into the
The courtroom and the judge says oh, hold on. I've changed my mind
Come back in a month. So he has to wait another month at this point
It's pretty obvious that the the judge is just fucking with him
He's just trying to punish Dankila as much as he can presumably because he's an activist of some sort
But it was also mentioned that the judge needed to collect pre-sentence reports now
I'm not sure about the UK but in Canada pre-sentence reports
Basically referred to reports on the investigation of the history of somebody who's been convicted of a crime just to see if there are
Any extenuating circumstances which may raise or lower the sentence considering how much of an activist the judge?
Seems to be and how long they've been dragging this out
They may be looking for ways to give Dankila a harsher sentence
But there's also the hope that they may be looking to simply just give him time served and time served means that yes
You're guilty, but you're not going to be punished which frankly should be what the judge comes back with in this case because prosecuting and
Convicting somebody for a joke is fucking ridiculous
I'll include the reports from Tommy Robinson outside of the courtroom at the end of this video guys
Just keep watching to hear it from his own mouth. Thanks guys. Let's hope that Dankila gets out of this one. I love you
Count Dankila has just been convicted
He's been found guilty
of course in
Under the Community Communications Act of being grossly offensive
That's right
It's a crime to be grossly offensive
He'll be sentenced
At two o'clock
I'd rather just spill on what I think
In the fact that
What what he'd been convicted of is telling a joke is a joke
He's been convicted the judge did not accept the judge will not believe they would simply to annoy his girlfriend the judge believed he
Purposely intended to cause mass offenses. That's his purpose thinking where in reality
If he did want to cause mass offense, who cares?
We're not allowed to offend people
You can talk about the Irish you can talk about English
Found out under
He said let me get go back to what he said he said that it was grossly offensive
He's been convicted of it being grossly offensive three million people watch that video. Not one person
Made a complaint three million people watch the video. Not one person made a complaint. It couldn't be that grossly offensive
People couldn't have and in context it was a joke, but right now
He's faced in prison
Not one person made a complaint not one person made a complaint
He didn't make a complaint the one person that they got a statement off is that it is the police
Scottish police hate crime represent they went to him not one person made from
Yeah, the judge said you have to keep in mind the reasonable enlightenment of a multiracial society
So as we become more diverse for more multicultural, you can't speak
Okay, you cannot joke you certainly cannot think
Comedians joke about this stuff comedians joke every day comedians joke on TV shows comedians joke of theaters. It's a joke. It's a joke
It doesn't matter that it's a joke. No
It doesn't matter. There's a joke. I
Can't believe this is that judge
How anyone can't watch it and see this a joke when you go through the man's history
You can see he's got no not see not see past. He's not a racist. That is his self-admittance communist
told you that himself
And he should once once he realized the video is offensive he should have taken it down
It's part of our right not to offend be
Yeah, the video is threatening because apparently seeing a little dog lift its poor up
Under the command gas the Jews would scare people
So once again for people just joining what's what's the verdict people just join in the verdict is account angle has been convicted and found
Under the Communications Act of being grossly offensive
He will be sentenced to a clock. He will go back in the center to a clock where he could be sent to prison
And if you care about free speech if you care about your rights
If you care about people who are free free to joke if you told a joke about your Irish
You wouldn't go down. You certainly won't be convicted on the communication
anyway, I
Hope there's lots of Jewish people that watch this afterwards know as offended the fact that a man's been convicted for a joke video
David the deal it come out in court that David the deal who's one of the most famous Jews in Britain
He's the Jewish comedian
He has come out in support of Count Dankler as how ridiculous this court trial is what this court trial is
I don't even believe it's about the fact that Jews are offended what this is about is
Implementing laws that silence people and stop people talking joking criticizing and having a speech. That's what this is about in my opinion
Yes, and think about this. We've had a man who made a joke video. He made a joke video. He's come to court
He's been convicted. We haven't could smart every single year year for our capital city
We have Hezbollah flags, which are terrorist organizations flag. We have hate preacher after hate preacher after hate preacher across this country
I mean right now who are anti-semitic on a daily basis in their sermons in their mosques. They're not being convicted
They'll be dragged to court on hate speech
This is very selective in who they prosecute
It's selective and this is done to send a message to people to say shut up speaking shut up
Criticizing and shut up joking when it comes to our multivacial diverse community to be now
And the sentence is at 2 o'clock
So at 2 o'clock, we'll be going back in there. He's there
No, it was quite emotional to watch because even before he was getting even before the conviction was read out
He thought his his partners holding her hand and I know what that's like
I know it's like this is a nice like for his mom
His mom's now getting a phone call saying convicted they're all panicking and worrying that the man's gonna go jail because he made a joke
video
He made a video that was a joke
See what our laws are a joke
That's once again. What was the verdict?
Because he's been found guilty under the Communications Act for being grossly offensive
Yeah, they mentioned freedom of speech but said that there's no argument to it because he was offensive
Yeah to a specific minority
How many of you people are offended how many of you people are grossly offended
When you see sermons by hate preachers, will you see what they're saying?
That doesn't matter though
Stop get out of my face. I'm gonna go on a proper rant
So
From sentence him at two o'clock the judges now change his mind to sentence him and he's been
Given bail until the 23rd of April some gorgeous day
He's back in on on the 23rd of April where he'll be sentenced, which is some people say a good thing
Some people say a bad thing. He's now got a month of worry
The nightmare for Count Dank killer continues the stress the worry the fear the concern the everlasting clouds hanging over his head
For a joke
continues and the reason is that they won't preach the equivalent in the UK of pre-sentence reports
So me I'd say that the judge wants to send him a prison and these pre-sentence reports to do that
Providing there's legalities that we can
We will be sitting down with count that can you tonight this afternoon?
I'm bringing you an exclusive interview about his feelings about what just happened
This is an attack on free speech again
I'm gutted
See the worry on his missus face you see the fear in the face
So now it's got a month not another month the two years this hanging over said now. He's got another month
