In 2020, one singularity dominated the news.
There was one story that filled almost every front page of every paper on every day.
If I asked you what was the biggest story from 2019, or 2018, or 17, or almost any other
year was, there'd be some debate.
But not in 2020.
I don't even have to tell you what I'm talking about.
You already know.
But just because the front pages were clogged up, that's not to say page two, three, or
four were.
While we may have stood still, the world kept spinning, and news kept happening.
Some of it was heavy, some was sad, some was bizarre, and some momentous, but what binds
these stories together is that you likely didn't hear about them.
By no fault of your own, it was difficult to follow what was happening in the world,
because the only thing you could hear was that one singular story.
The year's not over yet, though, at least as I'm saying this, and so there's still
a chance to catch up on the news you missed in 2020 from every country in the world.
Here's how this'll work.
We order the countries by population from largest to smallest according to 2019's
statistics.
There are 195 of them—193 countries recognized by the United Nations, plus two UN observer
states—Palestine and the Vatican City.
This list was chosen because it is the most definitive list—it's the list most commonly
used as a list of all countries—so some of its entries might include nations that
you or your government do not consider as countries, or omit ones that you or your government
do recognize.
At the end of the day, we had to pick a list, and if any is the list of countries, it's
this one.
Oh, and one more rule—the C-word, as in, the word that describes that one singular
story of 2020—you're not going to hear it once.
We start in China—the most populated country in the world, which continues to expand its
global presence, and in this case, its space presence too.
It became the second country in the world to plant a national flag on the moon, 50 years
after the United States did.
China is trying to catch up with American and Russian planetary endeavors and, in recent
years, has poured millions into its military-run space program with the hopes of sending humans
to the moon.
Another country with a burgeoning space program is India, where Amazon recently completed
its largest office building in the world.
The 1.8 million square foot behemoth was erected in Hyderabad, a city of 10 million that's
grown into a sizable technology and financial hub.
India, as the world's second most-populized country, is the fastest growing internet market
and Amazon joins other major tech multinationals which have open offices there, though none
with a campus that spans 65 football fields.
A United States man that was facing sentencing for two vehicle theft charges might be looking
at a lot more time now that he was caught faking his death.
His attorney submitted a fraudulent death certificate, and it might have passed had
there not been typos, like the misspelling of registry—stay in school, kids.
In Indonesia, a stimulus bill aimed at restarting Southeast Asia's largest economy was met
with months of protests because citizens said it slashed workers' rights and environmental
regulations.
But, President Joko Widodo signed the bill into law anyway, saying it will bring over
1 million jobs to the struggling economy, which until this year had been on an upward
trajectory.
Opponents, though, argue it weakens rules that already don't do enough to protect
the country's natural resources and workers.
Rice is a serious business in Southern Asia, and it's a profitable one too.
That's why Pakistan is vehemently fighting India over the long grain—Basmati, to be
specific.
This year, India applied to the European Union for a designation that recognizes basmati
rice as an exclusive export of the country, even though one-third of EU imports on the
product come from Pakistan.
In recent years, Pakistan's basmati rice exports to the EU have doubled while India's
are shrinking, which makes the designation, if granted, potentially more devastating and
further increases tensions between these two neighbors.
Between rainforest fires and a negligent president, the news streaming out of Brazil has been
heavy.
But, a new discovery about the mating habits of the theropotophora frog lightened the feed.
Frogs are either typically monogamous or not, meaning they get around.
This species, however, prefers harem-style—one male to two or more specific females—which
is much more common in mammals throughout the animal kingdom, but not seen before in
amphibians.
Dubbed group fidelity, finding this behavior in another set of four-legged animals checks
another box in the evolutionary list.
One particular virus has dominated the news cycle this year, but in Nigeria, they're
dealing with an entirely different one, too—the yellow fever.
The disease, which is spread by mosquitoes, had basically been eradicated for 20 years
until 2017, when it crept back into the country because of climate change and lower vaccination
rates.
Now, it's spiking.
In the latter half of 2020, 75 people have already died, and health officials worry that
number will increase as people are still hesitant to get vaccinated.
India is being beat in another metric as well, and it's an important one.
Bangladesh most likely surpassed India in gross domestic product this year according
to International Monetary Fund estimates.
Why does that matter?
Well, India is the world's sixth-largest economy, and its 10% GDP contraction is a
concerning indicator for the world economy.
Thanks to increased agricultural production and a focus on developing its low-wage labor
workforce, Bangladesh, on the other hand, was able to expand its GDP by 4% this year.
Another country that's known to be slightly competitive is Russia, and that's a problem
since they were banned from the biggest global sporting competition of 2020 because of doping.
That would be the Summer Olympics in Tokyo.
Of course, the event was postponed until 2021 anyway, but new investigations reveal that
Russia was planning to cyber-attack the games, which is something they've done before when
they attempted to wreak havoc on the Winter Olympics in South Korea by dismantling ticketing
and wifi for the opening ceremony, as well as targeting individual broadcasters, sponsors,
and athletes.
Before flights were ground to a halt in the spring, one health insurer in Utah was taking
advantage of Mexico's inexpensive pharmaceutical prices and actually flying public employees
from the United States to south of the border so they could buy drugs at a fraction of American
prices.
They also got the benefit of those in-flight snack peanuts and a free soda.
It's already saved the company a quarter of a million dollars, and now other states
are eyeing the move, and may mimic it once flight schedules resume to normal levels,
meaning Mexico is bound to see an even greater boost to its already burgeoning pharmaceutical
tourism industry.
Fugaku is not just fun to say, it's also the name of the world's speediest computer,
which was built this year in Japan.
The room-sized computer took first place in a speed-ranking competition between supercomputers,
carrying out 2.8 times more calculations than the second-place IBM machine built in the
United States.
This is notable for the Japanese, who have remained less competitive in the supercomputer
realm, often following the leads of the US and China.
The systems are used for complex military and scientific tasks, including breaking code
and modeling climate change, and, of course, winning competitions.
Africa is getting its own Great Wall—a green one.
The ambitious reforestation project is supposed to stretch 4,350 miles or 7,000 kilometers
from Djibouti to Senegal, with an aimed completion date of 2030.
Ethiopia is on track to meet its goal, having already planted 5.5 billion seedlings.
But, its neighbors are slow to start, and the project is only 4% complete at the halfway
mark, mostly due to financial struggles.
It turns out, it takes a lot of green to make a green wall, and so it's proving difficult
for some of the world's poorest countries to take this project to completion.
Money problems are also the reason that the Philippines' largest news network cited,
when it shuttered dozens of its regional stations around the country, but the audience isn't
buying this excuse.
Instead, they're wondering if it has more to do with President Rodrigo Duterte's criticism
of the network's coverage of his anti-drug platform.
Either way, the loss will be felt by millions of rural residents who rely on the network
as a lifeline for critical information.
Wealthy residents of Egypt are getting their 15 minutes of fame just 2,500 years too late.
More than 100 ornately painted wooden coffins were unearthed by archaeologists near Saqqara,
20 miles or 30 kilometers south of Cairo.
This area is a large burial ground and is home to more than a dozen sites with similar
tombs.
This discovery, however, is one of the most exciting in recent years and comes at a time
when the country continues to try to draw tourists back after a sharp decline resulting
from the Arab Spring in the early 2010s.
Tourism isn't a problem in Vietnam, where 18 million people visit per year, and that
should mean liquor sales aren't either, but a new zero-tolerance drunk-driving law
that went into effect this year has taken the fizz out of one of the world's faster-growing
beer markets.
Since implementation, beer sales have dropped 25% in the country, and violators face a fine
of up to $345, which is double what the average Vietnamese makes in a month.
Even those who think riding a bike is a safe alternative will be shocked with a $25 fine
for drunk pedaling.
In other 2020 epidemic news, the World Health Organization declared that an Ebola outbreak
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo was officially over after two years and 2,280
deaths.
It was the country's tenth outbreak of the disease, but it's second most deadly, stemming
from people's mistrust of the government and feuding between officials.
That doesn't mean the country is in the clear, though, as it's now dealing with
the world's largest measles epidemic and, of course, the global pandemic.
Germans are taking a stand in, well, technically a sit in Dannenruder Forest, south of Frankfurt,
where they've been camped out to oppose the government's construction of a highway
that will route through the wildlands and cut down 67 acres, or 27 hectares, of 250-year-old
trees.
These activists are calling the government hypocritical for cutting down cherished trees
when it should focus on public transportation infrastructure, and both sides expect standoffs
for months to come.
Also bad news for trees are the more than 9 million that have died in Turkey.
Last year, as part of National Forestation Day, volunteers across the country planted
11 million trees across more than 2,000 sites, including 303,150 saplings planted in Kouroum,
which broke the world record for most trees planted in a single location.
Now officials are reporting that up to 90% of these have died because they either weren't
planted properly or lacked enough rainfall to grow.
In neighboring Iran, a woman was filmed riding a bike without a hijab near a major mosque
in Nayefabad.
Why is this news?
Well, in Iran, it's been against Islamic law since 1979 for women to be seen in public
without a covering for their head and hair, and this is largely obeyed.
Although women have started to push the limits in larger cities, like Tehran, it's still
widely criticized and, in this case, punishable.
The woman was arrested for this display, which was widely shared on social media.
Another arrestable offense, this time in Thailand, is riding a bad online review—yes, you heard
that correctly.
An American living in the Southeast Asian country wasn't happy with being charged
a $15 dollar corkage fee at a beach resort in Koh Chang, so he did what any thumb-happy
traveler would do and wrote a negative TripAdvisor review.
The hotel was equally displeased and had him arrested on defamation charges, which are
notably harsh in a country that attempts to stifle some free speech.
He therefore spent a weekend in jail.
In more turbulent waters, construction started on what will soon be the world's largest
offshore wind farm.
When completed, the Dogger Wind Farm, in the North Sea off the eastern coast of the United
Kingdom, will provide enough energy to power 4.5 million homes every year, or 5% of England's
total energy demand.
The enormous energy production capability is made possible by their use of one of the
world's largest wind turbines, the Halyard X, which stands 853 feet or 260 meters tall
and has 351 foot or 107 meter blades.
Requiring much less power than that, though, is the Amis—a mini-car released in France
that can be driven without a license by anyone over 14.
Manufactured by Citroën, the all-electric Amis is what's officially dubbed a light
quadricycle.
The four-wheel cube can travel 28 miles per hour or 45 kilometers per hour with a range
of 46 miles or 75 kilometers, and it's got a mini price too, ringing in at just over
$7,000.
Another European product is making headlines, but this time, it's for the lack of it.
The world's second-largest producer of olive oil, Italy, has been plagued by bad
weather and a deadly bacteria, cutting production by more than a quarter this year.
The Xylella bacteria, also called leprosy, has hit the olive trees in the Puglia region
particularly hard, and those effects will be felt globally, especially in the United
States, which purchases one-third of Italy's oil.
At the southern end of the world, a 116-year-old man died in South Africa.
He was, however, the oldest man in the world at the time of his passing, at least unofficially,
having lived through the Spanish flu, which took the lives of his entire family.
He credited his long life to quote, God's grace, but it may have been health and strength
too—a couple weeks before he died of natural causes, his family said he was chopping wood
with a four-pound hammer.
Up the African coast, the two largest tanzanite gemstones ever unearthed were pulled out of
the only country in which they're found—Tanzania.
The two dark violet-blue minerals, each about 11 inches or 30 centimeters long and 4 inches
or 10 centimeters thick, rang in roughly $3.35 million for the mining boss who runs the 200-person
operation in the country's northern region.
He did what anybody who struck the motherlode would do—promise to build a school and shopping
mall, but first through a neighborhood party.
Multiple drug raids in the hills of Myanmar revealed a complex and burgeoning synthetic
drug market, that's speculated to be fueling global demand for opioids like methamphetamine
and fentanyl.
The seizures were the largest finds in Southeast Asian history, and represent a transition
away from China, which had previously been supplying many of the chemicals for synthetics,
but cracked down under worldwide pressure.
In Kenya, the score is one for the fig tree, zero for developers.
A four-story tree in the country's capital of Nairobi was set to be cut down to make
way for an expressway, but environmentalists put up a fight, and they won.
Not only will the tree be preserved in its spot, but it's now been elevated to legend
status, gaining notoriety both as an environmental symbol and as a call to action to protect
even more green space in a city that's constantly seeing parks and nature eliminated.
In grimmer news, the mayor of Seoul, the capital of South Korea, was found dead in a park this
summer.
A potential presidential candidate and the second most powerful person in the country,
so the passing sent unrest through the nation.
Several days before his death, a former secretary accused him of sexual harassment—especially
shocking since he was a champion of women's rights in a male-dominated country—so his
death is being treated as a suicide.
A less grim story comes from another mayor on the other side of the world in Bogota,
Colombia, who recently became the first openly lesbian mayor ever for the capital city in
January.
This was a historic moment for the conservative Catholic country, and Latin America in general.
Claudia López married her partner in 2019, and is recognized for being a progressive
beacon in a region that's slow to progress LGBTQ rights.
Yachting in the Iberian Sea was a little more raucous than usual this fall, after a string
of orca incidents were reported in Spain, in which killer whales were targeting boat
rudders and causing damage to more than a dozen vessels.
The increasingly aggressive interactions initially puzzled researchers, but they now
believe the trio of orcas, which accounted for almost two-thirds of the two dozen reports,
were previously injured by a boat and perhaps reacting defensively to yachts because of
those traumatic incidents.
Another boating story brings us to Argentina, where a determined sailor finally docked on
land after completing an 85-day journey across the Atlantic Ocean.
The Portuguese resident set sail in mid-March after lockdown restrictions kept him from
travelling to sea his 90-year-old father.
He would not be deterred by the lack of flights, and decided to voyage by sea in his 29-foot
boat accompanied by rice, canned tuna, and fruit.
Uganda is home to 50% of the world's mountain gorillas, so when one of the country's most
famous, Rafiki, was killed by a poacher, the government took a harder stance than it had
previously.
Officials chose to jail the killer for six years.
This landmark ruling sends a message to future poachers that animal killings won't be tolerated,
and is a win for wildlife groups which have been calling for more restrictive measures
for many years.
In terms of on-brand news for 2020, wildfires coming within one mile of Chernobyl in Ukraine
has to be near the top of the list.
An 18-mile exclusion zone was set up after the nuclear disaster there in the 80s, and
this wildfire spread into that area, causing officials to worry that not only would radioactive
material be dispersed into the air, but that it might threaten existing structures and
a disposal site.
More than 300 firefighters were able to control the burn, preventing this lesser-known story
from becoming a major headline.
When a migrant rescue boat came across a backpack floating in the Mediterranean Sea, officials
had assumed its owners had perished in crossing from Algeria to Italy, as is often the case
with many found personal objects floating in this part of the world.
But this time, there was a happy ending.
An NGO in Italy was able to track down the owners of the personal items, who were migrants
that survived a shipwreck, and return the contents to them, which included their inscribed
wedding rings.
Sudan is taking baby steps towards democracy after three decades of oppressive laws that
were primarily targeted towards women.
Of highest priority is banning female genital mutilation—a typically religious practice
that affects almost 90% of Sudanese women.
The new transitional government is also loosening wardrobe restrictions for women and saying
okay to alcohol consumption, at least for non-Muslims, in the country.
The 3,600-year-old Gilgamesh Dream Tablet is being returned to its rightful home in
what is now Iraq, where it originated, after a curious and illegal journey that brought
it to the Museum of the Bible in Washington, DC, which was co-founded by none other than
tablet king and craft retail giant Hobby Lobby.
The rare cuneiform tablet features one of the oldest works of literature in the world,
the Epic of Gilgamesh, and was purchased by Hobby Lobby at auction for $1.6 million in
2014.
This isn't the first time Hobby Lobby has had problems with the provenance of its acquisitions,
as it previously had to forfeit 5,500 artifacts and pay a $3 million fine.
National identity cards in Afghanistan include a person's name, date of birth, and now,
both of their parents' names, which sounds pretty normal, but previously, just the father's
name was listed because using a women's in public was traditionally frowned upon and
even considered an insult—it's a restriction that goes so far that much of Afghanistan
does not list females' names on their gravestones.
This step in updating ID cards is seen as a small victory for women's rights in the
overwhelmingly conservative country.
When a herd of elephants at Poland's Warsaw Zoo became sad after losing their matriarch,
which lead a given herd, veterinarians turned to Colorado's favorite stress reliever—medical
marijuana.
The three African elephants are given doses of liquid cannabis through their trunks, and
researchers will study hormone levels in their blood over the next two years to monitor how
it affects their stress.
A small town of 7,000 people in Canada gave itself a new identity when they voted this
year to change the city's name from Asbestos to Val-de-Sauce, or Valley of the Springs.
The town got its name for being home to the largest asbestos mine in the world, but since
the mineral has been linked to causing cancer and the mine has shut, residents voted to
disassociate from the toxic substance.
But it wasn't without a fight.
More veteran members of the community were opposed to the name change as they felt it
was unnecessary, because in French, which is spoken there, the word for asbestos is
ambiente.
Tensions are simmering in a United Nations-backed buffer zone between Morocco and Mauritania,
which could bring a 29-year truce to a boiling point.
The Western Sahara contested zone has long been controlled by Morocco under a ceasefire
agreement with the Polisario Front—a pro-independence movement.
But now, the front has blocked transportation between the two countries, and Morocco has
launched a military operation in response.
On the same latitude, but a few time zones over, Saudi Arabia wants to maintain its claim
as the world's top energy exporter, but now with hydrogen.
Blue hydrogen is a carbon dioxide byproduct of reforming natural gas, and Saudi Arabia
sent its first cargo shipment of it to Japan this year, all in an effort to profit off
the world's transition to greener fuels.
Part of this goal also includes plans to build a $5 billion hydrogen-based ammonia plant
powered by renewable energy on the Red Sea.
Uzbekistan's language can be written in three ways—Arabic, Cyrillic, and Latin—but
it's the latter that will soon be the norm, thanks to a decree by the country's president
which called for a faster transition away from Cyrillic.
Though Uzbek was originally written in Arabic, Russian influence during the early 20th century
changed it to Cyrillic, and now, to distance itself from Russia, Uzbekistan wants to move
towards Latin script, consisting of 29 letters and one apostrophe, to help develop a stronger,
more unique national identity.
Peruvians are hoping that the third time's a charm after three presidents reigned in
just one week.
Francisco's Sagasti will now lead the country, following a Congress-led ousting of one president,
and a five-day term-turned-resignation by the second.
Sagasti is seen as a consensus builder, so citizens are hopeful, but the tumultuous leadership
changes over the past several years leave a lot of uncertainty and, frankly, apathy
at this point.
If there's a baby boom this spring, a shortage of condom manufacturing in March may be the
culprit.
A Malaysian company, Carex BHD, makes one in every five condoms globally, and when the
pandemic hit this year, facilities were forced to shut down, resulting in at least 100 million
fewer condoms worldwide.
It ramped back up quickly, but the effects of a shortage like this could be at least
nine months away.
It's been… a year for Africa's richest woman, Isabel Dos Santos.
She's the eldest daughter of Angola's former longtime leader, José Eduardo Dos
Santos, and in January was charged with embezzlement and laundering more than $1 billion from her
native country.
Then, in October, her husband died in, reportedly, a diving accident off the coast of Dubai.
She was an avid art collector and also tied up in the scandal she faced, meaning it's
a tragic tale with lots of plot twists that doesn't seem to have a final chapter yet.
Another story about $1 billion revolves around the United Kingdom's investment in Mozambique.
This year, a deal was inked to send UK taxpayer-funded financial support to develop and export the
African country's gas reserves—one of the largest financing projects on the continent
ever, according to some reports—but its citizens and environmental groups are shouting
hypocrite as the UK continues to claim it's a global leader in the fight against climate
change.
Speaking of oil in Africa, a floating storage and offloading facility moored off the coast
of Yemen continues to deteriorate and threatens to spill 1.1 million barrels of crude oil
into the Red Sea, which would be four times the amount of the Exxon Valdez spill.
The war in Yemen has prevented the United Nations from doing anything to prevent a potential
leak, but recently Houthi rebels, which control the area where the vessel is stuck and the
oil company that owns it, gave permission for world leaders to move ahead with rehabilitation
plans.
The African country of Ghana may be a respite for Black Americans seeking refuge from the
United States' ongoing racial injustice, and Ghanaian officials are actually recruiting
members of the African diaspora.
The government set up a handful of enticements for transplants, including land yields, expatriate
guides, and quicker paths to citizenship, and all of this comes on the heels of a 45%
increase in visitor numbers from the United States last year.
Math, science, and reading are, of course, required subjects for children in school,
and now, in one country, downward dog is too.
In March, Nepal became the first nation in the world to incorporate yoga into its mandatory
curriculum.
Parents in the Himalayan country won't just practice the poses, but they'll learn about
the history of yogic thought and Ayurvedic medicine.
Children, or the idea of them at least, are making headlines in Venezuela, where controversial
Twitter-happy president Nicolas Maduro asks for every woman in the country to have six
children.
The plea was met with immediate backlash because the country is in a deep economic recession,
and is unable to provide essential services like food and healthcare for the millions
of residents it already has.
He apparently views more children as part of the solution, though he offered little
in the way of specifics as to how.
Ever heard of Voltsko's chameleon?
No?
Well, that's okay, almost nobody has since the elusive reptile hadn't been seen in
almost 100 years and was actually placed on the extinction list.
But, this year, a team of researchers spotted it on the northwest tip of Madagascar.
There, the reptile is only thought to live during the rainy season, making it a mayfly
of vertebrae.
This, of course, makes it even more vulnerable to the deforestation that continues to threaten
their sheer existence, but its rediscovery gives scientists hope for other species which
were also thought to be extinct.
The unearthing of four 8,000-year-old skeletons in Cameroon is a groundbreaking find that's
providing new information about our current human species.
The DNA from these skeletons offers the first genetic material from West African humans,
painting a better picture of how ancient people split into four genetic groups, both physically
and geographically.
Of the four populations, it's been the West African genes that have remained elusive to
researchers until now.
Political unrest looms over the Ivory Coast as President Alassane Otaara won, controversially,
a third term in November.
When his planned successor suddenly died this summer, Otaara reneged on his pledge
to leave office, and even though he received 94% of the vote, many, including the opposition,
saw the process as unfair.
It's indicative of a wider trend in African politics, which has seen third-term bids and
constitutional amendments increasing in recent years.
More than 40% of North Korean men smoke, but a new law that bans puffing down in public
places might smolder that statistic.
Citing health reasons, tobacco is now prohibited in specific venues such as political and ideological
education centers, theaters, cinemas, and medical and public health facilities.
One person who might struggle with this new law?
Leader Kim Jong-un, who is a chain-smoker and frequently photographed with a cigarette
in hand.
But, the country is moving forward with the prohibition despite being unable to convince
its supreme leader to kick the habit.
Another big find was recently made by scientists—this time in the Great Barrier Reef off the coast
of Australia—where a pinnacle of coral one-third of a mile long was discovered by researchers.
While you might think that the world-famous natural wonder would be thoroughly mapped
out, this was actually the first major new element of the reef to be discovered in over
120 years.
Of course, the reef is shrinking by the year due to the effects of climate change and coral
bleaching, so even the discovery of this comparatively small section is great news.
Niger is one of the world's poorest countries, but its location also makes it a key regional
recipient of Western aid funding the fight against Islamic terrorism.
That's why an audit of its defense spending that revealed a loss of $137 million over
8 years raised more than eyebrows.
Apparently, the country was overcharged in several instances, sometimes by nearly $20
million, for important military equipment, and Western countries that grant Niger money
are questioning their decisions and potentially future giving.
You don't have to worry about the spread of airborne viruses in Sri Lanka's newest
museum because it's underwater.
Created by naval officers off the southern tip of the island nation, the country's
first ever below-water museum is a collection of artifacts and sculptures installed 50 feet
beneath the surface.
The attraction is not only intended to draw tourists, but it should lure fish and spur
coral growth too.
One of Burkina Faso's largest gold mines was shut down for almost a year after 39 employees
were killed in an attack on their convoy.
Since then, the Canadian-owned Bungu mine has restarted with tightened security measures
and improved infrastructure.
During the year hiatus, the mine's owners actually changed from one Canadian company
to another for $735 million, which is notable because, even though agriculture still accounts
for 80% of the country's economy, gold exports driven by foreign investments continue to
develop alternate economic sectors.
And on the subject of West African unrest, a military coup in Mali ousted the country's
president and prime minister in August, following eight years of disrupted elections, government
corruptions, and Islamic insurgency.
Military colonels remain in power today.
This further instability could send ripple effects across the region because of Mali's
strategic location for Western countries such as France and the United States, which have
actively tried to prevent increased tensions in the area.
File this story under Stranger Than Fiction because, well, it's about non-fiction.
Some 200 books, including first editions by Galileo and Sir Isaac Newton, were found buried
underneath a rural Romanian cottage, after a three-year search that spanned 45 addresses
in three countries.
The $3.35 million worth of books were stolen during a heist from a London warehouse in
2017.
Wanting to get away from it all?
For a cool $20 million, you can buy a 50,000-acre island off the coast of Chile.
Acquiring private islands is nothing new, but this one is making headlines because environmentalists
and the indigenous population are not happy that this biodiversity hotspot has a price
tag at all.
Even though the island has been in private hands for a century, they're worried that
new ownership could jeopardize its future conservation and sets a dangerous precedent.
In an effort to bolster its economy, Malawi became the fifth African country to decriminalize
medical marijuana.
Almost 80% of the country's population is employed in agriculture, and it used to be
a major producer of tobacco, but, as global demand for tobacco declines, it's looking
for alternate revenue streams.
Enter Malawi gold, an already popular strain of recreational cannabis.
The country's dry climate is actually conducive to growing marijuana, and as the herb's
popularity increases around the world, Malawians plan to jump on the ganja train.
Kazakhstan is known for a few things—its oil and gas economy, its proximity to Russia
and Mongolia, and just generally for being a stan—but in Western culture, it's perhaps
most famous for one of its fictional natives, Borat Sagdiev.
Played by actor Sacha Baron Cohen, the satirical character Borat pokes fun at Kazakhstan with
the catchphrase, very nice, but officials there realize those words have standing power,
and recently officially adopted them as their official tourism slogan.
The African Ansel mole rat, native to Zambia, is near-blind, burrows underground, and this
year, scientists discovered it can sense magnetic fields with its eyes.
Though the animal's eyes are barely functional, discerning between just light and dark, this
new discovery gives more clues as to how the creature travels and lives in an underground
network up to 1.7 miles or 2.7 kilometers long, and of course, it may help humans in
our own scientific advances, as we learn more about nature, and as we often do, try
to mimic it.
Government officials in Guatemala passed a $12.2 billion budget that raised stipends
for representatives' meals, while cutting funding for human rights agencies, health
care, and education, triggering residents to protest in the streets and set the congressional
building on fire.
Their anger at the misplaced spending comes on the heels of not only the pandemic, but
two destructive hurricanes that tore through the country this fall.
It turns out, tragedy after tragedy is when people need help the most.
In July, Ecuador reported that more than 300 Chinese fishing vessels were encroaching on
its exclusive fishing zones near the Galapagos, with the illegal fishing fleets going as far
as to turn off their tracking devices to remain undetected.
So, the South American country joined coastal neighbors Chile, Peru, and Colombia to file
a joint statement—or rather, a light threat—about protecting their waters from the increasing
creep of foreign fishing and, ultimately, China's expanding presence.
Overseas, some new research into the life of the Netherlands' most famous artist,
Vincent van Gogh, reveals that he didn't suffer from schizophrenia or syphilis, as
some have theorized, but rather that the delirium leading up to his death may be attributed
to alcohol withdrawal.
The artist was institutionalized twice—once after cutting off his ear—and reported hallucinations
both times.
Researchers now believe these symptoms were due to his lack of wine and absinthe, which
he consumed in great amounts during the most prolific, and final, years of his life.
In somber news, Syria topped an unenviable list in 2019, being named the deadliest place
in the world for humanitarian workers.
The report on the subject, released this year, details that the number of people killed helping
the war-torn country rose sharply last year, with the majority of deaths stemming from
aerial strikes.
Officials say the grim statistic will make it harder to recruit aid workers to a place
where they're needed the most.
One rodent that's turning its species' reputation around is Magawa, a landmine-sniffing
rat in Cambodia.
The five-year-old African pouched rat has discovered 39 landmines, 28 pieces of unexploded
ordnance, and helped clear more than 1.5 million square feet of land over the past four years,
rightfully earning itself the gold medal from the People's Dispensary for Sick Animals.
That, unsurprisingly, makes it the first rat to receive an award that is usually reserved
for humans.
After the tragic port explosion in Beirut, Senegal moved quickly to avoid a similar catastrophe
and removed 3,050 tons of ammonium nitrate from its port.
The substance was transported to Mali, where it was used to make bombs for mining operations.
Ammonium nitrate is commonly found in fertilizers and explosives, so ports around the world
which temporarily house the volatile compound, such as Senegal's Dakar, made sure they
weren't in the same vulnerable situation as Beirut, where the substance led to the
accidental explosion that killed 190 people.
South African extrative economies continue to make headlines, such as Chad, which recently
asked UNESCO to postpone the process for designating Lake Chad as a World Heritage Site.
Why?
Because Chad wants to explore oil and gas development in the lake area, which directly
opposes UNESCO's conservation goals for World Heritage Sites.
It also came as a surprise to Cameroon, Niger, and Nigeria, which cooperated on the two-year
application process for the multinational lake to gain this distinctive designation.
More fish theft brings us to the coast of Somalia, which stretches 2,000 miles or 3,200
kilometers and is the longest coastline in Africa.
That expanse makes it harder for the country to police its waters, where poachers like
a 192-vessel fleet from Iran are illegally fishing in the country's exclusive economic
zone.
The size of the Iranian operation, discovered this year, is a blow to Somalia, where one
in three residents face hunger, and it demonstrates the rising tensions over the planet's limited
natural resources.
One resource being exported out of Africa that benefits from increased demand is a Zimbabwean
film that became the country's first feature to make it to Netflix.
The movie, Cook-Off, is about a woman who enters a TV cooking show, and it was made
for just $8,000—an impressive feat given that it was produced in 2017, just before
the country's economy collapsed.
This acquisition by the streaming giant gives more credibility to Zimbabwe's film industry,
and means that the production crew and actors may finally get paid.
A small band of chimpanzees in Guinea that are known for their remarkable use of tools
were thought to be near extinction, until the tribe's last fertile female gave birth
to a beacon of hope—another female.
Deforestation and isolation led to the tribe's demise, and this group is of particular interest
to researchers because they mimic humans' use of tools.
But this bundle of joy has also created momentum for the country's residents to increase
protections and forestation to ensure there is a future for the chimpanzees.
One of the world's most wanted fugitives was found this year in a small apartment on
the outskirts of Paris.
Felicia Cabuga was arrested for his role in the Rwandan genocide, which killed 800,000
members of the Tutsi ethnic minority, among others, in 1994.
Cabuga will be tried in a UN tribunal court next year, and this capture renews efforts
to find others on the run who played significant roles in the country's darkest days.
France and Benin also made news in 2020, with the former's government fast-tracking a
bill aimed at returning looted objects to the sub-Saharan country within a year.
The move is part of a multi-year restitution effort between European countries and their
former colonies, and this law specifically returns 26 royal artifacts that were stolen
from the Abomi Palace during the 19th century.
These cultural repatriation efforts are ongoing, signaling an African drive to reclaim its
cultural identity after centuries of European pillaging.
Efforts to protect sea turtles in Tunisia are working, says new scientific research
that shows nests on Kiryat Island have increased from 11 to more than 40 since 1997.
Turtles are a keystone species, meaning their disappearance would disproportionately damage
ecosystems, and their increased presence in this area, despite threats from people, climate,
and pollution, is good news for the reptiles and the workers striving to save them.
Two Chinese bidders, with the pseudonyms Super Duper and Hitman, bought a Belgian racing
pigeon for a record price of $1.9 million.
Belgium is the world's leading racing pigeon-breeding country and, thanks to a booming economy,
the Chinese upper class have a lot of money to spend even compared to a decade ago, so
why not invest in something like a pigeon?
The bird will likely be bred with another genetically superior pigeon to create a superbird
that will dominate in racing circles, and betting on those is just one area where the
Chinese are spending significant amounts of their yuan.
11 months in Argentina sounds nice, but for Bolivian president Evo Morales, it was more
of an exile.
He reentered Bolivia this November, after a 2019 campaign for a fourth presidential
term became marred by fraud allegations, leading him to flee the country.
A caretaker government has managed affairs since then, but when Morales' former economic
minister recently assumed leadership, it paved the way for Morales to return, though
it's unclear what role he'll play in the country's new reality.
If it all sounds turbulent, it is.
Latin American countries continue to struggle with government instability, and this is just
one more on the list.
The financial situation in Cuba worsened this year, when the United States placed increased
restrictions on the country, forcing the closure of 400 Western Union offices, and potentially
cutting off a stream of remittances from abroad.
The United States claims the move came in response to the Cuban government purportedly
siphoning a cut of the incoming money, but officials there say the move was politically
motivated.
Cuban-American relations have become more tenuous under Trump, but the new Biden administration
is expected to reinstate diplomatic relations, especially since Cuban refugee Alejandro Mayorkas
has been nominated to lead the Department of Homeland Security.
Popping one island over, Haiti's local president of FIFA, the governing body for
soccer, has been shut out and not in the winning way.
Haitian football president Yves Jean-Barre was issued a lifetime ban from all football-related
activities after he was found guilty of sexually harassing and abusing female players, including
minors.
He was also fined roughly $1.1 million.
Many are lauding the punishment, saying abuse should be rooted out of any industry at any
level.
South Sudan is the world's youngest country, formed in 2011.
Since then, it's experienced almost a decade of civil war, but earlier this year, feuding
parties finally signed a unity agreement.
Millions of people continue to flee the country and suffer from extreme hunger, but the establishment
of a ruling party offers one step in the right direction toward stability.
President Pierre Nkurunziza of Burundi died suddenly of a heart attack at the age of 55.
He leaves behind a legacy as an autocratic ruler known for committing a variety of human
rights abuses, and his death in June came just weeks after the country had already elected
a successor, which only happened because Nkurunziza did not seek re-election.
His death will have impacts on regional and global relations, potentially allowing for
increased unity under new leadership.
Despite the pandemic, the Dominican Republic has hosted more than two dozen feature film
and TV production shoots this year, which poured $80 million into the local economy,
smashing a previous annual record of $30 million in 2017.
Producers track their local expenditures because part of the country's international incentive
for filming there is a 25% rebate through a transferable tax credit.
That's attractive to American filmmakers, like M. Night Shyamalan, who took advantage
of it this year, because they can spend 25% of wages in the Dominican Republic and maintain
tax incentive status in the United States.
A deer stealing their rifle isn't something that hunters would think they'd have to
worry about when out stalking, but that's what happened to one in the Czech Republic
when his dog startled the deer, which ran toward him and looped his rifle with an antler.
The deer was seen a mile away, with the gun still in tow.
Reportedly, it wasn't loaded, but had it been, a deer claiming self-defense might have
worked in this case.
Still filed under bizarre sightings is a tiny child floating on an inflatable unicorn in
the Mediterranean Sea.
The three-year-old girl was swept into the water while playing on a beach in Greece,
but rescued shortly after by a passing ferryboat.
She was delivered back to her family safely, and yes, the unicorn made it too.
When Brazilian Maya Guevara surfed a 73.5 foot or 22.4 meter wave off the coast of Portugal
in February, she didn't just ride the biggest wave ever for a woman, it was the largest
wave surfed by anyone, period, during the 2019-2020 season.
She is the first woman in professional surfing to top all men in terms of wave size in a
season, but with another female surfer earning spot number two on the big wave list this
year, it's clear she may not hold the title for long.
The title for the highest smoking rate in the world goes to Jordan, where a shocking
80% of the male population says they use smoke or use nicotine products daily.
This was a status previously held by Indonesia, and bucked the global trend of declining tobacco
use.
Multinational tobacco companies are still allowed to hold a large amount of influence
in Jordan, from funding school programs to being featured on the Prime Minister's social
media, and this widespread interference is likely what's increasing use.
Rapper Cardi B may have overstepped her political boundaries when she posted an advertisement
supporting Armenia to her 76 million Instagram followers.
Unlike all wars, the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia has been a tragic one that ended
with Armenia's defeat in a pact between the two countries over the disputed territory
of Nagorno-Karabakhsh, which will remain with Azerbaijan.
But Cardi B was only trying to help a real estate agent friend when she made the post,
and has since apologized amid the backlash.
Unstaffed grocery stores accessed by logging in with BankID, the national identification
app operated by Sweden's banks, seems like something only Sweden could pull off in remote
areas, which is why they're probably the ones doing it.
Amid a drastic decline in food markets across the country, mostly in rural areas, the company
Livs has installed almost 20 small container stores that are fully stocked with meat, vegetables,
dairy, and desserts.
Customers simply swipe an app to enter and pay for groceries, no store clerk needed.
Israeli flights traveling to and from the United Arab Emirates can now cross through
Saudi Arabian airspace, marking the first time that commercial jets on this route can
pass over the Kingdom's territory.
The announcement cuts travel time between the two countries in half, to three and a
half hours, and signals normalizing relations, both diplomatically and economically.
According to reports, the decision to open the airspace came at the request of the UAE.
It became the third Arab country to acknowledge relations with Israel, behind Egypt and Jordan,
and the development signals some progress in an otherwise unstable region, though Saudi
Arabia was quick to note that opening airspace didn't change the country's stance on
the Israel-Palestine issue.
Despite having previously faced murder charges, Juan Carlos Bonilla Valladares, aka the Tiger,
was still named police chief in 2012 in Honduras.
So, it may not come as a surprise that he didn't uphold the tenets of the job, and
is now charged with conspiring to smuggle cocaine into the United States, but the plot
thickens.
He wasn't smuggling cocaine for just anyone, but doing the dirty work for the Honduran
president and his brother, the latter of which was convicted for drug trafficking in
New York last year.
In Hungary, a scientist accidentally created a new fish hybrid in a lab dubbed the sturtlefish.
The combination of Russian sturgeon, whose eggs make premium caviar, and American paddlefish,
a filter feeder found in less than half of the United States, is an unlikely one that
would probably never have occurred without human intervention, based on geography alone.
And while there's no real practical purpose to the awkward-looking creature, it does demonstrate
that species' genetics are sometimes more similar than previously thought.
Also in the neighborhood is the proposed Baltic Black Sea Waterway—a 12,040-mile, 2,000-kilometer
inland shipping route that would cut through Poland, Ukraine, and some of the most ecologically
rich parts of Belarus.
Oh, and it would involve dredging up land inside the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, which
could potentially expose millions of people to latent nuclear waste.
Proponents say it would spur an economic boom for the region, while opponents argue
it will destroy the quote, Amazon of Europe.
It may end up happening piecemeal, with Ukraine and Belarus committing, and already starting
in some cases, to dredging up parts of their tributary rivers.
Tajikistan is one of the poorest countries in East Asia, and many residents cross into
Russia for higher-paying jobs and higher education.
The Russian-speaking population in this country has dwindled tenfold in four decades, but
there's new interest in teaching children their neighbor's language, marked by officials'
announcement that they would build five more Russian-speaking schools, with a capacity
for 1,200 students in each, in addition to the ten that have been constructed in just
the past two years.
A musician in Austria is pulling a different sort of string—that of Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart's 250-year-old violin.
The musician took a leap when he asked the foundation that owns the violin if he could
borrow it to play and record the violin concertos on the exact instrument Mozart composed them
on between 1773 and 1775.
The answer was yes, and he performed them in October to small, live audiences.
A group of United Nations officials signed a letter to four countries protesting the
development of a massive mine in Papua New Guinea, citing grave concerns both for the
environment and human rights.
If built, the mine would be the largest in the nation's history, and potentially produce
$1.5 billion of gold, copper, and silver annually for 30 years.
But that money would mostly go to Chinese investors in the Australian Registered Mining
Company, and the real costs would come in the form of catastrophic economic disaster
on the Sepik River, where it would be located.
More than 43 million tweets amplifying positive news coverage of Serbian President Aleksandr
Vucic were linked to his Serbian Progressive Party, and Twitter subsequently blocked 8,500
accounts for attempts to undermine public conversation.
The tweets were making his governing look better than it actually was, and this isn't
just happening in Serbia.
The tech company blocked some additional 13,000 accounts in countries like Egypt, Honduras,
and Saudi Arabia for doing the same thing.
Serbia is the 98th largest country in the world, meaning we're halfway to 195.
Therefore, that's where we'll end part one, and part two will be going up December
31st.
While you wait for that, though, I have something else, new and rather exciting, for you to
watch.
Tomorrow, on Nebula, we release the first episode of Sam from Wendover Presents, a very
good trivia show presented by Sam from Wendover.
You see, we were going to film something for our last Nebula Original of the year on location,
like we normally do, but then, you know, everything got in the way.
Can't break our C-word rule now.
Therefore, we decided to do something completely different—a trivia show, filmed remotely,
with three fantastic contestants—Brian from Real Engineering, Dave from City Beautiful,
and Jordan Harrod.
They competed in seven games, some of which were pretty normal, and others of which were
pretty out there.
This was all hosted by me, and I even go on camera, so get mentally prepared for that.
Of course, the only place to watch this is on Nebula, as their business model makes bigger
projects like this financially possible, and there's quite literally never been a better
time to sign up.
That's because our sponsor, CuriosityStream, is having its biggest ever sale—41% off,
meaning it works out to less than $1 a month, and by signing up at CuriosityStream.com
slash Wendover, any subscription is bundled with a Nebula subscription for the exact same
price.
That's two whole streaming sites, with thousands of top-quality documentaries and non-fiction
shows from bigger names, in the case of CuriosityStream, and tons of bigger-budget projects from your
favorite educational-ish creators, in the case of Nebula, for less than the cost of
a bus fare per month.
While you wait for our original to come out, you could, for example, watch something quite
similar to this video—it's where CuriosityStream rounds up the top science stories of 2020
in an hour-long special, which is quite good.
This sale will end very soon, so make sure to sign up at CuriosityStream.com slash Wendover,
and you'll be supporting this and countless other independent channels while you're
at it.
