I'm feeling like a broken record at this point. The last like five videos of mine I've had to do
some kind of old man impression. Back in my day politics was like this. But I really do feel the
need to bring up some stuff that's happened before because it's almost like people have just forgotten
about it. Okay so at this point you must have heard the song Scott Pilgrim vs The World Ruined
a Whole Generation of Women, right? By negative XP. He really managed to nail down that generic
90s punk sound. A genre of music I'm really not that interested in. But nonetheless he's got
enough talent to pull it off. The quality of the music isn't what everyone's talking about though,
it's the lyrics.
Haha, don't go throwing stones about the shitty music dude. But this song's wildly popular,
way more popular than anything else negative XP has done. And it is because the lyrics are
describing a certain type of person that would normally be very interested in this sound. Either
the type of woman who would listen to this and really enjoy it, if the lyrics were different
of course, or alternatively the type of man who listened to this kind of stuff in high school
grew out of it and is now having a problem finding an actual girlfriend to settle down with,
because at least some of the girls his age are accurately described by this song. The actual guy
himself, I'm not sure if he's just a memester or if he actually is an MRA, but to be honest it
doesn't really matter. Either way the establishment right now is kind of angry at him for this song.
But wait, what is the establishment anyway? So we're just defending an incel and a sexist
because of my punk culture. You do realize this guy's a serious incel.
You cannot claim to be a part of a culture or subculture if you have no idea what its
roots and values are. Wearing all black does not make you goth. Liking the 70s in drugs
does not make you a hippie. You cannot be a conservative punk. Culture is more than
appearance and interests. Punk cannot literally be right wing shut the fuck up lmao. The whole
point is that it's not. Really? Is that the point? I didn't know that the punk subculture had a
particular political slant. The punk subculture includes a diverse array of ideologies, fashion,
and other forms of expression, visual art, dance, literature, and film. It is largely characterized
by anti-establishment views, the promotion of individual freedom, do-it-yourself ethics,
and is centered on a loud aggressive genre of rock music called punk rock.
Punk politics cover the entire political spectrum. The punk ethos is primarily made up of beliefs
such as nonconformity, anti-authoritarianism, anti-corporatism, a do-it-yourself ethic,
anti-consumerism, anti-corporate greed, direct action, and not selling out. There is a wide array
of punk fashion including deliberately offensive t-shirts, leather jackets, Dr. Martin's boots,
hairstyles such as brightly colored hair and spiked mohawks, cosmetics, tattoos, jewelry,
and body modification. Women in the hardcore scene typically wear masculine clothing.
This definitely sounds like it can describe the left. The anti-corporatism, the direct action,
the not selling out, as well as the fashion style are all enjoyed by people on the radical left
right now. But this also describes the right. The anti-authoritarianism and the do-it-yourself ethic,
both things that are championed right now by the right, as I described in the video two days ago,
why is preparation problematic, are actively rejected by the radical left right now.
They want the centralized authority to implement socialism, and they want people dependent on that
socialism, which means the do-it-yourself ethic is out. It's my layman's understanding that the
actual core of what punk is, is the anti-authoritarianism. It's being a part of the
counterculture. In fact, it's being explicitly offensive towards the mainstream. They're
satirists, they're iconoclasts. They say and do things that the Karens of the world clutch their
pearls at, and they say and do them specifically to cause that reaction. But, as expected, there are
a lot of social justice punks, basically just feminist women who like the fashion, who are,
unsurprisingly, shitting all over negative XP for his song.
that frankly had no chance to be saved to begin with. Here we go!
I guess punk is about embracing the establishment politics and sanitizing language now, guys.
I guess it's all about falling in line with the corporate-sponsored climate protests,
or ratting out rule-breakers who are going outside for non-essentials right now,
or demanding government handouts. What happened to the do-it-yourself ethic?
They're no longer the counterculture, they're part of the establishment now. They still desperately
want to cling to that rebellious feel, that they're somehow the freedom fighters going up
against the entire world. But who actually believes it? All of their musical stars are past
middle age taking corporate sponsorships. Their fashion is mainstream. Their subculture is now
popular and profitable, like Scott Pilgrim has shown us. I saw a fascist who is still thinking
about this, and how punk is anti-establishment, so we can continue to be Trumpian and listen to
punk. Oh really? And how anti-establishment are you? Considering that virtue signaling
is the establishment now, and you've got that rainbow flag emoji in your name,
you've got those pronouns in your bio. And yes, virtue signaling is the mainstream culture right
now. I don't give a fuck if you're cisgender, put your damn pronouns in your bio. Hey,
just want to urge cis oomps to put your pronouns in your bio, let's help create a safe space for
the transgender community. A good way to subtly signal to trans people that you're with them is
to put your pronouns in your bio. We would like this to become standard practice because it makes
more sense. Putting pronouns in your bio for cis people helps normalize and protect trans individuals.
If this is the mainstream right now, then the offensive counterculture would be to parody this.
But sarcastically using zee and zur, or mentioning identifying as an attack helicopter or something,
that's not considered punk, even though it actually fits with the original spirit of punk.
That's considered fascist or whatever. Alright, forget the stupid twitter junk for a minute.
The punk subculture is still about being shocking. It's still about being provocative. It's still
about causing moral panics. The only difference is, it's now the punks themselves that are the
targets of it. Again, at the risk of sounding like an old man, the left of today has failed
to realize that we've advanced into a new political era. The republicans were once the
party of George Bush and the neo-cons. They were all about globalist corporatism, eternal war in
the middle east generally over oil, and codifying christian fundamentalism into american law.
During that era, the 90s and the 2000s, it was very easy for the left to hold the moral high
ground against that kind of an opponent. And most people who are relatively apolitical, but lazily
identify as center left, do so because of that era. Left became the dominant political affiliation
for your average joe, because the right was just constantly dropping the ball. But there was a
paradigm shift in 2012. Again, go back to that Rachel Maddow clip that I posted like a week or
so ago. The republicans got destroyed in those elections. And when they came back, they were not
George Bush's republicans. The remnants of that republican party are still embodied in like the
Mitt Romney never trumpers, who are basically losers at this point. They have no political
capital anymore. But the left still pretends like it has the moral high ground, like it's fighting
the right wing of old, like they are somehow still the counterculture, still the subversive element
taking on the evil empire. But that's just not how it is anymore. The radical left is not the
rebellion. And this whole punk thing, with this frankly kind of dumb negative xp song, perfectly
encapsulates this wider issue. These people have been so used to thinking that they are the
counterculture, that now that they're not, now that they've actually seized cultural power,
now that their ideology can be found everywhere in our society, they have no idea what to do. So
they just carry on acting like they're somehow still the underdog, and as a result they keep
losing to the actual underdog. I mean really, do you think people like Greta Thunberg, or even
Anita Sarkeesian, to bring back an old name, do you really think they're the grassroots
counterculture, speaking at the UN? Or do you think the counterculture is maybe all the YouTubers
listed in the alternative action report? I mean, as flawed as that thing was, the whole point of
it was to describe how these deplorables, these subversives, these people who had absolutely no
mainstream support, had crafted their own community outside the walls, beyond the bounds of
what the mainstream considers acceptable. Now, they labeled it as an alt-right pipeline, which
is completely ludicrous, but it is a structure that isn't mainstream. It is the new counterculture.
I think this is why Negative XP's song received, and continues to receive, despite being over eight
months old, this ridiculous backlash. Because it's using, for the first time in probably a decade,
the sound of punk to do what punk was originally meant to do, offend the sensibilities of the
mainstream. And because things have swung so far to the left that the counterculture now is,
paradoxically, the adoption of traditional values, at least in some areas, then it makes
complete sense that Negative XP's song would be a critique of current sexual morality. The people
getting triggered might have adopted the punk fashion sense, but they truly do not understand
the punk spirit at all.
