Alright, alright, you saw the title of the video, we already know what I'm talking about
today.
Let's just play the clip, alright?
Thank you so much, that's really our time, I apologize.
You can't do that to black media!
I can't do that to white media and black media because my wife has to go on at six o'clock.
Okay.
Oh, uh oh, I'm in trouble.
Listen, you gotta come see us when you come to New York, VP Biden.
I will.
It's a long way until November, we got more questions.
You got more questions.
But I tell you, if you have a problem figuring out whether you're for me or Trump, and you
ain't black.
It don't have nothing to do with Trump, it has to do with the fact I want something for
my community.
Oh boy, I'd give that gaffe 10 Bidens out of 10.
And really, at this point, we don't know where that came from.
Was that somehow a result of Biden's well-known speech impediment?
Did it come from the fact that he obviously has dementia and is declining before our very
eyes?
This is simply another instance of the Democratic mask slipping, showing us how that party views
black people in the United States.
Now Biden is being dragged on the internet and rightfully so.
A white person telling black people how to be black just seems ridiculous in the face
of it.
So it's not just conservatives and Republicans coming after him.
It's centrists, it's Bernie bros and other never Biden types on the left.
And yes, it's black people of all political persuasions.
Do you know who's not coming for him?
The mainstream media.
Analysis by John Blake of CNN.
What Biden said was outrageous, but some say so was the reaction.
Oh really, you think the problem with the situation is not the braindead stuff that
Biden said, but the fact that everyone's mad at him?
Remember, this is coming from the same outlet that threatened to dox somebody because they
made a wrestling gif of Trump slamming the CNN logo.
I'm not saying Biden's not getting dragged, he is.
But there's some obvious hypocrisy here.
If this were anybody else but the Democratic presidential nominee, the media would be publishing
article after article.
It would be all over the news cycle.
They wouldn't let it go.
But because it's Biden, they're publishing propaganda instead.
And man, if you go to Twitter and you look at the hashtag you ain't black, it is absolutely
wild, man.
Everyone is descending on Biden right now.
I'd say it's about 90% people clowning on Biden and 10% people trying to distract by
calling Trump a racist, Islamophobe, xenophobe, homophobe, etc, etc, etc.
We've all heard it before.
And of course, you've got YouAintBlack.com run by Black Voices for Trump.
Text WOKE to 88022.
It is so strange to see, like, basic political maneuvering and normal election punditry turn
into shitposting.
Radical leftists have often said that everyone and everything is racist.
Everything is sexist.
Everything is racist.
Everything is homophobic.
And you have to point it all out.
And I mean, there's an obvious problem with that right on the surface of it.
Pointing it out doesn't actually change anything.
But more importantly, if everyone truly is racist, and it's subconscious, you can't even
change it, then it's almost like their crusade is a fool's errand, if that makes any sense.
The best you can hope for is, despite your biases, do you treat everyone fairly?
If so, then that's probably good enough.
And frankly, the left doesn't right now.
But okay, if everyone is racist, then surely everyone on the left is racist, right?
And surely we should hold them accountable for their racism the same way that they hold
literally everyone else accountable for their racism.
But of course, they don't actually want that to happen.
When they say everyone is racist, what they mean is, if you're not constantly self-flagellating
about how racist you are, you need to be punished.
This is why the radical left has no idea what to do with a black Trump supporter.
Someone like Kanye West, or Candace Owens, or Diamond and Silk.
Those people aren't perfect.
There's obviously things that they've done that you can criticize them for.
Yo Taylor, I'm really happy for you, I'ma let you finish, but Beyonce had one of the
best videos of all time.
George Bush doesn't care about black people.
But voting Republican, or being a conservative, or even being like a centrist or libertarian
is not one of them.
The left has this view of the right, where they think that the right simply views black
people as genetically inferior, in much the same way that the Nazis did.
And because they are genetically inferior, they should be enslaved, maybe tightly controlled,
maybe exterminated.
And I'm sure that there are a very small minority of people on the extreme right, the legitimate
neo-Nazis, who actually feel this way.
But the left's racism towards black people is actually kind of similar.
They've given themselves the white man's burden.
They view themselves as superior, and black people as a child race.
But they don't want to exterminate them, they simply want to guide them on the proper path.
This is known as the soft bigotry of low expectations, where you don't want to see a group enslaved
or destroyed, you simply want to see them stripped of all agency, and become a class
of people who are completely dependent on the state.
Black conservatives, black libertarians, black centrists, even black center lefties are often
slandered with terms like Uncle Tom, or House Nega, or most commonly of all, race traitor
by the radical left.
Sometimes by like Black Lives Matter activists, sometimes by white college-aged SJWs.
Oh man, I hope I can find the video so I can put it in.
I'd say about three or four years ago I watched a clip of a bunch of white students saying
that it was racist to require an ID when you go to vote, because black people might not
know that that was a rule, they might not understand, they might not know where to get
an ID, and then it immediately cut to a bunch of black people who were like, yeah I know
where to get ID, you just gotta go down to the DMV, it's right here, here's the address.
Do you have an opinion on voter ID laws?
Uh, yeah, they're usually pretty racist, and they're bad.
I think voter ID laws are a way to perpetuate racism.
Would you go as far as to say that those laws are racist?
For sure.
Do you think it suppresses the African-American vote?
Definitely, because they're less likely to have state IDs.
Minority voters are less likely to have the kinds of IDs that have been described or required.
These types of people don't live in areas with easy access to DMBs or other places where
they can get identification.
Do you have ID normally?
Do you carry ID around?
Yes, I have state ID.
Do you carry ID?
Yes, I do.
Do you know anybody who's black versus who doesn't carry ID?
No.
Everyone that I know has an ID.
Why would they think we don't have ID?
That's a lie.
Why would they say that?
Do you have ID?
Yes.
Because I have my ID and my friends have their ID, so we know what we need to carry around.
Everybody that I know has an ID, like that's one of the things you need to walk around
with New York with.
Those are legit IDs.
I heard a lot also that black people can't figure out how to get to the DMV.
Really?
What does that say to you?
I know what that is, it's on 25th Street.
Do you know where the DMV is around here?
It's on 125th Street and 3rd Avenue, I believe.
You know where to get there?
Yeah.
Do you have a problem getting there if you have to get there?
No.
I understand why calling somebody a race traitor, because they have different politics, taking
away their black card, telling them they're not really black, I can see why that is a
powerful weapon that those on the left wield against the black community.
Because the black community, at least in the United States, is based on the horrors of
slavery and more recently the horrors of fatherlessness and drug addiction.
There's an entire generation of lost black children out there who grew up with one parent
who was most likely addicted to something or other.
And then those people raised in that environment are told that everything that's happened
to them happened because of systemic racism.
Because it's the white man's fault.
Because several hundred years ago, white people who no longer exist enslaved their ancestors.
Those people feel like outsiders in their own nations.
They certainly don't have a viable family structure to hold onto.
So what do they have left?
It's basically just the race.
So they have this idea of what it means to be a black person, they have this idea of
blackness and around that springs this community.
So when members of that community say to a black person, you're not black because your
politics are wrong, I can imagine that it would probably feel like being an outcast
from a community of outcasts.
And the Democratic Party has been preying on this state of affairs for decades.
There is a wing of the Democrats that are basically professional race hustlers.
They believe that all black people owe the Democratic Party their votes because they're
the party that advocated for overturning the Jim Crow laws.
And fair enough, they were in the right on that.
But because of it, they view the black community almost as if it's their property.
And that kind of attitude strips black people of their agency.
But the cold hard truth is, there is no political blackness.
No politician is owed your vote simply because of the colour of your skin.
Joe Biden's comments are probably just the ramblings of an old man who is in his declining
years.
But at the same time, because Biden is literally losing his mind, that means he's more likely
to go complete mask off, which is what he did.
The way the Democratic Party views black people is their inconvenient truth.
And Biden is just the latest example of this.
You guys remember when Ayanna Pressley had this brain dead take?
Because we don't need any more brown faces that don't want to be a brown voice.
We don't need black faces that don't want to be a black voice.
We don't need Muslims that don't want to be a Muslim voice.
We don't need queers that don't want to be a queer voice.
What she's talking about is being politically black.
She's not outright stating that you're not black if you don't vote for her and her party.
But that's because she's 46, not 96.
And she's still got it together mentally enough to not completely blow the Democratic cover.
But it is the same attitude.
Now, of course, I'm not saying that there's not at least a section of the black community
that will simply go for those who give them the most money or something.
We all remember that crackhead dancing in the street because Obama gave her a cell phone
in 2008.
Obama!
You got Obama's phone?
Yes!
Everybody in Cleveland, low minority, got Obama's phone.
Keep Obama in president, you know?
He gave us a phone.
And as soon as the Trump Bucks came through, the coronavirus relief, there were a bunch
of black people on Twitter saying the exact same thing about Trump.
Now I'm just going to tell you motherfucking niggas straight out the door, don't fuck with
my motherfucking president.
Do you understand me?
Nigga, we ride with Donald Trump over here, nigga.
Draco, we ain't playing with you motherfucking nigga.
You understand me?
Keep my motherfucking president name right to mouth.
Fuck, nigga!
But this actually isn't much of a racial issue.
I think this is kind of highlighted because of the stereotype and it's kind of funny that
way.
If you go back over to Twitter and you search for the two terms, Trump and nigga together,
the stuff that you find is absolutely hilarious.
But my point here is this.
The claim that Trump is a racist just doesn't seem to stick, and it's because he holds
black people to the same standard as everyone else.
He expects them to be decent people, he expects them to be responsible, he expects them to
take charge of their own lives, and if they have problems, to make an honest effort at
fixing them.
That's not racism, it's just responsibility.
Meanwhile, Joe Biden's 50-year political career is filled with instances where he supports
excessive punishment for minor crimes, efforts that would disproportionately affect black
people.
Every major crime bill that's come out of this Congress has had the name Joe Biden on
that bill.
We do everything but hang people for jaywalking in this bill.
And it's these very same efforts that groups like Black Lives Matter point at to say that
our society is still a racist one.
But you will find Biden's name on a lot of that legislation.
Do you think you'll find Trump's?
This is a fundamental problem with the left's political philosophy when it comes to race.
Because to them, having black skin isn't the real blackness.
The real blackness is thinking black.
The real blackness is voting black.
To them, blackness is not who you are, but how you behave.
And it's no surprise to me that it's not a race thing.
And in fact, I would argue that the Trump bucks came about during an emergency situation,
while the Obama phones didn't.
That was literally just the government handing out free stuff, inviting the black community
to once again come and suckle at the teat of it.
More and more, black people in the United States are finally unshackling themselves
from the victimhood narrative.
And this is good news for everyone, with the exception of those who demand that black people
remain subservient, meek, afraid, and constantly voting blue.
Hello my friends, I've got a very special announcement here at the end of the video.
Every year here in Canada, the Anime North Convention happens right around now.
In fact, it should be going on this very second.
Except for the fact that Anime North 2020 was cancelled because of the coronavirus.
In light of that, I figured now would be a good time to release some old Anime North
2019 footage we have saved up.
Dave and Dom, who work on the channel with me, went to Anime North 2019 last year.
They took the big expensive camera that I've got, shot a whole bunch of footage from the
convention, and then when they got back, uh, proceeded to lose it.
The footage, not the camera.
And I found the footage, so now I'm editing it and putting it up, over on my side channel,
the Devkit.
If you're bummed out about not being able to attend Anime North right now, or this kind
of content just sounds like something you might want to check out, click the video on
screen right now, that'll take you to it.
And hey, while you're at it, consider subbing to my side channels, they're also on the screen
too.
Alright chums, that about ends the PSA.
I'll see you tonight on my Twitch stream, and if not, I'll see you for tomorrow's video.
I love you.
