It's time to talk about Balenciaga, the high fashion company.
Now you know me, I don't care one iota about fashion, I still dress like a 2000s era slacker.
But even an outsider like me knows that all these fashionistas, both within Balenciaga
and elsewhere, are all artsy-fartsy.
That's why you get women walking down the runway dressed up like Christmas trees and
avocados and Cousin It.
So it's no surprise to anybody that when rumblings of some weird stuff coming out of
Balenciaga began to hit the scene, the initial reaction was to basically just hand wave it.
They're just auteurs guys, they're always avant garde and whatever, don't worry about
it.
And that was pretty much how I treated it.
Just another dumb event coming out of a community that is known for dumb events, a community
that I personally couldn't care less about.
Oh boy how wrong I was, let's take the deep dive.
It all began with these viral images, featuring children posting with BDSM teddy bears.
I don't know if they were just selling BDSM teddies, or if they were selling fetish clothes
for teddies, or if the fetish gear is for children, but they weren't going to model
it on kids in the pictures after all, so they put it on teddies instead.
All I know is that it looks really, really weird.
You've got kids hanging out with wine and drugs and equipment with sexual undertones.
This is all very sus.
Part of that same photoshoot included this picture.
No kids this time, but instead just a messy desk with a purse.
However, if you zoom in on the half-concealed papers on the desk, you'll discover something
quite interesting about them.
The paper is a printout of the Supreme Court ruling Ashcroft vs Free Speech Coalition,
a 2002 case which struck down parts of the 1996 Child Porn Prevention Act, criminalizing
virtual CP, meaning content where no real child was actually harmed, but nonetheless
did portray fake children being harmed.
We're talking about Lolly here, guys.
Though the suit was brought primarily by the porn industry, which, at that time, was engaged
in a trend of taking above-age models who looked young, putting them in high school
uniforms, and making porn videos that appeared to star high school girls, other interests
also objected, stating that, for example, because Romeo and Juliet starred a 14-year-old
girl in Universe in the lead role, the law was written such that it would criminalize
putting on that play, even if Juliet was played by a clearly adult woman.
And this is what that background paper was in the Blenciaga photoshoot, a copy of Ashcroft
vs Free Speech Coalition, where part of the US's child porn laws were struck down.
Why that?
Why did it have to be that specific paper, guys?
Did you just happen to have it printed out for some reason?
Like, oh shit, we need some papers real quick to make this photo work.
Here you go, I got these lying around.
Why did they have these?
Or did they purposely print these out?
And if so, why?
So this went viral.
And after Blenciaga realized that their entire brand was currently in the process of burning
to the ground, they decided to sue the guy who directed the photoshoot, Gabriel Gallimberti.
The claim was, Blenciaga just didn't know.
It was all Gallimberti's fault, and because of some mistake, the photoshoot was approved
without the higher-ups knowing what was going on.
After Blenciaga began to try and divert attention to Gallimberti, the internet quickly picked
up this article he had shared on social media.
Why restrict child porn but not guns?
Now, everyone thinks he wrote the article, but he did not.
He only shared it.
But the article is also a little sus.
The article makes the point that America has a restriction on the First Amendment when
it comes to child pornography, because children are harmed.
And by that logic, America should also have a restriction on the Second Amendment, because
children are also harmed.
And the article presents statistics, showing that more children die from gun violence than
on-duty cops or soldiers.
The argument in the article is that if we allow guns, despite this harm that comes to
children, in the name of rights, then we should also allow child pornography for the same
reason.
It's very much a Voshian, we-must-be-consistent-and-allow-child-porn-if-we-benefit-from-child-labor type of argument.
I get what he's saying, but it's probably the worst fucking possible way to say it.
Another Blenciaga ad featured a similarly messy desk, this time with the background
showing a book written by Michael Bormans.
Jesus, this dude has to have an ego.
Generally, the spine of a book has the title as its largest font, not the author.
Michael Bormans is a Belgian painter, photographer, and filmmaker, who is reasonably prolific.
But after the internet began to autistically scour every single Blenciaga photo for more
hidden pedo secrets, they discovered that Bormans, back in 2018, put on an art exhibition
in Hong Kong titled Fire from the Sun, featuring paintings of naked toddlers and young children
covered in blood and engaged in some very strange behavior.
It's not overtly sexual, but it does range between violent and revolting.
And then there's the case of Lotta Volkova, who at one point worked for Blenciaga as a
designer.
After her part in all of this went viral, mainstream media quickly moved to report that
she's not currently working for Blenciaga, guys.
Stop looking at everyone, please.
And, of course, Volkova's Instagram is now private.
But the internet never forgets.
Her account was filled with photos of children in simulated positions of distress.
Children with simulated abuse, at least I hope it's simulated.
Stuff that is, again, not overtly sexual, but is, really sus.
Oh yeah, she's also doing the BDSM teddy bear thing, too.
Volkova's boyfriend, I think, they've got some kind of relationship at least, is
Gosia Robcinski, who is another fashion designer.
This guy's got allegations from back in 2018, where text messages leaked showing him
asking two underage boys to send him nudes.
Robcinski's defense was that he was simply recruiting models for his next shoot, and
he needed them to send him pictures.
Robcinski hasn't directly worked with Blenciaga as far as I can tell, but he has collaborated
with a lot of notables at Blenciaga on his own projects, including Volkova.
Another close friend of the duo is Demna Gvasalia, who looks like a cross between Zelenski and
that dude from The Orville.
He's a lead designer at Blenciaga, and you can find his work with them on both his Instagram
and the company's official social media.
Like this video, where he designed a carrying bag that came with a fake bloody fetus in it.
Gvasalia outright stated in an interview that Lotta, Gosia, and I grew up on child porn
and radiation from Chernobyl, which is why we're all so fucked up.
You know, there might be something to this.
You nuke Japan and then you get the weirdest porn imaginable.
Hell, check out these two maps showing radioactive fallout from Chernobyl in Sweden and the most
popular porn categories in that same country.
The CEO of Blenciaga's parent company, Kering, sells child sex dolls.
I probably can't show you this image, but it's a toddler with a fleshlight for a mouth
and an erect cock for a nose.
You know, considering that Kanye's appearance on Alex Jones was one of the most batshit
things I have seen in a long time, the fact that he wore a Blenciaga gimp mask during
that appearance is probably the least crazy Blenciaga news story right now.
And that really says something.
Maybe one of the reasons Kanye doesn't see his daughter no more is because he made her
wear a Blenciaga gimp mask too.
And listen, yeah, I know I didn't complete the Kanye interview during the gangbang stream.
You can blame all my guests for that.
There were too many.
I'll make it up to you.
I'll give it another go in the next couple days, so stay tuned.
The reply from the left has been deafening.
For the amount of canceling they've done over 10-year-old, 15-year-old tweets, canceling
gamers, YouTubers, PewDiePie, canceling game devs like the dude behind Five Nights at Freddy's
for being pro-life, canceling people for making sexy drawings of adult characters, canceling
people for objecting to 2020's Summer of Love, nobody is coming out and talking about this
Blenciaga shit.
In fact, it's kind of the opposite.
Check out everybody's favorite girl bosses over at The View.
So there's this, there's growing anti-LGBTQ sentiment right now.
And how it's being framed is as portraying, you know, trans people as groomers.
This is a term you'll hear on the far right, they're groomers.
This is where you get the anti-drag queen stuff that we're seeing.
So Blenciaga played right into their hands by having kids in a sexualized manner, carrying
something that represents, you know, sex acts.
I think it was a really bad misstep at a moment where it's just kind of a dangerous time to
even give credence to those kind of insane takes.
How fucking culture war brainrotted do you have to be when your take is the Blenciaga
discourse is bad because it gives ammo to the right wing's groomer allegations.
They don't even care about the possibility of actual groomed kids.
They only care if their political opponents have a point.
And this is where we get to the shoe on head part of the video, where all of her Bread
Tube associates backstabbed her and dragged her through the mud for exactly this reason.
For those of you who don't know the deep lore, here's the TLDR.
You've got old 2014 era Skype groups, me and Sargon and Shoe and Arch and V and other
guys like Kraut and Mundane Matt and Harmful Opinions and Armbrick Skeptic.
We were the old anti-SJWs and we all kind of orbited around each other and occasionally
collabed and voice chatted and stuff like that.
Over the years the group broke apart.
A bunch of them went radically progressive.
Another group became conservatives and a few of them just went off to do their own thing.
As I personally understand the story, Shoe decided Bread Tube was a better place for
her content and her audience.
So these old friendships ended as a prerequisite of Vaush helping to rehab her image in the
eyes of the online left.
We all said to her in private, Shoe, your new friends are snakes.
They will throw you under the bus because, while you are a socialist, you're also a
nationalist and your, uh, unique view of politics in the 21st century will eventually lead to
you clashing with them.
She disagreed and she was wrong.
We predicted the backstabbing and Balenciaga was when the knives came out.
Shoe's got a long history of making content uncovering pedophiles in good honor.
She's covered pro-pedo groups and events running the entire political spectrum.
From the map activism and pedo as LGBT shit on the left to the child pageants in underage
marriages and virginity pledges on the right.
For her, covering the Balenciaga weirdness on her Twitter is exactly the kind of thing
she would do.
And Shoe is the reason this story blew up at all.
Because the New York Post took her initial digging and ran with it, dragging it into
the mainstream news cycle.
By the way, she was humorously credited as an eagle-eyed social media watchdog.
But alas, being aggressively anti-pedo was just too much for her Bread Tube friends.
I guess that is their line.
Okay, okay, let me try to steelman their position, as funny as it is.
The Balenciaga story went viral at the exact same time as the Club Q shooting, which I
covered over on the TUBcast, where a person shot up a gay bar in Colorado.
As a result of that event, the online left was in hyper-alert mode.
They were blaming the right's constant groomer discourse machine as radicalizing the Club
Q shooter.
And so, even if you're pointing out legitimately sus shit with children, it was considered
ammo for the right.
It did not matter to these people if actual children might be harmed.
Everything about it fueled the groomer discourse machine, and therefore, you're anti-LGBT.
In essence, Bread Tube took up the position of that woman on The View, only a lot more
blatantly.
Here's Xanderhal.
Shoe on Head is on her way to once again use her massive platform to provide the neo-Nazis
in her audience with fodder they can use to justify the murder of gay people, but this
time the day after another anti-gay terror attack.
This is pure retardation.
What does pedophilia have to do with anti-LGBT stuff, Xanderhal?
Why can't Shoe point out sus shit with kids just because Club Q also happened?
He did a whole video on it which is also full of retardation.
Demon Mama did something similar, only her video was over an hour and she is significantly
more insufferable, which is incredible since she's being compared to Xanderhal.
Demon Mama's been nipping at Shoe's heels for months now, though, long before Balenciaga.
The argument Shoe's making in this discussion is that ever since the yearly Pride discourse
became all about exposing kids to kink and drag, that the LGBT community and its activism
has become harder and harder to support.
Demon Mama's reply is simultaneously a mix of, it doesn't happen, and it does happen
and it's good, and what about hooters, and you need to be more responsible with your
platform.
Vadim calls Shoe talking about the Balenciaga pedo story a conspiracy on par with QAnon
and Pizzagate.
Lance is saying Shoe is causing a gay and trans panic for talking about it.
The only person to remain publicly silent about it is Vosch, presumably because he was
the reason she got back in with the online left in the first place.
Listen, you can feel free to disbelieve me here, but even I know people who know people,
and from what I hear, Vosch heavily regrets just how much he's stuck his neck out for
Shoe over the years.
I don't know why, dude, I think she's correct.
Being anti-pedophilia, even in the face of Club Q, should not be a hard choice to make.
The last time those two even spoke publicly beyond just memeing was part of that Demon
Mama conversation, where Vosch, with kid gloves, says that Shoe is using her platform irresponsibly
to talk about the weird pedo shit on the left.
When Shoe exasperatedly replies, I just feel like I'm going insane.
Hey, me too, buddy.
But at least it isn't because of the people and the politics that I've thrown my lot
in with.
There is a strain of leftist political thought that is expressly pro-pedophilic.
I will have to go into it in another video, one that is a bit more serious than this,
but the TLDR of it is, after World War II, one of the prevailing theories regarding why
voting populations sometimes vote in a fascist party that oppresses them and destroys democracy
is due to sexual repression.
I spoke about this a little in my Three Forms of Fascism video.
Wilhelm Reich believed that growing up in a society thick with traditional sexual morals
leads to sexually repressed adults, who will vote for fascist parties if given the chance,
and the best form of anti-fascism was normalizing a new, progressive sexual morality.
The Italian communist Mario Mele took this idea to its extreme, believing that adults
having sex with children would combat this sexual repression, leading them to grow into
sexually open and free adults themselves with a personality that was explicitly anti-fascist.
The postmodern giants Foucault and Derrida, along with many other French leftist thinkers,
were influenced by Reich and Mele, declaring that total political equality also required
equality between age groups, just as it did between races and sexes, and they famously
petitioned the French government to repeal age of consent laws, believing that a march
towards a progressive, socialist, leftist utopian vision of the future also required
dismantling all restrictions on human sexual activity.
Foucault and Derrida's specific views on the interplay between consent and socialism
would be repeated by Vosch in 2018, where he said that as socialism addresses power
imbalances, the age of consent should be lowered.
The point I'm getting at is, you can trace a clear line from Freudian anti-fascism to
modern pedophile activism that has captivated a component of the left.
Obviously not the whole left, there are many people on the left, like Shue for example,
who are horrified at what's slowly being normalized.
But leftist philosophy doesn't have a bulwark against this sort of subversion, and leftists
have to rely on fundamentally right-wing sensibilities like tradition or decency or
disgust responses in order to object.
The only leftist value that can be appealed to, to be anti-pedophilia, is harm reduction.
And if you can logic twist your brain into thinking that a child isn't harmed by having
sex with them, like all of those leftists I mentioned earlier did, then there's no leftist
argument against it.
Harm is a good argument, but it's not the only one.
The problem for people like Shue is, all of the other arguments exist firmly outside of
the leftist view of the world.
Anyway, after everything came out about Balenciaga, they retracted that $25 million lawsuit.
It became pretty clear that this isn't just some one photographer's fault, but it's something
deeper within their company's culture.
Balenciaga seems to be done.
It's always possible they shut up for a few months, let the storm blow over, and then
just come back with a rebranding.
That sometimes happens after a cancelling event.
But they could also just be permanently tanked.
That happens too.
The wider issue is, normalization is the process of making the abnormal, normal.
Representation is the act of making something present that is otherwise absent.
When these people are normalizing and representing pedophilic imagery, the question you've got
to ask is, why?
It's not so much that these specific images are extremely pedophilic or anything.
The child isn't naked, no one's having sex with her, and yet, it tickles something at
the back of your brain.
And the question, why is this photo being taken in this way, is that tickle?
That might be their artsy-fartsy intent.
Auteurs have been subverting expectations for decades longer than that phrase became
a meme.
And I think that's what a lot of conservatives are getting at with their objections to the
drag queen story hour events that are not actually sexual ones.
Yeah, there are some events where it's clearly sexual and that's evil.
There are some events where the drag queen ended up being discovered as being some kind
of pedo that's also really bad.
But I mean those events where nothing bad's actually going on.
The question they're asking is, why does a drag queen want an audience of children?
Nothing overtly bad is actually happening here.
Nobody's being abused or anything like that.
You can do this sort of thing if you want to, but the million dollar question is, why
do you want to?
Well, that's a question nobody wants to ask and nobody wants to answer.
Another close friend of the duo is Denma Gvasalia.
Another close friend of the duo is Demna Gvasalia.
Another close friend of the duo is Denma...
Another close friend of the duo is Demna...
Jesus Christ.
Another close friend of the two is Demna Gva...
Holy shit.
Another close friend of the two is Demna Gvasalia.
Another close friend of the duo is Demna Glasva...
Fuck!
