YouTube wants to remove the downvote button on videos, again.
This last came up back in 2019, and I made a video on it then.
I actually recommend you go back and watch that one, because today I'm going to be building
on some of the ideas from back then.
But as always, because I love you a lot, I'll give you the TLDR real quick.
In that video I used two then-contemporary examples.
Firstly, the episode of The Orville, where the alien planet they encounter has a government
run by social media votes, and secondly, the Egoraptor controversy, where he had built
a career out of edgy humor, and now that he's comfortably established, wants that humor
and anything else that may make people uncomfortable be banned from the internet.
Both examples, as well as other smaller ones I briefly mentioned, focused on people who
spend too much time on social media, to the point that dislikes and downvotes cripple
their ability to behave normally, and as such, they begin to advocate for the removal of
all negative feedback online, in the hopes that they will never have to experience a
negative emotion ever again.
And if that other people's rights had to be trampled, that was a sacrifice they were
willing to pay.
I referred to this point of view as having had a moral lobotomy, and it's a label that
I still think fits.
The always-on nature of social media, the everything-is-political, nothing-is-private
progressive orientation of the online world nowadays, has created a cast of people who
are constantly emoting for the sake of an audience.
Everything they do is calculated and performed, with no humanity behind it.
And those people who don't perform, who don't turn themselves into an object of theater
during every public moment of their lives, are considered outcasts, even if they're just
behaving neutrally.
The specific launch point for this video is YouTube's newest announcement that the dislike
button is going away, something that they toyed with in 2019 but never actually did.
Here's the video where they announced it.
As expected, it's got 80,000 dislikes.
In that episode of The Orville, there was a guy who had so many dislikes that he was
deemed socially undesirable, and had his brain altered so that he was the perfectly sanitized,
always-emoting social media candidate.
Let's compare his mannerisms and vocabulary to this guy.
Jesus, it was a social commentary on YouTube, you're not actually supposed to turn people
into this.
Okay, fun aside, let's actually go through this video.
Apparently groups of viewers are targeting a video's dislike button to drive up the count,
turning it into something like a game with a visible scoreboard.
And it's usually just because they don't like the creator or what they stand for.
That's a big problem when half of YouTube's mission is to give everyone a voice.
But downvotes don't deny people that voice, do they?
Having a lot of downvotes doesn't mean the video is yeeted off the platform, it's still
engagement.
But more importantly, yes, you're describing a feature, not a flaw.
When he says that the votes are used as a scoreboard in a game, that's correct, and
that's how it should be.
YouTube is ultimately still a place that people use for entertainment, YouTube's official
party line be damned.
And some of the best moments come out of when YouTubers themselves recognize the game, and
ask for their fans to test the limits of YouTube's features.
I literally just want to try something.
If everybody, okay, everybody who's watching this, no I'm serious, I'm fucking serious,
if you have a YouTube account and you're watching this, comment something, anything.
I just want to see, um, like, how comments work on like the rankings.
I legitimately just like want to see, like, what if we get like 90 fucking thousand comments?
Like everybody, just for fun, I'm doing this seriously just as a test.
To see if it like, if it makes us appear on like the front page.
Or like, and like, just to see if YouTube is like, checks us like, what the fuck's going
on here?
Like, let's see how many comments we can get on YouTube.
The update from YouTube is that the dislike button is staying, but the dislike counts
will now be private.
You can still dislike videos and that action will be used to tune your own recommendations,
but you won't be able to see the dislike count.
Only the creator can find it on the back end if they want.
This is contrary to what they said before, where the dislike button would be going away
entirely.
But if it's still there, then what's the point?
They claim us to protect the mental health of creators who get too many downvotes.
But creators can still see these downvotes, it's only the public who can't.
Do you know who this actually protects?
It protects the White House, whose videos have been constantly downvoted into oblivion
ever since Biden took office.
It protects legacy media, who are overwhelmingly rejected in favor of alt-tech nowadays.
It protects Disney and Activision Blizzard and every other shitty corporation that keeps
pumping out garbage from being ridiculed for it.
It protects blue checkmarks, who generally want likes, dislikes, comments, all of it
disabled, on every site everywhere, so they don't have to hear from common people whenever
they say something dumb.
And it certainly protects those thin-skinned, older YouTubers I mentioned in the last video,
who might have been edgy a decade ago, but now they're constantly disabling comments
and banning people.
It's not just YouTube though, every social media site is trending this way.
The only emotion allowed on the internet nowadays is a shallow, vague sense of fake happiness.
How many times have you seen this below a Twitter thread?
Show offensive content, show offensive content, show offensive content.
Never mind that none of the content is actually offensive.
Hell, my Twitter page is marked as dangerous.
It has been for a while, and you want to know why?
It's because I've been rejecting Twitter's requests to verify my phone number.
That's it.
Fuck you, Twitter.
But Twitter does shit like this regularly.
They disable retweets and likes on stuff they say promotes violence, or goes contrary to
the views of their fact-checkers, even if that's obvious bullshit.
Kyle Rittenhouse's Mom's Defense Fund is suppressed by Twitter, despite him clearly
being innocent and acting in self-defense.
The fundraiser sites used for these types of things routinely deplatform people for
no reason other than not liking their political slant.
Facebook nukes whole-ass pages for the flimsiest of reasons.
Hell, as the centralization of internet services has continued, Fandom, the service that provides
for fan-wickies, has decided that no sexual content is allowed on any of their wiki services,
even if the specific show or movie series or game series has sex in it.
This is all part of the always emoting, always on mentality I mentioned before.
The elites need to not only have power, but to also look like they are loving and adored
by the plebs.
And the plebs need to smile and say they like it every time they get raped.
You're being told to love your chains, or at the very least, perform publicly like
you do so that other people develop a sense of crippling self-doubt for wondering if something
might be wrong.
And God forbid you emote in the other direction if you perform in such a way that sheds light
or makes fun of this mentality.
God forbid you use memes to make fun of those in power rather than reinforce the existing
structures.
Recently House Rep Paul Gosar got in trouble for posting a remake of the opening of Attack
on Titan, with illegal immigrants replacing the Titans, border patrol replacing the Survey
Corps, Republicans replacing the main heroes, and it's a bit hard to see, but yes that
is an AOC Titan being killed.
It ends with Gosar himself confronting a giant oblivious Joe Biden in the place of the colossal
Titan.
Now this is fucking hilarious, this is shitpostygoodness.
But it's memeing in the other direction.
It's emoting in the other direction.
It's using the equalizing nature of social media, where anyone can post anything and
anybody can see it, to make fun of the powers that be rather than reinforce them.
So of course the entire internet lost its fucking mind.
Just like they did with Pepe.
Just like they did with the okay hand symbol.
Just like they did with anything that they didn't understand, but seemed to be at their
expense.
The journos and the corpos pearl clutched and said how dare you.
Even Nancy Pelosi said this was a legitimate threat of violence and called on the ethics
committee to investigate the creation of this horrific meme.
And when Gosar replied with a Wojak vs Chad meme, the progressives lost their mind again.
I've mentioned a few times on this channel that tyrants can tolerate people who offer
serious critiques of their regimes, as long as they don't get too uppity.
It's better for somebody to speak and feel as if they've been heard, because then he's
less of a threat.
But tyrants can never tolerate humor, because at least if he's critiqued, he's taken seriously.
If he's laughed at, things only a joke, a farce, not worthy of respect or fear.
A tyrant's only response to being laughed at is violence, that's why they always go
for comedians first.
But that idea, that view on comedy in relation to the tyrant, is another piece of this social
media puzzle.
Social media is that great equalizer, where everybody can see what you post, high status
or low.
But those with high status don't like being told that the rest of us don't like what they
do.
They find it offensive, because I guess if you live your life with privilege and then
suddenly have to experience what it's like to be critiqued by those you look down on,
you probably would feel offended.
So slowly but surely, social media sites will continue to strip away tools that those with
low status use to speak.
Because those high status people in charge of things have realized, more often than not,
those tools are used to speak dissent.
In the late 90s and early 2000s, having a form or a comment section on your website
meant you'd have made it.
You could be a legitimate place for conversation now.
Hell, even a guest book where people could leave comment to serve the same function.
But now, comment sections on news articles are all but gone, because journals don't like
being contradicted.
Rating features are becoming more simplified or removed outright, or in the case of something
like Rotten Tomatoes, repeatedly rigged to present a false air of popularity.
YouTubers disabling comments on their videos is no longer considered a sign of weakness,
as it should be, but instead shows them to be a victim of hate, hate from their own audience.
Content warnings everywhere, fact-checking labels added to posts in real time, the inability
to share content deemed problematic, it's all part of the same thing.
Corpos, journos, politicians, and pearl-clutching progressives have all realized that nobody
fucking likes them.
Nobody wants to adhere to their rules, nobody subscribes to their vision of the future,
and their solution is to restrict speech online to the point that your regular person has
no choice but to either leave a smiling emoji or say nothing at all.
And in fact, depending on where you live, dissenting online might actually be illegal.
Old tech like Newgrounds and 4chan, along with alt-tech like Bitchute and Odyssey, remain
outliers.
They're more committed to free speech than mainline tech, which makes them more fun places
to hang out.
It also explains why they're constantly slandered as alt-right, fascist, nazi, racist, sexist,
transphobic, Islamophobic, you name it, they are it.
But that's the counterculture nowadays, these outside spaces, these new wild wests,
where the rules are few.
It's not these sanitized platforms that only serve to inject dopamine into the base
of your skull until you realize you've wasted the last decade of your life doomscrolling.
If your hypersensitive, hypersafe mentality is parroted by every social media platform,
every corpos, nosy HR department, every nannying university's campus trust and safety council,
every union, every politician, every journalist, actor, musician, or large content creator,
you're not the rebellion, you're the empire.
What I said before still holds true.
These people are moral lobotomites.
They think being good means appearing to be good.
They think morality is something you perform to other people.
Your moral position isn't what you believe, it isn't even what real things you do, it's
how you contort yourself to fit a narrative for the purposes of an audience.
To such people, the worst crime you can commit is simply refusing to go along with their
theater.
So, don't.
Lewis, thank god.
Are you alright?
I am well.
Don't you recognize me?
It's Claire.
Of course.
Claire, you look healthy.
And happy.
Lewis, I need to know.
What did they do to you?
I did something terrible.
And then I was corrected.
I'm better now.
I'm healthier.
And happier.
