Hello my friends, sorry I'm a day late on this, but here I am and we're here talking about the
Iowa caucus results. Now, I've been saving up a lot of my content regarding the Democratic Party
and the Democratic nomination race for basically after Trump wins 2020, because let's be honest,
Trump's probably going to win 2020. Regardless of what you think of him, the Democrats have been in
such a sorry state basically since Trump beat Hillary in 2016. There is no way they're actually
going to unite behind a candidate or field anybody possible of beating Trump at this point.
So I have this script sitting around called the Collapse of the Democratic Party that basically
will be like an hour long deep dive into everything they've done wrong in the past four
years. But then with the aftermath of the Iowa caucus and the trending of the hashtag Mayor Cheat
I knew I had to at least talk about this a little bit. So here's the basic story of the Iowa caucus.
As soon as it became clear that that Bernie was in the lead and that the the media's chosen one,
Joe Biden, was in fourth place, suddenly the preliminary polling stopped. Suddenly CNN stopped
reporting on it. Suddenly the numbers stopped showing up. And this is actually quite irregular
because usually with these kind of races, they keep people updated pretty regularly. You know,
CNN likes those views. They want people tuning in to kind of watch the drama of the race unfold
as the numbers come in and the districts flip between one candidate or another. But as soon
as it became clear that Bernie was the one who was going to win it, suddenly all reporting stops.
And when pressed on this, they said it was for quality control. Who the fuck knows what that
means? But it seems to have something to do with the fact that the DNC was basically testing out
a new app in the Iowa caucus. But of course, because we haven't had enough Saturday morning
cartoon villainy floating around this goddamn election, the app in question was made by a
company called Shadow. Shadow is partially funded by Pete Buttigieg, or as Sticks likes to call him,
Booty Judge, which kind of makes sense considering that he's also gay, but that's neither here nor
there. But the company has ties to Hillary Clinton. It has ties to George Soros. Of course it does.
And as soon as it seems like the anti-establishment candidate in Bernie Sanders is going to win,
suddenly the polls stopped coming in for quality control purposes. Suddenly those reports that did
come in that show Sanders winning, they disappear off the internet. And then before the whole
situation is resolved, Pete Buttigieg declares himself winner on stage. He walks up and he says,
despite there's no official results, he's like, thank you very, thank you very much. I won, I won
Iowa. So we don't know all the results, but we know by the time it's all said and done, Iowa, you have
shocked the nation. Because by all indications, we are going on to New Hampshire victorious.
So of course, hashtags like Mayor Cheat or Pete Cheats started trending with a whole bunch of
various little bits of evidence that just kind of, they don't really show anything on their own,
but they kind of piece together to form this fabric. There are stories of volunteers within
the DNC noticing various inconsistencies that might be proof of Buttigieg cheating, in fact,
outright. There's video of a coin toss since of course, in some smaller precincts, you might
actually have direct ties when there's not that many votes. And generally you decide them by
flipping a coin, where very clearly the guy looks at the coin,
notices what what side it landed on, and then flips it to announce a win for Buttigieg.
Not even the identity politicians are happy because I guess they grabbed the six black
people that happened to be in existence during Buttigieg's speech and put them all in the front
to make him look more inclusive. There actually wasn't that many black people there.
That's me in the front on the right of Buttigieg. I was asked three times to move away from my
friends in order to be placed in pictures. Hashtag tokenism. But of course, for some of these people,
it doesn't matter how hard the DNC fucks them because they will always, always be loyal.
If you are legitimately tweeting the hashtag Mayor Cheat, then you are either a Russian operative,
a GOP operative, or a useful idiot playing right into Trump and Russia's strategy of
dividing the Democratic Party. Any Democrat is a thousand times better than Trump.
Well, maybe it's that the Democratic Party seems to be naturally divided right now.
You moron. Like, you have the neoliberal wing, and then you have the radical activist wing,
with nothing for the actual moderate centrists of the nation to unite behind. I can't prove it yet.
I feel safe in saying that both Bernie 1 and Mayor Cheat are trending because Russian propaganda
accounts are amplifying them. Putin's goal is to divide us. Instead, let's stand together,
elect Democrats, and sanction his ass out of office. A lot of these people who say,
we have to unite behind X. It just so happens that X is their specific political view,
because they have no intention of ever uniting behind anything else,
so they want everyone to just go their way, I guess.
Here's the thing. I'm not a fan of Biden. I'm not a fan of Buttigieg. I'm not even that much
of a fan of Sanders. Sorry. I used to be until he cut out to Hillary in 2016. But anyway,
most campaigns' internal polling makes their campaign candidate look a bit better than the
rest. A bit better than they should be. And that's kind of to be expected. Like,
if Bernie's campaign releases polls, Bernie probably looks better in them than the average.
So there was one point early in the night where when the official Iowa caucus results were not
being posted, Bernie's campaign was posting results showing him with this overwhelming lead.
And I'm not surprised that those weren't completely accurate. Nothing against Bernie,
it's just how these things go. But nonetheless, this is probably the worst case scenario
for the Democrats at this point, because not only is there no one candidate to unite behind
at this point, regardless of who he is, this was so poorly mismanaged. It is a complete shitshow.
And there is no way that the average undecided voter is going to have any kind of faith in the
Democrats after this showing. After all of this shady bullshit, if there's somebody who was on
the fence thinking whether to go right or left this time around, they're probably just going to
say, fuck it, I'll go for Trump. It's the worst case scenario because nobody comes out looking
good. The Bernie bros think that Bernie was robbed yet again. Maybe he was, maybe he wasn't,
who knows. But here's the thing, even if Bernie legitimately lost an election, like was it wasn't
the result of kind of some kind of like 2016 Hillary style backroom deal, but Bernie actually
lost, there's still going to be a bunch of Bernie fans who just don't accept it. You know, they're
gonna be like, oh, it's DNC, it's rigged again. Then you have Elizabeth Warren, who's rather
unlikeable. You have Joe Biden, who seems to have made a new living being one giant fumble.
And now you have Pete Buttigieg. And Pete Buttigieg, he was one of the ones that I
actually thought had a decent chance at beating Trump. For me, there was Kirsten Gillibrand,
there was Tulsi Gabbard, and then there was Pete Buttigieg. Those three probably had the best shot
at beating Trump. Sorry, Yang Gang, I just don't think he was viable. But nonetheless,
those three were always consistently suppressed by the DNC. And maybe it is the case that Pete's
spike is just a natural result of his electability finally bubbling to the surface after, you know,
the nine months of bullshit that have been the Democratic race. But regardless of whether or
not Pete stole the race, or if this is just, you know, a poorly managed situation doesn't look good
on the Democrats. There's no confidence in the party anymore. The way that they're mismanaging
things, the way that like, the way this whole app situation worked out, the way that people are
bitterly divided on social media, it was between Elizabeth Warren and Bernie. Now you might be
asking, if the DNC was actually going to rig this thing, why would they rig it in favor of
Buttigieg? Why wouldn't they rig it in favor of Biden or Warren? Well, on the one hand, if there
was an apparatus behind the rigging, it was probably Buttigieg's because he was involved in
the shadow app. But more importantly, even though I believe that Buttigieg could beat Trump, I don't
think most people do. I don't think the DNC does at all. I think they're still putting all of their
hopes on Biden. And maybe the plan is to siphon away momentum and delegates from Bernie to
Buttigieg in states where Biden is obviously not going to win, like Iowa. Maybe the plan is that
Buttigieg's influence will cancel out Sanders in those states where Biden can't beat him.
So after Biden wins big in those states where he probably will win big, then as soon as the
Democratic convention happens, Bernie is kind of shuffled to the side because a lot of his momentum
was siphoned away by Buttigieg, who himself they don't believe to be viable, which will basically
allow Biden to start gobbling up superdelegates. Basically, I expect this sort of thing to happen
in every state where Biden can't beat Bernie. Something's going to come along to basically
take little chips and pieces out of Bernie's momentum such that Biden can win the long game.
Of course, none of this is going to help them beat Trump, but I guess they're going to go as far as
they can. And then it was between Joe Biden and Bernie, and now it's between Pete and Bernie.
Who knows where this is going to go, but basically there doesn't seem to be any way for the Democrats
to congeal behind any kind of candidate anymore. And I think the Iowa caucus kind of shows that.
It shows that they're like a fundamentally divided party. They're at war with themselves more than
they are at war with the Republicans and Trump, despite what some of them might say. And if they
were looking to impress an idea that they were in control, sane, rational, electable, if they're
looking to give off that impression to the undecided voter, this isn't how you do it.
This is how you do the complete opposite of that.
