Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time.
A mainstream TV, a contraption that, contrary to release held by many netizens, people do actually still watch.
Sharks, advanced sports technology is at the forefront of a new sport that's sweeping the entire nation like a tidal wave.
Sharks, this is the National Association of Bubble Soccer.
It's not a necessity in modern day society, with the rise of online content and streaming platforms,
you can obtain your daily dose of entertainment from a variety of sources.
Yet, although audiences have certainly been spoiled with an abundance of TV series and films,
many live shows have still predominantly remained on broadcast television, well, at least more than others.
These include game shows, news programs, and of course, today's genre that has launched so many successful careers, talk shows.
Now, this isn't to say they don't have their online counterparts, but I think like other shows that retain most of their audience from live TV broadcast,
there is something about watching that sort of content in the moment, as it often operates within a very brief window into the spirit of that specific era.
If you went back and tried to watch an episode of Oprah from 1992, you'd probably find it hasn't dated the best.
I mean, sometimes these episodes are dated by the time they're released.
I digress though, to give them their credit, they have fought hard for their place on the TV Guide,
and they do provide people with content that can keep them in touch with the world around them through a medium that may be more digestible than the traditional outlets.
With this in mind, there aren't too many set rules for creating a successful talk show.
The first rule is that there needs to be some talking, that kind of goes without saying, or with saying I suppose,
but it's also important that the person talking is relatively interesting, and has a personality to present those viewing.
The second rule is that there needs to be people to talk to, otherwise the host is just rambling into the void.
Therefore, they'll either talk to you, the viewer, directly, or there's a live audience drafted into cheer, jeer, or appear as part of the host's wacky shenanigans.
With such a broad church of TV encompassed by these couple tenets, it's no surprise that a plethora of shows have garnered success of the very diverse interpretations of these couple key tenets,
from the preppy positivity of Ellen, to the necessary conflict and consequent chaos of a show like The View.
We just said we don't scream at each other, right? Or is it just you that gets to scream?
Okay, no, no, I agree.
Okay, then lower your voice, because we are very close to each other, and I know you come here to sell a book and try to pick a fight, but we're not going to do it today.
Nevertheless, it follows that such a wide-reaching genre would spawn numerous sub-genres, many of whom have their own means of engagement and corresponding audiences.
While the most significant that arose during the 90s was a star called tabloid talk shows, a controversial and divisive genre that utilized the concept of guest involvement to the maximum.
It soon dawned on TV producers that hosts weren't the only people who could be interesting, and that could serve a purpose as well.
Can you say this, you dumb bitch? Can you read the f***ing line, you stupid bitch?
What are you talking about? What is this?
What do you mean you can replace, bitch?
In the years following, a lot of these shows cropped up that broadcast what would normally be extremely personal disputes, and the explosive confrontations that would follow from them.
Add in many people's desire for their five minutes for fame, and orchestration designed to heighten tension between the parties involved,
and you were often left with highly theatrical, yet extremely real coverage of interpersonal troubles.
For some it was entertaining, but for others it was unwatchable.
Enter stage left Oprah Winfrey, the queen of TV talk shows, who some argue made the industry more accessible to tabloid shows due to the intimate nature of her own.
Her often very personal statements and opinions through the guise of a large media personality caught a lot of people's attention.
With that said, Oprah was also thought to not be entirely comfortable with that presentation, and sought to retain a more conventional and professional structure that wouldn't conflate her with an often turbulent genre.
One of these measures undertaken was to involve experts in certain segments, and provide an extra veneer of credibility for the discourse at hand.
One of these experts was an individual by the name of Phil McGraw, who held a PhD in clinical psychology.
Oprah had met Phil a few years prior while working with his trial consultancy firm CSI, after being sued for statements she had made on her show relating to mad cow disease.
After that beef was settled, she offered McGraw a visiting spot on Oprah, where he would be brought on to discuss questions surrounding relationships and general life hardships with her guests.
With their focus being on the host, a lot of shows experimented with different styles, and not too soon after, we were asking the question,
what if we had an expert in subject X or subject Y as a host, and how would that influence how they interact with their guests?
Dr Phil seemed to serve as the answer to this question.
The only person in the world I've ever wanted to cheer for me was him.
Look at him.
The only person in the world...
Stand up.
You're hiding from him. I want you to look at him, and let me tell you something, I want you to listen.
I don't want you to go off and think about what you're going to say in response.
I want you to listen and look her in the eye and hear what she's saying.
These segments proved to be extremely popular, with Oprah giving them an increasingly regular presence on her program.
As this popularity persisted, Winfrey, being the business person that she is, decided that Dr Phil McGraw's sections had the potential to be its own TV series.
So in 2002, four years after our visiting expert made his debut appearance on Oprah, Dr Phil was launched to impressive ratings that had maintained themselves
during the show's long and illustrious lifespan, receiving multiple Daytime Emmy nominations, and praise from viewers who feel that Dr Phil's more measured approach to his guests
allows them to be viewed through a more human lens.
However, as we've seen with other talk show hosts, what is presented is never quite the full picture.
It should go without saying that TV is very selective, even more so than other mediums, and over time, Dr Phil's show garnered more and more critics,
who questioned the professionalism and ethics behind the treatment of the guests involved,
also culminating in a flurry of allegations made by former employees and guests towards the show's producers, and of course the man himself,
leading many to question whether the show was really a force for good.
Well, ladies, gentlemen, and all complementary variations, today we'll delve into Dr Phil, the rise and success of the show,
alongside its notable social media renaissance, we'll also investigate the controversy and the concomitant ethical questions of our beloved TV title at the centre of today's video.
My friends, let us not dwell any longer, it is time to discuss the dangers of Dr Phil.
And now, ad time.
When it comes to making videos, I have many weapons in my arsenal, but there's one secret weapon that's so powerful, former president George W. Bush wants to invade my house.
You see my friends, I am harbouring a weapon of mass production, so it's time for me to open up and let you see it.
This is vidIQ, yes, the vidIQ, the secret weapon that helps you print out bangers like the Weimar Republic prints money.
How? Let's just say it'll give you much needed help on video titles, titles that will actually make people gaze upon its poetry.
Not enough? How about some time tinkering with the algorithm so it picks up views from trending videos similar to yours?
Maybe stealing some of Jay Aubrey's viewers for your own? I mean, what's that twink gonna do about it?
Now, you're probably worried about your enemies, your competitors, or even your friends. Maybe all three, but don't worry, vidIQ will spy on all those trending keywords they're using, with more commitment and dedication than the KGB.
Now, this powerful weapon can't work if you don't work. Fort is a YouTuber who carries an empty vessel of ideas, a useless being leeching off the nectar of society, that's what.
So that's it, you may say, vidIQ cannot be of any assistance because you simply do not have the imagination.
I mean, it's not like it can come up with 50 video ideas every day for you, right? Wrong. Because it will. 50 ideas each day. Save that pesky thought process for more fitting scenarios like Overwatch 2.
So now you're asking, how can this possibly be? You're thinking, surely there's no team of humans big enough to do all this work for you.
And you're right, no team of humans could ever be big enough for such a colossal task. But what if I told you it's not humans that run this? What if I told you it's all run by a powerful AI?
This AI will scour every inch of YouTube for you, providing you with all the information you could ever need about what those YouTubers are up to.
But I can tell that you're worried. You're asking if this powerful AI follows Asimov's three laws of artificial intelligence. A good question.
All I can say is that during the robot apocalypse, I think vidIQ will be on the side of humanity. But how much can this monthly subscription possibly cost?
How much can a weapon of such power break the bank? Can you even put a price on an AI rivaling God themselves?
Well the bigwigs over at vidIQ HQ said $49 a month, but that wasn't good enough for me. So engaging my exquisite negotiation skills and some articulate ransom notes,
I have brought the price of their first month down by nearly 99%. So now you lovely people can venture onto YouTube with vidIQ for just $1 for their first month.
Yes, $1. Nearly 99% off. That's like buying a nondescript certain YouTuber's Tesla for $500. It's like reducing a life sentence for ransom to 6 months,
which would be great in this instance. It's Rishi Sunak reduced to just his thumb and leading the nation like he does now. I don't know about you,
but a thumb seems like a very electable option to me. If this proposition interests you, click the link in the description below
to subscribe to vidIQ for $1 for the first month, see how you like it. It might just change your game. Back to the video.
Allow me to introduce you to a man that you may not have heard of. This champ is called Les Crane, and in the 1960s he had a somewhat
popular late night program fittingly called The Les Crane Show. In an attempt to compete with other programs at the time,
they introduced a format which involved a shotgun microphone and members of the audience, whom he would proceed to grill on a multitude of
affairs, including socially sensitive topics of that time, such as homosexuality.
I have to differ with you, I have to argue with you on that one point there, because there are some homosexuals who are that way because of either
environment or because of a background that has caused them to go that route. Now, that doesn't mean that all homosexuals are sick people.
But not through, it's not something that happens through seduction or anything like that, the background is just that they grew up in a society,
and they found the existing heterosexual norms, not to their liking, whether it was the way they perceived their own parental relationships.
On one episode, he had hosted a debate with Lee Harvey Oswald's mother on the topic of her son's guilt, which was concluded with an
editorial recap from Mel Brooks of all people, but unfortunately, I couldn't retrieve any footage of such.
By all means, Les Crane was perceived as a vigorous, yet reasoned interviewer, and although the tabloid label was retroactively applied to his show,
not too long after followed what many believe was a more fitting prototype for the genre.
This is Joe Pine, he was another 50s and 60s talk show host who garnered popularity on radio and TV for his often outspoken and opinionated demeanor.
However, in 1965, his own self-titled talk show went into wide syndication, these typically involved fiery discussions with highly controversial guests,
coloured by Pine's own racially progressive, yet otherwise socially conservative political positions.
These conversations would regularly escalate into shouting matches, and even physical aggression, with reports being that chairs would regularly be thrown,
and Pine would have to eject his guests live on TV. Although receiving criticism for his platforming of vicious and even dangerous individuals,
he continued to retain a steady viewership until the show's cessation a couple years later.
In the years following, a number of hosts utilised similar blueprints for their talk shows, but after the heights of the Vietnam War and hippie culture that were a catalyst for a lot of these broadcasts,
the genre maintained a middling profile that wasn't the source of great discourse, mostly carried by Phil Donahue and Dick Cavett,
both of whom were known for their slightly more dignified techniques, though not without their exceptional moments.
However, this began to change once more in the 1980s, with the emergence of shows that catered towards more controversial subjects
that regularly resulted in conflicts between the guests and the hosts.
Go ahead and talk.
So shut up.
No, no, you shut up.
So shut up.
Sit down.
Sit down.
You had your chance of fame.
You had your chance of fame.
Sit down.
You had your chance of fame.
So look out.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Come on.
Probably the most famous example of this is Jerry Springer, the syndicated show named after its host.
Springer, a former lawyer and civic official, had initially conceived the show as a forum for political debate,
but after a few unsuccessful seasons, Springer and his new producer overhauled this concept,
and decided to focus on more personal issues with members of the public as their guests,
complemented by scripted sequences that would regularly escalate into physical confrontation,
sort of like Oprah meets WWE.
It clearly took a few notes from Joe Pine's show, while replacing the political content with more sociological matters.
Although the scripted sequences would eventually be scrapped, the topics were similarly contentious,
and were still the source of numerous controversies over the years that followed.
However, the success spoke for itself, and it wasn't long before the genre was more popular than ever,
featuring multiple syndicated shows with different hosts and international producers taking an interest as well.
Probably the most famous overseas example in the UK is The Jeremy Carr Show,
which ran for a total of 17 seasons, and was no less frenzied than its American contemporaries.
There! Listen! Look, I'm a boyfriend! Oh, don't worry about you!
You didn't mean it! I was with you all the time! Everyone's seen you all the time!
Keep going! I'm with you!
Oh, shut up, me!
So there we go!
Nonetheless, in spite of these ratings, the controversies are no less troubling for certain viewers, and even businesses.
As entertaining as conflict can be, many hosts played a role that could be perceived as provocative,
and as a person who is also trying to present themselves as an arbiter, that seemed a somewhat compromising problem.
The audience also often didn't help, seeming more like citizens in a Roman Colosseum,
ready to watch whatever gladiatorial combat was about to transpire.
Producers also participated by purposefully choosing topics that would garner the most views,
but at the same time, could also cause the most damage to the people actually involved.
Anyone who's familiar with conflict resolution knows the last thing you need is a large mob egging you on,
and therefore this sort of TV, although entertaining for some, was deeply discomforting for others.
A lot of these shows have been taken off air since, some the result of host fatigue,
some the result of TV scandals, and some the result of actual deaths.
Many of these shows also employed methods that were questionable in their authority.
A polygraph or lie detector, for example, is always a popular piece of equipment.
Its accuracy, however, is never guaranteed, yet its word was treated like gospel on all of these programs.
In the case of The Jeremy Carr Show, it was taken off the air after a guest who was known to have suffered from depression,
took his own life following his appearance and failure of a polygraph, of which Carr persistently insulted his guest,
and branded him a serial liar, of which the coroner concluded could well have contributed to his untimely death.
With The Revelation, there were probably other people who suffered the same fate as well.
I'd like to say that it was a sudden moral consciousness that kicked in the demise of many of these shows,
but I think it became apparent to producers and studios that these shows were liabilities,
and that if they continued to utilise techniques that provoked their guests in such a way,
they could easily be facing some very serious lawsuits.
So over the 21st century, these shows have slowly faded into re-run rotation, but what could have taken its place?
Well, this is where Dr. Phil makes his grand entrance.
When he arrived on the scene in 2002, this sort of content was just passing its peak,
but still pulling significant ratings.
The market was pretty saturated, and there were more than enough talk show hosts for viewers to choose from.
The only real thing he had going for him on paper was his qualifications, and the backing of the behemoth that was Oprah.
However, he'd need more than that for the sort of longevity that she had enjoyed.
What would he do to ensure that?
Well, let me introduce you to Dr. Phil.
The year now is 2022, if my upload schedule is intact, and Dr. Phil has been up and running for 20 seasons.
It has outlasted nearly every tabloid talk show, a majority of normal talk shows, including Oprah,
and still pulls significant viewership.
He must have done something right.
You call people trailer trash or rednecks.
I have.
Okay, 90% of people are stupid.
There should be a law passed against stupid people.
Well, you better hope that isn't true.
From the off, Dr. Phil seemed to set himself apart from the competition, particularly in his approach to how he treated guests.
I think many hosts, even the ones that were probably more sensitive than most,
didn't have the human background to navigate the complex issues that many of these shows often sought to tackle.
Now, McGraw wasn't a full time psychologist.
As we know, he was a bit of a jack of all trades,
but his educational background in clinical psychology and at least some degree of practical experience made him a much
better fit for the moderating position that such an individual should typically occupy.
You also said women are really emotional, and men are logical, and I got the sense,
and I'm just asked you tell me what you think.
I'm not trying to I just want to know where you come down on it.
You said that is, though logic is at this level,
and emotion is at a lesser level of functioning.
Is that how you think he feels?
Psychology isn't just about knowing all these behavioral terms or knowing how to approach them.
Honestly, that would make pretty dry TV.
A lot of the art is in being able to deconstruct people's behavior and language to reach the core of how they're feeling.
The truth is, a lot of people don't say how they're feeling, particularly in these situations when their behaviors or
beliefs may be challenged.
It's a very interpretive job and requires picking out certain details that you may typically overlook in everyday conversation.
Now, I'm sure Dr Phil has his own style.
However, when the show started, he definitely demonstrated this ability,
and this often allowed him to connect with his guests more successfully than others from around his time.
And you feel guilty about this, don't you?
You feel guilty about where she is and what she's doing?
Yes.
Do you?
Because you guys say we're kind of blaming ourselves for this.
Have you intended to sabotage your daughter?
No.
Have you intended to make her stubborn?
No.
Non-compliant?
No.
Disobedient, rebellious.
So we need to put blame out of this.
Parents don't need to be feeling blame about this.
What you need to be thinking about here is that you have a responsibility for what's happened.
Dr Phil took a familiar formula, the fact that one or more people had a problem, the problem affected their daily life,
and they wish to address it.
Now, when you present this scenario to a majority of tabloid talk show hosts or their producers,
the question will be, how can we generate the most drama?
The approach that Dr Phil appears to take is more related to how can this problem be addressed?
And for many, there's a great satisfaction within problem resolution.
Other talk show hosts presented talking about your problems as being intimidating,
and certainly didn't really inspire people to seek out help.
And to be fair to Dr Phil, studies have shown that viewers of his shows are more likely to do just that,
and that's really nothing to turn your nose up at.
When dealing with certain disputes, he didn't seem to be insensitive to the human facts of play.
The human factors are what made Dr Phil appealing.
One of the skills to what his show does is one that I describe as extraction.
A lot of the time, Dr Phil would be presented with a specific situation,
one that on the surface could be rather niche and certainly not applicable to you or I.
Everyone has their own unique situations and challenges,
but a lot of the time they can also be rooted in general struggles that can affect anyone,
and by being able to focus on that, he could connect with audience members who may be emotionally moved by hearing such struggles.
This is something he's referenced in interviews,
and although some would justifiably find it a bit objectifying towards his guests,
it's also definitely the source of some success.
What I'm recommending is empirically supported in the psychological and psychiatric literature,
and I don't diagnose people, and I say very clearly, I can't diagnose you here.
I would have to complete a lot more interview than I have time to do.
I would have to do a battery of psychometric tests.
I'd probably have to do a brain workup and some lab work, and I can't do that here.
Now, in the short list of my considerations, if I was doing it, might be the following,
but these are things you're going to check out when you leave here.
And so they look at that and say, you know what, I think this guy's checking all the boxes.
Yeah. Well, so it just seems from that explanation that what you're doing is more for everybody else than for the person sitting in that chair, maybe.
They're teaching tools.
Everybody there is a teaching tool.
If I'm talking to you, it's a trade-off.
You get up close and personal focus and lots of resources,
because I have a blue ribbon advisory board with the top minds from the top learning centers in the country.
I do think it can help to put individuals more in touch with their own mental health,
with mind to the fact that such information should be handled carefully, which will put a pin in for now.
Did it never occur to you that, you know what, I'm putting myself first and my need to vent and my need to explode.
I'm putting that ahead of my children's best interest.
He yells at me too.
You don't get it.
I hope all of you at home get it, but you don't get it.
The angle that Dr. Phil adopts is also really important for audience retention.
There are lots of causes for people's mistakes and misdeeds, some of which we'll never understand.
However, Dr. Phil's focus on personal responsibility is universal.
I wholeheartedly believe good people can do bad things and learn from them.
At the same time, the only way to properly grow is to accept responsibility,
because if you assign all rationale for your behavior to external circumstances, you're admitting you don't have control over your actions.
Personal responsibility is the driving force for change, and by focusing on that,
Dr. Phil ensures that his show has the ability to find the solution within the problems presented.
In discussing people's specific problems, McGraw always managed to approach it from a perspective that gave it mass appeal,
retaining its educational grounding, while still speaking directly to the guests.
It was accessible, yet challenging.
I don't doubt it has probably helped a fair few people in not just understanding themselves,
but possibly being more empathetic to those around them, and impossibly recognizing those same signs.
Dr. Phil's demeanor also aids viewers in how they may feel morally about watching content that could typically leave vulnerable individuals
somewhat exposed in the eye of the media.
As much as gladiatorial combat enthralls those who desire it, there's always the question of the cost to those brave warriors who put themselves out there.
The Dr. Phil show presented discussion on these matters as if they were the first step to getting genuine help,
and therefore, viewers could feel more at ease believing that they weren't necessarily contributing to a harmful practice.
A lot of guests seemed to be in a better place after a discussion with Dr. Phil,
and whereas other tabloid talk show hosts almost focused on escalation, the art of Dr. Phil seemed to be de-escalation.
Each reaches some sort of conclusion, but the latter seems more mutually favorable in the long term.
I think in this case, Dr. Phil carved out an industry niche like very few others,
the show that took a genre nearly done to death and subverted it, and started its own trend,
this being what some branded as self-help TV, a more conscious way to approach issues that have previously been treated with apathy,
and even provocation on mainstream television.
It's clear that Dr. Phil saw himself less as a therapist and more as a moderator,
and wished to present himself as the reasonable voice within often two very strongly contrasting ones,
and for many viewers, they perceived him as just that, and tuned in to hear that voice discuss affairs that may hit close to home.
And as one of the pioneers of this new movement, it was only upwards from there.
But was there something more at stake?
One of the common appraisals of Dr. Phil is that he was clearly an intelligent guy,
and there was little doubt about that.
The dude knew how to present a TV show, and as the ratings followed suit,
he enjoyed success that even rivaled his superiors, and over the coming decades,
he would only grow his influence as a cultural icon.
At first, many viewers did consider him of the more academic cloth, particularly with his background and experience.
However, professional psychologists seldom have illustrious TV careers,
because the topic is often at odds with a lot of the principles of entertainment.
I think McGraw identified this pretty quickly, and in interviews, he didn't tie himself too closely to the occupation,
more emphasizing his nature to inform people to go and receive proper help.
A lot of individuals might speculate on how Dr. Phil evolved over the years.
A lot of TV shows tend to change, and when discussing talk shows,
they often evolved to their structure to stay relevant,
and even somewhat acceptable within the ever-adjusting moral compass of the viewers.
Dr. Phil was different in this sense.
He maintained a lot of consistency with his style.
However, what I think changed was how it was presented and perceived by others around it.
Indeed, as that style garnered popularity in the mainstream industry,
he found a new status as a bit of an oracle on affairs affecting the world in general,
and one that placed him in a rather unique position, but posed a few challenges of their own.
However, the doctor here responded accordingly.
I do believe that there comes a moment in time where all things wrong can be made right.
But if we're gonna do this, we're gonna do this my way.
In 2006, McGraw chose not to renew his license to practice psychology professionally in Texas.
Some may ask whether this affected his ability to run his show.
However, in California, where said show was based,
their respective Board of Psychology reported to have agreed that Dr.
Phil does not actually practice psychology on his show and therefore does not require a license.
Some have questioned why he did this,
and my personal opinion holds that if he didn't actually need it for his show,
then it likely became a liability in his eyes.
Being a practicing psychologist obviously comes with certain responsibilities,
and if he or his show was found to have breached them,
even if he wasn't presenting himself in a psychological capacity,
then he could have landed himself in some serious shit,
which would have generated a lot more controversy than him just opting not to renew his license.
A lot of people found this out during Britney Spears' life crisis in 2008.
During a stint where she had been hospitalized,
her parents, clearly eager to support her, invited Dr.
Phil to her bedside, an invitation which he readily accepted.
However, after his visit,
Dr. Phil decided to issue a public statement,
expressing an urgency for the troubled pop star to receive medical support.
This was met with disappointment from Spears' parents,
who expressed that McGraw had violated their trust by issuing a public statement,
and it was even alleged that a complaint had been filed to the Board of Psychology that McGraw had practiced
psychology without a license.
Now, there are a few more layers to this than a lot of press reported at the time.
Dr. Phil did actually know Britney's parents in a personal capacity and claimed to have attended the hospital as a friend,
and not a therapist.
Nonetheless, it still engendered a lot of discourse about his responsibility as a public figure,
and his outspoken reputation on mental health,
with many asking the question of whether he had actually breached his responsibility as a confidant.
Dr. Phil did actually issue a response to this on his website,
where he clarified he did not practice psychology and had no intent to practice it in the foreseeable future.
It definitely showcased the dichotomy with how many audience members viewed him and how he viewed himself,
and in spite of these statements,
many still held him as an expert in his respective field,
and to be fair, it's not like he disagreed.
In his statement, he still drew attention to the fact that he had decades of experience and a PhD to show for it.
He was still a doctor after all.
Although Dr. Phil didn't seem to change in his approach towards guests,
not too long after dropping his license, McGraw seemed to expand his franchise.
Many continued to utilize the notion of expert advice, including the show The Doctors,
which, although not featuring McGraw, was created and produced by him.
The Doctors is another talk show that leans more into the general medical issues,
and was relatively successful, being canceled in 2022 after 14 seasons.
Another recent show, House Calls with Dr. Phil,
once more uses a trope more associated with traditional doctors who may be called to a patient's abode,
though looking at the state of healthcare nowadays, I'm surprised we didn't get phone calls with Dr. Phil.
He also launched the company Doctor on Demand,
which allowed individuals to schedule appointments with medical and psychological professionals.
I'll say that it's a good thing he was providing a platform for more licensed experts,
but I also think it's indicative of the fact that he still enjoyed his status and wanted to make the most of it.
The truth was, whether he felt like a practicing psychologist or not,
it was clear how other people viewed him.
The other reason why there aren't a lot of TV figures in the realm of Dr. Phil's is because of the sensitivity of humans themselves,
and the trouble that can cause.
Dr. Phil was no stranger to that either.
In fact, even his most successful, he could be facing multiple lawsuits,
mostly from disgruntled guests who were unhappy with their portrayal of the show.
A large majority of these lawsuits were fairly quickly dismissed,
with judges finding the coverage provided by Dr. Phil was fair,
and McGraw's language being protected under the First Amendment.
Dr. Phil occupied this near bulletproof position,
where his words were viewed as holding a significant amount of weight,
yet could never officially bear that much responsibility as he operated and presented the show as a talk show host.
He may not have changed his method,
but he definitely shifted his image towards a more business oriented model that provided him with more protection.
He would regularly make TV appearances and stage interventions with other celebrities,
ordinary people, or washed up TV stars.
Obtaining this Messiah-like status amongst many is the guy who would fly in and rescue you from your lowest points,
or give you a good pep talk at least.
As the halfway point between medical professional and entertainer,
Dr. Phil had occupied a position in the media that enabled him to develop his brand with extensive influence,
while maintaining an audience who respected his approach to sensitive matters.
It was a devastating combination, and it seemed like there was very little that could undo it.
However, would the necessity to occupy two quite conflicting positions pose a challenge as the media landscape evolved?
Well, let's find out.
Hey, Dr. Phil here.
I'm backstage getting ready to do the show, which is where you're used to seeing me.
But in the virtual world of computer games, I can be somebody completely different.
I can be super mortal Phil, defender of my countrymen, and a super stud who gets to have cool hair while playing.
And in this virtual world, I'm agile, powerful, and I never have to do what my wife says.
As known to the start, this sort of content has mostly found its footing within the airwaves of mainstream television,
and throughout most of its early lifespan, there was nothing that could really change that.
However, over time, with the increasing influence of social media, opportunities presented themselves for TV networks to advertise,
and possibly garner new viewers.
It also served as an archive for viewers who may have missed the show, or wanted to rewatch popular clips without too much inconvenience.
With this in mind, it's not hard to see why the Dr. Phil show was one of the earlier TV shows to serve a channel on the budding website known as YouTube.
A platform like YouTube provided the perfect opportunity for success.
At its inception, it only really allowed for shorter clips, which I know is hard to actually remember,
but for a TV show like Dr. Phil, this meant that snippets of the show could be put online to hopefully reel new audience members in.
However, at that time, YouTube was much more oriented towards homegrown content,
and although the Dr. Phil producers tried their best by publishing multiple interviews with famous names,
using clips often addressing trending topics, and even having McGraw respond to comments in his own YouTube series,
nothing ever quite went viral like they may have hoped.
This did not deter them though, and over the years, they continued to upload content that cultivated an audience,
and as YouTube became more palatable to mainstream sources who were able to upload high definition content,
and with users becoming more intrigued by subjects of Dr. Phil's episodes, the view count seemed to begin to pick up significantly.
This was definitely aided by the rise of the early commentary genre that specialised in talking about other people,
particularly those who may have been slightly more eccentric than the average Joe.
It certainly paid off.
It's just so fascinating when something catches like that girl. What is her name? The catch me outside girl.
Uh, Danielle Bregoli or something? Something like that, yeah.
Cause I didn't know her as the catch me outside girl.
Another emerging trend was the nature for the internet to bestow meme status onto people.
Now, this had its roots in something quite usual, our culture has always enjoyed making overnight sensations of relatively unknown figures.
How the internet certainly made this easier, targeting people who stood out from the crowd,
whether that be due to their behaviour or just their appearance.
Now, in many ways, this could be quite fortuitous for someone like Dr. Phil, whose content was built on dealing with often challenging personas,
but often to acquire such a status, a person needs to be a perfect storm of characteristics that hasn't been seen elsewhere,
and those sorts of people are a rare breed.
With that in mind, I'd like to introduce you to someone by the name of Danielle Bregoli.
I'm pretty violent. I'm with her in the face cause she wouldn't get out of my face.
Either I'm breaking down her door or she's breaking down my door.
I don't stop till I start seeing dents in a door.
Danielle Bregoli was like many Dr. Phil guests, a troubled youth who possess serious behavioral issues,
and externalize them in a way that many youngsters have a tendency to do.
Dr. Phil often showcased troubled teens on his show, and on paper, the premise of her appearance was not exceptional.
However, paper can only account for so many variables, and when she took the stage in early 2016,
it was clear that this was not going to be any ordinary episode.
I ain't gonna lie, there's no reason to lie, everybody know already, like...
What do you say to yourself that gives you the right to take somebody else's car?
You're talking about sliding? F*** you mean? That's what makes me want to take the next bitch car.
What now? I'm sorry I didn't get that. Are you speaking English?
A lot of the youths that Dr. Phil addressed on the show definitely conformed to a certain mold.
It was clear they were projecting aspects of culture they idolized onto themselves,
and therefore that behavior, although sometimes extremely challenging, was not unfamiliar.
Danielle Bregoli seemed to bring her own personal flavor to the role, and her extremely abrasive attitude also played into that.
Dr. Phil in this case played the usual role of mediator attempting to reason with her,
but sometimes people just aren't there to be reasoned with,
and her relationship with the audience only inflamed that.
Soon Danielle was turning on everyone within the vicinity,
making threats that didn't seem quite as threatening as they could be.
Did you say the hoes are laughing?
Yep.
So the audience are a bunch of hoes.
Yep.
Catch me outside, how bout dat?
Catch me outside, how bout dat?
Catch you outside, what does that mean?
What'd I just say?
At first it didn't pick up too many views,
but over time it garnered traction, and eventually the famous quote at the end of the video became noteworthy to many online observers.
It wasn't long until their antics were provided international coverage,
and memes started cropping up all over social media that made a mockery out of her language and demeanor,
amassing online notoriety.
Although the show was instrumental in the facilitation of this popularity,
Dr. Phil wasn't really at the center of this discourse,
only one person really mattered, and that was Bregoli.
However, she definitely started something online,
and not too long after, a new genre of respiring commentators presented itself.
Catch me outside, how bout dat?
Bro, I give up on these kids nowadays, dude. I'm so done with these fucking kids.
This is Trigga Trove.
He was one of the first creators to pick up on the fascination with many Dr. Phil guests,
particularly those that appealed to certain outlandish stereotypes.
As Daniel Bregoli began to garner online attention,
the then budding creator released a video titled,
The Catch Me Outside, How Bout Dat Girl Roast,
and the rest was history.
Yeah, I know where the car at.
You know where the car at?
Did you go to fifth grade?
Did you go to fifth grade?
Did you go to fifth grade?
Fifth grade? Fifth grade?
God damn, Dr. Phil, you straight roasted her ass.
Did you go to fifth grade?
Dr. Phil, more like doctor, you gotta fucking chill.
The then less than 2,000 subscriber creator had struck gold,
and he only continued in that direction for the following year.
That is childish and immature behaviour.
Now I get to leave.
Yes, you do.
No.
Don't let the door hit you in the ass.
Oh my God, what a savage.
I didn't realise Dr. Phil was such a gangster.
Dozens of Dr. Phil videos became the focus of online content,
reaching more audiences than ever,
and the producers, as they always have been,
were sure to cash in on this new opportunity,
publishing more content on the platform than they ever had before.
Today on an all new Dr. Phil.
You're ugly, you're disgusting,
I'm gonna kill you, give me $200.
Damn, Dr. Phil's a stone cold savage.
I didn't know Dr. Phil would come after you like that.
I mean, he did try and break into my house one time.
I want the money.
I'll raise enough hell till you give in and give it to me.
What do you think of me now?
Yes, Dr. Phil, get it!
It seems this genre of content had given Dr. Phil a fresh wind,
a relevance amongst a new generation of viewers who wanted to engage in that content.
One of the greatest drawbacks to mainstream television is that many believe it doesn't appeal to younger people,
and at the end of the day, they're the future older people.
Yet less than half a year after Danielle Bregoli's first appearance,
Dr. Phil enjoyed over 150 consecutive weeks at the top of the syndicated TV ratings,
beating out Maury, Wendy Williams, and yes, Ellen.
With this in mind, it's clear that Dr. Phil had captured the attention of a new cohort of viewers,
and it wasn't long until he signed another contract extending the series until 2023.
Everything was going right.
Are you one of those parents who uses the TV as a babysitter? Next, a mom who can't...
With the help of social media, Dr. Phil seemed to have pulled off one of the more impressive feats in television.
He managed to make his content relevant to a new set of people, and it seemed they weren't going anywhere.
He subsequently leaned into this reputation, appearing on a variety of internet shows,
and even co-hosting PewDiePie's popular meme review series.
Take it away, doctor.
Hey everyone, it's Dr. Phil here, and I'm hosting Meme Review.
It seems his stoic, tough love style had become beloved by a fresh demographic,
all of whom had a platform to access this content freely.
However, social media can go two ways, and as much as they may love you one day, they may hate you the next.
Internet culture moves quickly, even more quickly these days in fact,
and about as soon as Dr. Phil was popularized by the content he and others post online,
more critical eyes were drawn towards him, finding a lot beneath the surface.
It would be no surprise, given everything said thus far, that Dr. Phil wasn't without his enemies or his critics.
In fact, he has been subject to severe criticism from medical professionals since the inception of his show.
That can't be a surprise, really, given that his technique isn't actually one that's favored by most working in that profession.
Every parent should know the warning signs. For the most violent of criminals, there are 14 traits of serial killers.
Now meet parents terrified of their own young son who has 9 of the 14 traits.
Criticism of Dr. Phil has been present since the show's launch in 2002.
He was condemned by the National Alliance on Mental Illness after McGraw delivered a scathing public psychological analysis
of a 9-year-old in 2004, with academic commentary on his techniques not exactly changing since.
However, these narratives never had much impact because the majority of academics were on the fringe of popular culture at least,
with many operating strictly within their fields. Ten different psychological boards could condemn you,
and it wouldn't mean anything if they didn't receive any coverage.
So while Dr. Phil primarily occupied the realms of television, he was mostly immune to such commentary and controversy.
In spite of the numerous lawsuits and claims all the way up to 2017, you search Dr. Phil on the TV,
and the only result you'll find is the big man himself. However, this isn't quite the case with online search engines,
in particular YouTube, where Dr. Phil isn't the only person talking about Dr. Phil.
Yes, you see, whereas previously the closest that most academics could get to having a public platform would be an opinion piece
of the New York Times or an interview on MSNBC, there was now a whole website dedicated to allowing them to upload
their thoughts on their specialist subjects. Now, like with any learned commentator, the trick is to make sure the topics
you're talking about are somewhat relevant to the audience, and given that Dr. Phil was indeed very relevant,
many began to open up discourse on his methods, and their success, or lack thereof.
These took form of articles, YouTube videos, anything that gave an individual a way to express their feelings.
So if Phil McGraw says it's not therapy, and he's not practicing any way, what is it?
Kind of back to my original point, it's really just entertainment.
All the seriousness with an insane amount of sound effects and transitions and just editorial nonsense.
My whole life changed the day I met Jazz because she's the most spectacular woman I've ever met.
It's no wonder people forget these are real human beings, the editing turns it all into a cartoon.
Most of this began to circulate around the start of 2019. Funnily enough, this wasn't during any specific drama,
more likely a product of Dr. Phil inertia, and the fact that people were growing more critical of prominent media
figures in general. McGraw had always accepted that he was a bit of an outcast from the industry, but I do think these
criticisms were somewhat contradictory to a lot of public opinion that had definitely heralded him as this universal
problem solver, particularly that which questioned the general morals of the show.
What did Dr. Phil have to offer other than an interesting premise for its time?
Okay, it's good to meet you. Hi, it's nice to meet you too.
Now, tell me what you mean when you say you're the reincarnation.
Because Pocahontas was my 13th grade grandmother, but I'm sharing her soul in my body.
So you can feel her presence in you? Yeah.
It's difficult being any sort of public figure and dealing with issues that are often deeply personal.
You're handling sensitive information, and one of the drawbacks of Dr. Phil's show is that no matter how good he could
have hypothetically been, the program was still designed to bring about drama, even if he wasn't.
And people began to pick up on that. Television and therapy have always seemed somewhat opposed to each other.
Although it's important that there are people prepared to be open about their struggles to help others,
it's still a subject that needs to be handled with sensitivity and care, and given the fact that some of these people
were not even on the show by their own volition, particularly children who were likely brought on by their parents,
it's hard to see the benefit that was derived. Simply put, you wouldn't see this sort of drama in a private therapy room
because TV cameras and the presence of a large public audience always encourages people to act more defensive,
and even aggressive.
Now I have a career and I'm famous. That's what happens when you get famous, you cut people off.
Everyone's upset with it, maybe because you guys aren't relevant either, so you don't understand.
Some people began to ask, why is this TV at all? And I think it's a potent question.
Probably the easiest answer is simple, that being of entertainment, and obviously that's important as it drives
the core appeal of a lot of modern TV, having it can't be the only reason when there are other ethical queries
surrounding the subject. The Hunger Games is pretty entertaining for a lot of people, but there's also a reason why it's fictional.
Dr. Phil can showcase people at their weakest and most vulnerable, and although it's often used to drive home a positive message,
what sacrifice to a person's privacy and individual healing process is made to achieve that?
Sure, Dr. Phil raises awareness, but at what cost? A lot of people clearly had it in their head that there was some mutual benefit,
coming on Dr. Phil was meant to be helpful, but the only people it was guaranteed to benefit were some viewers and the show itself.
I think the audience's self-assurance that Dr. Phil offered some unique brand of assistance was really meant to mask the fact that people
love to watch a car crash. There's a reason why the most successful Dr. Phil videos are the ones with the most heated confrontations.
These videos all likely staying on YouTube for the rest of eternity, showing the behaviour of some extremely troubled people.
Sure, Dr. Phil was better than his trash TV contemporaries, but that didn't exactly make him a force for good,
and with his greater presence online, it also made it easier to reach with such criticisms, and many did just that.
So with all these different points in mind, both the positive and the negative, my question would be,
why would anyone believe that Phil McGraw knows something special?
Many began to wonder what Dr. Phil was offering his guests that couldn't be offered elsewhere.
Well, I suppose the one thing was that any sort of treatment was not cheap in a place like the United States,
and Dr. Phil did offer a space for that, at the price of a bit of TV time.
Additionally, the therapy doesn't end on the Dr. Phil show, many would attest that he provides help beyond their TV appearance,
and for the children who McGraw felt were facing the most significant challenges, they would have an all-expenses-paid trip
to Turnabout Ranch, that was designed to help put kids on the right path.
Dr. Phil did offer something different to everyone else, and just because a person doesn't derive benefit,
doesn't mean the formula in place can't help a majority of people, does it?
Okay, let's say the concept behind Dr. Phil is inherently flawed, there was no way that a show like this could possibly work
in favour of every guest because of how the public spotlight affects you.
It would be fair to question its status on the principal alone, but is it fair to tar the entire show with the critical brush?
The least that some would argue is that McGraw and the producers involved did their best to mitigate the negative impact
that may be drawn towards individuals who were involved with the show.
I'm not here to judge you, I'm here to help you. I'm here to help you.
I'm here to do what your husband should have done all along the way, and that is to lead you out of this quagmire and into the light.
Dr. Phil himself was often outspoken in making sure people knew the help an individual would be receiving,
and like a lot of shows, conducted segments that revisited former participants to assess how their lives had changed since then.
So how are you doing?
Doing good, I am four months clean and sober for everything.
So glad to hear that.
It just puts courage and strength, and finally love myself, because you helped me figure that out.
Like, being able to do that has changed my life.
It seemed that the consensus from a lot of guests was broadly positive, and that their appearance on Dr. Phil had prompted
many of them to begin turning their lives around. It likely made viewers feel good about themselves,
but as people began to dig, they realised that this outlook wasn't quite as universal as it was portrayed on TV,
with some even suggesting that there had been serious failures regarding the safeguarding of guests.
As noted, there have been several lawsuits and allegations that were published during the lifespan of the show,
but as always, the problem with these is that when they're isolated, they're typically not high-profile enough to attract attention from the public.
However, when they can all be lined up in one place, a much clearer pattern can be established,
and greater narratives can be expounded on the matter.
With Dr. Phil under the spotlight as a whole, and the online world making it easier to access such information,
it wasn't long until people began picking apart the show's wholesome veneer.
The first aspect to go under the microscope was how the show managed the handling of its guests on air.
Dr. Phil and the producers always made a point about the show being a safe space for an individual to speak openly about their trials and their trauma.
However, some have begun to question whether that was truly the case in the last few years,
or if chasing a story was more important to the people in question.
I must know why you and my step-sisters treat me with such contempt.
You know, I try to be kind and forgiving, but the nicer I am, the worse you treat me.
This is Shelley Duvall. A few decades ago, she was an A-list celebrity who had a successful and lucrative career in film and television.
However, in 2002, she retired from acting and decided to live a life away from the limelight, making very few public appearances.
Yet, in 2016, that changed, when she agreed to be interviewed by McGraw for an episode of Dr. Phil.
What followed next was... something else.
It's very confusing, very disturbing to me, because they started out with Ground Zero and Triple Zero.
It's like when a nun at some place tells you, you're almost Triple Zero, and she meant it!
And, anyway, everybody was already listening in on me, even from Santa Monica.
I should go without saying that what Duvall was experiencing was a serious episode of a mental breakdown,
and she was in a clearly compromised state, to which it would be questionable whether she could even understand what was happening in that moment.
Throughout the interview, McGraw continuously encourages and attempts to aid Duvall in finding help, for which Duvall seems incredibly reluctant.
I want to check everything out. I want to make sure that you're healthy, and that you're feeling right, thinking right, sleeping right, eating right.
Do you take any medication?
No. Will you quit trying to pin me with... She's a heavy drinker? She takes pills?
Sit in your head. Come on, I see the V at the top there.
Yeah, I got a bald head.
That's a goose.
You see, the reason I want to get you checked out is because...
They're not tourniquets.
If your hair is thinning, and you're feeling pain, I want to help you. I want to get you to some doctors that can really check you out.
It's a physical problem. Physical.
I want to check you out physically.
And I don't want any more B-Bites, because they threaten me, but I'm not afraid of them.
I'm not going to focus on this interview too much, but it caught the attention of some high profile figures, including Stanley Kubrick's daughter,
and actress Maya Farrow, who both criticised the broadcast of someone clearly at such a vulnerable point in their life.
I think, however, it was more indicative of the show.
Shelly, listen to me. Will you let me get you to some doctors?
I was a pretty girl. I was beautiful.
I was 1987 Entertainer of the Year for the Southern California Cable Television Association.
Will you let me get you to some doctors?
Not as a prisoner, you're not.
Of course not. You can come and go anytime you want.
What was wrong with the doctors I had?
We haven't seen doctors for a good while.
But I'd rather see my doctor than your doctor.
Well, but I've got some really good doctors.
You do?
Yeah. Can I fix this?
I don't know if McGraw is charging by the hour, but this interview almost seems too motivated to get Shelly help,
and I use the quotation marks there, because help is subjective depending on the person.
What might help one person isn't guaranteed to help another person.
Throughout the interview, Dr Phil seems determined to get Duval to this one centre in particular,
which ultimately fails because once she's there, Duval is not comfortable receiving help there,
and at the end of the episode, he reveals that they're supporting her at home anyway.
Dr Phil runs through a manual that dictates operations regardless of the individual,
it's manufactured to maintain those narratives, but what happens when that aspect is pushed to obsessive degrees?
There have been a couple of instances in the past where the producers of Dr Phil were accused of facilitating people's problems rather than helping them.
In 2008, a member of the Dr Phil team was caught paying towards a violent teen's bail,
and although they subsequently cancelled the story, let's be frank here,
it was no secret the lengths the show would go to to get a scoop.
Yet another high profile case seemed to take the biscuit, and it once again involved another public figure.
This is Todd Herzog, he was the victor of the 15th season of Survivor, set in China.
However, after his success, he had struggled with alcoholism, during which his mother had contacted Dr Phil for help with her son's problem.
However, when he turned up to the studio, he was intoxicated to the point of incomprehension.
McGraw was sure to bring attention to this and the serious danger he was in.
So yeah, I'm okay, because I didn't know this was happening right now.
You're not okay?
No.
You said you're okay, but you're not okay. You're not even almost okay.
No.
Do you know who I am?
Yeah, of course I know who you are.
You are here, because I wanted to talk to you, because in my opinion, you're killing yourself, man.
I want to get a fix on you right now, so I know what I'm dealing with. This is a breathalyzer.
I want you to blow into it really hard for five seconds when I tell you, so I can see where you are.
Once again, after a brief consultation, Dr Phil emphasizes how he's going to find him help, and to be fair,
in this case, it's probably not the wrong sort of help, and after receiving treatment,
Todd makes his appearance on the show as a sober individual and expresses his gratitude for the intervention.
However, a couple years later, in 2016, he appears on the show once more after relapsing.
At 2.30 this morning, you had a blood alcohol level of 0.432.
Yeah.
And?
One week squared is 0.601.
That's...
Death.
That's death.
That's death.
It's always somewhat tragic to see a person struggling so much on live TV.
However, in 2017, Herzog went public with the claim that his struggle had been orchestrated by the Dr Phil producers,
who planned a bottle of vodka in his dressing room during both interventions.
I show up to the studios, and I'm sober, I'm hurting a lot, and I'm shaking.
My dad was there, and I went and talked to him in his dressing room, and I was completely sober.
And then they pull me into my dressing room, and there was two liters of vodka and, like, some Red Bulls and orange juice and stuff like that.
You know, being unsupervised by my parents, I drank the entire bottle.
And then at some point, somebody gave me a Xanax.
They said, this will calm your nerves.
And so I had been drinking and took a Xanax, which I've never taken Xanax before in my life,
and I know that can be a deadly combination, so why it was given to me, I don't know.
I get that it's a television show, and that they want to show the pain that I'm in.
However, what would have happened if I died there, you know?
This seemed to paint a very different portrait than the one that was perceived,
and in both cases of Devana Herzog seemed to tell us something extremely different about the intent of McGraw and those around him.
The irony is that perfect television is often the moments that probably shouldn't even be there.
People want something that is raw and real, and often that can't happen naturally in front of a TV camera.
So when it does, it's all the more powerful.
In the case of Herzog and De Waal, what we saw were two people who were clearly suffering from something serious,
and its coverage, for many, was extremely riveting.
However, in both cases, it's fair to question how fair it truly was.
Is this going to be a murder? Are you going to murder me?
This looks deserted. Leave me alone. I don't want to be murdered.
We would never murder you.
You stop driving, and I'm going to have a cigarette.
Fire hazard area, no fire hazard area.
If you're smoke-enders, Patrick Reynolds warned me about you.
In the case of De Waal, trying to ship her off to some facility that may not have been suitable for her problems,
and in the case of Herzog, allegedly exploiting a vulnerability for drama.
And although I cannot comment for certain on the verity of the claim,
is it not suspicious that despite being surrounded by a full TV crew,
a family who probably didn't want him to consume alcohol,
and experts who were supposedly worried for his health,
that he still turned up drunk?
I understand if you can't completely control a person,
but if the safeguarding measures were up to scratch,
like producers had claimed in other interviews surrounding this matter,
there is no way he should have arrived at that studio intoxicated,
and yet it happened twice.
In both of these high-profile situations,
it seems the authenticity was merely a front for something more manufactured,
a conflict that wasn't necessary for the discourse that everyone seemed so concerned about,
but more so allowed producers to raise stakes in dramatic narratives
that emphasised the urgency of the situations that these guests found themselves in,
and to be honest, if McGraw hadn't landed himself in the controversy while consulting Britney,
the producers may well have done a similar thing with her.
Dr. Phil's handling of high-profile individuals was what initially drew the most controversy,
after all, they're the ones who most often have a platform to speak out if they experience maltreatment,
however, as with other situations I acknowledged earlier,
it's very hard to say how far this went back,
and it's doubtful that it was an isolated incident,
and other stories suggested they weren't.
I thought Dr. Phil was gonna save my daughter, and it did not happen.
This is Joelle, she's a mother who brought her pregnant daughter on the show
to hopefully get some help for her heroin addiction.
She claims she was promised round-the-clock supervision,
however, when her daughter began to detox, she didn't receive that.
After about four hours, Caitlin decided that she was gonna leave,
and we needed to go to get her something so that she would not withdraw
because it would hurt the baby at that point.
Not receiving help for four hours at a hospital and fearing for the safety of the baby,
Joelle felt she had no other option but to get her daughter immediately from heroin,
at which point they were transported to Skid Row with the camera person who filmed the entire ordeal.
They're arriving now.
Care to death right now.
Caitlin made a contact very quickly,
I gave her money, and she went on her way.
Approximately 30-45 minutes later, we found her.
She was happy, high, and we went back to the hotel at that point.
This was subsequently brought up on the show,
where McGraw chastises the mother for leaving the hospital and heading to Skid Row,
which, obviously, is not a safe place.
You think since her mom is a nurse, she would take her to the hospital,
but instead, they made a drug run.
I just wanted to help her feel better.
So that baby is high on heroin right now.
I can't alert LAPD before you walk off of this stage.
So you think forcing someone to get help like that is the best way?
I don't give a... what you think.
I'm concerned about your baby.
In this case, though, the mother claims she was cornered with how to treat the situation,
and told that if she had questioned aspects of the show that had caused her to take such measures,
her daughter wouldn't be able to receive the help that she needed.
There was a lot of manipulation, telling us what to say,
telling us how to act, telling us what to do.
I don't have an answer for why I did what I did.
I just wanted to help her feel better.
I was told, do not question anything he's saying,
or he could not give her the help that she needed.
How much is going to have to be lost before you pull your head?
This is it.
I'm not going to mince my words here.
That's a threat.
There is no two ways about it.
This person isn't a celebrity.
They're not copiously wealthy.
What Dr. Phil is offering these people is a chance to receive serious help,
to hold that over someone's head if they don't comply with your request to make sure Phillip's reputation
remains unscathed is extremely inhumane.
Now, once again, this is just an allegation,
but it certainly fits in with this idea that the producers were chasing a story and a reputation,
rather than prioritising the help they often advocated for on the show.
In the case of Joelle and her daughter, even if it didn't happen exactly as reported,
they were still escorted to skid row with a cameraman.
If there was proper medical supervision like the Dr. Phil show claimed,
how the hell did they end up there?
Responding to the claims, Martin Greenberg, a psychologist who is head of the show's personal affairs,
stated that officials only agreed to do the show if Joelle agreed to be responsible for her daughter's withdrawal,
which seems really weird from my perspective.
Surely that's what the medical professionals would be for,
and if you think someone is at any risk, you wouldn't bring them down at all.
Washing your hands of contractual culpability doesn't suddenly absolve you of any moral obligation.
Maybe as an entertainer that's a risk you would take, but certainly not as a person whose job is to keep people safe.
As a head of personal affairs, Greenberg is surprisingly bad at PR,
including providing seemingly confused and conflicting responses to claims about patient safeguarding.
Most of his responses reek of arrogance and dismissiveness towards the complaints they've been receiving,
though I'll give them credit because they do still emphasise personal responsibility.
In saying that these people are not willing to take responsibility for themselves,
I think it would be valid to flip the question in this case, and say,
is it not them who are not willing to take responsibility?
In attempting to explain why they may not be aware of whether a guest is at risk from their cravings,
Greenberg states, and I love this one,
addicts are notorious for lying, deflecting, and trivialising,
but if they are at risk when they arrive, then they were at risk before they arrived.
I've been trying to save the opinion part for later, but this is just such a rotten thing to say.
Sure, sometimes addicts struggle with being open about their problems,
but the fact they came to your show probably means they want help,
and it doesn't mean they're not deserving of it.
For you to make a general ad hominem attack to deflect responsibility from the show is cowardly,
and I would expect better from a psychologist.
If you're aware of that behaviour, then surely that is reason for you to heighten the supervision,
not just leave them to their own devices and then shrug your shoulders.
The Dr Phil show cannot guarantee the eternal safety of all who attend their show,
however, they could at least ensure it on the premises.
Instead, guests turned up drunk, trips to Skid Row were made with a camera crew,
and the narrative of help was pushed to nauseating and even allegedly threatening degrees.
Sure, it was perfect TV, but what was happening behind the cameras?
How truly helpful was that help?
There is no but.
You either want the help or you don't, and if you want the help, you lean into it,
and you don't get back here. There's no pass and go.
You leave from here to there.
That requires very specialized care that I think you deserve.
I want you to have that help. I want this baby to have that help.
I am offering you the best help, in my opinion, in the United States.
Right.
And...
Please.
But...
Just say yes.
Stop talking to me.
I'm not here to be unfair or ignore the greater picture,
and I do want to acknowledge that there are plenty of people who will credit the Dr Phil show
for the difference it has made in their lives.
In discussing the subject of antics on the show, Greenberg says,
the only change is they are one step closer to getting help,
typically help they could not even come close to affording.
Greenberg presents the help the show is offering as a privilege.
Now, I know the health system is pretty broken, and that in many ways, it is a privilege to be seen so quickly.
With that said, it's a mutual thing.
Greenberg speaks like it's an act of charity,
but really, it's the least they can do for people who have fueled their daytime ratings.
In defending the show, Greenberg admits that appearing on Dr Phil is a step towards receiving the assistance
many typically desire to conquer their demons,
but Dr Phil isn't the endgame, he's the middleman,
and the success of the TV show has given them the power to also find treatment for their subject.
Now though, to touch on the fact that healthcare on this front can be very expensive,
as Greenberg acknowledges, there is a financial factor behind the show,
and Dr Phil has never really ran on a patient-based formula.
Yes my friends, there is a mystery third beneficiary to the sort of service being offered by Dr Phil,
that being the treatment facilities that these people are sent to,
many of whom advertise their relationship with the esteemed Dr Phil.
If certain people can afford it, these places have just been given the promotion for the help they offer.
When a guest comes on, Dr Phil will sometimes express to the viewers exactly what treatment facility
that person is being sent to, and the positive difference that it will make.
Such promotions are like a sponsorship really, and many media and even YouTube figures do sponsorships
with some very curious companies, and most of us know that we need to take them with a grain of salt.
Dr Phil, like many people, is a guy who is attempting to acquire the bag,
and honestly, there are worse things that he could promote.
If you're looking for something to do that's fun, relaxing, and good for your brain,
I have a perfect way for you to take a much needed break, and it's right on your phone for free.
It's an app game called Solitaire Grand Harvest.
Now, I have two guests here who say they play and love this game.
At the same time, such an endorsement does come with a degree of responsibility,
especially given the sensitive subjects that are often handled.
Was that due diligence being performed?
Well, the show seems to have agreements with a few facilities for treatment,
which Dr Phil of course sings his praises about,
but maybe they're perfectly qualified people, but there is a quite close relationship between Dr Phil and a lot of these places.
Now, one size never fits all, and there will always be people who will not find recovery in a treatment center,
and although I think there have been instances where McGraw was a little too enthusiastic about specific clinics,
see Duval, I understand that having a close relationship with specific places is probably for the best,
as it would allow one to maintain the highest quality of treatment.
However, was that high quality being delivered?
The problem is that once you tie yourself to specific institutions,
if the reputations of these places do come under scrutiny, it can reflect on you,
even if you're not involved in the management of the facility itself.
Obviously, there are factors that people can't be expected to be aware of,
yet over time, some believe this should have been fairly obvious.
Dr Lawless, stand up, would you please?
This is Dr Frank Lawless, head of the Psychoneuroplasticity Center,
which is a long, long way of saying they check people from A to Z.
The first query that one may raise is the actual suitability of many of these facilities for Dr Phil.
Now, McGraw hails from Texas, and many of his connections are from around that area,
such as the origins clinic, and the arbor, both of whom have facilities in Big Philly's home states.
Greenberg states that if a person requires medical attention, they will fly in the required medical personnel,
however, there seems to be a bit of disconnect with this system.
Although Herzog received his treatment from the arbor, Steve Thomason, who is the director of the facility,
has stated that Herzog did not and could not have received supervision on the show from them,
because they're not licensed in California.
In fact, Thomason states he completely regrets agreeing to working with the show in the first place,
and was so upset by the segment that he never agreed to work with them again.
This doesn't mean that Herzog wasn't supervised,
but it certainly created a disconnect between two entities that should be laboring towards a collective goal.
If a company is required to regularly supervise individuals in California,
should they not be licensed to do so in that state as well?
Are there not more suitable alternatives?
I want to introduce someone to you.
This is Mike Gurr down here.
He's the executive director at the Meadows Ranch,
and I've asked him to come here today because I've worked with Meadows for years,
and they, in my opinion, are the best of the best,
and I wanted you to have an opportunity to sit down and talk with them
and see if you feel like this might be a good opportunity for you.
You can't exactly blame Dr. Phil for involving prior business relationships in his present day ventures,
especially if he holds them in higher regard like he regularly claims he does.
However, business shouldn't really be the central matter of the TV show,
yet that's what some believed it to be,
particularly given Dr. Phil's presence as a brand.
The Boston Globe, who had published some of the most critical content of McGraw
during his social media renaissance, touched on this in a 2017 article
when covering the recent Dr. Phil path to recovery VR headset marketing shebang.
You're going to see on the screens what Eric is seeing in the goggles.
Now, this is prerecorded.
Okay, Eric, look up.
Now look to your left.
This is what he's seeing.
Now, what I've done here is I've put them in a bar situation.
So while they're in rehab, they're sitting talking to me in a bar.
Now they're sitting and this is actually in my backyard.
The Dr. Phil path to recovery VR headset is a system that supposedly aids addicts
with an interactive form of therapy with the man himself.
Although admittedly hard to establish,
there is no epidemiological evidence to show that it is successful,
but the Boston Globe claimed that there was one distinctive benefit,
that being the Dr. Phil namesake.
In reports, one potential client had informed the publication
that the selling point presented to them had been just that,
being told by the vice president for product sales that our job is to get your phones to ring,
and the admissions hopefully follow.
In essence, if you use the product, Dr. Phil is more likely to involve you on the TV show.
The crew at Dr. Phil swiftly denied this,
citing the fact that only two centers that use the product had even been mentioned on the TV show,
and they never made promises.
Nevertheless, they evaded responding on the matter of the actual comments made by the sales BP,
and their response doesn't really contradict the report.
It was never claimed that any promises were made or that a mention was guaranteed,
and using a reference who had been mentioned thus far isn't proof against what will be mentioned in the future.
Whether the VP was acting beyond his brief is certainly up for debate,
but it's hard to doubt that comments were probably made.
The Dr. Phil show always pursued the image of the program that was willing to put the mental health of its guests
at the heart of its message.
However, in many cases, it was clear that there was a conflict of interests,
and what may be best for the show and those behind it may not be the best for the guests,
and on closer analysis, in some cases, the places promoted were very questionable indeed.
I'll discuss this more soon, but I think besides obviously people who are suffering from substance issues,
another extremely vulnerable group are the youth, in particular those who have been brought on by their parents,
as it may not have been their own first course of action.
Now in many cases, when dealing with difficult children, adolescents, and even young adults,
they're experiencing a lot of hormonal and developmental changes, something that Dr. Phil is quite aware of.
Your job is to protect your child.
I'll probably discuss the morality involving young people in a bit,
but for guests really, as influential as a conversation with Dr. Phil may be,
the main change is going to come from actually receiving treatment,
and in that case, the centres are essential to making sure the chances of this happening are maximised,
and although it won't work for everyone, these individuals are kept safe and well.
Now in its time, Dr. Phil has recommended a few places,
and for most adult facilities, there weren't too many controversies,
but in the last few years there has been a bit of disquiet about two institutes that McGraw has had long-term relationships with,
both of which specialise in treating children with substance issues.
The first is a place in Florida, oh dear, called Inspirations.
They have been featured on the Dr. Phil show, and have also coincidentally used the Dr. Phil Road to Recovery VR headset.
In their appearances on the show, McGraw was highly complimentary about the work they were doing.
This is Karen Walsh, she's the owner of Inspirations for Youth and Families.
It's the nation's leading family addiction treatment and dual diagnosis centre,
and affiliate of the Cove Centre for Recovery in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
And fair enough, if they're doing that work, then they deserve to receive their due credit.
However, some of the evidence suggested otherwise.
Beyond the owner's own legal issues, much of which happened during the years that Dr. Phil claimed to be working with them,
there was a more concerning issue regarding the centre itself.
We're at Inspirations for Youth and Families,
and what we do is we work with teenagers and their families every day,
and we help them to figure out how they're going to get past this point in their life where a teenager is struggling with drugs.
Now it's important that I keep this in perspective, it's a challenge to treat anyone who may struggle with addiction,
particularly if you're trying to put them back on the slope to a normal functioning life.
They need guidance, but you can't afford to be too authoritarian,
therefore it is possible that patients may flee the premises, and needs to be found.
With this in mind, Inspirations' record on this was a bit less than stellar,
according to a private investigator who worked within this industry.
In 2017, it was estimated that approximately 180 police reports for missing teenagers have been made in the space of the previous two years,
some of whom went missing for days and others ending up on the wrong side of the law completely.
To quote the PI, obviously there's a gap somewhere, a loophole somewhere in the system where they're just leaving.
Since these articles, Inspiration doesn't appear to have received much coverage,
and the video where their work was promoted has the comments disabled.
How with all this information available, it is fair to ask the question,
why Dr. Phil decided to characterise the institution as a leading family addiction centre?
How do you even know who's leading? Is there a leaderboard?
If there is, I highly doubt Inspirations is near the top, but I digress.
Inspirations is an example of a place that has some function but falters in its execution,
which is pretty vital given the sort of people they're meant to be treating,
and although nobody has come forward with any horror stories,
it shouldn't have been too difficult to properly vet a place that deals with such a sensitive matter.
However, as we'll see with our second example, that doesn't seem to be the Dr. Phil show's forte.
In 2010, Dr. Phil came face to face with two challenging adolescent sisters,
who he and many others felt were taking advantage of their parents and staged an intervention,
sending them to a resort that we'll talk about in a little bit.
Despite the apparently successful treatment of the younger sister,
the older sister was still acting out, much to the parent's dismay.
However, against Dr. Phil's advice and the mother's opinion,
the father did not want to send his daughter to an Aspen Group boarding school,
as he felt it was not in their best interests,
which led once again to Dr. Phil inviting them back on for further discussion on the matter.
This episode billed them as the most frustrating parents,
and Dr. Phil's attitude seemed to reflect that,
opening up the episode by quoting enraged viewers,
and then proceeding to sit down with them and taking them to a task on their failings,
while spectators froth at their mouths a stark reminder of what happens when you do not listen to the esteemed Dr. Phil.
I'm really disappointed that your show is only interested in supporting Aspen programs,
and not other highly qualified programs that could benefit my daughters.
Obviously, what's beneficial for my daughters is secondary to what is good for the show and for Aspen.
I understand that first and foremost, you have a business to run.
Are you serious?
Are you serious when you write this?
This is offensive to me.
I just have to tell you, when I read this, my initial reaction was, I'm done.
We have an advisory board, it's like 20 people, the top minds in psychology, sociology, medicine.
When we get a story, it goes out to our advisory board, and we ask them for input.
One of the top therapeutic residential programs on the globe is the Aspen Group.
So we reach out to them and say, hey guys, will you help us here?
We work with dozens of people all over the country, but the collective wisdom is that that's who we're going to contact here.
Other than an outwardly admitting that he has a business arrangement,
and accusing the father of requesting financial support for his own preferences,
despite the fact that he never seemingly wrote that, McGraw doesn't really provide much of a real response to the father
as to why it's in this girl's best interest to attend a boarding school,
other than broad philosophical narratives, and expressing how insulted he felt,
how he consults all the experts, etc. etc. etc. Dr. Phil is the fucking best, whatever.
The Aspen Group is one of the top residential therapeutic programs on the globe.
How could you not send your child there?
Is your teen out of control? The Aspen Education Group can help you get that teen back on track.
Aspen's nationwide network of programs has been featured on my show for years, and they can help your family too.
You can call an Aspen consultant today to learn more about their outstanding residential and outdoor programs.
Well, a large majority of the Aspen Group's projects have been closed down or sold in the last decade.
In fact, there is not a single boarding school still being operated by them,
with a fair few scandals that were well known by the time that Dr. Phil went on his verbal crusade against the father,
including one to a boarding school that resulted in an investigation that concluded that
the agency had reasonable cause to believe that abuse or neglect occurred at the school, six months before this episode.
Another place formerly known as Island View has had so many controversies,
it would be funny if the stories weren't deeply depressing,
including one in which a girl was fully isolated for 58 days after running away,
an isolation in which she had to rely on staff attention to even interact with anyone, which did have its occasional failings.
Dr. Phil was even sooner relating to one of these stories a few years later, but came out on top that time.
I believe in these folks right here. I believe they have traction.
If you want to get Alexis there, and Aspen is still willing after all of this,
and what I consider to be disrespect from you about their motives, then I will make that available to you.
I don't know, I feel maybe this whole Aspen Group gig isn't everything it's cracked up to be,
and actually whether by intent or not, the father was in the right.
But the Dr. Phil's reputation preceded it, Dr. Phil knows what's best for your children,
he has files on top of files, and if you're to suggest otherwise,
you're giving in to your offspring's manipulative ploys that have driven a wedge between you and the rest of the family.
It's a shtick, and it's one that wasn't always completely applicable,
particularly when the real-world evidence didn't exactly support what was being promoted,
and when you're dealing with young people that's not something that can be remedied,
in so many places of debatable standing, it was only a matter of time until one came to the forefront of public discussion.
Many of you probably don't remember this, or even know about it,
in the 21st century there was this series that had some international presence known as Brat Camp.
It was most popular in the UK where it ran for five seasons,
but did have some counterparts in continental Europe and even a US series.
As you can maybe guess, the premise was built around adolescence with behavioural and substance issues going to a camp,
and having those issues addressed, however this wasn't any standard therapy centre, this was more a wilderness camp.
They teach the kids the ways of the wild west,
and believe a strict regime of chores, tough rules and harsh punishment can turn bad kids into good kids.
I have all the compassion in the world for these people, for these kids,
but I just lack a little sympathy because of the way their behaviour is, and that's what we need to work on.
In the UK the first season was such a resounding success that they decided to invest in a second series,
however the producers of this show decided to raise the stakes by casting more challenging teens with intensified drama.
Upon hearing this, the ranch that was featured in the first series, Red Cliff Ascent, refused to host another series,
stating that they were a treatment program, not a TV show. Completely fair.
So the team behind Brat Camp set their sights on another location, this being Escalante, Utah,
the home of a humble spot known as Turnabout Ranch.
Turnabout Ranch is one of the many haciendas that have taken on the role of doubling up as a centre for wilderness therapy.
This sort of therapy is different to the traditional idea of such, it promotes living with the land,
devoid of the privileges or luxuries that modern life has typically afforded us.
However, Turnabout Ranch was certainly on the more austere side of these projects, it wasn't Malibu to say the least.
Everybody get up now. Slumber party's over, get up.
Quit talking, everybody down here now. Out of bed, let's go.
Foul language is not appropriate. Foul language is not appropriate.
No talking. You're going to spend three days out there. It's going to be three of the worst days you've spent a long time in your life.
You're going to hate every second of it. There's going to be a lot of tears, a lot of emotions.
So if you want to make it five days, it's your choice. But I'm not going to put up with it.
In most American camps, the impact stage is used to physically exhaust rebellious kids into being more compliant.
But at Turnabout, they have a unique strategy.
For three whole days, the kids are made to stay in a small stone circle in total silence.
In hindsight, it's hard not to understand why these sorts of shows aren't being aired today.
They're a pretty cruel form of therapy, and although some people did manage to turn their lives around,
others didn't, and one former contestant of another series even died in 2009.
How these sorts of residences continued long after the end of the TV shows that documented their methods.
In fact, Turnabout in particular went on to be one of the most popular resorts for teens featured on a popular daytime show.
I wonder what that show could be.
From the Aspen Education Group, she's one of many groups that we work with.
She works with Turnabout Ranch.
Dr Phil has always made a point of not approaching people from the same perspective that many TV shows hosted.
His conversations with troubled people were always staged more like an intervention rather than an interrogation,
though sometimes the former did seep into the latter.
With this in mind, although Dr Phil did want people to take responsibility for their actions,
it wasn't like they weren't deserving of humane treatment and sympathy.
However, those who were most troubled, he sent them to Turnabout Ranch.
That in many ways seemed very much against what he regularly preached on the show.
Turnabout Ranch wasn't a particularly friendly place, it was the sort of place where if you struggled more,
you'd receive more severe treatment, as documented in Brat Camp and in Testimonies by Others.
Yet in 2010, Turnabout Ranch made its debut on the Dr Phil show with an inspirational segment featuring former guests and a softly spoken rancher.
Being here helped me find happiness.
When Elena first arrived here, she was very resistant.
I was furious. Like, I hate everyone.
She really turned and made some major progress.
After a couple of days, I was like, wow, it is my fault. I got myself in this situation.
She really shines as one of our leaders and she takes a lot of pride in what she does.
Ironically enough, this debut clip featured the girls who I mentioned earlier.
Most notably Elena, the younger sister who seemed much more receptive to the Ranch's treatment.
The Ranch was presented as a hands-on getaway where youngsters could build a closer relationship to the wildlife
and garner a greater appreciation for those around them.
It seemed pretty positive, however, as Elena's older sister showed, it wasn't a formula that worked for everyone.
In spite of this though, McGraw and Co proceeded with a pretty close partnership over the following years,
sending many troubled teens here, leading up to arguably our most high-profile case, Danielle Bregoli.
Danielle Bregoli was always a bit of an exceptional individual,
and after her appearances on the Dr. Phil show, McGraw felt there was no other option than to send her to the Turnabout Ranch.
After all, it was always his answer to those he viewed as the entitled generation.
Bregoli was a person who continuously undermined Phil and all those who tried to help her,
and as a last resort, perhaps a more challenging environment would aid her outlook.
So at the end of 2016, she spent four and a half months in Turnabout Ranch,
and whatever she experienced there ultimately didn't have any lasting impact,
as not too long after, she appeared back on the Dr. Phil show ever defined in her nature.
When you were at Turnabout, you said that you had learned that material things didn't mean as much anymore.
That was just a show, damn.
That was just so I could get out of there.
Let me put it this way.
Y'all could put me in a program for six years and I'm going to come out the same person I came in.
How is it being back home?
I don't know, it's just home.
What do you want to tell Dr. Phil?
What I told him last time.
Thumbs up my d***.
What do you want to see happen on the show this time?
This time I won't be throwing water at nobody ever throwing hands at somebody.
By then, it should have been clear that the Turnabout Ranch didn't really function for everyone,
but upon her return, it was framed like the failure of such therapy was Bregoli's own fault,
when in reality, it was clear that the Dr. Phil format wasn't ever effective for someone so aware of their own media presence like Bregoli.
She knew what the point of Turnabout Ranch would be,
why would she conform to those expectations when her whole existence is based on rebellion?
Not many people stop to think that maybe Bregoli wasn't to blame.
Phil would probably suggest that the fact that she seemed to behave better at Turnout Ranch
meant that it must be the fault of the home environment,
but if it genuinely worked in transforming Bregoli's mindset,
a changing environment wouldn't affect that.
She's just gotten onto the fact that if she didn't cause as much disruption,
they'd likely be friendlier towards her.
However, that's not a philosophy adopted by everyone.
You see, in the time between 2010 and 2017,
Turnabout Ranch had been involved in numerous controversies,
including a lawsuit which alleged torture,
another patient that claimed to have covered up a sexual assault case,
and probably the most significant situation,
an actual homicide that occurred during Danielle Bregoli's time at Turnabout Ranch.
Clay Brewer, a disturbed teen who had been sent there to receive treatment,
attacked a staffer with a blunt object who subsequently succumbed to their injuries.
This was during the controversial circle therapy shown earlier,
which isolates individuals and is supposed to give them time to think about their lives.
But in the wrong environment, it's completely valid to see how this would also be detrimental to an individual.
Now, it should be clear that when something awful happens,
there has to be a level of responsibility accepted by the individual,
even if they're a minor,
but there also has to be some question about how,
with all this considered,
Bregoli was meant to come back the happy-go-lucky teen next time.
If this was just going to be swept under the rug
and people were going to act like patients should just take it in their stride,
then they probably had another thing coming.
And eventually, they did.
The 21st century definitely prompted us to take a different perspective on talk shows in general,
and the tabloid genre was no exception,
especially given that it often generated the most controversy out of any form of that entertainment.
I've heard some crazy stories over the years,
but one topic that keeps me scratching my head is when women fake being pregnant.
Okay, so this is Shane, and he says gay people are disgusting and weak.
Right here, we've got Greg.
Greg says that he is terrified of gay people.
Even in the early days of the genre,
incidents had occurred that raised questions about the ethics of this content,
most notably in 1995, when on an episode of the Jenny Jones shows,
Scott Amadur, a gay man, had expressed love for their male friend Jonathan Schmitz.
While this confession was seemingly brushed off at first by the male friend,
three days later, Amadur died at the hands of him.
Lawsuits and interviews subsequently revealed that the producers of the show had misled Schmitz
into thinking that his admirer was a woman,
while being aware of his history of mental disturbance and alcohol slash substance abuse.
Although not solely responsible for Amadur's death,
there was little doubt that the actions of the show provoked a tragedy
while disregarding a culture that was still very hostile towards people of differing sexual preferences.
It was clear that when dealing with such sensitive topics,
there was a lack of diplomacy in the pursuit for ratings,
and this could easily have negative consequences.
Nonetheless, this also worked to the genre's advantage,
as it purported to show the uglier side of humanity.
Therefore, certain incidents were going to be inevitable.
Whether it was even fair to show these in the first place is a question that I'll get to later,
but in cases such as Jeremy Kyle,
it was clear that mistreatment of people was so commonplace because it was expected,
and in both cases of Jones and Kyle,
these shows were only ever fully reprimanded when someone actually died.
Hell, the Jenny Jones show continued for an additional eight years
after the death of the aforementioned guest.
Doctor Phil was different, though.
You've got to miss siblings, you've got to miss those that...
I think about it every day.
Like, I just, I miss my twin sister, I miss my brother.
I miss all of them, really.
You don't have to miss Abba because she's here.
Abba, come on out.
Although he wasn't afraid to tackle the tough subjects,
he still did it with the narrative of helping and supporting these people,
who he knew, as a professional,
were still encountering some form of struggle,
regardless of what they may have done.
Therefore, in spite of the space that he operated in,
Doctor Phil still had a reputation to uphold,
and as someone who had been under fire for the past few years,
and embroiled in lawsuits, this was certainly going to be a challenge.
The era that we live in is also quite different to that of 1995.
The online world definitely enabled an interconnectivity
that allowed people to spread their messages more effectively,
and by establishing himself as an online presence,
thanks to the help of platforms like YouTube and those who existed there,
he also opened himself up to criticism from the platform,
and by 2021, it had long been brewing.
The thing about YouTube is that it's a two-way street.
If you have a public spat or altercation where you platform that person,
there are very few plugs that can be pulled on another person's ability to broadcast publicly,
and you can very easily provide them a platform through your own actions.
This was exactly the case with Danielle Bregoli,
who by 2021 went by the name of Bad Baby,
and was well known outside of YouTube.
However, in April, she returned to the platform that immortalized her,
with the intent on presenting our esteemed TV host with an ultimatum.
So, Dr. Phil, I'm going to give you from now till April 5th to issue an apology,
not only to me, but to Hannah and any other child that you sent to Turnabout
or any other program like this, and if you don't, I'm going to handle things my way.
Somewhere in the middle of August, I went on the Dr. Phil show,
and my mom and my grandma knew they were sending me here.
I didn't know I was going.
I went school shopping right before because the school was supposed to start
when I got home from L.A. from doing the show.
So, part of the whole Dr. Phil show is they send these kids to either Turnabout
or these other programs that are also in Utah,
but they're all wilderness programs, and they're all fucked up.
This video not only called out the modus operandi of the show,
but also the treatment at Turnabout Branch,
and the supposed therapy that they received there.
So, for the first three days, there is no showering.
They put you in a circle, which is a TP.
It's a little TP, but it's open, and you have to sit there for three days.
They wouldn't let me lay down for nothing.
I was falling asleep, and they were like, uh-uh, get up, get up.
So, I'm just sitting here like, this is going to be really bad.
When I see these people have no sympathy, I was like, oh, I'm really doomed.
They take away necessity privileges, like sleeping on a bed, eating good food,
not being cold, witnessing it.
If you reported another kid getting bullied by their peers or something,
they would just say, well, maybe that's what they need, or something like that.
Even though there was written rules, if a staff was angry at the moment,
or if you just did something that they felt was bad,
you would get your own punishment.
They would make up their own punishment for you.
It's really frustrating, because even if you don't know the rules,
if you fuck up, you're still in trouble.
There's not no, I didn't know.
You're still in deep shit.
They had no problem holding kids down, which is against the law.
You're not supposed to touch the kids, but they had no problem doing that.
It's just our word against the staff's word when you're there,
because there's no witnesses, there's no cameras, you don't have a phone.
There's none of that.
That's why I was always so scared to speak out, because no one's going to believe me.
Now this is of course a personal testimony.
However, looking at the episodes of Brat Camp that I had archived,
this all seemed very feasible.
For some, of course, this would seem like appropriate disciplinary measures
against an ill-mannered teen.
However, this was also never really explained on Dr. Phil,
and as a matter of fact, whenever discussing Turnabout Ranch,
footage would always be shown of an activity more wholesome, such as horse riding.
I doubt that was unintentional.
One morning I was cleaning up for breakfast,
and one of the staff members was standing right next to me,
and she had her walkie on her, so I heard everything.
One of the kids, he had tried to steal a car or something,
everyone was screaming on the walkies like it was really crazy,
and he ended up killing one of the staff members.
They made all the kids that were at Roundy come down,
and then they told us not to tell us anything.
A day later, every kid that's at Turnabout, they have us all in a circle,
and they're like, listen, it was an incident, I know some of y'all heard it over the walkies,
Jimmy died.
And so we're all freaking out, because Jimmy was, like I said,
he was one of them that was there the first day I got there, he was really sweet.
Not only did Jimmy die, but one of the other staff members that was there at the time,
Alicia, who was the daughter of the nurse,
Alicia, she was injured, and two years later she died,
and she was also left disabled after being attacked by Clay.
Bregoli's recounting of the Turnabout Ranch goes over many unnerving details,
including that relating to the death of the staff,
and how that would understandably affect a young person residing there,
however there are more details she wanted to reveal.
A young lady, her name is Hannah, she recently spoke out,
because while she was there, she was sexually assaulted,
and then when she reported that she was assaulted, she was punished by staff.
Now, when I seen the punishment she was given, I knew like,
okay, I really have to say something, I really have to have her back on this,
because I truly believe that they did that.
This claim covered the alleged violation of someone who was staying at the ranch at the same time,
and how she was treated by personnel when she complained about it.
It was clearly a matter that Bregoli took very seriously,
and with this information it was easy to understand why she expected, at the least,
an apology from the man himself.
Would they receive it? Well, not really.
Around a week after the publication of the video,
Dr. Phil made an appearance on the Ashley Banfield show NewsNation
to discuss this matter further.
This was a pretty significant moment in the show's history,
as Dr. Phil had very rarely taken to interviews to address situations
which may question his character, outside the show at least.
However, after a few minutes you begin to see why.
Well, you know, she went to turnabout four or five years ago,
and she had a bad experience.
Obviously, I would hate that, we'd be sorry about that,
but we don't have anything to do with what happens with guests once they leave the stage.
I mean, that's between the guardian and the parent, and whatever facility they go to.
So he does say that he would be sorry if she'd had a bad experience.
I suppose that is a half-apology, but I don't think there's that much question
that she had a bad experience by the sound of it,
regardless of whether what she's saying is 100% honest.
I don't think we need any ifs at this point, if that's the threshold for an apology.
What else is there but some tough love, you know, at a ranch or where else?
You can't coddle kids like that.
He also seems to distance himself from his own personal involvement in Turnabout Ranch.
And okay, although I would say it's difficult to hold Dr. Phil personally responsible
for the actions of another individual, this still isn't an honest reply.
To be frank, the idea that they have absolutely no involvement is just preposterous.
The countless promotional videos, the unrivalled, unquestioning praise,
they all say far much more than McGraw can say in a single interview.
Dr. Phil was extremely enthusiastic about the organisations he worked with,
even to the point of roasting parents who didn't agree.
He could have acted shocked when confronted with this information,
and it would have been more convincing than him saying
they don't have anything to do with these places once they're out of Dr. Phil's care.
So we're not involved in that, we don't have any feedback from them,
so whatever happens once they're there, that's between them and the facility.
I assume she had a problem, she filed a complaint with the proper authorities
or something five years ago, so I really don't know much about it.
And we asked them for input on one of the top therapeutic residential programs on the globe.
Yeah, right.
Tonight on an all-new episode, the dangers of Dr. Phil.
A few months after the video and the subsequent Dr. Phil interview,
it was announced that the victim of the violation that Bregoli had spoken about,
Hannah Archuleta, was initiating a lawsuit against Dr. Phil and their collaborating studios
for the participation in sending children to Turnabout Ranch,
or supposedly being aware of the many controversies that the centre had been involved in since the early 2010s.
We'll address the result of that in a bit, but it definitely posed the question of how ignorant Dr. Phil could be
to the many problems that seemed evident to any onlooker,
and these qualms would only be heightened as the industry looked more inward to address problems of workplace culture.
2020 was an interesting year for many reasons, however, as many viewers of this channel may recall,
it was the year where the conduct of certain talk show hosts was brought into question,
and their otherwise beloved reputation challenged. Probably the most notable example of this was Ellen,
who many claimed was an all-round unpleasant person to deal with,
while the working conditions behind the scenes of her supposedly lovable show were comparable to that of an authoritarian regime.
Needless to say, whether you believed in every story's verity or not, the effect it had on the show was evident,
with ratings plummeting, and barely a couple of years later,
The Ellen DeGeneres Show was brought to an end after 19 seasons of mostly enjoyed success.
The allegations certainly shook up the industry to say the least,
and lifted the veil on the often hushed workplace culture that had seldom received scrutiny.
For many, it was a bad experience, but up until then, many former employees had likely viewed it through the lens of any other job.
The difference is, when you're dealing with celebrities who preach the principles that aren't necessarily reflected in their private persona,
there's a disingenuousness to their trade that makes you feel compelled to call them out.
However, while this was new in many corners of the industry,
arguably the tabloid talk shows should have been the most conscious of this.
They've been long subject to criticism regarding maltreatment of those around them,
especially given the often sensitive and revealing topics surrounding their guests.
As a matter of fact, in 2016, Dr. Phil and his producers had already been sued by a former employee
who had claimed they were falsely imprisoned during a meeting,
when McGraw had locked the doors and threatened employees after information had leaked.
The producers of Dr. Phil subsequently countersued, claiming that this employee,
who worked as a producer and director, had lifted footage from the production that infringed on the copyright,
employment, and confidentiality rights of the show.
In the end, the judge sided with the producers, and the potential for further publicity seemed to burn out.
At first, it seemed that Dr. Phil had avoided the blast radius of the talk show apocalypse,
but barely a few months before Ellen's final episode on February 11th, 2022,
two present and ten former employees came forward to attest to a work environment that was anything but therapeutic.
In many ways, the allegations against the Dr. Phil show followed a similar narrative to those that had
sunk Ellen a couple of years before.
Although employees on the article did not directly witness McGraw berating or abusing employees,
many of the producers acted tyrannically towards those working on the show,
engaging in behaviour that caused serious upset and discomfort.
With how systemic and widespread the problem was in the workplace,
many found it difficult to believe that an accomplished, observant psychologist and TV host
would merely be ignorant to these incidents, with one being quoted as saying,
how can he not know?
Most of this centered in on a place called the control room,
which employees described as a war zone, with yelling, insults,
and all-round disrespect for employees who worked in those high pressure conditions.
The one public testimonial in this article comes from Tiffany Clark,
who briefly did some work on behalf of Paramount.
She said that during her short tenure, she was mercilessly berated by a supervisor
who threatened jobs and openly bragged about making other employees quit.
This information tells us a story endemic to many LA productions,
and if you remove the names, you probably wouldn't be able to tell it from a show like Ellen.
However, there was an aspect that set these claims apart from your usual studio hellhole.
As we noted, there are multiple testimonies that assert that the show subtly nudged guests
towards problematic behaviour that may be connected with the struggles they were encountering,
all of whom are from the guests themselves and their relatives.
However, in this case, the employees appear to back up these claims,
with multiple stories regarding the instruction they received when handling the show's participants.
These included being encouraged to perpetuate racial stereotypes,
not being properly equipped to deal with mentally vulnerable guests,
and even one case where an employee claims they were directed to make sure a guest
did not take their medication before going on stage.
Former members of staff also say they were advised to manipulate and befriend guests
in an attempt to obtain bookings for the show, while profiling them on a variety of fronts.
This is partially substantiated by an excerpt from an email that commends workers
for convincing guests that they're trusted confidants,
but reminding them to keep their distance, as said guests will likely throw them under the bus,
not the sort of sympathetic outlook on guests that you'd expect from Dr. Phil.
By this time, such claims of workplace misconduct were becoming more and more pervasive,
and for such an environment, maybe that wasn't surprising,
it seems to be a deeply ingrained cultural issue.
However, the one aspect that should always be prioritised in this sort of show
is the safety of guests who genuinely need help above anything else,
something that Dr. Phil has always publicly preached.
This didn't appear to be a cultural misstep, this seemed to be intentional,
and for that, there were much more serious ramifications.
As always, it's important to present both sides,
and as many other stories reported, the team behind Dr. Phil did respond,
firstly denying any of the allegations regarding treatment of staff and guests,
while also referring their own members of staff to the publication in support of their perspective.
Their angle was that yes, filming of a show like Dr. Phil could be intense,
especially considering the unpredictability of those involved.
However, nobody has been abused, nobody has been treated unfairly,
and nobody was subjected to any forms of profiling or stereotyping under the watch of a show's executive.
We can't support one experience unquestionably without taking into account the other experiences,
and obviously the producers offered individuals who contradicted the accusatory testimonies written in the article.
However, the report definitely outlined a continuing narrative on the Dr. Phil show,
one that it was struggling to shake off.
This isn't the first time that such claims have been made,
and although an intensive workshop may create disgruntled employees,
it's hardly a complete explanation for the often corroborating stories from supposedly separate sources.
All I'd say is that in this case,
it's hard to blame people for believing what was being said with the information available,
whereas in the past, the Dr. Phil show had cast doubt on the guests and their families
by pointing to the possibility of ulterior motives and the fact that certain memories may be corrupted,
that didn't really apply here.
To be frank, there wasn't a copious amount of new evidence being presented,
but these claims were substantiated by what was already publicly available to viewers,
and only added an additional layer of credibility to the criticisms being levelled against the Dr. Phil crew.
But could it tell us anything about the man himself?
Other than the lawsuit in 2016,
we didn't really have much evidence that supported this idea that Dr. Phil was an outwardly unpleasant person
to those around him, and to be fair, you can't control everything your employees say or do.
However, many would argue that he had presented himself as a hands-on person who cared about making a difference
in these people's lives, and this seemed to contradict that.
Now, with everything considered, the show still hasn't picked up too much plaque,
I think mainly because controversy comes with the territory,
and such TV shows are never going to be completely unproblematic.
Whereas someone like Ellen was meant to represent an environment where people could just be unbridled in their joy,
Dr. Phil thrives on the energy of the guests as well,
many of whom bring their own, sometimes less-than-positive spirit to the stage.
That chaos seemed more in-built with that structure,
which unfortunately makes such workplace misconduct stand out less.
It's not a surprise that the Dr. Phil machine has mostly persisted,
rather unscathed from the troubles of the past few years.
However, this hasn't stopped people from asking questions,
and I think as skepticism of this form of therapy content in general rises,
then people are likely to revisit these claims, and time won't necessarily nullify them.
When put together in one place, they do tell a damning story,
and one that doesn't present the most flattering image of one of TV's most famous therapists.
Creating compelling television is always a struggle,
because a lot of people want to see what they often can't see in their own lives.
Therapy is one of those things that is personal, it's between two private individuals,
and obviously, for many in the psychological field, that confidentiality is part of the process,
a place where you can talk about your deepest, darkest thoughts with the hope of eventually expelling them.
It's hard to do something publicly when many would argue that privacy is part of its necessity.
After all, as people like Daniel Bregoli show,
when cameras and audience members are viewing you, you're conditioned to behave differently.
However, I also think there is value in people being open about their struggles,
and there being a medium to connect with that over.
There may not be a right way to do this, but there is a best way to do this.
By 2022, I think that critics had lost faith that this was the best way,
or that it was even a worthwhile route.
Whether it was Dr. Phil's individual will or not,
there were clearly conflicts of interest between driving the vehicle that creates entertaining TV,
and actually protecting the world being a vulnerable guest.
Even discounting the allegations, many of the clips spoke for themselves.
Hi, Dr. Phil.
Hi, I'm Todd. Nice to meet you.
How are you feeling, man? Can you walk?
Apparently, I have to have help.
Sorry, I'm very...
Although you could certainly attribute certain blame to individuals,
I think there was also a great question looming over the show that McGraw operated,
particularly regarding its methodology.
The prioritization of tell-all television is something that's always been valued in the industry.
However, I think there were new elements that Dr. Phil introduced
which made that pursuit more dangerous for people who may find themselves in a vulnerable place.
In a way, what the Dr. Phil show promoted as its greatest facets were also its greatest problems.
We return to this point of help, the one that McGraw helped set the program apart with
by collaborating with all these centers and clinics.
To me, it seems that the Dr. Phil showrunners either didn't realize the level of height and responsibility
that rested on their shoulders, or were aware and simply did not care.
One allegation in particular comes to mind, that made by the mother who had to visit Skid Row with her daughter,
that she'd been told that if she wanted her daughter to receive treatment that they were offering,
she would have to cooperate with the narrative being spun on stage.
I feel it's a believable scenario, but even if the details weren't exactly so,
I do think it underlines the extremely sensitive power dynamic that is present during the show.
On one hand, the notion of receiving help is a good idea that hasn't been nearly present in enough of these shows.
However, as the only party that can provide that help in these scenarios,
there's also an invisible dependence that is experienced by many of the guests.
They're relying on the show to offer that help, but that help is chosen by the show
and can be withdrawn at any time, as Dr. Phil explained himself.
One thing I knew for sure is that these girls were not ready to be home because home wasn't ready for these girls.
I told you that, I was clear about it, and then you say, well, I've actually talked to some other experts,
then you need to do what they want you to do. Best of luck to you, but I'm not going to support that.
Who wouldn't want to cooperate with Dr. Phil's narratives in these cases,
particularly when a person in your relationship with them are at stake,
and these people are their friends, their family.
Fleeting public dignity is a small price to pay to help your struggling relative to survive.
Dr. Phil said that he wasn't involved in the actual treatment after his show,
and that statement's falsehood is borderline self-explanatory.
If that statement was true, then this dynamic would never have existed,
as the help offered would be independent of whatever Dr. Phil says on his show.
Instead, they're intertwined.
The behavior exhibited on Dr. Phil's show directly influences the treatment these individuals receive.
Their actions on air dictates Dr. Phil's recommendations,
despite the many extraneous variables that can influence their deportment during these episodes.
Many of these people's progress continues to be covered and critiqued in front of the cameras,
even in these clinics and therapy centers. It's part of the show.
And if that's the choice of the show, then so be it,
but you have to acknowledge that it's a flaw system that can yield some complications,
and that it is an effect of the show you operate, regardless of whether you wish to admit it.
But if we're going to do this, we're going to do this my way.
So even if that help was flawed, many didn't want to cry or criticize it
because it could influence how they received that help.
Dr. Phil's seal of approval propelled a lot of these places into the spotlight,
and even if someone had a negative experience with such a place,
they may hesitate to speak up if they still have loved ones involved in the treatment.
And who would dare question the moral authority of someone as revered as Dr. Phil McGraw?
With all this in mind, it just makes his first response even worse.
We don't have anything to do with what happens with guests once they leave the stage.
If there is any shred of truth in what he said, it means that he had no investment or interest
in the quality of care provided by a lot of these places that he rode so hard for in his shows.
And these weren't simple sponsorships that people could go to if they wanted to,
these are the places that were offered specifically, and with all this in mind,
it becomes hard to buy that Dr. Phil had no knowledge whatsoever of the incidents that occurred at many of these places.
In a way, his response distanced himself far too much to the point where it just was not believable,
and a more straightforward theory seemed to emerge that shone a much darker light onto the show,
and how it had been operated.
Amongst the quagmire of other shows in the genre that regularly sought to put guests on the spot
in private affairs, indiscretions, and matters that only reserved as entertainment for the baying crowds.
Dr. Phil stood out to many, a beacon in how topics could be tackled on television.
Thanks to his skills, McGraw was often able to navigate topics and address guests in ways that appeared fair and astute.
The pursuit of perfection is, in and of itself, a flawed pursuit, because there is no perfection, you know that.
Nothing can ever get straight enough, perfect enough, clean enough, right enough.
Because if it is, you've got to go back and check it, right?
It didn't just make him popular with audiences, who felt his approach represented a more humanised perspective of guests,
but also with studios, who were often learning the hard way that such formulas could lead to disaster.
There has been no large-scale disaster on the Dr. Phil show, nothing that has defined the legacy of the show,
and as the ratings of competitors dropped, McGraw's ship remained stable.
The lack of emotional provocation directly from Dr. Phil often meant that people really couldn't do much with actual legal complaints.
Whatever happened couldn't directly be linked back to an appearance on Dr. Phil, it's not illegal to have guests after all.
There has to be some level of personal responsibility, something that Dr. Phil has always preached.
In a lot of tabloid talk shows, their format enabled responsibility for any misconduct to be assigned to the producers and the host,
because of their language and behaviour that may have affected the actions of these guests,
not just on the show, but subsequently after the show.
The public crucifixion many people were often subject to was life-ruining, a fate I wouldn't wish on nearly anyone,
and when these consequences became apparent, I think a lot of people realised TV needed to change.
Dr. Phil seemed above that, though, his show seemed to occupy this very neutral sphere,
where they merely provided a platform for these discussions and interventions to occur.
Whatever happened otherwise was ultimately the result of decisions made by individuals.
This reputation was bolstered by Dr. Phil's image and background,
which often applauded him as a professional voice whose words were rooted in scientific observation.
Although acknowledging that he was not a medical doctor or even a practicing psychologist, McGraw still leaned into this image,
with many products, shows, and public appearances that promoted him as a credible voice within the sphere.
All of this established him as a neutral, mild TV personality who merely wanted to teach people some common sense,
and his self-titled show followed that formula.
This perspective was reflected in Dr. Phil's response to Danielle Bregoli.
All he does on the show is sit there and make observations and recommend the support a person should receive.
The observation approach prides itself on attempting to dissect these subjects from a factual basis
and in a way that allows individuals to present themselves in their unfiltered, unprovoked form.
Now, in principle, it was questionable whether such a format could ever be truly neutral.
The involvement of an audience, TV cameras, sure, on paper, they're not directly accountable to a studio,
but they still influence outcomes of possible interventions and discussions
that would regularly refer to intimate and revealing details broadcast out there for eternity.
Yet you could defend the show on the basis that there has to be some public exposure for it to constitute a show at all.
Nevertheless, there were definitely certain hoops they'd have to jump through to retain this defence,
which is what some began to question.
First, you have that dynamic of dependence between the guests and the showrunners, then unspoken, assumed debt,
one that could very easily dictate personal behaviour and commentary on it.
However, deeper than that, we have the actual alleged conduct undertaken by people working behind the scenes,
that seemed to challenge their guests and their own personal responsibility for their demons.
As it's been preached, personal responsibility was extremely important,
and as far as we know, the crew of Dr. Phil never forced any guest's hand in their actions.
However, on multiple occasions, the Dr. Phil show appeared to be more orchestrated than those behind it were prepared to admit.
Their behaviour in attempting to make TV more engaging seemed to announce to nudging certain guests towards detrimental actions,
not safeguarding vulnerable individuals properly, and prioritising their business deals and spicy stories
over the actual wellbeing and autonomy of some of those who they covered.
Each allegation seemed to tell the same story, that although there seemed to be no active sabotage conducted by producers,
they pushed the responsibility of difficult decisions onto distressed guests to generate conflict,
which would then be touched on by the surly host, who would hold them accountable.
I have no excuse. I didn't want her to withdraw. I know that we did try and take her to the hospital,
and she ended up leaving. I don't have an answer for why I did what I did. I just wanted to help her feel better.
So you got the heroin, right? How did you take it?
Injected it.
So you bought heroin that she pumped into her veins, and therefore into the baby's veins.
Yes.
So that baby is high on heroin.
It's a very curious connection between many of the stories.
This is not one that people would necessarily consciously concoct to be consistent with other claims,
but they suggested that the Dr Phil Producers indulged a sweet spot between the show's responsibility,
and the guests' responsibility.
Sure, they didn't necessarily make these guest decisions for them,
but they put them in a position where many of them felt like they had no other option,
whether that's due to the unspoken dynamic, or the outwardly spoken words.
Even if it seems like they have a choice, it's almost its own illusion.
The presence of an audience makes this even more difficult,
because given almost all of them are likely to be in favour of Dr Phil,
try his ascent, and you're arguing against a hundred more people who have complete free reign to vocalise those feelings.
It's not hard to tell which side they're going to take.
We know the central narrative of a show like this will always aim to present Dr Phil lifting people out of a struggle.
He has to be their saviour, but they shouldn't have to manipulate scenarios to ensure that a person has a struggle to be lifted out of.
As their PR guru once said, those people were already encountering difficulties at the time that they arrived.
What happens at the show may not have too much of a direct bearing on those specific issues,
yet just because someone is suffering from a problem,
doesn't mean that an appearance on public television is just like any other Tuesday when addressing it.
That sort of show can be a make or break situation for a person's wellbeing.
You see, whereas Greenberg's statement was used to defer responsibility,
many would use it to bestow greater responsibility.
Just because someone is fighting their own personal battle doesn't mean you can't provide some reinforcements here or there,
and you have to make the best TV out of it.
Although they had established a prestige amongst many viewers as the show that provided the most sincere platform for people to share their struggles,
their set up enabled a bulletproof formula that would yield the results they wanted,
reaping the credit for everything that went right without making them too responsible for the things that went wrong,
exploiting nearly every medium possible to maximise their own success.
But in spite of its continued success, are the curtains finally coming down on this iconic daytime show?
The year is 2022, and Dr. Phil has been up and running for 20 seasons.
It has outlasted nearly every tabloid talk show, a majority of normal talk shows, including Oprah,
and still pulls significant viewership.
He must have done something right.
While in many ways, Dr. Phil achieved a feat unrivalled by nearly every other daytime show,
regardless of when or how it ends, it will have irrevocably changed many people's lives, for better and sometimes for worse.
McGraw has influenced multiple generations of people on how they may approach the topics of mental health,
and many other sensitive subjects surrounding the matter,
which is probably why people find the show such a hotbed for modern day discussion.
It's influenced how people seek help, put a face on a lot of unknown conditions,
and platformed important discussions that were often considered too taboo for mainstream television.
There's no doubt that many of those subjects covered by Dr. Phil will remain relevant for decades to come,
but will the man himself be at the forefront of it? With all that's been discussed today, I'm not entirely sure.
Dr. Phil's venture into the online community definitely gave him and the show a second wind that very few could have predicted.
It made him relevant with a new audience, and refreshed him in the memory of old ones.
However, success in the online world does come with the acknowledgement that you don't always have the control of public perception
that you might have on other mediums.
It didn't help that at its core, Dr. Phil was still old school syndicated television.
They didn't really adjust their rules depending on who was watching or talking about them.
Certain pursuits that became quite easy to criticise were picked up on,
and even though it was likely fairly standard procedure when the show was launched,
by this time people clearly realised there had to be somewhat more rigorous moral standards with the content he was producing,
and when he eventually got involved in the pinnacle of what every online figure dreads, drama,
his response was clearly taken from the TV template of admitting nothing.
The only problem was that it just wasn't believable at all.
In 2018, owing to its continued success, Dr. Phil was nude for an additional four seasons, running up until May 2023.
This was quite the feat all things considered, however, in the last couple years,
it has lost its syndicated crown to other shows, including Live with Kelly and Ryan and The View.
Now, this isn't to say the ratings still haven't been strong, Dr. Phil still pulls a significant viewership all things considered,
but whereas in March 2020 he was pulling a Nielsen rating of 2.8, by the end of 2021 that had dropped to 1.4,
and it seems somewhat uncertain if there will be a further extension to the show's lifespan.
On the basis of the numbers alone, I'd say they have reason to renew, however, on the basis of the trend,
I'd say they're probably aware of the risk. In August 2022, for the start of Season 21,
they laid off 25 staffers in a move to cut costs, and although the studio downplayed the move,
it's hard to ignore such significant downsizing, especially given the stories that had come out over the year before.
The only real piece of good news for the show came from the result of the lawsuit regarding Turnabout Ranch,
which Jones dismissed as ultimately not having strong enough grounds to pursue.
Having probably the most TV company move of them all, the response of the Dr. Phil show was to request the court
to have the former guest, Archer Letter, pay them $400,000 in legal fees,
which seems just a bit tasteless considering the sensitivity of the case,
and the fact that a separate lawsuit against Turnabout Ranch has yet to be concluded.
But that's just my take, I could point towards one specific story and say that it was the straw that broke the camel's back,
but really, I think it's just the result of gradual attrition, a formula being worn to the bone,
and people finally realising it wasn't the TV that it claimed to be.
I think that back in the day, when it was competing with shows that regularly skewered their guests
and made the grandest spectacle of each situation, Dr. Phil could be that more humane alternative.
With the rise of the internet, and Dr. Phil's own participation in it, they found themselves out of step
with more refined documentaries, and psychological analyses of situations by credited experts
who treat these topics with much more reverence than Dr. Phil ever did.
McGraw's show still has the edge in the fact that it often directly involves these subjects,
and the fact that they can actually offer treatment and coverage of such,
but that has been overshadowed by the questions surrounding a lot of these treatment centres,
and Dr. Phil's own relationship with them.
YouTubers who worked with counselling site BetterHelp came under criticism
after the company found themselves mired in controversy regarding the status of some professionals,
and some creators were thought to have not actually used the site they were promoting.
That is a drop in the ocean compared to what McGraw has appeared to greenlight.
Lawsuit regarding Turnabout Ranch has also further torn a hole in that previously impenetrable reputation.
Although lawsuits were not necessarily anything new to Dr. Phil, and certainly this result wasn't,
the media coverage, the names attached, and the possible precedent that could have been set
if they had found McGraw and his crew culpable for their recommendation
is enough to give many studios cold feet.
This probably wouldn't have even been conceivable when the show started up in the early 2000s,
with TV the medium, and guests making one or two appearances before being forgotten in the run of episodes.
With the online world immortalising much of this content, mostly the behest of Dr. Phil's production team,
their strength of reaching a new audience is also that vulnerability.
Like a lot of TV shows, and even media in general, Dr. Phil was ahead of its time when it made its debut,
but has fallen behind the evolving zeitgeist of the years have passed,
and it seems too resistant to the change it would need to undertake to overcome that.
Maybe Phil's format just wasn't capable of something more human,
or maybe it was, but wasn't prepared to make that change.
I believe I can bring him really quality help, and I think he can respond to that,
and I think he probably will.
In principle, I don't think it would be completely impossible to overhaul the current system in place.
However, I think the issue is that when a show becomes so established over a long period of time,
it digs its roots in which makes it very difficult for certain changes to be affected.
The additional problem is that your remaining audience may only be comfortable with your current format,
so even if your numbers are down currently, you still risk distancing the law of viewers
by completely renovating the show that so many of those viewers have come to appreciate.
But is it radical to ask for a bit more humanity?
Arguably, much of what we discuss today wouldn't necessarily require that many adjustments,
just a heightened sensitivity and improved safeguarding.
However, even that may be a bit too much for a show that at its core,
still thrived on the drama that it superficially seemed to seek distance from.
And to be brutally honest, maybe that's what people wanted.
We've discussed this in the past with the Ellen video,
but one of the aspects of a modern talk show that appeals to so many people
is this thought that what you're receiving is an unfiltered, authentic version of a person.
Unfortunately, Hollywood ruins most things,
and for studios, it often seems easier to manufacture the illusion of an authentic atmosphere
than to actually craft one organically.
Yet if people are none the wiser to this assembly, then who can it harm?
Well in principle, it doesn't have to harm anyone if it's managed correctly.
The problem is that a formula based on deception doesn't tend to attract the most sincere characters,
and when you're dealing with topics like mental health, there tends to be more at stake.
You can't blame audiences for only seeing what they want to see,
because in truth, they often only see what the TV producers want to see.
But anything catered to being more realistic would probably undermine the studio's version
of how authentic such TV shows should appear.
Every show has an angle, because it's what sells.
Dr. Phil was often presented as a selfless endeavour,
an altruistic drive to help people beat their demons and get their lives back on track.
Finally, a format for a show based around the needs of a guest.
However, I think over time it became clear to audiences that it wasn't exactly about helping,
it was more about people believing you're helping.
We've already addressed how cameras affect the guests on the show,
but the cameras also affect Dr. Phil,
and when they were rolling, people received a seemingly measured and earnest persona,
but a persona nonetheless.
This was a one-man franchise, anything that threatened that image was quickly dispatched on.
Good morning to you, Ty.
Hey, Bump Fights, baby.
Is that a wig you're wearing?
No, real hair.
Real hair, just curious, because I understand you're not using your real name, and I wonder why that is.
Well, no, Ty Beast is my real name, I'm a film student out of USC,
and it took three years to put together the footage for the Bump Fights, and now it's out.
And now the police come calling.
Well, I'm not worried about it, I don't think I've done anything wrong.
It's been a long video, but I do have one more story for you.
Yes, an incident that has acquired internet fame allegedly involving the creator of Bump Fights,
Ty Beaston, is often pointed to by critics as a perfect example of what we're discussing today.
Now, I have to warn you, some of this footage that you're about to see is clearly inappropriate for young viewers.
Please ask your children to leave the room, and I'm serious,
you really don't want your kids watching this, and it's not gonna be fun for you to see it.
But we have to be aware of what's floating around out there, and what our kids have access to.
Bump Fights is a rather grim series of films designed to exploit homeless people by making them participate in often quite dangerous antics,
and so it made sense that they would be subject to criticism from someone like McGraw,
who would obviously find such content abhorrent on the grounds of its inhumanity.
This seemed like the perfect opportunity to pick someone apart for their actions.
And yet...
I've made multi-millions off the Bump Fights video series.
I'm not surprised at my success. It's a sick world.
Stop the tape. Stop the tape.
I don't want to talk to you.
Why not?
That's despicable. I don't want to talk to you.
I just watched that footage, and that is absolutely despicable, and I refuse to publicise that.
In the moment, it seemed that McGraw, so roused by the content he watched, had made an active decision to not indulge this heartless troll,
a harrowing moment of principle from the Doctor himself.
He creates this stance, as it's a matter that is clearly very personal to him, as he said he has been homeless too.
Yet, he's interviewed worse people, hasn't he?
I mean, what is so exceptional about this guy?
If you think I exploit people, every time you bring a guest on this show, you exploit them and spread whatever problems they have to the whole world.
You think that's helping them?
Yeah, keep telling yourself that. You can go.
Ah well, you see, he's dressed in rather interesting attire.
You could go as far as to say him and Dr. Phil, but practically matching suits.
As that clip just illustrated, it wasn't done without purpose.
As a matter of fact, it seems Beeson wanted to take the opportunity to make a you and I ain't so different type speech.
Now, I would say that Bum Fights is somewhat worse than Dr. Phil on the basis of its premise,
and I think McGraw could have made that case for himself,
but clearly anticipating that it's an argument he does not want to have, he pulls the plug on the interview.
Now, this isn't exactly an admission that Beeson is in fact correct,
but for a man who is so sure-footed on the narratives he propounds and the judgments he makes on other people,
you'd think he'd be at least able to stand up for himself,
and yet he can't even answer to the creator or one of the most philistine forms of modern media.
If it truly was a matter that caused McGraw to feel so strongly to the point where he didn't want to give this guy the time of day,
he shouldn't have let him on the show in the first place.
Dismissing the guy when he was actively there before he could even say anything was probably the most cowardly thing to do.
Phil saw this guy coming and realised it wasn't going to be your usual dunking.
If it was truly about the people that Dr. Phil sought to help or address,
he would have no reservations going toe to toe with some of the most questionable figures in modern culture,
like a lot of the old talk show hosts from the 60s.
But it's always a question of control for McGraw, and they can't afford an episode which even makes him look remotely out of his depth.
There has to be a predictability about how these guests are going to behave so that McGraw can assert control over the situation,
so that if they concur with him, they're engaging positively with his narrative,
or if they are so bold to try and detract from them, the show has a way to discredit what they say,
whether they're young, intoxicated, or just mentally unstable.
The last part I requested more humanity, but humanity is a two-way street,
and to require more humanity from the show would require more humanity from Dr. Phil,
and I think it's just too much to ask from a show that has prided itself on having a superhuman host.
After all, he's just a little sensitive.
It's the love story of the century, but you've never physically met.
No, sir. And y'all can laugh at me. Fine. I will be your spectacle. I will be your laughing, laughing spectacle.
You can all laugh at me. It's fine.
Well, you know what? I think we're just going to shut this down,
because I'm not into all this melodrama and you playing the victim and everything,
so you're saying the audience is making a spectacle out of you.
That's not what I'm about. That's not what I do.
I had you come here to help you, and you're saying people are ridiculed, making fun of you,
you're going to be a spectacle. I don't want to be any part of that.
I used the word Messiah earlier, and I 100% meant it.
Dr. Phil's show is structured off making the title character seem like that savior at any and all costs,
that he is right, but the truth is that nobody, not even a therapist, can fulfill that image,
and any show that provides that impression is not being honest with its guests or its audience.
The problem is that when you successfully sell that image,
not only are you selling an unrealistic expectation of therapy to millions of people,
you aren't creating a fair environment for a struggling guest to actually find the support they need.
It means that any actual treatment doesn't have to be catered to the individual, more to a show's agenda,
and if it doesn't work, you can push responsibility onto the guests for not being receptive enough.
It's the Seymour Skinner complex that asks you whether your form of therapy didn't work,
and then concluding that it must be the patient who's wrong.
It's built off this idea purported to audiences that it's Dr. Phil offering a service to these people,
when in reality, it's quite the opposite.
This has just gone in a really bad direction.
I'm going to talk with Jasmine, I'm going to talk with your mother,
and I'm just going to let you head on home and go, because I'm not going to play-
Is there anything I can say to fix this? I'm so sorry.
No, no, all of this melodrama about ridiculing the audience and they can laugh at you and all that,
I don't play those kind of games. You're very manipulative, and I just, I'm not interested in all of that.
Although there would be no show without cameras, and no narrative without the producers,
there would be no Dr. Phil without the guests.
They provide the show with years of timeless stories, and harrowing accounts, receiving very little from it in return.
Their benefit, the hope for recovery, which really should be provided regardless of financial incentive,
is the least they deserved, and sometimes that wasn't even viable.
There are so many people, famous celebrities, enshrined through the lens of modern media,
who could be picked out at their weakest point, and put under that Dr. Phil microscope,
and the man himself is no exception.
Cancel culture, it's a phrase that's been used in online circles to nauseating degrees.
I don't want to go too much into detail about it right now,
but it's difficult to even give a basic rundown of the definition because there are so many interpretations of it,
to the point where some people don't even believe it exists.
I think mainly because this sphere of discussion is dominated by super celebrities who are almost immune
to ever having their voices silenced anyway.
However, our good friend Dr. Phil McGraw has been an outspoken critic of it,
appearing on interviews to call out the harmfulness of the culture,
but speaking is one thing, does his show reflect that philosophy?
Well, to many, cancel culture seems like a new phenomenon,
and the presence of mob mentality online definitely highlights his failings,
but in many cases, I think it's just a repackaging of something that's long existed,
and it's not something that affects everybody equally.
We are in a bubble, we don't want to talk to anyone that doesn't agree with our thinking,
and if someone says something that is offensive to our sensibilities, then people go on the attack,
and they may choose a wrong word, and instead of saying, you know, maybe messaging them in some way,
saying, hey listen, you may not know it, but that could be offensive to someone,
instead they start bombarding them with boycott messages telling them they hope they die,
I'm going to slit your throat in the night, I hate, I mean just horrible things.
In 1988, when McGraw was actually working as a psychologist,
he was reprimanded and penalised for hiring a former patient of his for part-time employment.
The patient in question also made claims suggesting inappropriate contact by McGraw,
however, the board's review did not conclude in the patient's favour on that front.
For now, I'm not going to comment on that which is disputed, and there are other serious claims against him
that are tied up in legal proceedings which I won't be exploring today,
however, I will say that it is Therapy 101 that you do not develop a personal or business relationship
with one of your patients outside of your practice.
It's not a healthy dynamic, and the fact that someone seemingly as stoic as McGraw could allow that to happen
is certainly a stark reminder that TV hosts are not all they represent sometimes.
Now, that's over 30 years ago, and I think one of the uglier aspects of cancer culture is ruining someone's career
for historic indiscretions. I believe that broadly speaking, people deserve the chance to grow and change,
and that ruining someone's livelihood is seldom the solution.
In his case, the board's solution was for McGraw to be supervised until they were satisfied that their conditions were met.
To many, this would seem like a fair and proportional response from the board. Would Dr. Phil agree?
McGraw has been outspoken on the benefits of his show, and even that he believes it's a fair basis for conflict resolution.
So all I'd ask is this, if McGraw genuinely believes in his own approach to therapy,
would he have subjected himself to it when he found himself facing serious criticism in 1988?
Although I can't look inside his mind, my prediction would be a resounding no.
Why? Because he knows better than anyone that you have very little control over how you're going to be perceived or presented.
Dr. Phil emphasizes responsibility, but when you as a person have no control over what the TV producers do,
what Dr. Phil says, or how your own words may even be twisted and used against you, you can't be responsible for that,
yet you'll believe it because you were the person who chose to go on the show in the first place.
Audiences can pretend to be better, but if the performance of YouTube videos tell us anything,
it's that people are much more interested in the deterioration than they are the recovery.
People are going to be remembered online for decades for often their lowest points in their life,
will likely be judged for behaviour they may have long corrected, even though in hindsight, the flaws of these shows seemed abundantly clear.
Most of the longest running shows in this genre, like Springer, Carl, and even Jones,
were often the most provocative and controversial.
Many of them were rather gross, relied on stereotypes and tropes related to people's backgrounds or identity,
and if the same formula was applied with more subtlety with Dr. Phil, it would hardly be surprising as it seems inbuilt with the genre.
Even beyond the concept alone, the numerous allegations that Dr. Phil producers went out of their way to make people seem worse
than they actually were on screen, isn't that the core of said culture that McGraw would decry in interviews?
You see, although I think in many ways, provocative hosts were likely detrimental to guests during their TV appearances,
it at least gave audiences some idea of how responsibility can be shared in these situations.
I don't think most people are emotionally unintelligent, I think they can recognise when a frenzied situation arises,
and it's hard to control. Dr. Phil, on the other hand, built up Randolph being the reasonable guy,
and it's ingenious optics really, because I think in appearing measured and reasonable,
he succeeds in making his guests, who are often put on the spot, look much rather like the opposite,
and if the allegations are true, then in many ways, they were much more insidious in their technique than many other hosts
who were outwardly, on the surface, more objectionable.
Everyone looks at social media as the sole cause of cancellation, but TV has been cancelling people for decades,
whether that be their social standing amongst their peers, or the lives that have been lost due to it.
It's happened to high profile people who have been forgotten, and low profile people who as far as most of us know, never existed.
The internet certainly amplifies elements of it, and it's not healthy, but a lot of people have been looking down
on these people struggling before the internet ever began to have any sort of influence in these people's lives.
The only way you can come out a winner in the eyes of the audience is if you cooperate with a show's narrative,
and let the help they offer change you for the better, places like Turnabout.
It's not authentic though, and some people will fall at that hurdle.
It's not their fault that an aggressive form of therapy wasn't for them, but the show will sure make it seem like it.
Framing is everything, we live in an era where people seem to empathise more with fictional characters than real people because of it.
TV series like Barry or Better Call Saul are far superior psychological analyses of complex characters,
and sure, it's hard to find people like that for a tabloid talk show, and you might not want to,
but when there are shows that contextualise mass murderers and the literal devil better than you can a drug addicted teen,
then maybe you're doing something wrong, and once these people are off your show,
they can do very little to change that image in an industry that favours large companies with lawyers on retainer.
Everyone's an actor when they know a camera's on.
Daily, how are you?
Um, not good.
Yeah, why's that?
I was told that y'all brought someone here that I explicitly said not to bring.
Yeah, who's that?
Um, my biological mother.
Would you like to leave?
Um.
Cause you can certainly leave, cause nobody tells me who to put on my show, including you.
Times are changing though.
You're on the beaten days where you'd be thrown off or torn apart if you had anything to say against McGraw.
People who have been subject to grilling on these shows find themselves with a greater platform to finally express their own perspectives,
ones that would never have been broadcast elsewhere because they didn't fit the narrative.
People like Bregoli, whose case would have otherwise been lost to the sands of time,
have been able to use their former notoriety to actually amplify their own voice in discussing their experience on the show,
and the subsequent treatment they were subjected to.
Someone like Commentators followed suit.
YouTuber Jaco has released a very compelling set of videos covering many of these scandals,
which I definitely recommend, with further strong contributions coming from many corners of the internet.
It's very valiant for Dr. Phil to start discussing cancel culture now in the way that he has,
but one can't help thinking where this discussion was when he was publicly roasting parents for not raising children
as he thought they should in front of millions of viewers, and roasting those children too.
I don't know what he thinks is so different about the online world that makes his core specifically so righteous.
Well, guys, it's time for you each to take responsibility for what part of this you own,
and Diane, you're blaming Ron, and Ron, you're blaming Diane, but let me assure you, nobody,
nobody is responsible for your feelings and your actions but yourself.
It's ironic, what could prove to be the Achilles heel of Dr. Phil may be the very responsibility
that McGraw has continuously advocated for. Once again, one can't help wonder what he would say to himself now
if he was a guest on his own show, so I guess I'll say it to him.
Yes, cancel culture is real and can genuinely harm decent people trying to better themselves,
I'm glad you care about it, but it's a culture that everyone, yourself included, has participated in at some point in their lives.
Suddenly taking an interest when people have become capable of calling you out seems a bit too coincidental.
I know it's a trending topic right now, and obviously the phrase has helped amplify the discussion surrounding it,
but most of Phil's discourse centres around people who clearly haven't been cancelled, alongside interviews with pop culture
and political loudmouths who use these narratives to actually increase their influence.
I can't believe how my fellow liberals are behaving, what is liberal about cancelling everybody and anything
that you don't happen to agree with? It's a complete nonsense.
Listen, there's been attempts to cancel me before cancel culture was a thing.
I'm an outspoken conservative, that's something that I'm used to.
A lot of large celebrities seem to conflate ordinary people having a platform to respond to them,
maybe sometimes rather unpleasantly, with actual threats to their careers, when in many cases they'll never experience that.
There are examples where shows and institutes have been pressured to drop certain public figures,
and those reasons have been tenuous or driven by personal vendettas.
I have never agreed with that, and I am broadly a free speech person, but even then it seldom targets celebrities,
often academics, smaller companies, those who can't actually afford to fight for themselves.
Dr Phil can, it's clear that he has, and it's clear that he will continue to.
However, his takes on cancel culture aren't those of a psychologist, they're those of someone who simply
isn't as untouchable as they previously were, but sometimes that is for the best.
Just like the psychology board's verdict, in 1988 wasn't cancel culture, neither is this.
At the start of the video, I posed a simple question that was likely being asked by many ambitious producers
at the time of Dr Phil's first appearance on TV.
If we combine a talk show host with a specialist in a specific academic area, what would the result be?
Well, obviously, Dr Phil is only one possible outcome, but from this one little case study,
I'd say that it yielded an impressive, yet hollow spectacle, one that flaunted all the credentials
of our servant in question, but had no way to effectively utilize it in a format that maintained a balance
between entertainment and humanity, instead leaning into the former at the expense of the latter,
in pursuit of those ratings, but I suppose that's not necessarily a surprise.
It's what these studios know best, and anything that may allow the competition to have an edge over them
should be considered as fair game. It's the survival of the fittest environment,
and it's what keeps a lot of people in their jobs, however, just because it's the natural thing to do,
it's the right thing to do, and over time, as people's moral compasses have adjusted,
the format of Dr Phil has become unpalatable with more and more viewers.
Combined with some allegations that completely contradict the image that Dr Phil would claim to reject,
and the continued poor responses made by employees and even McGraw himself,
it's not a surprise that some people are switching off, or switching over.
Dr Phil taught many how to sympathize with those struggling, but now people are working out how to empathize with them as well.
Dr Phil taught many how to seek out help, but now many are learning that there are different types of help,
and that there's never a one-size-fits-all solution. In both cases, it makes Dr Phil's approach seem a little outdated.
People's understanding of mental health has evolved greatly in the last couple decades, and I'm glad.
We're garnering a greater understanding of the challenges and troubles that people face.
Although we still have a long way to go, I think many have begun to understand how public therapy is a bit of an oxymoron.
It's a difficult topic to navigate, and Dr Phil has likely put a fair few conversations surrounding mental health on the map.
I don't want to void him of any credit whatsoever.
We want to live in a world where these topics aren't too difficult to address and pay attention to,
but we also need to make sure that those people who may be the centre of the discourse can at least represent themselves how they wish to,
free of narratives that wish to box them in or present a third party as the hero of the situation.
Dr Phil didn't steal the limelight completely for himself, but it's natural for a TV show to bolster their reputation
by crediting themselves for the positive stories and outcomes of guests who have appeared on there,
people saying thank you Dr Phil, and viewers clapping while he strolls around because it's just another day at the office for him,
and I think the contrast of blaming the guests when something doesn't work out creates a very unsavoury juxtaposition.
Although there are lots of people and factors that can aid a person's recovery, it's you who has made those changes,
and you should never let anyone take that credit away from you.
It's not easy, it's a minefield of shit to navigate that may occasionally challenge you to confront bad habits,
but even if it's entirely your fault that you landed yourself in shit in the first place and you're merely going back to where you started from,
it's still worthy of recognition.
Although it's not the entire story, I do think that to make stories more centred around the people who are actually encountering these struggles,
you have to decentralise the system that covers these stories, and that's antithetical to the nature of a talk show.
That's why I think Dr Phil is probably too rigid to make that change, because they'd probably have to scrap the one thing that appealed to audiences in the first place,
Dr Phil himself. He's a knowledgeable and intelligent individual, but he's part of a system that has fallen behind what a lot of people are looking for,
and how long he can retain his viewership amongst a manifestation of claims and lawsuits that seem to have greater media presence than ever
is a question that will only be revealed with time.
Maybe if Dr Phil does come to an end, we will have some clarity on what happened behind the scenes from people who no longer have a commitment to the show,
but who knows when that's going to happen.
It's unclear what the future of the Dr Phil show has in store, but whether it continues for another 20 years or isn't renewed past 2023,
it's legacy is definitely going to be the source of debate for time to come. However, there are some judgements that can be made.
At its best, the producers of Dr Phil didn't properly make sure their guests stayed in a safe place as they should have,
and at their worst, they could have exposed guests to the very vices they were claiming to remedy, very possibly intentionally.
Now, in most cases, Dr Phil did provide care for people after their appearance, though there are obvious exceptions.
However, is the help that comes after worth the humiliation and conflict that comes during?
It's a question worth asking, particularly when that help was structured around its own business model,
whether that meant shipping celebrities off to facilities and specific places, or sending children to boarding schools or treatment centres in different states.
Well, it's hard to believe that 21 years ago I made my very first appearance on the Oprah show, and together we launched Dr Phil in 2002.
And it does sadden me in a way, because in watching a lot of episodes, I have seen the positive changes made by the show.
I have seen people genuinely find the help they need, I have seen some really harrowing interviews with people who have been through hell.
Dr Phil isn't this universal negative, and I don't want to make it out to be that,
but it is a product of an era that isn't as human as it needs to be.
I said at the start that as preached on the show, the first step to making a change in your life is acknowledging responsibility,
something that many of us have done, but something that many of these shows seem to be allergic to, possibly for legal reasons, I don't know for sure.
Maybe for that reason, they'll never evolve, but I do want to give some words of advice in the instance that that is something they're interested in.
If it wants to at least try and keep up with the changing zeitgeist, there needs to be changes.
This isn't 2002 anymore, there should be more diligence about how guests are treated on and off the show, and how the show presents their stories.
They shouldn't let guests put themselves at risk with substances and alcohol in their care, regardless of the TV that it may engender.
They shouldn't crucify teens and youngsters because they're behaving badly.
If they want to make a positive difference, put some money aside towards their treatment, and protect their identities a little better.
They're troubled as anyone, and crafting narratives about how they're the offspring from hell only boxes in their image and challenges them to rebel at one of the most rebellious points in their lives.
How they can think that helps is beyond me, and it's definitely something that needs to change in my opinion.
Whether they choose to take that advice is their decision.
I'm sure McGraw and all will be living alright either way if their net worth is anything to go by,
but if they also care about the wellbeing of their guests, it might just be worth considering.
Doctor Phil McGraw, and all those behind Doctor Phil, did something unprecedented.
They took tabloid talk shows to the next level, and showed many in the genre that there could be a more dignified element,
but not every episode had to end with some sort of route.
However, by holding on to some of the more tabloid aspects of the original formula, they eventually fell into the same pitfalls that many other shows of their time had.
Where they'll be remembered for those pitfalls, or their success stories, is something only time will tell, and maybe they still have time to change that.
But it's something whose extent we'll probably only fully know when Doctor Phil is cancelled.
The show that is, not the person. You know, that was the pun. I'm really funny.
So yeah, that was the video. Hope you enjoyed. Took a bit to come together, but did come together in the end, and that's what matters.
Not too much to discuss today, but I did want to mention one thing. Currently, we're doing a little charity thing on the merchandise website.
Selling some items. Obviously, Christmas is a lovely time for a lot of people, but not for everyone.
My mother put some nice designs together, and we thought, why not?
So with some of these charity jobs, obviously there is the concern that others are taking a cut, and obviously there are costs for the production of the shirts.
What I'm going to do is donate the difference, so that how much you pay for the products is how much is being donated.
And you get something for it as well, which may have some utility in your life.
It's better than buying the new lad baby single. And for the Americans who do not understand their reference, ignorance is bliss, my friends.
Ignorance is bliss.
I'd also like to thank the editors. Credits will be in the pinned comment below. I said description last time, I'm not sure why.
I had a bit of a moment. I also need to give a big thanks to the patrons, $10 patrons on screen right now.
Big thanks to my $50 patrons, Hypercube, Esther Bedoya, Velorex, and Seri Tisch.
Thank you very much for your support, it means a lot.
Also, big thanks to the artists whose work contributed to this video. Credits as well below in the pinned comment.
If your art appears here, be sure to let me know.
Thanks to vidIQ for sponsoring the video, it was genuinely great to work with them as I did use their app as a smaller creator.
Not too much else to add, big thanks to Starfur for his work on the thumbnail, and Kojak to help put this video together and get it out in a timely fashion.
Not sure what else I have to say, I hope you guys have a good festivities wherever you are and whatever you're going through.
Take care guys, take care.
Until then, I'll see you in the next one.
