Hello, you greasy goblins, welcome to TikTok Tuesday.
I know I try to have TikTok Tuesday out at noon, this is definitely not coming out at
noon because, well, that's when I'm recording it.
So this will be coming out a little bit later in the day, maybe even in time for tonight's
stream.
That's alright though.
Let's get to it.
What kind of nonsense have you guys sent me this week?
Oh, we're starting off with a fight today!
Damn.
Oh my god.
Where's this guy recording this from?
He's like on a walkway above the store?
Damn, what the fuck, lady?
You deserve it?
You deserve to get thrown the fuck out.
What the fuck was- was she just going wild over booze?
Hold on, let me see here.
Yeah, maybe she's a shotlifter or something.
I mean, it doesn't look like she's too young to drink.
That's something that you see a lot of when there's like young people who are trying to
buy booze and they get caught because they've got like an underage ID or they're clearly
too young or something.
They start throwing a tantrum and destroying the liquor store or the liquor section of
the store.
This woman ain't that.
Yeah, maybe she's a shotlifter or something.
Let's talk about trans people using public bathrooms from a trans woman's perspective.
Hi, bestie.
I think as a fellow trans woman, you would agree that the world is not made for us.
And I think you've made your opinion very clear that trans individuals can make other
people uncomfortable.
I would agree with that, but here's where you and I differ.
I don't care.
I don't exist to make the cis world comfortable.
I'm here to change this world.
I'm here to live my life the way I want to, to make the next generation of trans people
make their life a little bit easier.
So while you want to limit yourself and you want to appease the world, I'll be out there
living my life and changing it.
So you have a great day.
Love you.
Bye.
Here's the thing.
I don't know how TikTok works.
It seems like this is like a reply from another person who's also on TikTok.
I think they call it a stitch over there.
Man, I don't understand it.
I'm too boomer for any of this shit.
I don't get it.
But it seems like it started off with one trans woman who was going to give her take
about trans women in women's bathrooms and then a second trans woman.
I guess that toque makes it kind of hard to tell, but a second trans woman who shows up
and is replying.
And I think stitching just means that the TikTok you're replying to, TikTok automatically
adds like the first five seconds of the video onto your video or something.
I don't fucking know.
But more importantly, check out this person's rhetoric.
As individuals can make other people uncomfortable.
I agree with that.
But here's where you and I differ.
I don't care.
I don't exist to make the cis world comfortable.
And there you have it.
This is somebody who knows that if they walk into a woman's bathroom and all of the cis
women in the bathroom are really upset by it.
This person doesn't care.
They just don't care.
They don't give a shit.
They would rather the vast majority of people bend to the whims of the minority for that
minority's comfort.
And this is something that I went into with Sargon and Adam and Sitch over on the Adam
and Sitch show on their channel, where basically I said in the real world, people don't actually
care about the trans bathroom issue.
As long as you pass.
When you get a trans woman who passes really well, the example that's always used is Blair
White, but any of them really that pass really well and they walk into a girl's room, no
one cares because they're not making it a political statement.
They're not doing this.
They're not here to change the world.
Bullshit.
They're just living a relatively normal life.
And outside of the internet, outside of all the bullshit ideology, that's how the trans
stuff actually works.
A trans woman counts as a woman if they pass.
And if they don't, then they count as a man.
That's how it is.
So let me know if this makes sense to you guys, but I just got done getting groceries
at the store.
And like, as I was walking out, this lady walks past me and she goes, Oh, Kanye shoes.
Really?
And like, I just stopped.
I looked at her.
I was like, what?
And she says, if you wear shoes made by Kanye, you're equally as much of a piece of shit
as he is.
And I was like, what?
Because first of all, I'm not even wearing Yeezys.
I'm wearing New Balances.
And second of all, there is no groceries.
What the fuck?
What?
What am I watching?
What is this fucking fever dream?
There's a fat guy in the background.
Okay.
Oh, oh my.
Uh, wow.
That was, uh, that was the ultimate that happened story, I guess.
You know how sometimes you can like turn on a TikTok and someone's telling a story and
they're clearly either like hyper embellishing it or it just didn't happen.
And they're just making something up to try and go viral on their page.
I guess we've reached a peak meta irony with this shit, haven't we?
And now that I'm looking at it again, look at the background, dude.
Yeah.
He's clearly in front of like a boarded up store.
I just didn't notice the first time through.
I wonder how many closed K-marts there are across the United States or like targets or
whatever.
There's probably a lot of them.
A lot of these stores that are just closed up and become, you know, graffiti havens.
Oh shit.
It's the pride street in Brit bong land.
What's going on here?
The change in the flags.
You're taking the wrong fucking flag down mate.
At least you know that.
Oh man.
Even the, uh, even like the civil service guys, the, uh, you know, the public works
guys, they know that what they're doing, uh, doesn't exactly feel right, but Hey, it's
part of the job.
You got to do it.
I guess it's interesting that everyone who's in the like the lower echelons of society,
they all have an intuitive feeling that this doesn't, this doesn't sit well with them,
you know?
But they're doing it cause they're paid to do it.
I'm in shock.
Look, what?
Oh my good loving.
Yup.
Another robbery one.
I'm in shock.
They young as hell.
They got trash bags in their pockets.
They really taking the whole store security.
Dude, the worker's not paid enough to stop this.
You paid minimum in Nike store and Watts where the kids come in and rob and they don't
do absolutely nothing.
They are filling up a whole bag.
Do you hear me?
Yep.
She asked me if I want to save my card on file.
Thank you.
No, man.
It's disgraceful.
It is despicable behavior, but I mean, no one's stopping them, right?
That's just how it's going to be.
I mean, the employees don't get paid enough to stop them.
If the store security is not stopping them, if the cops aren't showing up, I mean, what
do you expect?
There has to be some kind of punishment for being a thief, but right now there just isn't.
Oh yeah.
This one, this is from turning point UK, but it was a, it was a recording of a teacher
flipping out at kids, questioning gender identity or gender theory.
So the idea is you have like a woke millennial teacher who really wants to teach the, the
trans stuff.
And I think these are like, like upper aged elementary school students.
We're talking like grade seven, grade eight, you know, you know, just before high school.
That's what it seems like anyway.
And the kids, they're not fucking having it like, damn, maybe, maybe the youth would be
all right after all.
Who was upset?
The teacher
That's a bit much, oh, we didn't say that.
That clicking in the audio.
It's good to question their identity
Gender is not linked to do with not linked gender is about how you identify, which is
what I said, right from the very who cares how you identify biological biological sex.
There is actually three logical sex.
You can be born into sex.
You can be born with male and female body parts or hormones.
Yeah.
But most trans people are intersex, in terms of gender, there are lots of genders, lots
of made up shit.
There is a gender people who don't believe they have a gender at all.
Yeah.
We just don't agree with that.
We have a giant year ago.
Yeah.
But cisgender is not necessarily the way to be.
Oh, my God.
But you identify with the gender that of the sexual order that you're born with, or you're
I mean, yeah, it is kind of weird, but it's fine to be weird, dude.
It's okay.
I'm right now.
I'm here.
My mom.
That's very sad as well, though.
How is it?
Loads of people agree with that.
There's only a small majority of people who actually think a small majority.
Come on.
Hold on.
Come on, kid.
With homophobia.
I'm fine with lesbians and gay people.
I've got nothing against that gender is is what this is painful, guys.
Oh, Jesus.
No, they can't.
They can't.
Unless you get a penis attached.
No, I'm not.
You're confusing sex and gender.
No, I'm not, though.
Because if you have a vagina, you're a girl.
If you have a penis, you're a woman.
Yeah.
You can't have a vagina.
Oh, God.
Even then, because you've got those genes.
I mean, it's actually great this is being recorded.
It's not an opinion.
Yes, it is.
Yes, it is.
No, it's not.
And if you don't like it, you need to go to a different school.
Oh, get out of the school if you don't like it.
You need to have a proper educational conversation about equality, diversity, and inclusion.
Keep gigachatting, kids.
You can be who you want to be.
Everyone else can be.
How you identify is up to you.
Everyone else thinks it.
They just don't play it.
Because they're always at it.
Maybe because they're polite, and maybe they're sensitive.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Maybe because they're polite and maybe they're sensitive.
I haven't said anything of all the lessons I've been in.
It's just because they turned around and started saying something.
So I said, how can you identify as a cat when you're a girl?
Yeah.
When they're not writing a statement, I would imagine that you'll be asked to write a statement
as well.
We will.
We will.
We will.
Based.
That teacher's just completely captured.
Man, I don't often say this because I think conservatives tend to overplay their hand
on this point, but in this case, I will say it.
You got to get your kids out of that classroom.
And if you're if you're a kid in that classroom, you got it.
You got to understand that you on some level, you are definitely being lied to
or maybe not not lied to because they think it's real.
But, you know, ideologically indoctrinated. That was wild.
Man, another robbery, one lots of robbery, one said this week, guys, they're good.
Look at them stealing.
Really, bro?
You got to resort to this economy is not that bad.
Wait, it's all like cleaning supplies.
They use it for drugs, maybe.
Holy shit.
Maybe the house is really dirty.
Better get it while the getting's good.
Oh, shit. Oh, man.
They covered the.
Oh, wait, they leave the guy behind.
Oh, my God. They got the plate.
They got somebody run that plate.
You got to stop these fucks.
I know, like in previous TikTok Tuesdays, people kept saying,
what are the race of the people involved to have one of the race?
And yeah, there's definitely a disproportionate amount of black people
doing this, generally because of the culture and the neighborhoods.
Maybe the maybe the economic conditions.
It's obviously not genetics, like that's fucking stupid.
But yeah, it seems like since stealing is
apparently not being punished right now, everyone who's a thief is getting in on it.
All right, guys, that's the end of it for me.
I know I skipped last week or something, but I'm glad to be back.
If you want to send me more TikTok Tuesdays content,
hit me up on Discord, hit me up on Twitter.
I do have the original SFO Twitter account back,
but it's actually been shadowbanned, so you have to like come to my profile.
But the Morbius Devo account has been has been destroyed.
I flew too close to the sun on that one.
All right. I'll be streaming something or other tonight.
I don't know what it is yet. I guess we'll see.
And yes, more videos are coming as well.
I'm working on those this afternoon.
All right. Have a good one, everyone.
I love you.
