When I was writing the script for yesterday's video, the Pronouns and Bio one, I realized
something about the Pronouns Wiki.
Yeah, it was pretty fun to go down rabbit holes and see all of the weird terms they've
invented for concepts that don't really exist, but it's more than that.
Normies who are a lot less plugged into things who come across this wiki would be utterly
bamboozled.
Nobody's going to understand this shit.
An image made the rounds on social media recently that made me think the same thing.
Check this out.
What is solo poly?
Sole polyamory is a type of polyamorous configuration.
Solo poly people tend to see their selves as their own primary.
They usually have multiple separate or intertwined polyamorous dynamics.
They are committed to their polyamorous relationships.
They don't depend on the relationship escalator to express their commitment.
Well, what the fuck does this all mean?
Polyamory is pretty obvious.
It's when you have a committed relationship with more than one other person, as opposed
to an open relationship, which is when you're romantically committed to one person, but
you're both fucking other people separately.
Or a polycule, which is the extended connections and chains of relationships between people
who are non-exclusive.
A primary in this vocabulary refers to your primary relationship.
If you're in an open relationship, let's actually use a noteworthy example this time.
Let's use Destiny and Mileena.
The Destiny-Mileena relationship is the primary, and whoever each of them date or fuck around
with on the side are the secondaries.
The relationship escalator refers to outward markers of commitment.
So getting a girl, being exclusive, living together, getting married, having kids together.
That's ascending the relationship escalator.
You have clear, visible markers of relationship progress, and you can tangibly see the commitment
they have to each other.
When this image says that a person is their own primary, that means the most important
relationship they have is with themselves.
When the image says that they're in multiple polydynamics and value them all, that means
that they're the lynchpin that holds several polydynamics into an actual polycule.
And damn, these maps really could double as an STD transmission path.
And when the image says that they don't depend on the relationship escalator, that means
that you can't judge their commitment to their relationships based on whether or not they
live together or get married or have kids or be exclusive or do any of the actual things
that people in committed relationships do.
In other words, it's a bunch of self-centered nonsense.
Also, it's a BIPOC hijabi woman with a hook for a leg.
Because why not?
I'm sure this person's out there slotting it up with everybody.
But what I noticed while looking at this is that inclusive, woke language reads a lot
like aristocratic language of the past.
It's like the old Russian aristocrats speaking French, or the church teaching in Latin.
It's the language of the elite.
Actually, I didn't notice it.
V noticed it.
But since he steals everything else, I'm going to steal this from him.
Normal people don't understand what inclusive language is, just like Russian peasants didn't
understand French, and in some way, just like uneducated people don't understand highly
scientific language either.
That lack of knowledge means that to the listener, the language sounds like it carries more weight
than it actually does.
Think about it.
If you go to the doctors and the doctor diagnoses you with something, he's going to use layman
terms so that you know what's actually going on.
He could be more precise by using scientifically loaded language, but that precision would
be entirely lost on you unless you're also a doctor.
Just as a priest or a nobleman could use his knowledge of Latin and the Bible to chastise
the dirty, unwashed peasants who have no idea what he's talking about, a scientist or a
doctor or an academic can wield the knowledge of his own specialized language to do the
same.
It's not a different language in this case, but a person not in the know will hear these
complicated terms and think, I don't get it, but it sounds like he knows what he's
talking about, so he's probably right.
This is what is going on with the Pronouns Wiki and anything else that is a product of
woke gender studies courses on campus.
If they can build up a department of accredited professors teaching accredited texts at accredited
universities, then what makes them any different from any other domain of knowledge?
The computer science department has its texts and its classes and its teachers and its knowledge,
the engineering department has theirs, and the gender studies department has theirs.
The rubber stamp of the school gives them legitimacy, and that legitimacy is what they
wield in their political control of language.
Here is a great example.
What do you think this means?
We are poised to emerge as an influential champion of museological change as we advance
our capacity to foster and relay intersectional connections across disciplines and communities
that converge when a public, university-affiliated museum is both civically-minded and pedagogically
driven.
This is the announcement that a museum at Queen's University is being renovated.
Do you think anybody outside of academia understood that?
Most normal people consider the word racism to mean discrimination based on race, but
if you were to bring that definition to a progressive, they would say something like
lol read a book, white people can't be racist, it's privilege plus power, educate yourself.
The obvious normally reply to that is that's just an imposition by the academy on regular
people.
Most people don't think like that, it's not a real definition, which is true, but an equally
true statement will be the progressive reply.
Nothing is a real definition because we all made it up, and all new knowledge is ultimately
codified by the academy before it enters the mainstream.
The issue is, of course, they've corrupted this process of codification.
And to appeal to that overquoted book in 1984, if you can control the language, you can control
the thoughts.
How do you express an opinion when you have no word to describe it?
Yes, they literally do this, and yes, they literally talk about doing it.
You don't think you're racist?
New definitions will open your eyes, oh boy, I can't wait to see what new definitions await
me.
Things that don't fit into the traditional definition of racism, but may still contribute
to it.
Mixing up people who seem to be the same ethnicity, that's just a mistake.
Not bothering to learn an ethnic name, always mispronouncing it, calling them something
that's easier to pronounce, making a show of saying it, you know, sometimes it's just hard
to fucking do.
Touching a black person's hair, okay, fair enough, don't do that guys, don't just touch
someone's hair without their permission.
Asking easily searchable things to the only minority person in your vicinity, making assumptions
based on race, seeing racism in things that are not racist.
You do this all the fucking time.
Singing the n-word in songs, oh god, listen, if it's in a song, it's fine, that's my hard
stance on it at this point.
If someone's dropping slurs in a song, it is fine.
Being colorblind, that's literally the definition of anti-racism, you fucking morons.
Speaking over a person of color talking about racism, white prongs do that all the time,
bringing up an unrelated race topic when talking to a person of color.
Telling people you watched a minority led film multiple times, such as Black Panther,
Crazy Rich Asians, or Get Out, man, this whole list sounds like an attack against progressives.
I guess everything's racist, oh wait, it is.
Using an example of a famous person of color, deny how racist something is.
Blackface or cultural appropriation, where you borrow cultural items as a costume, hey
Justin Trudeau, you're fucked.
Denying or being defensive when confronted with the idea of racism.
So if you think you're not guilty of being racist, that's racist.
Bringing up someone's race when it's not relevant, that's literally being colorblind, you fucking
moron.
Referring to the race card, can't have jokes either.
Not believing that people of color contribute to society.
Covering up racism as opinion or freedom of speech, you know, something can be both free
speech and racist.
Asking for evidence when a person of color explains their lived experience.
That's the thing, here is some of that academic knowledge twisted for political gain.
They'll call it lived experience here, but if you try to bring it up, they'll call
it anecdotal.
Telling someone they're racist for bringing up race.
I swear to god half of these things are in direct conflict with the other half.
Thinking you're privy to racial struggles because you've had diverse members in your
family or social groups.
Yep, I guess I fucked an Asian no longer works.
Florissant woman helps change Merriam-Webster's definition of racism.
Because if we can change the dictionary, then our opponents can no longer appeal to it.
And we can instead.
Racism is a tough little word, the definition has grown and shifted over time.
No, people with political motives have pushed changes over time.
It's not hard to find studies published by reputable schools and outlets talking about
how language should be changed and used, and it's no surprise that it all leans one
way politically.
Here's the rub.
After the change has been pushed hard enough that it sticks in academic circles, it begins
to trickle down off campus.
It's like the priest speaking in Latin, and Normie's not going to know what's
going on, he's going to see, oh this study from this university says this is the proper
language for this idea, and the dictionary agrees with them, and then that'll be that.
NASA reexamining nicknames for cosmic objects.
Twitter and Microsoft changing up computer related terminology.
Urban dictionary declaring that articles that were once allowed and submitted back
when the internet was still a fun place are now problematic.
It all stems from the same attitude.
These words are offensive.
Oh, they're not offensive?
Well, guess what?
I changed the definition, so now they are.
Heh heh, you're a racist now.
Go to college.
And even when you're right, you're still wrong.
Take the case of Martin O'Neill in Ireland, who was raked over the coals for his use of
the word queer.
A word that was a slur decades ago, but has since been reclaimed by the community.
The hit piece written about the Irish football coach specifically references the LGBTI community
as being the aggrieved party.
Not the LGBTQ community, because the Q stands for queer, a word they already used to describe
themselves.
LGBTI was in use back when queer was still considered a slur.
LGBTI stopped being used decades ago, and the Q replaced the I when queer stopped being
a slur.
This is all done for political reasons.
It's done so that leftoids may build power and attack their enemies.
If you want the most blatant example of it, look no further than the shit show surrounding
then Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett in October of 2020.
Just in case you weren't plugged into the social media sphere back then, let me describe
it to you.
I was there.
I was jacked right the fuck in and watched the spin cycle happen in real time.
She said live on camera that she would not judge people based on sexual preference.
That you, like him, would be a consistent vote to roll back hard fought freedoms and
protections for the LGBT community.
And what I was hoping you would say is that this would be a point of difference where
those freedoms would be respected.
And you haven't said that.
Senator, I have no agenda and I do want to be clear that I have never discriminated on
the basis of sexual preference and would not ever discriminate on the basis of sexual
preference.
You know, like racism, I think discrimination is abhorrent.
This was during the morning session of her confirmation to the Supreme Court, but leftoids
on Twitter latched onto that phrase, sexual preference, deciding it was problematic.
And soon after, articles were published by various news outlets, all decrying Amy Coney
Barrett for using the hateful slur, sexual preference.
But each and every single one of them, the outlets and the verified Twitter accounts
used that same term positively in the past.
By the afternoon session of the confirmation, a Democratic Senator was grilling Amy Coney
Barrett using talking points she pulled from online.
Not once, but twice, you use the term sexual preference to describe those in the LGBT community.
And let me make clear, sexual preference is an offensive and outdated term.
It is used by anti-LGBTQ activists to suggest that sexual orientation is a choice.
It is not.
Sexual orientation is a key part of a person's identity.
That sexual orientation is both a normal expression of human sexuality and immutable was a key
part of the majority's opinion in Obergefell, which by the way, Scalia did not agree with.
So in saying that I couldn't opine on whether Obergefell was rightly decided or not, I was
certainly not indicating disagreement with it.
The point of not answering was to simply say it's inappropriate for me to say a response.
And the second point was to say that I certainly didn't mean and would never mean to use a
term that would cause any offense in the LGBTQ community.
So if I did, I greatly apologize for that.
I simply meant to be referring to Obergefell's holding with respect to same-sex marriage.
By the end of the day, the dictionary had changed its definition of sexual preference
to make it an offensive remark.
The manipulation and redefinition of language, acts that are only legitimized by the authority
of the offices of the people doing the corruption, has become so efficient that a completely
normal term can be rendered unspeakable within the span of a 24-hour news cycle.
And this process has only continued at a breakneck pace.
This is actually some war is peace, freedom is slavery shit.
The assault on language in the name of inclusivity, using the authority of the academic institution
as a justification, is actually about making language so imprecise that regular people
can no longer use it to speak truth.
They're no longer illegal immigrants, they're undocumented migrants.
It's not a riot, it's a mostly peaceful protest.
Alternatively, it's not a riot, it's a violent overthrow of the government.
Each of these changes is less precise, but they're also longer and clunkier to speak
and write.
It seems to me that the people enforcing the change find the subject inconvenient, either
personally or politically.
And so anybody who actually wants to speak the truth, end up having to speak longer and
clunkier sentences, and therefore less effective speech.
It's often said that the left can't meme.
That's not necessarily true.
What's actually happening is, the Prague viewpoints rely on this carefully constructed
version of reality, which naturally doesn't lend itself to easily conveyed messages.
If the normies see things as they are, without a leftoid providing several layers of carefully
selected context, they'll interpret reality in a way detrimental to their political goals.
In other words, the left can't meme because memes are the antithesis of how they communicate.
Memes are intuitive, not rational.
If you have to rationally explain a joke, it ceases to be funny.
There's a reason these conversations always go the same way.
The Prague always begins by saying, we need to have a conversation about this, which is
never actually a conversation, it's just you listening to them.
And then they're going to say that they're on the right side of history, and they're
just going to speak the truth, and the personal is political, and they're just doing praxis.
If you object, then you're on the wrong side of history.
You're taking up space, and you need to educate yourself and check your privilege.
If they get angry during the conversation, they will claim that anger is righteousness.
It's the language of the unheard.
If you get angry, it's male tears and white fragility.
If you ask them to explain their points, they will say they don't owe you their time or
their emotional labor.
But if you try to explain yours, you'll be told that you're mansplaining, or you're
a class traitor, or you're a bootlicker.
Each of these terms is opaque to every normie my age.
Most of them didn't take gender studies classes.
So they just think, oh, geez, I must have done something wrong.
I don't want to bother anybody.
And then they comply.
Fair enough.
Most feel good about making other people feel bad for no reason.
But these people exploit that natural tendency of goodwill and subvert it for their own political
agenda, using the tools of over-educated language to do the job.
Best counter to this is blanket refusal.
Don't apologize unless your conscience tells you you've done something wrong.
Certainly don't apologize to get a mob to stop coming after you, because they never
will.
Don't acquiesce to their redefinitions of terms.
Call a spade a spade.
If they're racist, call them racist.
And when they whine, you can't be racist towards white people.
Just roar back, shut up, bitch, you're a fucking racist.
The Chad meme is so effective in this conversation, because it strikes at a core truth, that people
still know what the score is, regardless of the institutions leading an assault on their
body of knowledge, and that a true individualist position is to simply say no.
I know you've subverted the schools and the news outlets and the dictionaries.
I know what the truth is, and you're wrong, no matter how many mouthpieces you corrupt.
They are petty tyrants who only have the power of words at the end of the day, so you must
use yours and say no.
