Mediator or menace?
Hello ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the right opinion the home of a twat with too much free time and dr. Phil
He's been making the YouTube rounds recently. Don't worry. I'm not going to go triggered Trone here
This will be the right opinion that you all know and love slash hate which quick PSA by the way
I'm the superior Tro no question
But anyhow
We're going to take a dive into the culture itself that yields the man who has been the subject of so many videos of interest
In the months of recent dr. Phil, dr
Phil is the American talk show created by none other than the great Oprah Winfrey and hosted by Phil McGraw it began airing in
2002 with the concept of dr
Phil talking about various topics and often drawing on individual experiences with the use of everyday people as their guest to illustrate that is still
Going strong to this day and with the recent trend of content made on it
I'm sure it's not going to die anytime soon. So he might as well get used to it now
I can't speak too much in depth about the old shows but looking into the current repertoire
What generally happens is that most of the time dr
Phil tends to have some very irrational
Individuals appearing out of very exceptional extreme cases and tries to make sense of their behavior. It is important to note the dr
Phil in spite of the criticism that he receives is a qualified clinical
Psychologist to my understanding and generally speaking does behave with enough decorum that you would expect someone of that stature to behave with with that
said the issues that have been presented on the show are quite black and white and although dr
Phil may attempt to make sense of them
He is a lot more upfront than many psychologists in the field typically would be generally though
Although there are certain preferred methods of counseling. There is no unanimous consensus as long as he acts within the ethical guidelines
He definitely has a few gotchas which probably don't endear the subject and he also has inclusions that enhance its entertainment value over
Welfare of the individual but at the end of the day given the fact that the individual may be behaving somewhat
Immorally those sorts of one-liners and comments can serve as a counterbalance in that scenario on top of that
It's probably what also kept it on air
I feel that many people don't watch beyond the base value that it can provide you don't really watch dr
Phil for its educational value with that said it does have a softer edge to it than I mean in England where our equivalent is
The Jeremy Kyle show which involves Jeremy Kyle calling people disgraceful and acting disgusted or some sexually frustrated
Fella with no front teeth is sat on the couch
It's not a show that enhances people's lives to say the least so comparatively dr. Phil probably does a better job there
However, there is one clear distinction that dr
Phil and perhaps some other American variations do have which has been simmering cause for philosophical debate
Which I thought would be cool to discuss in today's video
We often ask ourselves at what age does a child become responsible for their own actions?
I think we all know what direction we're careening in here. Yes
We're going to talk about her Danielle Bregoli and I have bided my time
But she's just too much of a fascinating case study to be ignored not necessarily as the whole topic of this video
But as someone who is not just a symptom of the worst of culture
But of how that coach can somehow respond to promote that behavior on the basis of its exceptionalism alone
one of the things that many people seem to get when discussing Danielle Bregoli is that in spite of the fact that many
Youtubers would approach her topic as talking about an adult because she does behave like one
We seem to forget that she is still young not legal to do things that many people would be and she certainly wasn't legal when
She appeared on the Dr. Phil show either at the ripe old age of 13 now
I'm where there is a certain flexibility within maturity and although mature isn't the word I describe her as I
Understand that some people can adopt certain traits of those outside their age range while retaining others
But there still has to be a line and principle that we operate on and yet here we are one and a half years on
with her as an international
Superstar acting transparently out of her depth. It shouldn't have happened. Why did it happen?
Well, it all began with the Dr. Phil episode for anyone who wasn't aware
Which I assume most of you are due to some negative audience interaction
Her responses appeared to escalate and she told the audience to quote catch me outside. How about that?
However, her annunciation led it to sounding like cash me outside
How about that which is what precipitated the eventual attention what a lot of people forget that in that interview?
There was actually a lot of meaningful content espoused by dr. Phil and in a way that was undermined by the noun viral acts in
A way, I think this event outlined the morally ambiguous area of dr. Phil's show the child viewer interaction from a personal perspective
I do not think a child going on live television is the best form of therapy as proven by Danielle Bregoli and yes
She may be rich but lifestyle is beyond money and my thoughts are that this will not be healthy in the long term and it
Has been a very volatile ride so far even with the moolah certainly the mother hasn't helped
But once again, the platform was given and she used it on the surface level a televised interview doesn't do anything
Therapeutically special for a child that a covert interview can't do. So why do people do it?
The initial answer would be for attention which leads to the conclusion that exploiting a child like that for attention is not very moral at
All making the ethics of the practice very questionable. However, this is where the ambiguity enters
You see it's hard to tell how much dr.
Phil exists beyond the show and from what I've heard and what I've read they do involve themselves with enhancement programs of children who
feature in something known as turnabout ranch now
I cannot assume with absolution given how vague and convoluted all the information is online how much support is provided
It does seem they play some role in supporting children and improving their behavior at that place from the statistics analyze
There appears to be somewhat success from it. Although it only measures ratings within the first year afterwards
So it's hard to imply anything long-term from it
It's also really difficult to work out how much support is provided because we only see the footage that's provided and once again
It could all just be for views. There's also the indirect knock-ons like the dr. Phil foundation, which does good work from what I understand
Once again, that's not directly attributable to having children on the show and we have to remember what this discussion is about children
So we're actively choosing to take their child on public television a decision that they may not be responsible enough to make
I know it sounds slightly Machiavellian
But I'm not too bothered if an able adult appears on the show and doesn't leave any better off than they're right mainly because they
Have to acknowledge the possible consequences from appearing on the show when you have individuals like sexy vegan
They do seem slightly irredeemable some things cannot be cured but children are different for me
They do not have the ability to reason whether they want to go on the show
They may not be able to acknowledge the consequences at a certain age
And if there is a clear disparity with how children are coming out of the program
And it appears not to be effective in the long term then it may be right to address it and listen
I haven't watched dr. Phil
So I don't know if there's anything stated specifically statistical about that but printed information seems to be a rarity over the effectiveness
Going on public TV under such psychological circumstances can be stressful. It can be positive
It can be negative and it's clear there needs to be more evidence
But I don't think that should stop dialogue or at least prevent
Situations like Danielle Bregoli from spiraling out of control because whatever part of her was salvageable has been thoroughly tested
Thanks to the evolving media and I don't think that a child should be put on blast for entertainment value alone
What do you think are there any avid dr. Phil viewers out there? Do we have any interesting statistics?
I'd be very inclined to hear because I've googled it and it's just not there apart from you know
The normal journalistic article saying dr
Phil is evil and has a human zoo and that's all very biased and I don't want to just base it on that
But I'd love to hear I'm kind of torn. Maybe you can persuade me anyhow until the next one
I'm the right opinion and I'll see you then
