Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and I hope you're enjoying living in the modern era of YouTube, though you probably aren't.
However, for today's topic, we removed the prim and proper suits of modern YouTube, and donned the trackies and overcoats.
Yes, we're bringing out the big guns. Let's hop in the Tro-Time machine and head back to 2012,
the time when a very unique gentleman was at the pinnacle of YouTube.
This is a man known as FPS Russia. Now, he isn't spoken too much about these days, but you know, I think he should be.
It's hard to think of a better example of a creator who could make content catered to popular interest while uploading videos
whose style probably wouldn't have worked on any other platform besides YouTube.
Yes, I have a hunch if the gents over at Sons of Gun suddenly started putting on slightly subpar Russian accents,
the producers over at the Discovery Channel would have been rather unimpressed, though honestly, I think they would have taken that
rather than actually what happened to the host of that show.
However, for those who are a bit newer to the platform, you may not be completely familiar with the background of today's subject,
Kyle Myers or FPS Russia, so the next five minutes also will be focused on that.
Like a large majority of creators, FPS Russia had an extensive history on the platform, starting on the extremely catchy name of KLM5986.
He was originally a gaming channel who went by the name of FPS Kyle. I assume at some point he came to this idea of,
well, what would happen if I did gaming but with a Russian accent, and thus FPS Russia was born, because initially FPS Russia
was actually also a gaming channel, a gaming channel that performed relatively well, mind you.
Hell, in one of the old screenshots I'd found, there was even an old comment saying that he was about to blow up.
And boy, did he, though probably not in the way that people predicted.
Playing like this make many people very angry. They send me lots of angry messages and send me mean text messages,
mean voicemail, and I just laugh and laugh. It is very, very funny to get the hate mail from the bitches.
Apparently finding out that this accent was fake was like finding out Santa wasn't real.
Well kids, if you're watching this, Santa is as real as this accent. Do what you want with that statement.
Not too long after his gaming ventures, Kyle decided to expand his content, attempting more creative sketches,
most of which are long gone, although I was moderately taken aback by one named I love very young girls,
alongside some very timely top comments. The glory days of YouTube have truly passed us by.
At some point he must have noticed that certain weapon related content was performing significantly better than the rest of his uploads,
and he decided to focus on pursuing that as a brand, a justified business decision.
The videos that are currently on his channel definitely represent that brand in the most accurate possible way.
With FPS Russia, you would receive a first class ticket to the gun show.
His videos typically exhibited a variety of weapons and stunts based around the discharge of such content.
It was punchy, entertaining, and strangely satisfying for a multitude of reasons, all mixed in with that slightly eccentric persona.
It was a recipe for success, and in the coming years he experienced just that.
He became one of the most popular YouTubers on the platform, at one point being the third most subscribed channel on the whole of YouTube.
He appeared in related media, including an ad for Call of Duty Black Ops 2 alongside Robert Downey Jr,
and he even launched his own app, FPS Russia The Game, after a highly successful Kickstarter campaign.
He was more than just a guy shooting guns, he was a real personality, and he played into that.
It was pretty damn genius, the persona was a simplistic Russian guy which worked incredibly well because of the limited spoken content.
He would keep it simple, shut up, and shoot his gun, and not bother with too many technicalities that a majority of people probably wouldn't be the most interested in.
He knew primarily to focus on the sensation of shooting guns, at the same time his persona complemented it well,
it was a stereotype, and in many ways he appealed to stereotypical mannerisms that made the content enjoyable,
and appeared alongside those who emboldened that.
I assume most people know what an exploitation film is, it's something that works to cater to trends in the most obscene way possible.
FPS Russia took some of those elements and combined it with the realism that people expected of a YouTube video,
and created something grounded yet impactful.
Oh yeah, give me that slo-mo baby, you love to see it.
At its core, FPS Russia's videos were the perfect balance of amateur and professional.
He's a bloke with a bit too much firepower, but at the same time, he's got a bloody tank.
Point is, you needed some balls and some money to do what he did, however, to be such a public yet seemingly unprotected figure participating in hazardous activities
on this relatively unknown, uncensored platform places you in a position where you may be in the sight of multiple parties,
all willing to take their own shots, and when you're such a large target, you're gonna catch a couple bullets,
and that's what we're going to be discussing today.
As of November-December 2019, I don't know when this video will be out, his child sits dormant, untouched for over three years,
and it wasn't because he ran out of money or balls, no, I don't think that will be a problem for him.
It's a complicated story that, whatever way you look at it, started in 2013, and when you uncover the details,
you'll find the sudden demise of a channel embodied in drama, conspiracy theories, death, prison, and actually some interesting sociopolitical discourse.
So we're gonna do all that today, and hopefully more, so we can find out about the curious fate of FPS Russia.
See, I said the title, that makes me clever, hahaha.
Let us embark on this most mysterious journey, let's set the ship to full mast.
For this next part, I'll be putting some of my more morbid murder interest to the grindstone.
With that said, this is also a disclaimer because, although relevant, it also touches on some sensitive topics.
So without further ado, let's dim the lights.
FPS Russia wasn't a single person project. Now, I'm sure that'll surprise no one,
it'd take a lot of time and ability to obtain all his equipment, organize film crews, edit, and so on,
and the bottom line is that people just want to see the final results.
This is where we introduce you to someone by the name of Keith Ratliff.
Keith Richard Ratliff was a gun enthusiast, husband, and father hailing from Kentucky,
but also someone fairly involved in the FPS Russia YouTube channel.
The extent of his involvement seems uncertain, some people claiming that he was merely a member
of the production team, whereas many closer to Ratliff claiming he was one of the co-founders
of the channel itself. This latter assertion would have surprised me given the nature of the channel
when it was originally founded, but maybe he became heavily involved not too soon after.
One detail that was uncontested was the role he played in the channel, often obtaining extremely
rare and otherwise inaccessible weaponry. He had previously worked as a marketing manager,
and had even attempted online ventures before, such as his ownership of the website known as
Sotastic.com, a marketing-oriented business. In November 2011, he co-founded FPS Industries LLC,
which combined Keith's marketing expertise with his love for firearms. In February of 2012,
he moved from Kentucky to Carnesville, Georgia. I assume this was in part because FPS Industries LLC
was also a Type 10 destructors manufacturer, which is a high-level license for those who wish to
produce and deal with destructive devices, ammunition for those destructive devices,
armor-piercing ammunition, and other various weaponry. It cost them money to apply and renew
every now and then, and as far as it is published on their Facebook page, Keith was the one with the
license. There are a load of additional technicalities and licenses that you will
likely have to apply for, but it's understandable that Ratliff wanted to move closer to the source
of this income, so he left his family in Kentucky to pursue this business venture and the many
successes that it could yield. Keith also had a YouTube channel at one point called Guns,
Guns, and More Guns, though its name changed a few times. This channel has also since been closed.
He also ran the FPS Industries LLC Facebook page. He was just stereotypical gun-loving man.
He had ambitions, dreams, and Obama memes. Everything moved fairly smoothly for just shy
of a year. The YouTube channels excelled, and the business seemed to have decent traffic as well.
However, barely a few days into the new year, on the 4th of January 2013,
he was discovered deceased with a single gunshot wound to the head. There were a lot of guns
surrounding him, but not the one that was responsible for his death. There was no sign
of a struggle, no sign of a break-in, a few guns were missing, but nothing that would amount to
a theft being the motive. The surveillance equipment was missing as well, so unfortunately,
the crime wasn't captured. It was a pretty sparse crime scene, and although there was a lot of
initial attention on the case, with the state of Georgia police releasing a statement regarding
these circumstances, it died down fairly rapidly and left a lot of unanswered questions behind.
At the time, there was a lot of confusion with some people thinking Kyle was actually the one
who had been killed, which wasn't the case, and there was also this claim that Keith had been
tied up prior to being shot. This was also untrue. With all the details considered, many people felt
like the person who had murdered Keith must have known him, especially given the lack of otherwise
clear motive. It felt like it would have needed to be something more personal, or at least
premeditated. He also hadn't been living in Georgia too long, so it had to be someone
relatively current in his life. There were also some pretty wild conspiracy theories,
some wondering if he'd been targeted by the government or a gun control group,
due to his glorification of gun culture and outspoken criticism of gun control.
Most of you can't. That should be illegal. Every one of you should be able to own an assault weapon
of your choice, because that's what the Second Amendment in America is about. It's about owning
weaponry to allow you to defend oneself from all enemies, no matter where they arise from.
However, in both these instances, you'd think that the groups would have been more direct and
would have made more of an example of him, though the government wouldn't, but I think the government
have other things to deal with. Another theory that was floating around was the idea that this
was an arms deal gone wrong, and although the Type 10 license did give Ratliff an extensive amount
of power to trade within the industry, the proof substantiating these theories is weak.
Ultimately, the relevancy of this saga is that regardless of who committed the crime, the unsolved
nature hanging over the head of the community set an uncomfortable spotlight on anyone in the
vicinity, particularly those with an arsenal of weapons. The truth is that many people close to
Ratliff had one person in mind, and that was Kyle. Statements made by those from the Justice for
Keith Ratliff pressure group, and even in their petition, clearly alludes to the idea that Kyle
was the individual who committed the crime, and that the police hadn't acted on it due to the
fact that Ratliff wasn't from around those parts, and Kyle was. As a business partner, someone who
knew the environment, and as someone whom Keith would have trusted, there are certain circumstances
that may have made this a more fitting theory, but there's also a significant lack of public motive,
and given Keith's value to the business, it would have seemed an exceptionally ill-advised move.
I don't really want to focus on the theory, but it's important to note how this would have affected
the channel, a channel focused primarily on the utility of dangerous weapons. Keith was important,
and this incident would have struck fear into a lot of people associated with the channel given
the unknown perpetrator and motive. Uncertainty is a curse. What's worse is that given his proximity,
regardless of the verifiability, it was inevitable that Kyle, regardless of motive,
was going to be one of the key suspects, and Keith's untimely murder put Kyle on the police
radar in a way that affected his trade. Less than two months later, federal agents from the ATF,
alongside the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, raided his and his father's place. While the ATF
claimed it was for unrelated issues regarding explosives, the sheriff claimed it was regarding
the murder, the legal side being as coherent as ever. It was never said if anything of value was
actually taken, although Kyle was reported to have been charged with anything. Nonetheless,
the raid was probably quite stressful, and it was followed by an extended hiatus until his return in 2014.
And it has been a very long time since we've uploaded the video, and it's been a while since
I've posted on social media as well, and I wanted to first of all explain that I've been through so
many times where I've been trying to set up production days, working with film crews, working
with high-speed stuff, and everything fell through, and I kept telling everyone, we'll have a video in
a week, we'll have a video in a month, and that was based on promises that had been made to me.
Then when those promises get broken, I look like the liar, so I wanted to wait until I had everything
ready, had several videos in the bank, and we're there now. So first things first, we've got a very
nice 12 gauge. But hey, at least he was back, right? Right? Well, unfortunately, it's never really over.
The whole situation regarding the death of Keith Ratliff was a blight on everyone involved,
particularly given that it was unresolved. The variety of theories couldn't really change the people
who were closest to him at the time. One of the biggest issues is that our friend Kyle probably
anticipated that the police were under some sort of pressure to solve the crime, and that given his
public YouTube channel, he was playing with fire in more ways than one. However, he couldn't risk
compromising his business, it was still incredibly successful, he still had an audience, and he still
had a demand. So as noted in 2014, around 9 months after the raid of his house, he returned triumphantly
and resumed his content. Now, I'd say he's not really afraid of taking risks, so I doubt it was the most
difficult decision at that point. And besides, at that point, the feds had done a sweep, there wasn't
very much else they could expect to find. However, many police departments may attempt to find reasons
to return to the residence of a suspect later on, in case the subject in question had temporarily
moved certain suspicious items and returned them at a later date. Therefore, the police would have
no hesitation in returning if granted the opportunity. Of course, they would need suspicious
activity to justify a warrant, and although one would describe FPS Russia's activities as
particularly regular, in the context of what he did with his channel, it was hard to frame it as
criminally suspicious. Nonetheless, even after his return, a lot of the YouTube mystery persisted in
the world of FPS Russia, a lot of internet detectives didn't let off, people trying to work out who
had murdered Keith Ratliff as if they were going to bust open the case, and in spite of understandable
irritation from the team at FPS Industries, they eventually granted one interview with Kyle,
with conditions prevailing that the questions were sent in advance.
As far as why he was killed, you know, who's to say? I loved Keith, Keith was my buddy, Keith had been my friend
for a couple of years, we travelled the country together, so it's hard for me to say, oh yeah, this person
or that person, you know, everybody's got enemies I suppose, people who don't care for the way they do
things, you know, he had a, he had a rocky personal life with women, you know, I know he'd had some
trouble in business in the past, but nothing that would bring something like this, you know, at least
we wouldn't think so, so no idea, it's uh, no idea.
I don't really have too much to add here, what I know about Keith didn't extend to such matters, but I can
understand why he didn't want to make further comments. At the same time, it's good to have a
statement out there for reference, this interview was part of another documentary that framed Kyle
fairly negatively, and to be honest, although he maybe should have turned up at some of the prior
interviews, if I was in his shoes, I'd probably be a bit frustrated about the situation persisting in
the way it had, it's hard to conclude anything, the video is called Who Killed Keith Ratliff?, and all
you conclude is that no one had a bloody clue. Over the time period, the regularity of uploads
became more and more sporadic, and in April 2016, FPS Russia published his final video, one where he
tested out some very nice flamethrowers. These videos seemed fairly routine in nature, and nothing
was identifiably wrong, it's unclear as to why he exactly stopped at that point, screenshots in the
months prior showed his channel not performing too well, but still somewhat decently, though obviously
such weapons wouldn't have been particularly cheap to own. Also, another really important thing to note
was that this was around the time of the apocalypse, and honestly, it's hard to see how a channel like
his would have received many liberties. It sucks, because on principle, he's not a terrorist, and what
he does isn't particularly exceptional to many shows you'd see on TV, but for creators who deal with
any sort of weaponry, the mere sight of them in 2016 would have probably given the lads over at
Googleplex an aneurysm. Unfortunately, what FPS Russia did was high risk, high reward, and I have a
hunch that although he was never really afraid of the risk, the reward came with diminishing returns.
Nonetheless, his presence from YouTube didn't completely disappear, it's likely that he had made
a fair amount of money at that time, so he could chill and pursue more relaxed personal ventures.
One of his friends, Woody's gamertag, posted a podcast called the Painkiller Podcast, on which
Kyle was a regular co-host. On this side of the internet, he was just known as Kyle, and the Russian accent was gone.
Yeah, of course, we have a few sponsors tonight, Smartmouth, of course, making its return, as well as
Lyft, Zip Recruiter, and Jack Threads, and MeUndies, so you can check them out down in the description below.
I'm gonna talk about each of them more later on, but for now, let's just start the show.
It's hard to say it was anything particularly exhilarating, but I think it was entertaining enough,
and Kyle seemed to be having fun, so that's what matters. The podcast itself probably generates a
decent amount of income due to the number of sponsors, and Kyle typically did the readings.
He still does a fair few episodes there now, so if you're wondering where to find him, that's where
you can go. However, if it was the end of the story, the arc would be incomplete, because as said,
since the death of Keith Ratliff, the police have probably been glancing in his direction a bit more
than they normally would. As mentioned, if the opportunity arose to raid his property again,
they would. Unfortunately, that opportunity did, and after receiving a tip-off that Kyle had imported
25 grams of butane hash oil through the mail, which was a pretty bad idea to be honest,
law officials moved in on Kyle and his residents once more in August of 2017. I have little doubt
that this was in part due to the hope that they thought they'd maybe find something they hadn't
before, and their search of Kyle's residence extended to looking for weapons and explosives.
As he was charged with possession of marijuana with intent to distribute, they removed these
weapons due to a statute that prevented illegal drug users from owning them. Honestly, I'm
disappointed. I can't think of a better combination than guns and weed. Am I right kids? I'm so hip.
I have a hunch the feds in general didn't really approve of Kyle's operations, and they were aware
that having a criminal record would prevent him from owning and thus using firearms again.
I feel that this and the next part is going to undermine the theory that the police were
protecting him in any way, because I don't think they liked him, and what he subsequently went
down for was pretty bizarre, so let's talk about it.
The state attorney accumulated a list of crimes that they felt our good friend Kyle here was
culpable for. These crimes included possession with intent to distribute marijuana and butane
honey oil, maintaining a drug premises, possession of a firearm with an obliterated serial number,
and possession of a firearm by a drug user. That's a lot to digest. Now, the possession with intent
to distribute charge is the main charge that we'll focus on, as a felony it incurs up to 30 years in
prison, which would not have been a good outcome for anyone. However, the severity of these penalties
are known to be highly dependent on the circumstances surrounding them, and Kyle didn't
have a previous criminal record, nor was he some drug kingpin. In fact, according to a later podcast
after he was released on bail, it seemed to be quite the contrary.
Providing what he says is true here, law enforcement's reasoning is ridiculous, it's a piss take. However, as
noted, this was not the only charge, and the others may have carried significant punishment if he was
found guilty, which seemed like a plausible enough possibility for Kyle to vow to what is probably
known as a plea deal, or plea bargain. This plea deal basically meant that the latter three charges
that he was facing were completely dropped, and he was only sentenced on the basis of possession
of drugs with the intent to distribute, which to me still seemed kind of daft. Kyle was prosecuted
at a federal level as according to him, the state screwed their case up because they legitimised a
warrant on the basis that Kyle was wearing cargo shorts, which as a fashion choice implied he was
going back to his house with the marijuana. Let's be clear, they wanted to search the house.
If what he says is true, which it may well be given the leniency of the subsequent sentence,
I think he may have had a chance at fighting the case, but on the other hand, he knows the
environment of Georgia better than me, and given some of these charges seem stacked up, I understand
why he cut a deal, though once again, it all seems like a bit of a stitch up. I get why plea deals
exist, it just sucks that a possibly innocent party may be coerced into that position due to
the incentive of having other cases dropped. I hate it. I hate that system. On the other hand,
the fact that he did cut a deal makes me wonder if he ever intended to return to FPS Russia.
If he was prepared to blow up vehicles in his proximity, I'm sure he didn't mind a risk or two
here and there if it was something worth fighting for. Although the criminal record sucks, and I'm
sure legal advice factored into it to a degree, in hindsight he seemed fairly unphased talking
about it, reflecting on it like an entertaining story.
For the record, if you want to hear Karl's prison stories, I'll definitely leave a link in the pinned
comment below, it's surprisingly entertaining and often endearing. Ultimately, he was sentenced to
2 months in prison with supervised release, and an additional fine of $7,500, because they needed
some money from it as well I guess. He was charged in 2019, went to jail in around August, and got out
in October, like any other year really. So what's he up to now? Well, Karl's just chillin'. In spite of
everything, he's taken it quite well.
With that said, a lot of his stories can be quite concerning, particularly given how he talks about
his involvement with various seriously criminal individuals in prison. For someone like Karl, given
his success, it's not a huge deal, but it does illuminate a lot of issues with what happens when you put
someone in jail for a rather minor crime with a set of fairly serious criminals, and it does highlight some
of the issues with the prison system. If you want something interesting, yet somewhat enlightening,
definitely check those videos out. Most people know my politics as pretty anti-drug criminalization,
particularly drugs like marijuana, which when I studied in the Netherlands basically surrounded me,
and I was never really much of a user myself, but the environment that I resided in was fairly
harmonized, and so although it was a lot of THC oil, and Karl should have definitely known better given the
location he chose to reside in, and the culture being incumbent with that, it's a real shame that the laws
to me seem so harsh on him, because of this marijuana he lost the equivalent of $400,000 of
itinerary. I respect him for being honestly as placid as he is, I'm not sure I would be.
What do they do with the guns? They just hold on to them? Put them in a big vault somewhere?
Probably destroy them.
Oh, that's a shame.
Let's conclude then.
FPS Russia has its success rooted in the origins of that old generation of YouTube where people
embraced the chaos, and as Shao deserved to thrive as a product of that. But what was entertainment
eventually became quite real in a way that few could have anticipated. What followed was a
butterfly effect that destabilized a channel already somewhat fragile in the evolving environment,
and the man at the center of it. The channel's reliance on the character of Dimitri, as iconic
as he is, made the issues he faced concurrent with the ones that the channel faced. It cast a shadow
that everyone struggled to escape, and many refused to forget. It led to the eyes of drama detectives
and law enforcement who lay in wait for whatever opportunity they were yielded, and although you
could argue that Karl could have been more conscious of the risks, he couldn't live the rest of his life
looking over his shoulder, and maybe that's why he doesn't appear to care as much, maybe a burden
of sorts has been lifted. Hopefully sometime in the future, in a different environment, he'll have his
legal restrictions re-evaluated. I genuinely hope so. In a way, I do feel sad that they took so much
away from the channel, because even if you weren't using it anymore, it'd be nice to know it's there,
you know, in case you wanted to do a little special for the fans, and of course the value too.
There must have been some sentimental connection, or he probably would have sold it. It sucked.
Innocence prevailing in other situations, he deserved better, and I hope there is justice in the end,
for everything and everyone discussed today. For the moment, I hope he's happier with where he is now,
and as enshrined as it is, FPS Russia was a product of its time, and one whose time has probably passed.
To those who enjoyed it, well, don't cry because it's over, smile because it happened.
You already knew how to shoot this shit. Hope you guys enjoyed the video, and as always, have a nice day.
So that was the video, I hope you enjoyed it, I think I enjoyed it. It was a bit shorter than
normal, but honestly, sometimes we have to moderate the time we spend on these things.
I started another video, and basically that one had some new information that I decided that actually
we should leave that a bit more, let it brew, and we'll act on that later. So I thought we'd do a
little retrospective on something that I do genuinely find quite interesting, and I hope that interest showed.
I wanted to give a big shoutout to my editors, once again, they have done a fantastic job,
I can't really thank them enough, they just do great work time after time, and it's great to know that I can rely on
people to make content that's entertaining for so many people. I also want to give a big shoutout to my
Patreons, current Patreons, at the time of the recording, November of course, is my $10 Patreons up on screen
right now, $50 Patreons, Sumhala Baloo, Nico Deschamps, and Caroline, and my $100 Patreons.
We have a new Patreon, who hopefully, I'm putting my faith into, for the pledge to go through at the end of the month,
Stanton, thank you very much, man, it really makes a difference. I also wanted to give a big thanks to Brandon,
someone who I still don't know who he is, his pledge has now, lifetime pledge has hit $1000, which honestly is
incredible, and I can't thank you enough, man, if you're watching this, love you, I hope you still take
something away from my videos, I hope you haven't spontaneously died or something, that would be terrible.
Also, if you wanna hit me up, Twitter, at The Right Opinion, Discord, and of course, Facebook, though I don't use
that right now, I'm gonna try and get back on it, it's all been a bit messy recently, I need to be a bit more
organised, also my Instagram, which is basically a bit more personal, if you wanna know what I'm up to, what I'm
doing, typically writing, scripting, talking like this, editing, or playing just dance, because you know me,
great dancer, and I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
