There's this Twitter account that I follow called Antifa Watch.
They do pretty much what their name suggests, and I noticed yesterday that they put this
tweet out.
There was some sort of hostage situation, and one person is dead at the home of the
black supremacist communist organization known as the Black Hammer in Fayetteville, Georgia.
The attached images are of a Facebook stream by Gazi Kodzo titled Still Outside with the
Feds, and a post saying, they killed my son.
The news article linked, however, said that the man who was found dead at the location
was not killed by the police, as Kodzo's post suggested, but instead was self-inflicted.
Before we get into the details of this specific event, though, we've got to talk about that
black supremacist communist organization, the Black Hammer, and its leader, Gazi Kodzo.
I think I might have spoken about these guys before, maybe in the context of CHAZ.
They weren't a part of CHAZ, but they've also tried to set up similar communes several
times over the years.
In any case, let's go back to the beginning.
Gazi Kodzo's legal name is Augustus Claudius Romaine Jr., and despite the Black Hammer
only being formed in 2019, this guy's been around for a long time under the YouTube name
Smile Tone.
The Smile Tone YouTube channel has been rebranded to fit the current Black Hammer project, but
if you scroll back far enough, there's content from as early as 2014 dealing with racial
and social justice.
It's very bedroom feminist type stuff that was popular during that era of YouTube.
Everything from before his activism, however, has been scrubbed off the internet, but remember,
the internet never forgets.
Hey, y'all.
It's me, Smile Tone.
And today, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about
Steve Jobs, and I'm going to tell you why I hate him.
Reason number one is he's a modern day Wizard of Oz, okay?
He promises you guys that he has all the answers and all the best technology, but behind all
that smoke and mirrors, he's nothing but an idiot selling to idiots.
Yeah, before getting into politics, this guy tried to basically do whatever he could to
get YouTube fame, including talking about tech or video games or whatever else, as well
as crossovers with other normie-type YouTubers to try and grow his audience.
Hey, guys.
What's up?
We're the Wing Girls, as you know, and we've got a special guest today.
It's Smile Tone.
Hey, y'all.
Isn't he cute?
Man, you can just see in his eyes as he's doing this.
This would be the one that goes viral.
This would be the one that makes me famous.
It should come as no surprise to anybody that his pre-activist employment also included
things like modeling and television.
She was like, you know what, I really want you to still work with me because the reality
show had like, it aired and it had like a couple episodes, but then it like got canceled.
And then she was like, I really want you to stay here, whatever.
So I started working with her.
I started getting connections, whatever, being a modeling agent, but bitch, I was a fab modeling
agent.
I was a bitch.
Yep, that's him with Jussie Smollett, probably where he got the idea to be a professional
race grifter.
And yes, he's basically a carbon copy of Chris Tucker in Fifth Element.
All night long.
All night long.
Like my parents and family always said I can become a comedian.
So I was like, let a girl tell a joke, let a girl tell a joke or two, bitch.
I don't think this is an act.
He's always been like this as far back as I can search.
Back in 2016, Sargon did an hour long deep dive into Ghazi Kodzo's early activist days
after that normie YouTuber period, but before the Black Hammer stuff.
It's still up on Sargon's original channel, not the Lotus Eaters channel, but original
Sargon.
And if you want to pause this video and watch it before coming back, you can, it's certainly
worth it.
I'll just give you the TLDR of this period of Kodzo's life because yeah, it's an hour
worth of stuff.
During this period of his life, Ghazi Kodzo is a black separatist, revolutionary communist,
and member of the African People's Socialist Party.
His previous attempts at getting big on the internet had gone bust, but the racial stuff
seemed to get a few more clicks, so he stuck with it in a desperate attempt to try and
fill the hole in his soul that he blamed all white people for creating.
All of his old, non-racial activist content has been purged off the internet.
The Smiletone's name is, at this point, Dead and Buried, and his YouTube channel is filled
with such amazing insights as, is being gay anti-pro-black?
First and foremost, y'all know I don't go by gay, I go by same gender loving.
If you don't understand why, go look at my video, I'm not gay.
Let's talk about Latinos.
Colonialism pits colonized people against each other, right?
Divide and conquer is the Europeans' rule, right?
Divide and conquer is the Neanderthal's, Tom's, like, main rule.
I don't trust Caitlyn Jenner.
My ancestors are telling me not to trust this cave Becky, Caitlyn Jenner.
Sorry girl, but by the political views that I've gotten from you from your interviews,
you are giving me very Ann Cauldron tease right now, girl, and it's quite threatening
and triggering, okay?
These interracial relationships are out of control.
You'd be dipping into this blue cheese dressing, you know, blue cheese dressing because there's
skin complexion, the white with the blue veins, blue cheese dressing, you'd be dipping
into that, and then when, you know, Ms. Elizabeth Samantha Roodebaker decides to kick your black
behind out her house, you go running to who?
Your black mama.
And um, I probably can't say this one.
I'm gonna get yeeted off YouTube.
Talking about, well, if black people didn't listen to that kind of music, and if black
people talk this way, black people walk this way.
Like I keep telling y'all, Martin Luther King was educated, articulate, dressed white,
talked white, and praised the white god as much as he possibly could, as much as his
knees would allow him to, he would pray to that white god, and they still killed him.
So what makes you think that they give a damn about how much you respect yourself?
I've covered black separatists and supremacists and other components of BLM before on this
channel, but I gotta say, never somebody who was so blatantly unhinged.
As I kept skimming through his newer videos, I noticed his rhetoric became more and more
extreme as time went on, until finally, he left the African People's Socialist Party
to do his own thing.
Black Power, y'all.
According to y'all, it's me, Gazi Cudzel, and my comrade for life.
The uh, Black Power, y'all.
So we came today, this afternoon, on this beautiful Wednesday, to let y'all know that
Gazi and I left that other organization.
Yeah, we did, you guys, oh my gosh, it was so crazy, first and foremost, I'm a free bitch!
His initial goal was to raise $10,000 on GoFundMe, under the name Black Power Project, to build
a black-focused community center in Atlanta, Georgia.
At this point in Cudzel's story, at the same time as his rhetoric is radicalizing
into more overtly black fascist territory, it also becomes harder to ignore that he's
no longer doing out-of-the-bedroom type stuff, and instead is delivering his sermons on the
grounds of what appear to be a pretty nice looking place.
Around this time, he finally started up the Black Hammer organization, and began soliciting
donations to help with the struggle.
Now, there is at least one video showing them donating some food or doing some kind of charity,
so who knows, maybe they actually did do, at one point, some decent work, fair enough.
But watching this video, I can't help but notice how cucked the white comrades look.
Do you feel like a proud white ally of black supremacy?
Cause you sound like one, buddy.
Black Hammer first really hit the spotlight, when they announced the creation of Hammer
City.
On their website, they describe a project called Hammer Cities, building cities of all
people of color to be free, no discrimination of nationality, gender, age, mental or physical
differences, jobs, housing, food, healthcare, no cops, no rent, no coronavirus, and no white
people, returning the land to indigenous people, building Hammer Cities all over the world.
This project's already raised over $100,000, and in 2020, the Black Hammers recorded a
video of themselves washing their bodies in a stream on the property that would eventually
become the first Hammer City.
The Black Hammer Times, a reputable outlet I'm sure, announced that the Black Hammer
liberated over 200 acres to build their city, boy, doesn't this look like a place you
want to live?
Well, it turns out that Hammer City ain't happening, shocking news I know, because the
purchase of the 200 acres of desert and shrub land fell through.
That didn't stop them from trying though, as local sheriffs had to respond to a trespass
complaint where, after rejecting the offer to buy the land, Black Hammer remained there
anyway, camping on the property until dispersed by police.
It's also probably important to point out that during the Hammer City occupation, they
had a campfire where they burned Anne Frank's diary because she was quote, a white colonizer.
What the fuck was she colonizing, the gap under the floorboards?
Like most other black supremacist and black separatist organizations, the Black Hammer
and Kodzo himself are extremely anti-semitic, viewing Jews as simultaneously a capitalist
internationalist oppressor class like the Nazis did, but unlike the Nazis, they also
view the Jews as white Europeans.
To groups like this, any historic injustices, either real or imagined, carried out by Jewish
individuals or groups, are all white people's fault.
After the failure of Hammer City, word began to spread from the people who were leaving
the Black Hammer about what actually happened there.
They had no food and only stream water to drink, which turned out to not be all that
drinkable.
Several Black Hammer members became sick after attempting to burn mugwort for warmth, getting
poisoned by the smoke instead, and when they finally retreated from the site, the landowner
found a half-completed bridge, a handful of screws that were scattered across a road,
presumably dropped accidentally, and shell casings from target practice.
There was never any city, and to this date, who knows where the money went.
Upon returning to Atlanta, Kodzo became more deranged after the failure of Hammer City
to materialize.
He began to implement communist struggle sessions where individual members were singled out
for public self-degradation regarding how they caused Hammer City to fail.
Kodzo began experimenting with microdosing drugs, both himself and other individuals
living at the compound, which was really just his rather large house in the suburbs.
Black Hammer members were pressured into dipping into their savings and donating their plasma
for the struggle.
The group quietly fell apart during 2021 after all of the media and internet attention had
moved on, and one former member told the Daily Beast she wasn't allowed to leave the group
and had to pull a knife in order to force her way out.
At this point, just looking at it from the outside, the Black Hammer sounds like a cult.
In fact, I did that video on Yvette Filarca like five years ago, and she did this exact
same stuff too.
All of these Antifa or Commie or Anarchist or whatever groups, they seem to follow the
same pattern.
They entice young people to abandon their families and invite them to come live free
of charge at these revolutionary locations, which turn out to be houses owned by the cult
leader, where they are then put to work and prevented from leaving.
As Black Hammer continued to deteriorate, Kodzo shifted focus.
He began recruiting homeless people to replenish his ranks, with a special focus on homeless
teenaged young men.
Black
Hammer Times reports the event as such, Rest in Power Minister of Defense AP, in a targeted
attack by the Fayetteville Police Department, Swat and the FBI on the headquarters of the
Atlanta chapter of the Black Hammer Party, Black Hammer's Minister of Defense, AP, was
shot and killed.
One of the most luminous, bright, charismatic, real, humble, and inspired young people in
Atlanta and in the world, AP was killed by the colonial state.
He was 18 years old.
And today, they publish their tell-all!
On the morning of Tuesday, July 19th, 2022, the Fayetteville Police Department, Swat,
and the FBI ambushed the Atlanta headquarters of the Black Hammer Party.
By the end of the day, one Hammer was shot and killed by the police.
His name is AP, our party's Minister of Defense, and he was 19 years old.
Come on guys, at least get the age right.
That morning, the Hammers were descended upon by the Fayetteville Police Department and
Swat, who over loudspeakers, told everyone to come outside.
One comrade was out walking the dog and got tackled by police.
Everyone came outside of the house except the Minister of Defense, AP.
The Hammers called to him, tried to get him to come out, but police said they'd go in
and sweep the house.
This ambush came from a call from someone from the streets that was being sheltered
in the house, and was starting the work of housing, feeding, and clothing the homeless.
When he realized he wasn't down with the mission of serving our poor black and brown
people during a worldwide food shortage, record unemployment, and more, he was asked to leave
the house, since it's a home for homeless revolutionary leaders and comrades.
He became belligerent.
It was then that he made a phone call, putting the lives of homeless men and women in danger.
By AP, they're referring to Amante T. Ammons, who had killed himself within Kodzo's house.
What actually went down was, something like a dozen Black Hammer members were living with
Kodzo when the police received a 911 call from the location.
A whisper across the line told the dispatcher that they had been kidnapped and to send police.
The police told everyone to come out, and then discovered Ammon's body.
We still don't know if it was Ammons who made the call, or if he truly did kill himself,
but we do know that it wasn't the cops who shot him, because the cops didn't actually
go into the house.
A bomb robot did, and the robot discovered the body.
During this standoff, Kodzo reaffirmed what we all already knew.
At the end of the day, there's still breath in my body.
I still run an amazing revolutionary party.
Our community is effing with us.
And now, all these news channels are going to want to interview us, and we are going
to get to communicate about all the great work that we are doing here.
So this is great at the end of the day.
This is a great moment.
Right comrade?
This is a great moment.
A moment where our voices will be amplified, and our mission and cause will be informed.
This is about fame for him.
His recognition.
His standing.
He delusionally believed this was going to be the springboard to his next time in the
spotlight.
Instead, he was charged with conspiracy to commit a crime, false imprisonment, kidnapping,
aggravated assault, gang activity, and aggravated sodomy.
Another Black Hammer member, Xavier Hakim Rashin, was hit with the same charges, minus
the sodomy.
It seems to be the case, based on the knowledge available right now, that Kodzo was butt-fucking
the young homeless men he was recruiting.
Though, nowadays, Kodzo is 36 years old.
And man, those drugs are making him look like a hard 36.
His social media posts show him spending Black Hammer's donation money on leisure trips
with his three adopted sons.
These are three homeless black youth that Kodzo has taken in.
He calls them his sons, but he uses them for sex.
One is 16, one is 18, that's the one who shot himself, and one is 21.
Kodzo has no problem flaunting the fact that he has expanded his cult with young boy toys.
You know, this young kid was sleeping on the bench at that train station, and I woke him up.
And I said, you know, get up, and wake up, and I was like, do you want to come home with us or whatever?
And he just saw this strange gay man, and he was like, no.
Which he's supposed to do, you know, stranger danger, stranger danger, stranger danger.
And so, there you have it.
The brief rise and fall of Augustus Claudius Romaine Jr., aka Gazzy Kodzo, and his revolutionary
black separatist, communist, neo-fascist cult, the Black Hammer.
It didn't have to be this way, you know?
You could have just remained Smile Tone.
He didn't need to get into socialism, and then try to build a commune, and then end
up running a cult out of a crack shack where he fucked teenage boys.
He was a sissy, foppish gay guy as Smile Tone, sure, but there was some personality there.
His content was positive, it was cheery.
He clearly had inroads into where he wanted to go in show business.
He didn't have to degenerate into whatever the fuck this is.
It's me, Gazzy, the commander in chief of the Black Hammer organization.
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Probably the funniest bit of all is that he took the group's name from the 1967 book
The Black Hammer, which describes the intersection of the Soviet agenda with the civil rights
movement of the 20th century.
Presumably, he didn't actually read the book, because it's written from the white
nationalist perspective, deriding the civil rights movement as communist subversion.
Or maybe he thought he was reclaiming the idea, who knows?
The point is, Kodzo's going to pound you in the ass prison for a long, long time, and
this will likely be the last we see of the Black Hammer.
Usually, these various revolutionary cells that want to overthrow liberal democracy don't
make it this easy to criticize them, but hey, I don't mind having my work cut out
from you sometimes.
I will say though, don't fall into the trap of believing that these people aren't leftists
or are somehow unique among the various antifa cells.
They might be speedrunning the pipeline of confused college kid to socialist activist
to black bloc revolutionary to neo-fascist land back racial supremacist cultist rapists,
but this is a natural progression that people within these spheres go down.
It usually takes them decades, not years, but still, this is the endpoint for every
antifa goon who doesn't get pulled out and deradicalized.
Either they end up being charismatic grifter leaders and sex pests, hunting for fame and
fortune, or they become the victims of those people.
So if ever there's an asshole around you, you can deal with him accordingly with this
knife, alright?
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Land back!
Woo!
It feels good to win, don't it?
It feels good to be number one.
Land back!
Land back!
