Oh man guys, it's been a rough couple weeks for me.
Naomi's been recovering from surgery.
If you don't watch the gaming streams, or if you don't pay attention to Twitter, or
the community posts, or Discord, or anything really, here's the scoop.
Naomi's been recovering from surgery, and I've been the one who's been taking care
of her.
Meanwhile, the house that I rent is being sold.
I'm not in any danger of being evicted, the new landlord just has to take over the
old contract.
I've had to deal with people showing up in the house to view it, there were something
like 50 people here this past weekend.
I've had a very busy past couple of weeks.
A whole new cycle has, once again, passed me by.
That seems to be a regular occurrence with me.
So starting tomorrow I am going to try to play catch up with some videos.
I'm going to talk about the city bike thing, the black guy getting choked in the subway
thing, probably going to talk about Mizzie at some point.
Right now it is TikTok Tuesday time, let's get going my friends.
And thanks for sticking with me by the way, I do appreciate it.
Oh god, starting off strong, Jesus.
Is this like an environmental thing in the UK?
Oh, there goes his phone!
Damn.
Yeah, I don't know if you've seen these videos before, but there's always like, environmentalists
who just passively get pushed over by random passerby who don't want to deal with this
nonsense.
It's like, get out of the bus lane!
Like none of them are fighting him, and they could all take him if they wanted, but he's
just pissed.
He's done with this nonsense.
It's like, get out of the bus lane!
These people are annoying, dude.
You know, I don't, I'm not condoning violence, but these people are annoying, they're fucking
annoying.
I hate this shit.
Like what are they, what are they actually doing?
They're making random people angry at them.
Goddamn.
Like, no one's going to join them now.
They haven't inconvenienced anyone, certainly not anybody in power, certainly not anyone
that can affect what they want.
It's like, they're just standing in front of the car, why?
This is just, this will just waste moral oil because these people still got to drive around,
you know?
The fucking entitlement of these activists.
You know, I get it, like if there's something major going on, there's a massive breakdown
of society, you have no choice but to clog up the roads to get your point across because
everything else is dysfunctional, I understand.
But do you think that we're really there?
Do you think that this nonsense, just walking down a random side street in a city, preventing
buses from going through, is that going to help your cause?
These people are fucking retarded.
So I met this guy at the gym that I used to go to, and he was hot as F, he was covered
in tabs, he was a little bit older than me because that's how I like it.
Of course.
And then one day I asked if he wanted to make a video.
And we got caught out because when we were leaving, we had a staff member hanging around
outside, and we were kind of like, this looks dodgy.
And then the next day, the manager went up to him and said there was a handprint on the
window in the posy room and wondered if he knew anything about that.
Word got out, people watched it, and we literally got banned from our gym.
What?
So I have to assume this is like an OnlyFans thought.
She just decided to make a video with a random guy at the gym and had sex in the gym, then
got banned from the gym?
Remember like a few months ago, there was that one girl who's like, don't look at me
in the gym.
And that went viral.
This is like the inverse of that.
There are countless obstacles that made this year from a school shooting to having no idea
what life is going to look like after school shooting.
Supportive Mental Health Awareness Month.
I'm partnering with viewers to strip away the stigma of anxiety.
We want you to get your all out.
Not only what's in your pores, but most importantly, what's on your mind too.
Oh, oh my God, dude, dude, I survived a school shooting.
I'm going to sell you these nose strips.
Thanks for the check.
Is that what it takes to get a sponsorship on your channel?
Do I got to go out and survive a shooting?
Is that what I got to do?
Thieves try to walk out with a cart full of groceries.
What are the one of those looting?
Oh my God.
They're just walking out.
What the, what the fuck?
Ladies, what are you doing?
I'm actually kind of happy that all this, all this looting and all this of just rampant
theft and shoplifting is finally being confronted.
Like, you shouldn't be able to do this.
These bitches should be locked up.
Like, what the fuck, man?
Ow, ow, you're hurting me as I try to steal from you.
Seriously, like, fuck these bitches, dude.
Oh, is she going to grab the picture?
Oh my God.
Oh my God, she's going to hit someone with it.
Now it's assault, lady.
Like, what the fuck?
What the fuck, dude?
Jesus.
Fuck these people, man.
Like, this is actually disgusting.
Damn.
Man.
They did all that just for some Gatorade?
They actually got away with it.
Gatorade, man.
You need your electrolytes.
Man, that book that is sitting there in defense of looting, it keeps calling to me every single
TikTok Tuesday.
I just keep, it sits there on the shelf taunting me.
I'm an activist teacher here and I just got to be reading a book about racism.
And did you guys know that going to the bathroom in a toilet and indoor plumbing is actually
from white supremacy and colonialism?
This has to be fake.
So when the white colonists saw the indigenous that they were digging holes and going to
the bathroom outside, they said that that was more like animals.
It is.
And the white colonists decided to have indoor plumbing and toilets to use the bathroom.
Awesome.
And so I just want you to recognize that whenever you are using a toilet, you're basically paying
homage to white supremacy and white colonists.
Okay.
Okay.
That, I don't know.
My, my bullshit alarm is tingling.
I don't know.
My bullshit senses are tingling.
That, that seems like that one might be like a fake.
That one might be someone who's like larping as a Prague or trolling or something like,
hmm, that's a bit too on the nose.
You know, I was convinced for the first half of it, but eventually it was like, hmm, I
don't know.
But you know what?
If this person actually ended up being a real honest to God activist teacher, wouldn't be
surprised.
This one's got no audio.
Oh, what the, and she goes to block.
Okay, hold on.
I got to play that a couple more times cause it's too, it's too short, but it looks like
there's just, they're doing some sort of fetish thing in real life, right?
Like IRL, it looks like there's a guy and then there's, it may be a girl, but in like
a dog position and he's got like a leash, there's a racial component here, obviously.
And it's at the bus stop.
And once the girl in pink notices that it's being recorded, she walks over and blocks
it.
It's like, why block it?
I mean, you're proud enough to be doing this outside.
They're clearly fine with it.
Oh, another fight video, shotlifting video, your food.
Did you pay for it?
Well, yep.
It sounds like she didn't pay for it.
Yep.
Wait, wait, wait, what?
You work three, if you're working three jobs, how is it that you don't have enough money
to feed your family?
You know, three jobs, minimum wage.
Even if you're a waitress, you're still making some tips.
Working three jobs, you should be able to feed your family.
Where's all that money going, lady?
In any case, it doesn't excuse stealing.
Fuck you.
Oh man.
Oh, like mother, like daughter.
Holy, holy, holy shit.
That's oh my God.
Imagine how much stuff that drags up, like how much it tracks.
Imagine walking into like a public restroom and just having that thing trail behind you
for 20 feet.
Jesus.
Oh, fuck.
Why would you do that?
Why would you do that, lady?
This is some clown world ass shit.
African people stay here, Jamaican people stay here, white people stay here, Spanish
people stay here, and black Americans stay here.
I'm not saying not all black Americans are bad, but the ones that came to my place have
been nothing but a problem.
Only two good ones came here, all of them.
Fight late at night, not with me, with each other, the disrespectful, the entitled, the
unappreciative.
Must be an Airbnb.
And it goes that way because America has spoiled them and give them so much free shit when
they think they could come to Jamaica and get the same free shit out here and be nasty
about it.
I'm not saying all of you are like that, but because of that, I'm not risking my health
and my happiness for people.
No short-term stay.
No short-term stay.
It's not going to happen here.
I'm going to eat salt and banana and let goats and cows live into my houses, then I'll help
you come here and stress.
I will not hate my business because of customers.
Man.
Gotta tell her she's being a racist, guys.
You gotta tell her she's being a racist for not wanting black Americans to show up, even
though she's black herself.
This is one of those things where like, yeah, she is actually being racist, but she's gained
this mindset through repeated exposure to bad experiences by bad black Americans.
It's one of those things where I don't approve, but I understand.
What the fuck?
Oh my God.
Justin Trudeau.
What the shit is this?
Blackface is back on the menu, boys.
I'm now super straight.
Why?
Why?
You're not one of them, though, are you, dude?
What the fuck?
Oh my God.
The Mormons.
The Mormons aren't going to like that.
What does this have to do with nature or the North face?
Like what the...
It really feels like there's finally serious pushback against the rainbow capitalist nonsense.
Against just the overwhelming rainbow vomit that is the month of June.
There's finally pushback.
I've been waiting for it for like five fucking years.
Thank God it's actually happening.
All right, my friends, that about does it for me today.
I hope you enjoyed the cancer that I have now inflicted upon you.
Make sure to get some chemo before we do next week.
I will see you guys next time.
I love you.
