🎵
What up everybody, it's your boy,
F-lemon!
Here with another
YouTube commentary.
Just make another YTP already!
Today is day 147
of the never-ending Emperor Lemon Downward Spiral World Tour…
and wait a minute…
Can you hear that? You gotta listen very closely.
It's the sound of people clicking unsubscribe.
You know, I've been thinking about subscribers a lot lately. Pretty much everyone on YouTube
takes this idea for granted, but I've been seriously asking myself the question lately of
what is a subscriber? It seems like a pretty straightforward question, but I find that the
more you think about it, the wider it opens up a can of worms. So everybody buckle your
fuckles because we're about to go anal into analytics.
So the way I see it, one subscriber on YouTube represents one potential view.
Now in a perfect world, each video you upload should reach a number of views equal to your
channel's current subscriber count, plus views from any new viewers. This obviously doesn't
actually happen. I mean, just look at my channel. My sub count says this big ol' number,
while my video views are closer to, uh, these less impressive numbers. How can this be? Has the
downward spiral gone too far? Is Shrek responsible? Does this mean that the almighty YouTube
subscriber count isn't actually real? Oh no, that subscriber count is my YouTube dick.
I need to wave it around and impress people. How will people know how cool I am unless they
identify my bonafide six figure sub count? How come my sub count looks like this,
but my view count looks like this? Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the concept of what
I like to call empty subscribers. I get it from the term empty calories. You know when you eat a
smooth shiny glazed donut and how good it tastes? Well, it shouldn't because you, my friend, are
eating a mouthful of empty calories. There ain't no nutrition in that tasty Taurus. Nutrition? Not
for me! It's fried dough with sugar and it's gonna make you constipated because there's no fiber.
And if you eat more of them, you're gonna get diabetes. And if you eat more than that,
you're gonna have to wash myself with a rag on a stick. Sticks out for diabetes. But that doesn't
change the fact that donuts taste really fucking good. And that's what a big sub count does to
YouTubers. It looks really fucking good. But therein lies the problem. Not all delicious
food is nutritious and not all subscribers actually watch your videos. When people compare
YouTube channels, they often tend to look at the raw data. The almighty sub count. The ultimate
dick measuring contest. Non-YouTubers won't relate to this, but that number right below
your channel name is the embodiment of your ego. It's your YouTube dick length. And I see your
shorts is as big as mine. Nobody admits to this, but every YouTuber secretly resents other channels
with more subscribers than them. This isn't necessarily a negative attribute. It's human
nature to want to be the best in the world at every single thing you attempt. Especially at
making vapid video content for children on the internet. But sometimes we lose track of what
that subscriber count actually means. It's not just the score in a game. That number represents
a quantity of real, living, breathing human beings with personalities and opinions just like you or
me. I feel like a lot of YouTubers somewhat know this, but they don't actually grasp the bigger
picture. A subscriber is not a robot who will respond with the exact same output to every
input. Uh, most subscribers that is. A YouTube subscriber is a human being capable of applying
critical thinking and making decisions. Obviously every human thinks in slightly different ways,
so therefore each individual subscriber in your sub count is a distinct entity completely
independent from the rest of the subscribers. Most of the time it's really difficult to remain
cognizant of this fact because when you look at that subscriber number, that's all you see.
A number. You never actually get to see the people behind it. You don't get to know who they are,
what they look like, their age, gender, favorite color, whether or not they like pineapple on
pizza. I probably shouldn't have said that last part because now half the comments are going to
be debating whether or not pineapple on pizza is tasty. Personally I think it's disgusting.
But anyway for about 99% of subscribers it's a one-way street. They watch my videos and I get
no insight into anything about them. The only reasonable inference I can make about them is
that they enjoyed at least one of my videos at one time. That's it. Besides that it's almost as
if they don't even exist to me. It's like the idea where if an ogre shits in the woods and no one's
around to smell it, does it stink? And for those of you who actively watch and comment on my videos,
I just want to say that I really appreciate that. It's the only tangible information I receive that
conveys the idea that I have a real audience. But what about the rest? The 80% of my subscriber base
who don't actually watch my videos? Are they even subscribers at that point? I'll admit it,
I've acquired a lot of empty subscribers over the years, but that's okay. First of all because
YouTube is not my job. And also because my videos have been constantly changing every single year
since I started on this website. If you look at all the videos on my channel and find any two
that are just one year apart, they're going to be completely stylistically different. Hell,
my videos have become so different in this past year that my channel is almost unrecognizable
from even a year ago. Maybe, I may be. Remember that you are the H? Yeah, this is the type of
things that alienate subscribers. Because like I've said a million times already, a subscriber
is a real life human. And most real life humans are picky towards the content they enjoy. For
something as subjective as YouTube poop, it's pretty much impossible to keep a majority of
you guys satisfied. And now that I've started producing content that isn't really YouTube
poop at all, well, I guess you could say that my sub count has been on a downward spiral recently
and now I've lost thousands of subscribers completely. 39,000 actually. At least at the
time of recording this video. That number is probably going to go up after I upload this,
but I'm not going to rag on these people. Believe it or not, I actually support these guys.
They get a thumbs up from me. What I don't like is when people stay subscribed to me and just do
nothing. There's a misconception on this website that a big subscriber count automatically equates
to popularity. And while that may sound quite intuitive, it's not exactly accurate.
What you really have to consider when judging a YouTube channel's popularity is to look at the
empty subscribers. How many people are subscribed to this channel who aren't watching their videos?
Let's look at the YouTube channels Vsauce and WatchMojo, channels which have relatively
similar subscriber counts. Vsauce has about 11 million subscribers and their newest videos
are averaging about 5 million views each. WatchMojo on the other hand has about 2 million
more subscribers than Vsauce. However, none of their most recent videos have even managed to
break 1 million views and a majority of them have fewer than 200,000 views.
So is it really fair to say that WatchMojo is more popular than Vsauce when each Vsauce video
has 100 times as many views as the average WatchMojo upload? Now obviously these channels
have really different approaches to making content. Vsauce features highly polished,
well-researched videos which take months to produce. WatchMojo's business model is just
PUMP OUT AS MANY FUCKING VIDEOS AS HUMANLY POSSIBLE! GO! GO FASTER GOD DAMN IT!
But we're all out of ideas. Are you? Yeah? ARE YOU? We've literally made a top 10 list
on every- ARE YOU? Oh, a new idea!
Top 10 Canadian Actor Mustaches of the 80s!
BOGER! IT'S NEVER BOGER! IT'S NEVER BOGER! IT'S NEVER BOGER! IT'S NEVER BOGER!
DOWN FOR A SMILING!
FUCK YOU BOLTIMORE! IF YOU'RE TUMB ENOUGH TO BUY A NEW CAR THIS WEEKEND!
So because of this, WatchMojo has way more empty subscribers than Vsauce. I don't know about the
rest of you guys, but I consider Vsauce to be a more popular YouTube channel than WatchMojo.
Even though WatchMojo has more subscribers and gets more total views than Vsauce,
each new Vsauce upload is more relevant. It may not be intuitive, but this is the information
you must consider when evaluating the actual popularity of a YouTube channel. You can try
to think about it this way. Would you evaluate a person's health by looking at a person's weight?
Not looking at the person themselves, but just judging their health based on a numerical value
of their weight. Sure, you can make some inferences, but you couldn't reach a definitive conclusion
using only that information. That's sort of my same process when judging YouTube channels.
The raw sub count is a channel's weight, its mass, but you need to know what that mass is made of
before you can judge the health of a channel. A 280 pound man could be a super athletic strongman,
but they could also be a fat piece of shit. You can't tell without actually looking at their bodies.
Likewise, you can't judge a YouTube channel's true popularity without looking at the types of
subscribers which compose that channel. You have to ask yourself, are these subscribers actually
invested in the YouTuber's content, or are they just there for a cheap thrill and a slap on the
dick? This is an epiphany I made about a year and a half ago. At this time, my channel was at its peak
in raw popularity. My videos were hot commodities. Every video I uploaded would get over 100,000
views in a couple weeks, and at my peak I was gaining about 5,000 subs per month. Sounds pretty
sweet, right? How the hell could someone be dissatisfied with those numbers? Well, like I've
been saying, I look beyond the numbers. You guys may not believe this, but I try to read all of
my comments. If you've ever posted a comment on any of my videos, chances are I've read it. I
don't just read the comments on an individual basis though. I consider them collectively to
gauge the mood and tone of the audience. And around the time of my peak popularity,
something just felt off about my audience based on the comments I was receiving at the time.
Believe it or not, there used to be a long time ago when my videos' comments weren't the complete
scourge of humanity. Way back then, the majority of the comments on my videos were actually quite
constructive and insightful observations. And while those types of comments have never truly
disappeared, they've just been drowned out over the years by the obnoxious shouting contests that
try as desperately as possible to get your attention. The vast majority of my comments
just became, LOL, or some random quote from the video. Just really juvenile and impulsive shit.
I began to get the heavy sensation that a large portion of my audience didn't actually respect me
and just wanted a cheap thrill. This dawned on me whenever I made the slightest change in my style,
and I would be continually met with larger and larger amounts of remedial criticism like,
THIS IS SHIT. Oh, side rant by the way, if you're gonna criticize a video on the internet,
please elaborate beyond saying, THIS IS SHIT. I've had this comment about a hundred times now,
and I know whoever posts these think they're being so edgy and rebellious and cool,
but when an actual rational person sees your comment, they're basically seeing a giant stamp
on your forehead that says, my IQ is lower than my chromosome count. So next time you say something
is shit, please explain why. Anyway, in about early 2015, my subscriber base was at its most
ravenous and least appreciative, and during this time I felt a tremendous pressure to keep my
videos at a certain standard, or else the fans would get upset. And it was during this time when
I began to stop enjoying making YouTube poops. It came to a point where I had to stop for a moment
and think about the state of my YouTube channel. I had to tell myself, look, you aren't having fun
making these videos anymore, but you're gaining a shitload of subscribers, so you can either keep
making these long, polished videos and continue growing, or you can go back to having fun but
piss off a lot of people. Ultimately, my decision came down to the quality of the subscribers
themselves. Did I really want to continue entertaining a bunch of prepubescent children
who don't actually respect me as a person, and instead view my YouTube channel as nothing more
than a Skinner box of autistic video content? Did I really want to continue making videos for
people who would turn on me at even the slightest level of dissatisfaction? Did I really want to
have a fan base composed mostly of people who I would never actually talk to in real life?
My answer to all these questions was no, nope, and at that moment I hit the brakes on this channel
and nothing was ever the same. Some would say that that was the beginning of the end,
that that was the point of me slipping over the precipice of the downward spiral. Others would
say that the chains were off, and that I had descended completely. Regardless, as soon as I
made this decision, a vast majority of my subscribers became empty subscribers. I didn't
even have to upload a new video for this to be the case. It happened as soon as I made the decision.
The majority of my subscribers at this time would not watch anything I made unless it was
Spongebob or Pixar YouTube Poop, and there's nothing I could have done about it. It was
inevitable. So my channel has a bunch of empty subscribers now. It's fat. It's fat! It needs to go on a
diet. This is why I've been telling people to unsubscribe 125 times if they don't like my
content. I want to get rid of the empty subscribers. I want my subscriber count to
actually be reflective of the amount of people who watch my videos. But alas, the empty subscribers
don't watch my new videos and they never quite get the memo. I can lure some of them out by
sending traps like this, and I know a lot of you view this as a giant fuck you to the audience,
but you gotta believe me in saying that all I wanted to do was get rid of the empty subscribers.
But even that barely worked, so I guess I'm just gonna have a shitload of subscribers who don't
watch my new videos but won't unsubscribe either, and they're just gonna stay there in subscriber
purgatory... forever.
But hey, that's just a spiral! A downward spiral! Thanks for unsubscribing!
The only thing that's for sure about implemen is this is shit.
