YouTube's had a lot of problems with children, hasn't it?
Elsagate?
The whole child actor thing?
Removing comments and metrics for videos with kids in them?
It's almost like YouTube's an incompetent company that has no idea how to actually run
itself.
But, for once, the COPPA situation is actually not YouTube's fault.
I released a podcast with Scrump on this topic if you want to listen to it, because in it
we go over the particulars, but the basic idea is, in 1998, Bill Clinton signed into
law the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, intended to provide protections for people
under 13 years old.
It placed additional responsibilities on websites regarding their dealings with children, it
prevented those sites from collecting certain types of data from children, and it regulated
the contents of a website's privacy policy.
COPPA came about in response to the actions of a website called Kidscom.
That's kidscom.com, because boomers.
Kidscom was launched in 1995 as a virtual world where users could navigate the earth,
play games, and chat with others.
It was no Google Maps, but it was probably the best you were going to get back in 95.
However, Kidscom did, in fact, collect data from its users.
Yes, this garbage was happening back then, too, and COPPA was put forward as a regulatory
response.
COPPA's had multiple high-profile enforcements before YouTube.
The once-big blogging site Zanga, as well as the infamous Bonsai Buddy, both had to
pay fines for COPPA violations, regarding their data-harvesting practices.
More recently, TikTok got slammed with a $5.7 million dollar fine in February of this year,
which they responded to by partitioning the app into TikTok and TikTok Kids.
Which brings us to YouTube.
Back in September, YouTube was fined $170 million dollars due to widespread COPPA violations
on the site, including data collection of minors for use in their targeted ad algorithms.
In response, YouTube determined that by January 1st, 2020, all content creators will have
to designate whether every single video they've uploaded is kid-friendly or not, by checking
a box during the upload process.
Content creators can also set their entire channel to be kid-friendly or not in their
channel settings.
YouTube has already confirmed that in order to be compliant with COPPA, videos marked
as kid-friendly will have no notifications, no comments, will not be searchable on the
main YouTube platform, will not be suggested or recommended, and will make 60-90% less
revenue due to a lack of targeted ads.
All of these features require data collection to implement.
And if no data collection is allowed, these videos can't participate in those features.
The only feature listed that doesn't necessarily require data collection is the comments.
And YouTube has been disabling comments on all videos with kids in them, as a matter
of course, in the name of protecting children.
As I mentioned in that Dumping with Scrump earlier, I have a source that I can't reveal
who stated that YouTube's long-term plan is to eventually split the platform into YouTube
and YouTube Kids, much like TikTok did, where YouTube Kids will contain only those videos
marked as kid-friendly, and most people are hoping that that will allow the bulk of YouTube
to continue on as over 13-oriented content.
Except it still might not.
And here's where we get to the heart of the matter.
There's a lot of YouTubers out there who are way bigger than me talking about this
issue right now.
And I think that most of them don't actually have the situation right.
They recognize it serious, yeah, but they don't recognize it as a full-on game changer,
but rather just another dumb YouTube event where the platform is made incrementally shittier
yet again.
But no, this isn't minor.
This is a game changer.
This is not just rolling your eyes at a false D&CA claim, and then filling out the same
meaningless form three times over the course of three months, until the false claimant
drops it because no one's actually going to bring you to court over this unless they're
retarded.
No, no, no, no, no.
This is not just another layer of the YouTube bureaucratic nightmare.
This is entirely different.
Here's the full text of COPPA, and I'd like to read a few choice bits from it.
The regulations issued under the subsection shall A, require that any website directed
to children that collects personal information from children provide clear, prominent, understandable
notice of the information collection and use practices of the website operator through
the website.
B, maintain verifiable parental consent for the collection, use, or disclosure of personal
information for children who are under the age of 13.
And B, require that the commercial website operator concerned establish and maintain
reasonable procedures to ensure the confidentiality, security, accuracy, and integrity of personal
information collected from children through the website.
And here's what COPPA defines as a website targeted to children.
A commercial website that is, one, targeted to children, obviously, two, directed to children
by reason of the subject matter, visual content, age of the models, language, characters, tone,
message, or any other similar characteristic of the website.
Or three, used by a commercial website operator to knowingly collect information from children.
The biggest problem here is section two, because that's actually quite vague.
But thankfully the FTC has provided a handy dandy guidebook on what exactly qualifies
as kid targeted content.
The subject matter that is appealing to children, example, kids jokes, music, kids games, video
or computer games, children's TV shows or children's TV stars, cartoon characters, sports, stories,
toys, children's books, fantasy, children's arts and crafts, pets, products primarily
purchased or consumed by kids like snack food or cereal.
You can tell this legislation was made by boomers who don't understand that the primary
audience for things like video games, comics, and Marvel movies is no longer kids but 30
year old soy boys.
Plus, there's also a lot of adults who are interested in things like sports.
There's a lot of adults who eat cereal or snack foods.
Just because something appeals to some children doesn't mean that it also doesn't appeal
to some adults.
Language of the website, such as language that is simple enough to be understandable
to children 12 and under.
Short, colorful descriptions.
Slang and pop culture phrases.
Example, a kid's site may be identified by such language as kids only.
Fun.
Free stuff.
Whatever.
Cool.
Duh.
Games.
Ask your parents.
Etc.
You know, they really haven't updated this since Bill Clinton actually signed COPPA into
force have they?
Whether the website uses visual content appealing to children, animated characters, bold or
fast moving graphics, or bright and vibrant colors.
These things are not specifically child oriented.
These things are meant to catch anyone's eye.
Use of host characters.
In a character property, use offline, on television, in movies, or comics or books.
This is the absolute dumbing down of everything.
If you're recognizable, you're for kids now, I guess.
Audio content appealing to children.
Example, simple or popular tunes or songs.
Cartoon voices.
Childlike noises and sound effects.
So anything fun.
Anything goofy.
You guys know that morning zoo style radio shows use the same goofy songs and sound effects
as kids shows.
And those are absolutely not made for children, right FTC?
This is the ultimate problem with COPPA.
The FTC is the final arbiter of what will be considered kid targeted content.
Of course, you can still mark your videos as for adults, but this is not the same situation
as say, marking a video as fair use and working through a claim.
YouTube's not the judge this time, nor is there a claimant you can appeal to.
This is the FTC.
Here's an example of what I mean.
Let's say that you have a YouTube channel and you upload a let's play of a Mario game,
and you've got curses and adult jokes in it because you're an adult oriented let's
play channel on YouTube even though you're playing Nintendo games.
And so you're going to mark this video as adult oriented.
You would be insane not to.
Choosing it kid oriented would not only be inaccurate, but it would also tank your search
ability and your income.
However, the FTC is actually going to examine your video to see if it's kid friendly or
not, and if by their determination it's not, they'll fine you.
And this is all happening at the same time as YouTube's looking at your videos and changing
your manual selection on whether or not it's for kids if they disagree with your assessment.
A lot of YouTubers right now are viewing that potential fine part of this discussion a lot
less seriously than they should.
I think the general idea everyone has is that it's just a threat, and most people will squeak
by undetected.
But you know what?
I watched the FTC's public Q&A on this topic.
No, they confirmed.
They will be coming for YouTubers who mislabel their videos by their estimation.
Is it safe to say if YouTube is informing channel creators that they need to be COPPA
compliant, they go through the training, moving forward, content creators are more at risk
than the actual platform at being fined?
Content creators are always at risk of being fined because they're the con- and channel
owners because there we have a situation where we have a website or an online service that
is directed to children.
So there in the general audience platform, we still have this knowledge requirement that
we have to prove up.
So there is, I think in theory as well as practically speaking, generally a higher risk
for channel owners and content creators who after all are creating this content and know
intimately whether or not it's directed to children or not.
Because if a video is labeled for adults, and the FTC thinks it should be labeled for
kids, in their eyes that video will be harvesting data from children, therefore it will be a
finable COPPA violation.
And to go back to our example, we all know that they're going to see the fact that
it's Mario on screen with an eye-catching thumbnail, it's about video games and it's
got bright colors, so it has to be for kids common sense be damned.
I don't think they're able to find YouTubers based outside of the US.
Foreign Sites is listed as an exception in the COPPA compliance guidebook, and maybe
that'll also cover foreign YouTubers, even though YouTube itself is based in the States.
And therefore I still have to tag my videos as adult content, even if people like me can't
be touched by the FTC because I'm not an American.
And there's a very good chance that YouTube is entering into an era where all American
content creators need to make explicitly adult content with not even a whiff of color or
vibrancy or anything else that might attract the eye of a child or face a stiff fine.
The FTC is currently taking public feedback on the upcoming implementation of COPPA as
it pertains to YouTube, and they'll be doing so until December 9th, 2019.
I'll leave a link in the description if you want to go there and tell them why this
is an exceptionally bad idea on their part.
I don't usually ask you to do this, you know this, but please consider sharing this
video around to everyone you can, along with that feedback link, as well as engaging with
this video through likes and comments so that it gets upranked in YouTube's algorithm.
People need to see this shit before it's too late.
Thank you very much, I love you.
There will be consequences for content creators who mis-designate, including being kicked
off the YouTube platform.
So if content creators are not sincere or forthcoming with YouTube and designating content
as being directed to children, there will be consequences for them.
We also think that YouTube has strong incentives to police its platform.
