My friends, today it is time to talk about acting white. Because it's 2021, whiteness
is not simply having a skin colour, it is a way of behaviour. At least that's what the
woke lefties tell me. And also the white supremacists.
If you've been paying attention, you'll notice that a lot of different races are now part
of the white race, or alternatively part of the black race. For example, Jason Wardell,
a teacher with Mediterranean and Jewish heritage, is left bewildered as his trade union insists
he is black despite telling him that he's not. Behold, a black man.
Mr Wardell, who is a design technology teacher, was invited by the National Education Union
to a meeting of black teachers. The NEU says it treats black as a political term rather
than a signifier of African heritage. Therefore, the term includes all members who self-identify
as black, Asian, and any other minority ethnic group who don't identify themselves as white.
When Mr Wardell contacted the union to say that he wasn't black, the NEU informed him
that since he did not consider himself white, he had to be registered as such.
Jewish was an option in the religion section only, which leads me to believe that the NEU
doesn't recognize Jewish as a race. I don't feel like an actual black member would necessarily
want me down as a black member, and rightly so. Of course, it's definitely not just Jewish
people who get forced into the false dichotomy of white or black, but it's also Arabs, Persians,
and other people from the Middle East. Remember, JonTron is a white supremacist, apparently.
But check out this article here, Prescriptive Racialism and Racial Exclusion, written by
a man named Muhammad Ali. No, not the great one, this is somebody else.
The crowd outside the auditorium was growing larger and louder. Controversy had arisen
over the panel on religious extremism in the Middle East that I had organized at my university.
A petition to cancel the event in the wake of the horrific New Zealand massacre had been
circulated among the student body during the previous week, forcing my co-organizers and
me to defend ourselves against accusations of Islamophobia. Months of work had gone into
the event, and I even managed to secure funding for the speakers on the condition that the
event went ahead. At that moment, it looked like I was going to fail. The Students for
Democratic Society were protesting it, and they spooked the president of the College
Republicans who were now considering cancelling it. Finally, one of our panelists, an imam,
managed to persuade the College Republican president to go ahead. Despite the constant
heckling during the speaker's remarks and the Q&A session that followed, the event did
finally proceed as planned. The panel and I addressed the New Zealand atrocity and explicitly
condemned white nationalism, but the protesters remained unmoved and even interrupted the
moment of silence for the massacre's victims. Throughout the event, they held a banner that
read You Do Not Represent Us. After the event, I overheard a protester berate one of the
panelists and complain that the event had not been organized by an Arab. I interjected
to inform her that I was the organizer of the event and that I am indeed an Arab. You
don't count, she immediately retorted. We know your politics. I subsequently discovered
this woman was the president of the Arab Student Association. I was already aware of this practice
of Uncle Tomming members of minorities who challenged certain orthodoxies, but this was
the first time I had experienced it firsthand. Such attitudes were evident in many of the
protesters' objections to the event. Faisal Saeed Al Muttar, an Iraqi-born secular rights
advocate and the only Arab on the panel, bore the brunt of these attacks. He was denounced
as a puppet and a traitor for discussing the role of religion in motivating groups
like ISIS in his native country. And this does seem to be an accurate description of
how the intersectionalists operate when it comes to race. To use this Ayanna Pressley
quote for I think, like, the sixth time on this channel.
You're not black unless you think black. You're not Arab unless you think Arab. There
is a large section of socialists, especially online right now, who have moved past the
idea that race is simply some kind of genetic marker, but is actually a way of thinking,
feeling and viewing the world. It is no longer an immutable trait, but rather it's an ideology
that you adopt. This is how, after all, straight black men are the white people of black people.
This is a ridiculous statement in a ridiculous headline of a ridiculous article on a ridiculous
website. But this is where critical theory leads you. If the dominant culture really
is whiteness, if it's the white cis-normative hetero-patriarchal capitalist whatever, then
every step that you're closer to that, you're more white. And using this lens, completely
stupid concepts like having a colonized mind or internalized misogyny or whatever the fuck,
they all completely make sense. The way in which these people view the world is fundamentally
flawed, but within that framework, of course all this regressive nonsense would show up.
In fact, using this logic, if you were to show somebody like Ayanna Pressley, these
black women, she might actually call them white men. Of course, the political advantage
of this point of view is that you can basically define anybody however you like, for whatever
reason serves your purposes that day. For example, a school district decides Asians
aren't students of color. Administrators at North Thurston Public Schools, which oversees
some 16,000 students, have lumped Asians in with whites and measured their academic
achievements against students of color, a category that includes black, Latinx, Native
American, Pacific Islander, and multiracial students. Where's the Arabs, North Thurston?
Where's the Jews, you fucking racists? Where's the Indians? Oh wait, the Indians are actually
pretty successful. Maybe they count as white too. The meme that Asians are whites is something
that's reasonably widespread. I think I actually did a joking video about it a few years ago
about the alt-right's Asian fetish. It's not just the alt-right though. I know Louis Laveau
has been saying, the future of the white race is to mix them with Asians. I think he just
says he wants an Asian girlfriend, to be honest. But still, this is some weird South African
apartheid style shit, isn't it? We're actually at the point where woke people are giving
us honorary whites. What does that make Tim Pool? Tim Pool's half white, half Asian. Is
he a super white? Don't be obtuse. Asians definitely have privilege over every other
minority due to their close proximity to whiteness. It's like I said, it's intersectional bullshit.
The closer you are to whiteness, the more that the commies think they can just discriminate
against you. But what is this whiteness? What is this colonizing ideology? Let's see if
we can figure it out. White people food is creating an unobtainable picture of health.
Alright, so I got it. I got it. If you eat healthy, you're white. Okay. I thought depression
was a white people disease. A conversation with depressed while black. If you have mental
health problems, you're white. Okay, got it. Philly rapper Pop Hunna is getting blackballed
by the industry for paperwork of him cooperating with police when he was 13. His friend was
killed in front of him and his mom. It's becoming a debate because of his age at the time. Well,
it's also becoming a debate because cooperating with the police when your friend gets killed
in front of you is apparently bad like fucking fucking what this no snitch culture is, in
my opinion, ridiculous. Are we are we actually at the point where we're saying that, you
know, not being a fucking gangster is being white is that whiteness now is getting out
of the hood and being successful whiteness. Pretending you don't have feelings as a colonized
white ass reaction. My ancestors honored their emotions and so the fuck will I so having
discipline or reacting appropriately to a situation or being at least somewhat of a
rational person. That's whiteness. Intelligence is a white man's mythology. A phantasmal concept
a non referring turn sin catagrammatic. Alright, got it. If you're smart, you're white. I understand.
I understand you fucking white supremacist. But of course, we would get here eventually.
How else would you characterize the proud boys as a white supremacist group when regardless
of their politics, their racial makeup is actually quite diverse? Well, the Washington
Post tells us to understand Trump support, we must think in terms of multi racial whiteness.
To these people, a black person who doesn't think black, which means you know, be a lefty
vote Democrat, whatever has colonized thinking he has whiteness on his side, multi racial
whiteness. In fact, is anybody surprised that the article is written by Christina Beltran,
who is a very white woman. The article itself is opinion piece garbage, which you expect
from the Washington Post nowadays. But Christina Beltran gave a very interesting interview
that I think we should probably listen to. I want to read what you wrote in part for
voters who see the very act of acknowledging one's racial identity as itself racist, the
politics of multiracial whiteness reinforces their desired approach to colorblind individualism.
Can you explain what you mean? Sure. I think that one of the things that's interesting
about the politics of multicultural conservatism, for example, is that multicultural conservatism,
which is the kind of conservative politics of reaching out to other racial minorities
practiced by folks like Jack Kemp or George W. Bush, was an effort to recognize the specific
histories and backgrounds of particular racial populations, and to say that they could be
part of the GOP. And I think that one of the things that's interesting is that there's
a segment of people of color, who don't necessarily want to be recognized at all, they don't want
to be recognized for their racial distinctiveness, right, that for them, the very act of sort
of identifying them as Latino as African American, that they themselves have a certain discomfort
with that very logic, they want to be understood as simply Americans, outside of those kinds
of identity categories. I think that one of the big political divides we face right
now is people who find the very act of talking about those histories of racial exclusion
as divisive, because the act of talking about it and acknowledging it produces a kind of
defensiveness or anger, and even discussing it, the idea that unity should be practiced
from sort of not engaging with our history, not sort of celebrating the best stuff, and
not really acknowledging that we have a complicated, beautiful, tragic, inspiring inheritance
that we have to understand to go forward.
So let me get this straight. According to this person, the problem is non-white people
who don't like identity politics, and how they react when identity politics are forced
on them. We have to understand this to go forward. So if you're a non-white person who's
not idpol obsessed, to Beltran, you're a backwards regressive element. You might even
say a reactionary. This is some ridiculous bullshit, guys.
And is anybody surprised that, say, right-leaning people are beginning to latch onto this multiracial
whiteness? I mean, look at this. This guy could basically be a young Ian Miles Chong.
And of course white people are never racially discriminated against. Of course. Especially
if you're one of those multiracial whites, then nothing that happens to you is actually
discrimination. Because you've internalized all of that colonization or whatever the fuck
they'd say. Look at this picture, dude. Mm-hmm. The votes of black Americans should count
twice. Vote reparations would empower us to replace oppressive institutions with life-affirming
structures of equality. By Brandon Hasbrook. Look at this pale-ass Sean King motherfucker.
What are you, like, one-eighth black? I swear to God, my skin is darker than yours because
I'm half Italian.
Orlando Hall was executed last night. Hall was a black man convicted by an all-white
jury. He is the eighth person executed this year by the Trump administration. Orlando
Hall kidnapped, raped, and buried a 16-year-old girl alive. Fuck your race card. He is not
more innocent simply because of his skin color. But if you're an intersectionalist, you have
to go to bat for these people. Because that is where intersectionality takes you. Dear
white and Asian people, stop going to black churches to get vaccinated. These sites are
prioritizing black people. After they got dogpiled, we don't have time to educate all
communities on equity and the importance of the black church. To our Asian followers,
we don't have time to educate your community on disenfranchisement and anti-black racism.
We are working to promote equity on very level. A lot of racist messages have come
our way from the Asian community about our post. As a community, we are dying from COVID-19
and double digits with our counterparts in the Latino slash X communities. We stand by
what we said. Blah, blah, blah. And of course, of course violence against Asians is not a
hate crime because they're white, right? Of course the roof Koreans were all just oppressors
in the end. Of course, when black people attack Asian people randomly on the street,
they're simply punching up. Violence against Asian Americans and why the term hate crime
should be used carefully. Social media posts have conflated violence against people who
are Asian American with hate crimes against the community at large. That is what happens
whenever there is violence against somebody who is black. It's always made into a race
question. It's always tied into the community at large, but let's be fucking real here.
Jacob Blake was shot by police while trying to abduct children. Rayshard Brooks, regardless
of him being a scumbag in other areas of his life, was a danger on multiple levels from
driving drunk to fighting with the cops. And although George Floyd's situation was exacerbated
by admittedly terrible actions from the police officers, he still ultimately overdosed. Every
single time a black person dies, it becomes a community thing. It becomes a racial thing,
whether it's warranted or not. And now people have the gall to say, don't make it an Asian
thing when Asian people are targeted and attacked. They say don't use the hashtag Asian lives
matter because no lives matter until black lives do. At least according to the Twitterati,
sometimes Asian people are actually the victim of a race based crime, especially if it's a white
person who commits it. So there was a shooting I think about a week ago where a white person shot
and killed eight people, six of whom were Asian American. And because the shooting happened at
a spa, they may or may not have been sex workers. And despite the left throwing the Asians under the
bus this whole time, suddenly now it was all about race. It was all about people of color.
It was all about whiteness and white violence. And then as soon as it came out that the shooting
appeared not to be racially motivated, people were up in arms. But here's the actual truth.
Anybody can experience discrimination. This was not even considered a controversial opinion,
at least when I was young. The 90s and the 2000s were full of PSAs that said racism against
anybody was bad, including white people. Yes, Shakaran, they said the Irish experienced racism
because they did. Because everyone has. Every group of people on the face of this planet has
been both the oppressed and the oppressor class. And it ultimately doesn't matter. Really, it
doesn't. What matters is what people are doing today. What crimes are they committing today?
What racial othering are they committing today? What denying of culture or identity are they
committing today? And today, all of that absolutely terrible shit seems to be coming from the left.
Thank you for watching, my friends. If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around
and do all of the other algorithm-positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like,
I don't know. Sub for more or hit up my Patreon or SubscribeStar if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So I'll see you tomorrow. I love you.
