Hey buddies! This is not going to be a full anti-social media video,
although I'll probably still put it in the anti-social media playlist.
But today we're talking about Parler! And yes, I am over on Parler, under short fat otaku as
always. I haven't really customized it, I should probably do that. And Parler is basically a
Twitter replacement. They have a few other features, for example the comments underneath
individual posts kind of branch out as more and more people talk about them. It's a little bit
easier to follow. You can post more than, what is it, 240 characters? Twitter's character limit?
You can post more than that. And probably most importantly of all,
Parler is marketed as a free speech alternative. Now where have we heard that before?
But a couple of weeks ago, Parler started really blowing up, and I'm talking like
half a million new accounts in just a couple of days blowing up, because of the hashtag
TWEGSIT. And if you go to twegsit.com, you're greeted with this page.
Dear Jack, you've abused us for the last time. Censorship stinks. I'm out and I'm taking my
friends with me. Reject censorship and exit Twitter. Read the open letter to Jack Dorsey,
Twitter CEO. Join the TWEGSIT movement. And then it gives you a few links here you can click on.
These will basically fast track your Parler account creation. And here's that open letter.
Dear Jack, I want to thank you, not only on behalf of Parler, but also on behalf of the
hundreds of millions of Americans to whom you have now, at last, made abundantly clear that
Twitter is not their form. It's your form, where your left-wing views predominate, and theirs are
only allowed if they properly align with your own radical political bias. By using the notoriously
left-wing CNN and Washington Post to fact-check the President of the United States, you removed
any remaining doubt as to where you stand, and the utter disdain you hold for those who dare to
disagree. Frankly, you inadvertently conceded this on CNN nearly 18 months ago, where you proudly
boasted that Twitter is left-leaning. You then absurdly tried to cover your tracks when you
hastily added, but we do not look at content with regards to political viewpoint or ideology,
we look at behaviour. Yes, behaviour like daring to depart from the liberal Twitter orthodoxy,
but of course your top aid is responsible for election security and misinformation,
UL Roth had already let the cat out of the bag when he proclaimed in January 2017 that there
are actual Nazis in the Trump White House. By the way, did you get CNN and the Washington Post to
fact-check that claim? So now, with your latest assault of President Trump, and more importantly,
freedom of speech, you have, as I said, removed any remaining doubt as to your rigid left-wing
ideology, your bitter contempt for those who aren't buying what you're selling,
and your full-blown, full-bore intention to rid Twitter of even the most remote semblance of free
speech once and for all. So thank you, Jack. Thank you for slamming shut the portals of Twitter,
as we throw open the door to Parler. Your stock is plunging, your followership is tanking,
and Parler is skyrocketing. So stop by and say hello on your way down, and on our way up.
At Parler, we still wholeheartedly believe in freedom of speech.
Sincerely, John Matze, CEO and member of Parler.
P.S. At Parler, we also respect our members' privacy, their personal data,
and their content as it's not sold to the highest bidder.
The twigzit is here. Okay, so that is basically how Parler is spinning this. They're talking about
the increasing left-wing bias on Twitter, and yes, there is an increasing left-wing bias on Twitter,
no one can honestly deny that, and how that is infringing now on freedom of speech.
Of course, the reply to this is fundamentally an ANCAP one, which is why it's really funny to
hear it come out of lefties' mouths. Twitter is their own company, they can do whatever they want.
The left has no problem with forcing companies to do things that they find to be morally acceptable,
but in this one case, no, they're interfering with capitalism. You guys don't give a shit
about capitalism, it's all just empty rhetoric from them. But nonetheless, let's talk about
what Twitter actually did. Here's Donald Trump's Twitter feed, scrolled all the way back to June
23rd, and I gotta admit, that was a lot of scrolling to do. And check out this tweet!
This tweet violated the Twitter rules about abusive behavior. However, Twitter has determined
that it may be in the public's interest for the tweet to remain accessible. It has no replies,
no retweets, no favorites. It cannot be interacted with in any way, it can only be viewed.
Now before I even open this tweet up, the way that Twitter is framing this is completely false.
Twitter has not determined that it may be in the public's interest. Twitter is being told to do
this by the Supreme Court. All official correspondence by the president is to be
kept as public record. This has been affirmed by the Supreme Court multiple times. It's one of the
reasons why Donald Trump can't block anybody on Twitter either. So no, if you actually tried to
delete this tweet, I'm sure you'd have a lawsuit on your hands, that's why you're doing it.
If somebody else tweeted this, they'd probably get banned. Actually no, so many people are tweeting
what the contents of this tweet are now. It's kind of become its own meme, and they're not getting
banned because there's too many of them. Let's view it anyway. There will never be an autonomous
zone in Washington DC as long as I'm your president. If they try, they will be met with
serious force. Is that abusive behavior? Is it abusive to say that you're going to defend against
anarcho-communists who try to establish autonomous zones in American cities? That you're going to
prevent the erection of such zones in order to actually maintain law and order within them?
In order to guarantee the human rights of those people who would live in that zone?
Let me get this straight, Twitter. Securing people's natural rights under the law is abusive
to you. It is not necessarily the fact that Twitter has been putting this little interstitial
here over top of Trump's tweets, though that is part of it. What really kicked off the whole
parlor thing was putting it on this tweet specifically, on how blatantly partisan this was.
Being anti-communist revolution and declaring your intent to defend yourself and defend those around
you. Twitter considers that to be abusive. If that is not partisan hackery, I don't know what is.
And because Twitter has gone off the deep end regarding banning anyone who is not hard left,
yeah, there's going to be a lot of conservatives showing up on these non-Twitter sites, not just
Parlor, but also Minds and Gab. And funnily enough, on Laura Loomer's site, there's a list
of conservative accounts to follow on Parlor. And this list really is a who's who of the deplatformed
right now. You have Milo, Gavin McInnis, The Proud Boys, Laura Loomer herself, Info Wars,
Alex Jones, Faith Goldie, Nick Fuentes, Zero Hedge, Sargon, Sargon's on there, Tommy Robinson,
Adam Baldwin, Rand Paul, Mike Cernovich, James O'Keefe, Project Veritas, Daily Caller.
You know, a lot of people that I do disagree with regularly. However, I would not want to see them
deplatformed. Oh God, QAnon is on there. Okay. But the point is, I wouldn't want to see these
people deplatformed, even though I disagree with almost everything with someone like Nick Fuentes
or whatever. I don't want to see them kicked off a site. Not because they haven't done anything
wrong, man. It's still free speech, but Twitter does not care about free speech anymore. Let's
not kid ourselves, guys. Parlor isn't perfect. There are some serious problems with it.
Here's an oft cited thread by Mark Doppelganger. The Mbased and Red Pilled Parlor app requires
providing phone number to message people over the internet. Privacy, safety, freedom of speech,
phone number. Miss me with this glowing stuff. Now, that's actually pretty bad, but it doesn't
make it any worse than other websites. Have you noticed that Twitter requires a phone number now?
Have you noticed that Facebook does? In fact, Facebook requires a picture of your photo ID
sometimes. If your name is like a non-standard name, or if you put in a nickname or something,
it will require you to post a picture of photo ID to make sure you're a real person.
I know I'm an old man. In fact, I just did a video on being an old man,
but man, do I recall and on some level miss the times when people were saying,
don't post your real information on the internet. Then someone can find you. Some creep will look
you up. Don't post your phone number. Don't post your address. Don't post your real name.
I would love to go back to those times. I would love to go back to the times of anonymous accounts
on IRC or something. This is not good for Parler, but it's still on par with everything else. I'd
say it's even on Parler. And here's Parler's terms of service. Parler may remove any content
and terminate access to services at any time for any reason or no reason. Although Parler
endeavors to allow all free speech that is lawful and does not infringe the legal rights of others.
Any invitation made by Parler to you to use the services or submit content to the services,
or the fact that Parler may receive a benefit from your use of the services or provision of
content to the services will not obligate Parler to maintain any content or maintain your access
to the services. Parler will have no liability to you for removing any content for terminating your
access to the services or for modifying or terminating the services at any time and in any
way and for any reason or no reason. Although the Parler guidelines provide guidance to you regarding
content that is not appropriate, Parler is free to remove content and terminate your access to the
services even where the guidelines have been followed. Now this actually sounds quite bad,
and on some level it is quite bad, but there's a few spots where I kind of get it.
For example, when you read the part where it says Parler is not obligated to maintain your
access to the services, that makes sense. Because if you lose your internet package or something,
Parler is not responsible for getting you back on Parler. This basically reads like
you are using Parler's property at their whim. And that does sound really bad, but as long as
their whim is free speech, then you basically just have to trust them. Like it's kind of bad,
but there's no other way they'd word this without putting themselves in some kind of legal loophole
where if they wanted to like close down the site one day they wouldn't be able to do so, you know?
I think that I think this is like standard legalese. That sucks, don't get me wrong,
it's not good, but it's also par for the course, and no I won't make the pun again.
The terms of this user agreement may be modified by Parler in any way and at any time without
notice to you, and you agree to be responsible for making yourself aware of any modification
of the terms and to be bound by any modification of the terms when you continue to access or use
the services after any such modification. This is, again, a spot where Twitter had them beat,
because when Twitter started updating its hate speech policy, it refused to alter really old
tweets, like stuff from 2012 or whatever, I think it was 2017 or 2015 or something along those
lines, when the new policy came into effect, all the tweets from before that era would not be
affected. Unlike on YouTube, where 10 year old videos are getting struck down constantly for
violating the terms of service or the community guidelines or whatever the fuck it is, videos
that are in no way relevant and were completely in line with the terms back then. If you permit us to
access the address book on your device or give us permission to import your contacts from an email
account associated with your account, we may access and store names and contact information
from your address book to facilitate invitations and social interactions that you initiate through
our services and for other purposes described in this privacy policy or at the time of consent of
collection. I mean this one seems easy, don't give them access to that shit. Unless, for some dumb
fuck reason, Parler requires access to your contacts list just to use it, that would be
ridiculous, but I'm on Parler, I haven't been asked anything like that. You can delete your
account by emailing us your request at account.deletion at parler.com. You can't just delete it
in the account settings, you have to email them. I mean that's kind of lame, but fine. You agree to
receive communications from Parler, including communication sent by phone, email, text message,
other means of communication. If you provided a phone number to Parler, you are required to notify
Parler when you cease to own or control that number to help prevent Parler from sending
communications to others who may acquire that number. Alright, so you are forced to accept their
spam. That sucks, but it's just kind of annoying, you know. You agree to arbitrate any dispute that
you have with Parler. You agree to resolve all disputes with Parler through binding arbitration
with the American Arbitration Association in Clark County, Nevada, unless the dispute meets
the requirements for small claims court and is filed in Justice Court Henderson, Clark County,
Nevada. If for any reason this agreement to arbitrate is determined by a court or arbitrator
to be unenforceable, you agree that the federal and state courts with jurisdiction over Clark
County, Nevada will have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute involving you and Parler.
Any arbitration will be governed by the AAA commercial arbitration rules, consumer due process
protocol, and supplementary procedures for resolution of consumer-related disputes.
The arbitration will be conducted only by telephone, online, or based solely on written
submissions and not by personal appearance of any party or witness. This user agreement
and any dispute between you and Parler will be governed by the laws of the state of Nevada,
excluding any applicable choice of law provision. Up until this point, things have seemed lame but
normal for a social media site like Parler. I don't know if Twitter or Facebook or anybody else has
a clause like this, but this is absolutely ridiculous. This means simply by using Parler,
if you ever have reason to sue Parler, any reason at all, you can't. You have to arbitrate with
them. You cannot join a class action lawsuit. You cannot file a claim against them. You can only
arbitrate. Now, I've seen similar clauses like this in the past, and they almost always get
thrown out as unenforceable. And I'm pretty sure that this clause here, where if it turns out this
whole thing is unenforceable, you have to agree to their jurisdiction. I don't know if that's
enforceable either. Who knows? But the point is, this is basically them trying to do as much of a
power grab as they can, saying that, oh, if you use our service, you can't sue us. Even if we
fuck you, you can't sue us. And even though this type of thing hasn't rendered unenforceable,
it is going to scare a lot of people away. People who might actually have a legitimate
grievance against Parler, maybe because they just don't know any better, or they don't want
to go through the extra step of trying to overcome this before even filing their case, you know?
Do not purposefully share rumors about other users and people you know are false. Well,
that might be kind of hard. What if you actually think that it's true, and then it turns out you
were wrong? What if you change your mind? What if Parler thinks you're lying? Avoid targeting
red or no-badged users with disparaging information. They are more protected under
the law than prominent individuals. More protected under the law? Is it because users with certain
badges are like public figures or something? I mean, the whole point of social media, one of
the big boons and big drawbacks of social media, is that the minute that you post on social media,
you also become a public figure. It doesn't matter if you have five followers, you're still posting
something publicly. Pornography is considered indecent according to clauses defined by the FCC.
Do not use language or visuals that describe or show sexual organs or activity. Do not use
language or visuals that are morbid or degrading. Avoid language or visuals that are sexual in
nature. So Parler has already gone the way of Gab, where Gab just wanted to straight up ban porn.
You agree to defend and indemnify Parler as well as any of its officers, directors, employees,
and agents from and against any and all claims, actions, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities,
costs or debt, and expenses, including but not limited to all attorney's fees arising from or
relating to your access and use of the services. Parler will have the right to conduct its own
defense at your expense in any action or proceeding covered by this indemnity.
So if you post something on Parler and Parler gets in trouble for it, you're footing their bill.
This is basically an inverse of the Section 230 Safe Harbor laws that allowed the modern internet
to come to be in the first place. It's kind of crazy. And although it sounds strange,
this is something that other social media companies have actually moved on from.
For example, here's Friendster's indemnity clause from back in 2003. Yeah, remember Friendster?
There's a social media site that went nowhere. But pause this and see if it looks familiar to you.
Here is Facebook's indemnity clause from 2009. Here's MySpace's indemnity clause from 2006.
All of these clauses were put into these websites and eventually dropped. I know Friendster doesn't
exist anymore, but the clause was dropped several years before Friendster went into business.
Facebook and MySpace both dropped theirs years ago as well. It could be the case that with Section
230 protections in place, all of these companies felt that these clauses were no longer valid,
or at least not needed. And maybe Parler is expecting Section 230 to go away, which
unfortunately is on the table right now because social media companies are behaving
so awfully when it comes to political censorship and being unbiased. That some people, rather than
reform the system, want the nuclear option of removing Section 230, which will basically kill
Google, kill Amazon, kill Facebook, kill Twitter, kill Reddit, kill them all. They'll all be gone.
Because it will make them liable to millions of lawsuits. And maybe Parler sees that coming and
wants to push that cost off onto its users. Maybe Parler is simply covering its bases,
throwing out stuff that it knows won't stick. Maybe Parler is just being a dick. Who knows?
Also, I don't know why Parler would ever have your social security number, but
a clause like this never looks good. And for all the things that Parler demands of its audience,
it's not even truly free speech. Conservatives are flocking to a new free speech social media app
that has started banning liberal users. This is just as bad, just going the other way.
We do not need an aisle flipped version of Twitter. We need a place where everyone can talk
and everyone can debate and everyone can put their heads together and come up with solutions
to the problems that we're facing. Hello, Sheriff Joe. Your post is in violation of our terms of
service. I'm Marco Rubio. Anyone know where I can find some breast milk? My wife left me. This is in
violation of obscenity. This violation has added four to your total points accumulated.
Total current violation points is four. As a red or gold badge user, if your account accumulates
20 points in a three month period, your account will be banned from Parler and all future
services. Now that little Marco Rubio bit sounds a lot like parody to me, but because Parler thinks
it's obscene, Sheriff Joe is banned. It turns out that Sheriff Joe actually is banned. It's not just
four points on his card or whatever. Yeah, he's gone now. Probably for the sin of posting this
publicly and humiliating Parler. But the point is, when the right whines about obscenity, it's
the exact same thing as the left whining about problematic. We don't need any of that BS coming
from anyone. Pretty much all of my leftist friends joined Parler to screw with MAGA folks, and every
last one of them was banned in less than 24 hours because conservatives truly love free speech.
They said stuff like, Dan Bongingo, you should really wash your doo-doo ass. One got banned for
saying she wants to fight a police dog. Like, what the hell, man? This is no better. This is no
fucking better. At this point, when it comes to social media, I'm adopting my own personal terms
of service. I call it fuck it. And basically, here's what you do. You sign up for a social
media account and you do whatever the fuck you want. And then when they inevitably ban you,
because somebody, whether it's left, right, doesn't matter, somebody gets a stick up their ass about
it, you make another one because it's free. Emails are free nowadays, social media accounts are free
nowadays, it doesn't really matter. If you need a phone number, there's websites you can go where
you can sign up and just get like a burner number that lasts 30 minutes, just enough to verify your
account, then you get rid of the number. Same with emails, same with IPs, doesn't matter anymore.
There was once a point where I was willing to actually listen to the terms of service of all
of these companies, but these terms have become so oppressive that the only thing I can think of now
is civil disobedience. So no, I will use these sites as much or as little as I want. I will not
follow their rules and if I ever want to come back, I will make a new account and come back.
And until they actually implement rules that are worth following and do not censor for any reason
the users of their site, then I see no reason to abide by them. I am willing to come to the table,
I am willing to bend a little bit, I am willing to follow rules that I think are reasonable,
but if this is what social media is going to be, then fuck it, I'll do what I want.
Hey pals, this is a quick end of video PSA. The talk on Parler's over now, so if you actually
want to click away, go ahead. But I do have something else important that I want to talk
about and it is related to, you know, stuff going missing online. So I've been somebody who
follows a lot of YouTubers that have disappeared. Like for example, I'm on the Cinema Snobs website
right now. If you were to try to go back say 10 years and watch the old, old, old Cinema Snobs,
a lot of them are gone. A lot of the links on this site are dead because they were on BlipTV
and BlipTV's gone. Like for example, here's his review on Caligula from 2010. There's no review
here though. A lot of his old stuff is just gone, lost the time. You go to Spoonie's channel if you
ever wanted to go back and see his old videos because he's not really doing anything anymore.
And like if you scroll down, you'll notice after you get through all the streams,
a lot of his stuff is also gone. A lot of the videos, a lot of the vlogs and the reviews,
they've simply vanished. And in fact, if you want to watch Spoonie now, you have to go to channels
like NotRub here who posts a lot of vlogs that again were only on BlipTV and have largely been
lost as well. But he posted them here. There's a lot of old convention footage that was lost.
There's a lot of commentary tracks that were lost. Basically stuff that frankly I never thought I'd
be able to see again. My point is, I'm going on this wild tangent here. My point is that I never
liked the idea of my own content ever being lost to time. For example, as autistic as this is,
I have a hard drive where every single playthrough we've ever done over the course of the past seven
years on Game Boomers, it's all here, every single playthrough. And it's also all uploaded to the
Game Boomers YouTube channel. So whenever we stream on Twitch, I upload that stream as
basically as like a let's play on that channel. I've got all the old anime reviews from way back
in the day. There's season one of the SFO anime review, season two, and season three, they're all
here. And of course, I've also got the Dumping with Scrumps. They're all here. There's a shit
ton of Dumping with Scrumps now. I've got all the dev perspectives backed up. All the 10 minute
takes are here. Even the really old ones from like four years ago. Point is, I save a lot of this
stuff. And I do it because I don't like the idea of my content going missing one day. Everything
that I have here is uploaded somewhere. If YouTube won't take it because it's like a hentai review
from nine or 10 years ago, it's up on my bit shoot. I have this stuff uploaded somewhere,
whether it's on SFO, on Game Boomers, on the dev kit, it exists somewhere. And I have copies
of everything that we've ever done. So if something goes missing, or there's a new or
there's a new platform, I'll re upload the entire backlog there too. The point is I have liked so
many YouTubers whose stuff has gone missing, that I never wanted that to be a problem for me.
Whether or not I make it big, if I have any fans at all who want to see my old stuff,
I want it to be there. I want it to be available so that somebody can spend a lazy Saturday
afternoon watching old YouTube videos from 10 years ago that they're kind of being half
nostalgic about. Maybe they just discovered it, whatever. I want that stuff to be available.
That is important to me, even though it sounds kind of autistic. And then I had kind of a problem
because as you can see, this is a playlist on my Game Boomers YouTube from the Goof Troop
playthrough that I did with BLG, Born Losers Gaming. All the videos are privated, except
I was smart enough to save them and I re uploaded them to my channel. So here they are in the
playlist. If you just scroll down a little bit, I did not exactly want to reveal this,
but the preservation of my content, I personally find to be a higher order value than the whole
cancel culture thing. But basically when I was talking about people who had thrown me out of
their discord in the cancel culture video last week, it was these guys and they are a reasonably
small let's play channel. And back when I was a reasonably small let's play channel,
we had done crossovers in like 2015 or something, and they decided to delete the crossovers,
but I saved them and they're here and they're available for you to watch.
Now it would be a personal favor to me if you manage to get more than 400 hits on this part one,
because that is all they managed to get on their channel. And that, but that's just a little petty
goal for me. It doesn't actually mean anything if you don't, if you don't click on it. And if
you do want to give it a click, the playlist will be in the description of, of, uh, of this video.
But that's not really my point. My point is, is that I don't like my stuff going missing.
Um, there isn't, there's another play through that we did that was, um, only one episode that
I have lost unfortunately, and I'm not happy about it. It was an episode of golf with your friends
that's gone. Um, but it frankly, it wasn't very good. The goof shoot play through is actually
not bad. And we also recorded several things that never came out because the guys over at BLG just
didn't want to edit them. There was a secret of mana play through, and there was some Mario Kart
eight stuff that they, they never edited. I never got the footage from them. And it's,
it's probably never going to come out now because those guys hate me because they've all gone
radical left, you know, off the cliff. But yeah, some people actually messaged me and asked, Hey,
how come, uh, all these random episodes that are not in your usual game Boomer style are coming
out on your channel? Well, this is why, and if you feel like doing me a favor, you know,
give that part one, a click, maybe, maybe you'll like the video. Who knows? Anyway,
I'm going to get out of here. The Chaz video will come soon. TM. Oh, and I'll see you on my Twitch
stream tonight. If you want, we're going to play some final fantasy seven. Anyway,
thanks for indulging me. I'll talk to you later. I love you.
