It's monkey pox madness time guys, let's go.
Now that nobody cares about COVID anymore, despite some sections of some governments
really trying to remake it a thing, there's got to be something new to scare monger the
people with.
For example, a few weeks back here in Ontario, the provincial government put out the word
that we're in the seventh wave of COVID and that tackling it will require fourth doses
of the vaccine and reinstituting mandatory masking in the fall.
But nobody's listening anymore, everyone's tired of doing it.
They're all panicked out, no one's following along the way they were two years ago.
So instead, in the media, it's all about monkey pox now.
Of course, I'm being a little bit hyperbolic.
Obviously, there are some people out there who view eternal emergencies as a way in which
they can control populations.
That happens and you have to be blind not to see that possibility.
But that's not everybody everywhere.
Sometimes there really is a real problem that needs to be addressed and it's not just a
power grab.
And it does seem to be the case that the monkey pox virus outbreak isn't a hoax or anything
like that.
On May 17, 2022, the CDC expressed concern that monkey pox was spreading undetected in
the UK.
The very next day, the first case had appeared in the United States.
Two days later, it was officially considered an outbreak.
Monkey pox itself is an old virus.
It comes from the smallpox family of viruses, though it's a lot less lethal than its infamous
cousin.
We've known about monkey pox for a while.
There is a vaccine for it, and it's not actually that deadly.
Monkey pox symptoms are a fever, headaches, muscle aches, a lack of energy, and a rash
resembling pus-filled blisters that can develop all over the body, including on the face,
feet, hands, genitals, and inside the mouth.
The rash will typically last two to four weeks, and the timing between the rash and the other
symptoms is varied.
From a layman's perspective, this virus sounds like a more serious version of the chicken
pox.
However, there are key differences.
One is that the chicken pox is relatively mild in children and more serious in adults,
while with monkey pox, it seems to be the other way around.
Another difference is that chicken pox is highly contagious and airborne, while monkey
pox is only spread through close-quarters contact.
Monkey pox is present in bodily fluids, meaning that if you kiss or have sex with somebody
who's infected, chances are you are, too.
It's also possible to inhale respiratory particles from somebody nearby who's sneezed or something.
Additionally, the pus inside the blisters can also transmit the virus.
The mainstream media is heavily de-emphasizing the sexual aspect of the transmission of monkey
pox.
On CNN, for example, it says,
In some cases, during the early stages of illness, the rash has been mostly in the genital
area and perianal area.
In some cases, it has produced anal or genital lesions that look like other diseases like
herpes or chicken pox or syphilis.
A notable fraction of cases in the current outbreak have been seen among gay and bisexual
men, but by no means is the current risk of exposure to monkey pox exclusively to the
gay and bisexual community in the U.S.
Anyone can develop and spread monkey pox.
Overall, monkey pox risk is moderate for people with multiple sexual partners and low for
the broader population.
According to a rapid risk assessment report published Monday by the European Center for
Disease Prevention and Control.
However, monkey pox is not considered a sexually transmitted disease.
I mean, fair enough, right?
There are those other methods of transmission.
HIV is technically not a sexually transmitted disease since you can get it without having
sex even though sex is one of the most common ways that it's spread.
So now we have to ask the question, what's the transmission rate looking like right now?
Well, a study from the New England Journal of Medicine followed 528 monkey pox cases
from 16 different countries and concluded that sex between men is driving the outbreak.
98% of people infected were gay or bi men, 75% of them were white, 41% of them had HIV,
95% of cases are thought to be transmitted during sex.
There's also no women infected yet either.
So uh, those are some pretty damning statistics regarding monkey pox actually being an STD.
I mean, yeah, it could be transmitted nonsexually, sure, but it's not.
At least not right now.
And if anecdotes are more your thing than raw data, that's fine too because a number
of gay men have decided to make the brave decision to step up and tell their story.
Like this guy, a babe the pig boy.
Hi, so I have monkey pox.
I'm not fishing for any sort of sympathy, but since I'm already known for being pretty
unabashed on the internet, I figured I'd give an honest account of how I got it and
how my symptoms manifested to hopefully educate anyone curious.
So strap in.
Jesus Christ, dude, based on your avatar, you're already strapped in.
So I finally got back into the swing of things and attended a friend's birthday orgy.
A friend's birthday orgy on Saturday the 9th.
Is that normal?
Birthday orgies?
I had been watching the news on monkey pox, but the general feelings on it really were
and still are developing by the day.
So I, nor anyone else, were especially worried.
So I attended the orgy, had a great time, guzzled a metric fuckton of human piss.
I think I had sexual contact with around 15 men, similar to the other orgy on Saturday.
Had a great time, met some great people, then stumbled my piss-drunk ass home.
My two cents.
It's reductive to tell gay people not to have sex.
It didn't work in the early days of AIDS and clearly it's not working now.
But do your best to make educated choices.
Check your county's case numbers frequently, and if you can, avoid groups and anonymous
encounters.
I, um, I don't know about you, but drinking piss and fucking 15 men while saying that
nobody else can criticize your lifestyle.
I don't know if this tracks, man.
Or there's this guy whose tale was told in the Guardian.
I literally screamed out loud in pain, my two weeks of monkey pox hell.
When New York pride festivities kicked off on the 24th of June, I was aware that monkey
pox was an emerging issue, especially for gay men, but I was also under the impression
that the number of cases in the city was relatively small.
I had sex with several guys over the weekend.
Then a week later, on the first of July, I started feeling very fatigued.
I had a high fever with chills and muscle aches, and my lymph nodes were so swollen
they were protruding two inches out of my throat.
Next I took a COVID test, negative.
Then I started suspecting monkey pox.
Two days after my symptoms began, the rash started as anal rectal lesions, painful sores
on my anus and rectum.
Initially it was a stinging, itchy feeling.
I wasn't scared at this point.
I was told that it would be mild, and I was a completely healthy individual with no underlying
conditions.
But I had no idea how bad it was going to get.
After I went home, the rash started spreading, and I began to feel anxious.
I developed lesions literally everywhere.
They started looking like mosquito bites before developing into pimply blisters that would
eventually pop, then finally scab and leave a scar.
I had them on my skull, on my face, my arms, my legs, my feet, my hands, my torso, my back,
and five on my right elbow.
At the peak, I had 50 lesions, a fever of 103, and intense pain, prompting a panic attack.
Ironically, the only place I didn't have lesions was my penis.
The next day I got my results, positive for gonorrhea, but no word yet on monkey pox.
That's when I developed hives everywhere on my body from my neck down, as well as a headache,
arthritis pain in my fingers and shoulders, and a strange pain in my shin bone that got
so painful I couldn't stand up.
At night, I would wake up going crazy with both pain and itching from the lesions and
hives, just sitting up in bed and scratching myself.
I was isolated, lonely, and frustrated with how unfair the situation was.
My anal lesions, which were already very painful, turned into open wounds.
It felt like I had three fissures right next to each other, and it was absolutely excruciating.
I would literally scream out loud when I went to the bathroom.
Even keeping the area clean, like washing myself, was extremely painful.
So what kind of activities were you getting up to during New York Pride that you came
out of it with both monkey pox and gonorrhea?
Or there's this fellow, Matt Ford, who's a creative, who acts, writes, and sings, as well
as working for himself as a freelance producer and editor.
He's a proud, openly gay man who splits his time between LA and New York.
Here's what my experience has been like so far, and why you should take it seriously.
Monkey pox seemed like a far-off problem in a vague world of potential inconveniences
eclipsed by bigger social concerns.
On Friday, June 17th, that quickly changed.
I received a call from a friend in LA who informed me that he had tested positive for
monkey pox and that I might have been exposed the weekend prior via skin-to-skin contact.
Sure enough, I checked myself for spots and noticed a couple of lesions in the underwear
zone.
You were having skin-to-skin contact with this guy?
You could just say that you fucked him, it's okay.
On Monday, June 20th, I went to the doctor, and they took a culture swab that was sent
to the LA County Department of Public Health.
They told me the following Thursday what I already knew.
It was positive.
Meanwhile, my symptoms intensified.
The lesions were becoming more intense and quite painful, to the point that I couldn't
sleep some nights.
They were filled with pus and became itchy.
To date, I have counted more than 25 and they're all over, on my arms, legs, hands, feet.
The flu-like symptoms abated slowly.
By Friday, a week after I'd first detected lesions, I felt mostly normal, at least besides
the lesions, which continued to appear.
Thankfully, I'm feeling much better.
While men who have sex with men currently make up the majority of cases, anyone can
get monkey pox, it is not a gay disease, and that is a fact that bears repeating to
tamp down the potential for stigma.
This is technically correct, yes, but a lot of these horrifying stories do, in fact, seem
to boil down to the choices of the men who get infected.
You know, guys, you don't actually have to go out to the pride parade and drink the piss
of 15 dudes, right?
Nobody's holding a gun to your head and asking you to do this.
You could just be normal, and by be normal, I don't mean be straight, because it's not
actually the LGBT community that's being affected by this.
No L's have this problem, no women at all, in fact.
No monogamous gay or bi people are having any issues either.
Trans people seem to be largely unaffected as well.
As far as I can tell, only one trans man has had monkey pox.
This isn't even a broader gay thing.
This is a specific type of highly promiscuous gay man who is disproportionately affected
by the monkey pox outbreak.
But nobody wants to hear that.
Nobody wants to hear that consequences are the result of your own bad choices, or that
this isn't somehow an attack on gays as a class.
That sentiment, by the way, is where we get headlines like, the Tory government is failing
queer men as monkey pox cases surge.
What exactly does Pink News want conservatives to do to fix this failing?
Force the gays back in the closet?
I mean, you don't accept, hey, maybe don't have giant barrels of gay semen poured into
your funneled out asshole as a solution here, so what else are conservatives meant to do?
Also it's not just conservatives.
California's LGBTQ community is feeling ignored, angry, confused as monkey pox cases rise.
The most left leaning government in the United States is apparently at fault too.
So the issue is just government, I guess.
It's the government's fault that you took a load of monkey pox pus into your asshole.
No, no, no, no.
The issue here is that these people are so dependent on the structures of the state to
do everything for them that when big daddy government can't save them with some new program
or initiative or whatever, they feel left out to dry.
They have no conception of being responsible for the quality of their own lives.
It's like that LinkedIn chick I talked about earlier.
These people are like pets of the state that are groomed and cared for and aren't used
to the idea that they may need to be proactive at some point or act in some sort of preventative
manner.
They reject the idea that adopting good habits can solve this problem.
They only accept treatment of the symptoms of their vices after the fact.
Y'all, please look at the requirements of the monkey pox vaccine.
People who meet all of the following criteria are eligible to be vaccinated.
You're a gay, a bisexual or other man who has sex with men and or are transgender, gender
nonconforming or gender nonbinary.
You're age 18 or older and you've had multiple or anonymous sex partners in the last 14 days.
If you do not meet these criteria, please do not make an appointment as you are not
eligible to be vaccinated at this time.
This person, by the way, is a progressive who is complaining that the vaccine specifically
singles out gay men and that it's homophobic of the government to do so.
This is like the inverse of religious fundamentalists back in the 1980s pretending that AIDS isn't
a problem because they're homophobic.
These guys want to pretend that monkey pox isn't a problem because they're woke.
Prioritizing the most at risk group of people for vaccines is how this kind of thing should
be done.
Most complaints that it spreads negative stereotypes about the gay community are fucking retarded.
This is when you're so woke that you would rather gay degenerates die of their degeneracy
before treating them.
Jesus Christ.
And of course, to top it off, there's that one article from the most recent weekly sip.
US records first two child monkey pox cases, California toddler and an infant in D.C. were
both likely infected by household contacts and both had contact with gay or bisexual
men.
Now, listen, I know what you're all thinking.
I remember the statistics from earlier, too.
98% of people infected were gay or bi men, 95% of people caught it through sex.
It's entirely possible these kids caught it through one of those non-sexual methods.
But maybe we should just look into this a little bit, you know, just in case, like,
you know, hypothetically speaking here, if you find semen inside of a child's asshole,
perhaps the first order of business is to forget about how homophobic it sounds to ask
how it fucking got there.
Maybe we should be worried a bit less about the stigma, CDC.
Maybe that shouldn't be the priority here.
Like I said before, this isn't a gay problem.
This is a degenerate problem.
A gay couple living in a closed, monogamous gay marriage, living a normal life.
They have nothing to fear from the monkey pox outbreak and neither do the overwhelming
majority of the rest of us.
If anything, this situation has made me more pro gay marriage than before.
Maybe gay marriage should be mandatory.
No gay sex unless you're married, if this is what you're going to do with it.
But yeah, this is not a pandemic situation.
COVID was like a medium on the bad scale, and this is nowhere near that.
If anyone tries to tell you that you can't go to work, you need to stay indoors because
of monkey pox, just reassure them that, hey, I'm not a degenerate.
It'll be okay.
How to not get monkey pox.
Step one, don't be a hoe.
Thank you for watching.
