Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of A2AT with too
much free time.
Why are we here?
Not this video of course, though you may be asking that question as well, to be honest
I ask that question on a fairly regular basis, but on this grand earth, when you think too
much about it, like I have on many nights, it almost seems incredible that out of all
the odds, we are here, existing, at the same time we are rational beings who like to make
sense of phenomena, and questions that seem beyond our understanding, however one of the
most challenging questions that has ever faced mankind is why are we here?
Ask people, and you will receive a surprising variety of answers, for the nihilist who believes
that we're just here to f**king die, to the astrologist who believes the stars have
all aligned in our favour.
One of the most common explanations for why we're here is the notion of a higher celestial
being, or a god.
For many people, it makes sense, either through philosophical explanation or personal experience.
The notion of a god can be very beneficial for many people, however it's not just an
individual opinion, although everyone of course has their own perception, typically an individual's
belief in a higher celestial power will be made sense through the lens of religion.
Religion allows people to categorise their core perceptions a bit more clearly, and often
provide elaboration as to what sort of behaviours may be desirable from the perspective of a
god.
This is typically content that will reach into our daily life, our diet, our relationships,
our behaviour.
How we define ourselves is very important, and having religion as a moral foundation
for behaviour gives people much more clarity in what they believe, and in spite of its
flaws, it does help many people define themselves.
Many people who may be lacking purpose will find it in religion, and many may develop
a keen enthusiasm for it, and will want people to see that they have seen it.
They will want to spread the word, they will become missionaries of sorts.
Now back in the days of old, missionaries travelled all over the world to spread the
word of religion, and do their best to convert individuals who may be otherwise sceptical
of what they preach.
Some people still do that to this day.
And speaking of nuts, I have a nut here, okay?
And this is a bolt, okay?
So listen, this is what a normal person does, alright?
See I got the bolt right here, represent the male, right?
We got the nut right here, represent the female, alright?
This is what normal people do, okay?
This is what, now let me show you what insanity says to do.
With mixed results, but others have felt the need to modernise the medium of how they spread
their knowledge, and this has led us to YouTube.
YouTube is the medium for influence, there are so many people who use YouTube for multiple
purposes from all over the world, and you don't have to leave your room to post content
there, it truly is revolutionary for communication.
YouTube's user base is also pretty young, and given that young people are least likely
to belong to religion, this leads to a target audience that is primed for conversion to
whatever religion they choose.
Now at first it seemed that most religious content uploaded was just broadcasts of preachers
providing their religious wisdom to their congregation.
Because of the cultural variety within these preachers, this definitely led to some unique
insight into what happens in certain churches.
It
is quite wondrous to be honest, but that's why we're here today, because eventually many
creators popped up whose content wasn't just a broadcast, but an actual direct creation,
with the purpose of talking directly to you, the viewer, to tell you about the joys of
religion, and as mentioned there are many religions, but the one we will be focusing
on today is one that I assume you guys are a bit more familiar with, Christianity.
Christianity has been one of the culturally dominant religions in the western world over
observable history, for better and for worse, and because of its cultural dominance, it
feels natural that it would be one of the most commonly represented on a fairly westernised
platform, though mind you, looking at T-Series, the internet is certainly expanding.
For now, I assume most of the people who watch my channel are typically exposed to
the same brand of religious creator that I am, and that brings us to Girl Defined.
Girl Defined, or Girl Defined Ministries if you're feeling extra godly, is the Christian
channel owned by sisters Bethany and Kristen.
They are what I would brand as internet missionaries, providing a modern update to the age old messages
preached in the bible.
Now they've been going for a good five years, and over that time they have put out a consistent
stream of content which, although varying in their delivery, is still focusing on the
core message, that we should act in the way that God has intended us to, and avoid sinful
behaviour.
They also have their own website where they publish various thoughts, they're selling
their own books, and they're even going on tour apparently, so they must really have
a following.
This seems fairly unexceptional to an extent, there are plenty of people who do this, and
arguably there are many people who do it in a much more provocative fashion.
In fact, on first glance, two white bread girls talking about how to behave in a Christian
way seems like one of the most regular concepts for a channel.
However, over the years, and in particular since around 2018, they have been the centre
of attention for multiple YouTubers, who have made videos mocking or critiquing their content
and the narratives that they promote through this.
One video by prominent YouTuber comedian Cody Ko, in which he reacts to various Girl Defined
videos, has over 12 million views on it.
That means 12 million people decide to tune in to watch someone react to this.
My guy obsession didn't happen all at once, it was a slow, gradual process to where it
was the first thought, then the second thought, then making an effort to be near him, then
doing this, until eventually it became the most important thing in my life.
I mean, it's not quite endgame, is it?
Nonetheless, since then, it's been collateral for creators to pile and to clown on these
lasses.
It is a savage, never-ending cycle with more dunking than a Michael Jordan game.
Girl Defined have become one of the few creators, alongside the likes of Amblin, Reed and Onision,
where videos about them typically pull more views than their own videos.
However, unlike these two, the reason is quite a different one, I believe.
So what did they do?
Well, that's what we're here to find out today.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, today my goal will be to analyse Girl Defined's content, work
out their appeal, try to understand them in the cultural landscape, attempt to apprehend
why they seem to occupy such a unique niche, and try to understand what the appeal is to
comedians, commentators, and bullies alike.
Jake Paul knows, to ascertain exactly how Girl Defined became one of YouTube's biggest
targets.
I suggest we get right in there.
The first video up on Girl Defined's channel is a video in which they decide to ask various
students of what appears to be a university campus of what a quote girl really is.
The point that they were trying to prove through this video was that in the modern day, many
people do not understand what really defines a girl.
They're about to suggest that they are God-defined girls in a culture-defined world.
God has the key to understanding what womanhood really is, and once you understand it too,
you can be as complete as them.
And as girls go, they seem pretty defined.
I guess this video was to essentially set the premise of the sort of identity crisis
that many of our younger generations appear to face.
It's clear in the interviews that many people can't really answer the questions that Bethany
and Kristen put forth so confidently.
They clearly perceive this as a pressing issue that they want resolved.
They are defined girls, not like these formless blobs out there, and they are here to spread
that definition to you.
So how are they going to do that?
Well first, let's begin to work out solutions.
You have to discern the source of this identity crisis that we perceive.
This is central to a lot of Girl Defines videos, but for research purposes, I decide to watch
them from the start.
And the strangest thing happened.
I started to agree with them.
When people wanted me, I felt like I was worth something.
When they didn't, I felt like my worth went down, and that is one of the biggest lies
in the industry.
That's true.
Another thing I noticed is that behind the scenes, all those happy smiling faces, all
these perfect lives that we see on TV and on the posters, really aren't there.
So many of the girls I knew were really insecure.
They were struggling with basing their worth and their identity on their looks as well.
And in fact, we've read a quote from a famous supermodel who actually said that in the modeling
industry, the famous models that she knew were some of the most insecure women.
So the truth is, what we see on the posters, what we see on the magazines, what we see
on the TV, isn't actually the true definition of womanhood.
Yeah, I'm not going to deny that.
It looks good.
It smiles.
It looks pretty, but it's actually counterfeit.
For example, self-worth in the beauty industry is a very real problem, and the fact that
there was almost an anecdotal opening made it a lot more accessible, made the problem
seem a lot more resonant as well.
As a side note, I read their writing prompts.
Pretty good stuff.
I might have to write a cheeky article for them one day.
After three of our book Girl Defined, we actually dive into what we call three pillars of counterfeit
femininity.
Oh, cheeky plug.
So anyhow, what is their solution?
Hey guys, it's Kristen and Bethany here with Girl Defined Ministries, and this is video
number two in our series, Four Secrets to Brave and Bold Womanhood.
Video number two was called The Power of Embracing God-Defined Womanhood.
Oh, right.
Yeah, I forgot.
It's a channel about God.
The second truth that we came across is that Christ defines our worth.
As women, just like we shared in the last video, we are always searching for, okay,
what gives me worth?
What gives me value?
What gives me identity?
And the verse that we discovered that has given us a lot of hope is Psalm 139, 13 through
14.
You may know it.
You created it for God.
You created my immoral parents.
You knitted me together in my mother's womb.
I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
I mean, here you have these girls who are arguably outlined a very reverent problem
within our society, and their solution is gods.
On the surface, it doesn't really make much sense, but what they're actually trying to
say, well, I think this one quote's quite interesting.
We live in a culture like we talked about in the last video that is totally obsessed
with outward appearances.
So we have our culture that portrays models and beautiful women as the ideal woman, but
God's version of a successful and beautiful woman is actually totally opposite, totally
countercultural to what we see out in the world.
Proverbs 31, 30 says, and you probably know this first, that charm is deceptive and beauty
is fleeting, but a woman who fears the Lord, she is to be praised.
And basically all that verse is saying is that it's not as important what's on the outside.
The outward appearance is not the main thing.
It's fleeting.
Yeah, exactly.
It's going to go away.
Inside is what really matters.
God's saying a woman who fears the Lord, a woman who looks to my word and strives to
honor me and live according to my standards.
That is the woman that should be praised, not the woman who has the outward beauty.
Here I think they outline why religion is so meaningful to them, because in society,
many people are fearful that their worth will be defined by the judgment of others.
But basically, girl-defying creates almost a logical tautology in a way, by making the
statement that only Christ can define their worth.
They are handing over a level of security to the viewer to view themselves in the eyes
of Christ.
Now the thing is, in their eyes, Christ or God is presented as the divine being, and
in this instance, well, all forgiving, and therefore it takes the responsibility of judgment
away from society and those around you, and places it into the conception of a person
who will judge you how you believe they will judge you, rather than being the subject to
direct judgment that could obviously be problematic, because no one can judge as perfectly as
God.
He is our creator.
He is the one who gives us worth.
No one else can give us our worth, because he didn't create us, we have no authority
to give us our worth.
Christ gives us our worth, and understanding that truth has given us a lot of hope.
Establishing the premise of God seems to be the basis of their content, which is also
why they're so confident in the rhetoric they espouse.
They see God as diametrically opposed to culture, and thus present the argument of his existence
as the solution to the societal ills that they perceive.
The issue is that other skeptics and atheists will reject the assertion that God exists,
and this then creates a disparity of discourse when people who are not accepting of the concept
of God encounter their content.
What happens is that in some videos, Girl Defined explicitly present the notion of God
existing as a premise.
However in others, they mostly mention it in passing, which makes their cultural commentary
the perfect balance for people to react to.
Digestible, yet kind of bizarre.
The problem is, ultimately many of us view religion as culture.
Even if we are religious, we will likely accept that our perception is our perception.
In the instance of Girl Defined, the rejection of religion as culture means that they often
make arguments from the position of Christianity as truth, not as perception.
Therefore this often leads to arguments being made from the position of certainty rather
than conditionality.
Now arguing that God exists is not inherently bad, but there is such a conviction to a lot
of Girl Defined's social statements that so many people will find so inherently grey
about how we should behave, and how you can define things like identity.
Therefore Girl Defined's rhetoric often comes across as self-satisfied and conceited, and
people love the feeling that they're talking back to a self-asserted authority.
Now make no mistake, it's important that people do feel confident in their identity, but Girl
Defined reduced the number of identities possible or acceptable down to a few very basic ideas
of what in this instance a girl should be, and this leads to statements that when you
remove the ideas of their basic philosophy become very easy to mock.
But you see, I've only really explained why their logic becomes somewhat funny, a logic
that, in all fairness, many people have.
There are many more details which make Girl Defined a little different to the rest of
the bunch.
Now we've presented and assessed the underlying mindset of Girl Defined, and how that one
principle would cause issues, we need to look at how they have really come to stand out
from the crowd.
Let's start with their presentation.
Presentation is key to any creator who wants a long-term career on YouTube, and Girl Defined
definitely have that.
As said, generally presentation is clear and legible, the aesthetic is nice and clean,
and their videos have a clear structure, they are done in a way that would be quite regular
for a YouTuber.
However, the problem is, as shown by other videos, that whole environment is very saccharine,
and they use such a repetitive structure, it becomes very forced.
Go back a few years, and there was that brand of ukulele music that everyone abhors now,
and justifiably so.
To describe it, if stock ukulele tracks were a Christian YouTube channel, they'd be Girl
Defined.
Many people have picked up on this, and have commented on how in a way the content seems
catered to children.
Now in my opinion, they're not actually trying to sell the content to children, they're selling
what they believe is the ideal image of pure femininity.
This is how they idealise womanhood, that sort of virginal purity, and for some reason
a big proportion of internet comedy is cynically deconstructing that of which appears pure.
Maybe it's just because of the contrast in tones, but Girl Defined's general tone tends
to come across as lacking some self-awareness.
And that's the thing, after watching enough of their videos, I wouldn't say they lack
awareness, I'd say it's their agenda.
Actually sounds worse to be honest, but given their ideas of purity, it is completely in
line with how they present the content.
This is the sort of stuff that they are repulsed by for example.
It's easy to goof on because of the assumptions they make in this lovely wholesome environment.
What is normal to many people is terrible to them, and their horror at the thought that
plagues into comedic potential because when we think of terrible things we don't think
of porn.
They are extremely sensitive, and that is entertaining because it seems bizarre even
if it makes complete sense to them because of their religion.
As mentioned, if you want to guest post on their website, they drop clear and concise
guidelines on how to.
Unsurprisingly, these guest guidelines reflect how they present their videos.
They really like telling stories, and on one hand, this makes their content easier to digest.
They're not just throwing a barrage of bible quotes at you.
However, because the stories are actually quite interesting, it's easier to provide
good comedic material out of them, particularly in how they use them often to justify various
doctrines that seem a bit separated from the stories they tell.
It's the same reason that comedians love to tell stories, different material in this
instance.
Most of the videos on them present them as these people who are so deeply indoctrinated
with what they believe, and I think that's the great contrast that arguably provides
the best content.
They hold such deeply conservative views in many aspects, yet present them in such an
innocent and pure way, despite it making absolute sense.
For example, you wouldn't see Cody Ko make a video on the Westboro Baptist Church because
in many ways they're extremely aggressive and unlikable.
However, when the same sorts of views are presented like a cute bunny with a bow tie,
it's fair game.
Now, God defined are not the Westboro Baptist Church.
No, the point is aesthetics.
These play into the contrast of the message, and how easy it is to make content on it.
As culture changes, as time changes, the definition changes too, so how in the world do we know
what is true, what is right, when it comes to marriage?
We as Christians can look in God's word and see from the beginning, like we talked about,
God's constant truth, God's good plan for marriage.
So yeah, cultural progress, not allowed.
Gotta do it like we did it 2,000 years ago, guys.
This contrast can be witnessed in other videos that have received a bitter attention, such
as this Christian girl's mourning routine.
And that is so powerful, because the moment I step outside of my bedroom door, I'm going
to be attacked with lies upon lies upon lies from the enemy, because we live in a world
that is ruled by the father of lies.
So it is crucial, and it is essential that I get my armour of God on, and I fill my heart
with his truth.
Now from what I've understood is that this girl is actually autistic, and absolutely
lovely.
Equally, she's not really someone who uploads content on a regular basis, or who's tried
to actually create a brand, which is what Girl Defined have done.
These points all represent something greater.
Cultural accessibility, which is the real final nail in the coffin about how these girls
become such easy targets.
There are plenty of people who make fundamentalist statements, but most of them exist within
environments that we do not fully understand, therefore we're hesitant to go after them
because we don't want to be seen as punching down to a different culture in different contexts.
With white-bred Christian girls in a seemingly privileged scenario, it seems that there's
basically nothing to punch down to.
In many ways, they are perceived to represent the religious establishment.
Equally, this is what makes their statements so amusing at some points, the seeming perception
that they are fighting the culture.
So why do all these responses get so many views?
Well, it seems that the reason that responses to Girl Defined's content is so popular
is because the ideas they propose are so isolated from how people perceive them that people
just can't get enough of videos telling them why they're wrong, or just taking the
mick.
They're kinda funny, kinda awkward, it's not the sort of content that most people want
to watch unironically.
But once you see someone reacting or responding, it adds so much more value.
The people just love to see anything about them.
It is the pinnacle of transformative content.
Girl Defined aren't really that controversial.
Their views are a bit iffy for me, obviously, gay marriage and all that, but having dodgy
takes because you're extremely religious is not the same as Onision or Amberlynn who
are just beyond saving in many ways.
These girls seem pretty safe.
Was it worth it to save sex for marriage?
What do y'all think?
I mean, absolutely.
And when these little factors came together, what really set them off was the classic domino
effect.
It became clear that the videos on this topic were well performing, plenty of people wanted
in on the clownery.
Because there's no real risk in covering them for whatever audience you have.
No one's really gonna come out in their droves to defend these two girls who, as nice and
innocent as they seem, similarly love to present ideas that to many people are absolutely ridiculous,
whether people genuinely think they deserve it or not.
People can't really find a way to defend them because they neither say anything particularly
insightful nor do they seem particularly aggrieved in any way.
And that's generally what we look for when we try to defend people.
Is this the logic we should be using?
Well, let's discuss it a bit further.
The ultimate irony of what makes their content so easy to mock is that they promote such
pure sanitary behaviour which is given the green light through YouTube on the basis of
social norms.
Many of which have carried through from older social norms, the ones that often seem to
present as radical and out there, unlike the regularly demonetised LGBT content which is
presented by YouTubers so mainstream.
It makes it easy to mock without the threat of demonetisation or restriction while simultaneously
dealing out interesting cultural points of view.
Girl Defined don't appear to monetise their videos, but it's quite clear that most of
it would be fairly advertiser friendly, I mean, they arguably promote more conservative
views than people who've been banned off Patreon and they're on Patreon.
I don't mind, I think a lot more content should be fair game for monetisation, but
it equally shows the weird cultural double standards that we may still adhere to.
Through all of this, they ultimately become one of the easiest targets on YouTube, not
just for comedy, but also for commentary.
They're accessible, presentable, easy to watch, and in many ways the contrast between
their very mainstream attitude to their sudden mentioning of God creates this sort of dystopian
image of these friendly, happy girls talking to you about what God wants you to do.
With the right music, I'm sure we can make that into something much more intense.
The point is, it can be equally comedic and unsettling, giving it a lot of creative potential
for multiple creators, but do they really deserve it, or are they just under attack
from a culture that just can't include them anymore?
Are they really fighting their fight?
The thing is that, in a way, given the direction of general human culture right now in the
western world, particularly that which is represented on YouTube, waiting to kiss before
marriage could certainly be seen as different.
I mean, it's certainly not something that a majority of us do nowadays, but they seem
to be confusing things we're not doing as things we're told we shouldn't be doing.
This is where the general counter-cultural argument comes into play.
So, not the thing anymore.
Teen girls and young women are no longer taught in mainstream to save sex for marriage.
We're taught now to have safe sex, to be safe and cautious in the way we go about it, but
purity truly has become a thing of the past, and we are told by our culture that having
sex before marriage, that's a good thing, go for it, just be safe about it.
But that is a lie, and something we need to recognise as Christian girls, that that is
not God's best for us, that is not his perfect plan.
Having sex before marriage is not a good thing.
The reason that certain behaviours were considered, quote, punk back in the day was not because
most people didn't do it, it was because society specifically told them that it's something
they shouldn't do.
So doing all these dirty, grimy activities was a defiant cry against society.
No society, as we currently know it, is going to condemn you for waiting until marriage
to kiss.
If a person's friend told them that they were going to do that, I'm sure most people would
say something along the lines of, okay, nice, and carry on with their day.
Not exactly the same reaction as telling someone you were gay 40 years ago, or even today in
some scenarios.
Girl Defined are not radical.
They may be different, but they're existing without persecution.
But all right, if you went into a Girl Defined comment section, you could very easily say
there is a bias against them speaking about these things.
However, the whole idea of countercultural movements was that people shouldn't be telling
others how to live, something that Girl Defined is basing their brand on.
So it's debatable if on concept they can ever really frame their presentation of religion
as countercultural.
Now we all have moral discussions about what should be done, it's a core element to our
platform.
We can't all be miserable nihilists.
But if I was to assert a moral position, I would also be completely opening myself up
to criticism on that perspective too, especially if others did not feel it was moral either.
Do I believe that Girl Defined should receive stick for talking about that sort of lifestyle?
Well, it depends.
On principle, these things are a person's choice, and if that choice is more conservative,
then that is fine.
And if they want to talk about how it's helped them, then it would seem mean-spirited to
take them down for that.
At the same time, the core philosophy that they promote is also one that is restrictive,
and not one that is a solution for everyone, and based on ideas that many people justifiably
don't agree with, and have called out.
Interestingly enough, many of the critical comments that I saw people referring to was
the potential harm this sort of philosophy could do to children, and in many ways I do
completely see that.
The rigidity of certain concepts is extremely hard on people who inherently don't fit
into those molds, especially at a time when religion was very invested in the system,
and that whole discourse should in a way be a discussion primarily for adults, and yet
weirdly enough their content could very easily be seen as some of the most child-friendly
content on YouTube at some points.
That's because although we've modernised many points of view to be inclusive, we've
also held onto some fairly traditional principles, for better and for worse.
To get me wrong, sexual self-control is not a bad thing, as we've seen over the last
few years.
I mean, I never have sex, and it's definitely not because I'm alone and sad, I promise
it's just because I have restraints, but when it leads into topics that probably should
be talked about with a bit more ease, many people tend to get uptight about it, large
corporations included.
At the start of this video, I spoke about missionaries, and how they have constantly
existed and called Girl Defined internet missionaries.
After watching enough videos by Girl Defined, given how they often don't really try and
justify God, I wouldn't say they're very traditional in their style.
A lot of their content just comes across as catered primarily for Christians, even though
they've said they want to reach out to other people.
Proverbs 31 30 says, and you probably know this first, that charm is deceptive and beauty
is fleeting, but a woman who fears the Lord, she is to be praised.
However, because their content exists on a platform that can be accessed by anyone, and
because they often try and talk about content from a social perspective, it can reach many
people, it can be understood by many people, and it can be argued by many people, and for
what it's worth, it is great arguing material.
On surface value, the shock of the more basic points of view are great for comedy, and below
the surface, their justifications for it are great for discussion.
What they provide is still a relatively mainstream view in some communities, therefore people
have no discomfort criticising it, yet on YouTube, because of the politics of the YouTube
base tending to be rather anti-sex police, left wing or right wing, people also feel
enjoyment of them being responded to without feeling that they're unfairly going after
people, despite the fact that they're clearly outnumbered.
Given the views are not completely off the table and do have moral implications, it is
kinda justified if people want to respond.
If you believe in God, it's fair enough, I'm not going to tell you what and what not
to believe, but there is something so fascinating about the people so convinced of the belief
they believe that you can dictate many people's behaviours, and it will just free their mind,
even if they're seemingly rather inconsequential.
The idea of a normal YouTuber who is also extremely Christian is embodied by the content
of Girl Defined, which is what ultimately makes them so open to the ridicule and rebuttal
that they often receive, we should all do our best to define ourselves, however it
is inevitable that many people will not find that definition in religion, and this is something
that Girl Defined don't seem to quite grasp.
Although it's clear they've defined themselves, Girl Defined's content and responses to
it may be overdone, but their ideas and videos are the sort of stuff we loved seeing people
clap back to, and they've marked it in a way that makes it perfect for just that.
So credit where credit's due, and hey, they even get free promotion, the Lord does indeed
work in mysterious ways.
So yeah, that's the video, I hope you guys enjoyed it, it felt good recording this one,
it felt nice, it felt good fun, it's good when you have a good feeling recording something
and you're just in that energy, so thank you, I wanna give a big shout out to my editors,
they better have done a good job with this one because I was coming in with the energy
today, it's fantastic.
Big shout out to my Patreons, some of the beautiful, beautiful people up there on screen
now, thank you so much guys, you are fantastic, I have to give a special individual thanks
to my $50 Patreons, Bo Wright, JewelAngel1, and Sumhullablue, thank you so much, and the
face of Team Rocket, thank you so much guys, I have to give another great individual thanks
too, add to Michael, Brandon Junk, Evening Steel, all of them have donated $100, that
is unbelievable, fantastic guys, we've got that energy, and it's given me life, I've
been feeling a bit off in the last few days, and I feel back on form now, we are back baby,
and we are ready to rumble, if you wanna contact me, my Twitter's at TheRightOpinion, Facebook
is there, in the pinned comment, click the read more, it's all there, it's all nicely
presented, and I've also got my Discord too if you wanna be a part of that. I already
have too much else to add right now, hope you guys are doing well, and I'll see you
in the next one.
Bye.
