Let's talk about dank memes.
Hi everyone, Anthony Lamptano here with another thrilling edition of Not The Meme Review.
If you haven't been paying attention or just living under THE ROCK for the past year, there's
kind of been a trend going on on the internet. A meme revolution, if you will. And this ain't
no normal meme revolution. This is a dank meme revolution. It turns out that the year in our
Lord 2016 has surprisingly become the greatest year for memes in my entire lifetime. And probably
in the entire lifetime of the internet itself. Some people have continued to ignore it saying
shit like, nope, sorry. I don't think it's funny. But be warned, this ain't no peaceful revolution.
This is a hostile take ogre. The dank meme train is pulling into the motherfucking station.
Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna have to ask you to buckle your fuckles because it's all about...
These are the top 10 dank memes of 2016.
Number 10. Dicks out for Harambe.
What did you find, nigga? I'm pressing it! I'm pressing it!
Now listen here, son. I know this meme stopped being dank after about week two and a half. I know
that the normies took this one over and killed Harambe for the second time. But come on, the sheer
magnitude of this meme cannot be ignored. If you ask random people to name one meme from 2016, I
guarantee you that the majority of them will say Harambe. And no matter how normified this meme
became down the line, you cannot deny its dank roots. I mean really, dicks out for Harambe?
What the fuck does that even mean? What does that mean?
It's dumb, it's offensive, it's absolutely disgusting. It's undoubtedly a dank meme.
Now whether you consider it the most normied dank meme or the most dank normie meme, one thing's
for sure, and that's that the legacy of Harambe will live on forever. It is a testament to the
power of memes which took an otherwise forgettable gorilla death and turned it into an unforgettable
worldwide phenomenon. And for that, Harambe gets the 10th spot on this list. Also, I made a Harambe
joke before it was cool. Let's turn back the clock to early 2015. All the major news outlets
are beginning murmurings of the early frontrunners for the 2016 presidential election. People like
Hillary Clinton, Chris Christie, Jeb Bush, and America's thinking, oh boy, another boring
election. Can't wait. When suddenly from out of nowhere, I am officially running for face god.
Now this happens in the summer of 2015 and at this point everyone just points and laughs at him.
Hahaha, another joke candidate like Mr. Potato Head or Deez Nuts. That's really funny. And at
this stage, that's all it really was to people, a joke. So you got this billionaire reality tv star
coming out and saying all this ridiculous bombastic stuff like, I will build a great,
great wall on our southern border and I will have Mexico pay for that wall. As if he were a
caricature of a Republican politician, just purposely saying whatever he can to piss off
as many people as possible. I mean his entire campaign strategy was just to troll the shit
out of his political opponents and the media and act like as much of an ass as possible. So yeah,
it was fucking hilarious because nobody thought he would actually succeed. Now flash forward
six months to the beginning of 2016. It turns out this guy is holding his own. He's actually
doing quite well in the polls, but he's running out of steam. Build a wall and overt xenophobia
can only piss people off for so long. Trump needed a new gimmick, a new angle so that he
could continue to stay on the cutting edge of relevancy. So he became a dank meme. My father
gave me a small loan of a million dollars. You see past presidential candidates have co-existed
with and even been subject to memes themselves, but never before has a candidate truly embraced
meme culture on the internet. A small loan of a million dollars was the first of a long line of
executive quality Trump brand memes. Think of all the great memes Trump gave us in the past year.
We got 7-eleven bing bing bong bong wrong grabbed by the person and my personal favorite autism has
become an epidemic. But it all started from a small soundbite about a small loan and for that
it gets a spot on this list. So if Trump was the meme lord candidate, Hillary was the fucking
meme antichrist. Say what you want about Trump, but he had the foresight to treat meme culture
with respect and because of that memes respected him. Hillary on the other hand decided to abuse
memes in a desperate attempt to appeal to a generation from which she is half a century
removed. Does anyone remember this gem? Pokemon go to the polls.
This right here is what caused Pokemon Go to lose all of its players.
A career politician who has never played a video game in her entire life trying to appear hip and
cool to the young people. I love the young people. Hillary fucking killed Pokemon Go.
And that's what happens whenever this woman touches a meme. She kills it
dead. But then she decided to fuck with the wrong meme.
You have got to be kidding me. Because in September of this year Hillary decided to
go after Pepe, the immortal most quintessential dank meme on the entire internet. Naturally Pepe
had partnered with the meme friendly candidate in Donald Trump. However, at a time when the rival
candidates were reaching unprecedented levels of animosity, Pepe ended up in Hillary's crosshairs.
In a completely unnecessary casualty to the endless mudslinging of this election, Pepe the
Frog, one of the most beloved and cherished dank memes of a generation, was officially labeled as
a hate symbol per the orders of the Clinton campaign. A hate symbol. So let's review shall
we. The swastika. Pepe the Frog. Cross burning. Pepe the Frog. Yeah I see no problems here. Those
those things are completely alike. And of course the endless liberal news stations picked up the
story and at this point they're strapping into full anti-Trump mode. So of course they would
support anything Hillary said or did no matter how asinine or poorly researched it actually was.
So in the eyes of the uninformed public Pepe is a hate symbol. And you know what maybe Pepe is a
hate symbol because it symbolizes how much us ascended meme lords hate fucking normal things
for ruining our dank memes. But alas Pepe's sacrifice was not in vain for it awoke a spirit
more powerful than Hillary Clinton or the normies could possibly imagine.
Okay so this meme is pretty low-key. You probably weren't expecting it here,
but that's part of the reason why it's so good. It's discreet. And if it's used correctly you
don't see it coming. That's really the main reason why this meme has been able to stay relatively
fresh over the months. Unless you watch it in a dedicated compilation which repeats the same
punchline over and over again completely defeating the humor in the meme. Anyway another
reason this meme is significant is because it's the first time that dank memes and progressive
rock have ever truly converged on such a large scale. And I know this meme technically originated
from an anime. And yes that does knock it down a few pegs in my book. But how can you deny the
importance of combining memes, one of the greatest products of the internet, with progressive rock,
one of the greatest genres of music? I feel like dank memes and progressive rock are kindred
spirits in a way. Both are buried under layers, layers, of less sophisticated normie friendly
surface media and they require quite a lot of digging to discover. However once you discover
them you will find a source of entertainment so dense and so rich that you'd be hard-pressed to
go back to normal media. Now unlike Harambe this meme stayed relatively dank during its time in
the spotlight. The concept of this meme is just so dumb I love it. It's simply just making iterated
edits to the intro of a poorly animated show that ran for only 16 episodes on some obscure TV
channel in the Philippines. Fuck the Philippines! You can't get much more obscure and dank than
that. So anyway this meme is pretty straightforward. What you do is you take the Nutshack theme but
replace each Nutshack with Smash Mouth's All-Star and you replace each All-Star with a Cyberchase
theme. Then replace every other syllable with the entirety of 2001 A Space Odyssey. And every time
the monolith appears, Bonzi Buddy reads the entire B movie script. But every time he says B it's
replaced with the entire Paul Blart movie. And every time someone says Paul Blart it's replaced
with John Cena's intro. Now as you can see we started off with a simple 60 second long intro
but after just a few operations we now have something longer than the entire age of the
observable universe. There are just so many layers. But anyway the Nutshack brought with it not just
a new meme but a new mode of remix culture. It introduced a new style of video remixing which
I like to call butt edits because most of the videos in this style have a subordinate clause
in their titles which begin with a conjunction butt. I guess a more technical term would be
iterative video remixes but come on butt edit has the word butt in it haha butts like the place
where you go poo haha hardy har har yeah I guess I'll just be killing myself then do it but I
digress. Thanks to the Nutshack meme we were able to witness the birth of an entirely new genre of
shitposting. What a monumental time to be alive. The Nutshack may not have been that big a meme by
itself but its impact on the entire face of the shitposting earth cannot be understated. The
Nutshack set into motion a transformative video movement that reached heights far greater than
the meme itself and for that it deserves its place in history and the number six spot on this list.
Well it looks like we're halfway done with the list which means it's time for the ad break remix.
falling out of wwe and hiding out in holes waiting for aaron to come people going home
jump out from behind them and shoot them with your rape now everybody dancing
the dance of the lemons the dance of the lemons the dance of the lemons
fuck my butt here's a fork
look what i got i'm out of my camp
oh 36 days without sex here's a fuzzy fork
we now return you to the never any emperor lemons downward spiral world tour
um you have some of your own youtube poops here would you like to talk about some of those
okay uh we have the uncredibles here and uh we got mr uncredible on the thumbnail
uh poop of the year don't know what that happened frying nemo should have been left for nemo
it doesn't come close to our new groundbreaking frying shrek hey you're making this mystic dank
the dank mick mangles is suspended
what is up trawler nation i'm your host leafy is here popular youtuber has been blowing up
big time hey what's up guys it's leafy and it's been about three days since i fucked up but i
never thought i would say these words right a whole genre of youtubers of these kind of
commentary channels where they act innocent when they're really guilty of almost everything
they judge people on it because today is the day we get to bully keemstar i don't understand why
i'm still getting hate john tron is a fucking scumbag
2016 ladies and gentlemen was an unprecedented year in youtube drama and it brought with it a
lot of excellent fresh crispy decadent dank memes now don't get me wrong there's always been drama
on youtube youtubers calling out other youtubers fanboys attacking fanboys this stuff has been
going on since 2007 however there has never been youtube drama on the magnitude which we have seen
in 2016 where top level youtubers are at the center of it all this was the first year in which
youtube drama has become a main event spectacle rather than just a peripheral byproduct if you
go back to the days of guys like the archfiend calling out youtubers those videos did not get
that many views but flash forward to 2016 and youtuber call out and exposed videos frequently
get hundreds of thousands and in some cases millions of views youtube drama in any form
became a hot commodity this year now why is that well i think it's indicative of a profound change
in how we as a society view youtubers if you go back to the days when people like ray william
johnson smosh and shane dawson were at the top of the site there always seemed to be something
a bit corporate and sterile about them that sort of disengaged them from the general viewer
it was just something so impersonal about them we sort of viewed their content like we view
television it was really detached from individual viewers what has changed since then is that modern
youtubers and especially commentary channels develop their audiences based on a personal
and ideological connection to their viewers therefore when one of these youtubers gets
attacked it pisses off a lot more people than it used to let's be honest when all
said and done nobody really cared about what happened to ray william johnson people didn't
sub to equals three to see ray they subbed him to see funny internet video compilations
but if you look at popular channels today many of these popular channels like h3 items leafy
keemstar and grade a have a large sect of fans that are head over heels in love with not just
their content but the content creators themselves if all this youtube drama is indicative of
anything it is that the public is beginning to perceive youtubers as more than just internet
personalities youtubers are beginning to resemble a new generation of celebrity and this is the
first year i can say where youtubers have truly felt big in internet culture and we have youtube
drama to thank for that so 2016 was largely a year of unexpected breakthroughs the inaro
dicaprio finally won an oscar the city of cleveland won their first sports championship
in 60 years the chicago cubs won their first world series since teddy russevelt was president
and vaporwave became a popular genre of music
so what we have here is this extremely obscure genre of media which remixes pre-existing content
in order to completely modify and transform its tone and essentially create a completely
new audio visual experience hmm sounds kind of familiar doesn't it anyway through the power of
means vaporwave kind of became a major internet phenomenon this year macintosh plus 420 became
this year's youtube national anthem it's pretty surreal to see such an obscure art form become
so popular especially considering how vaporwave is thematically critical of mainstream culture
i don't know maybe mainstream culture is becoming more critical of mainstream culture i mean just
look at how people reacted to this year's youtube rewind most people were dissatisfied with it
calling it the worst rewind ever but i don't think it's a matter of youtube making an inferior
product to last year's rewind quality-wise they're about the same the real reason that this year's
rewind was perceived so poorly is that youtube itself has changed so much in the past year
that the same formulaic inoffensive product from last year has become severely misrepresentative
of youtube as a whole in 2016 excluding people like filthy frank in 2015 only really alienated
a small fringe minority of youtube audiences who crave more vulgar and mature content but since
that time that small fringe group has grown into a pretty significant force on this website and
excluding people like h3 items and leafy this year alienated a much larger group all of these channels
practically sprung up from out of nowhere in 2016 and they represented a large group of viewers who
prefer more edgy content than minecraft let's plays you may not like some of these channels
but trying to act like these channels did not have a major influence on youtube in 2016 is just flat
out ignorant so that's my theory on why the youtube rewind seems so poor this year the rewind hasn't
changed but youtube has people are growing tired of the same old stuff and are searching for newer
fresher more original content i believe this is the reason why stuff like vaporwave and dank memes
have become so popular this year and out of everything i've mentioned in this video this
division that is formed among the youtube viewer base is the only thing i can really say that will
continue to grow in relevance heading into 2017 stuff like this doesn't just go away some serious
seas have been planted for a revolution in how we view popular content on this website and it may
have already begun it's real easy just when we look at memes we usually see something silly
something for a quick burst of humor to get us through the day but what if i told you that memes
could be a force for good so for some reason lazytown memes run on some sort of cycle where
they fall in and out of relevancy every few years or so downward cycle previous examples included
the likes of being a pirate illegal downloading stop it already anyway 2016 saw the cycle complete
yet another rotation with the popularization of what resulted was a continuation of the nutshack
inspired butt edits and this meme really took the genre to new heights in both popularity and
technical editing skill but underneath all the random and ridiculous remixing was a truly
enduring story it turns out that stefan carl the actor who plays robbie rotten in lazytown was
recently diagnosed with cancer which required him to undergo surgery the recovery process forced him
out of action for a year so some of his associates set up a gofundme page on his behalf to help him
out little did they know that this small request would end up harnessing the power of memes to
become one of the most charitable events in 2016 raising over 100 000 for stefan's recovery
this was an unprecedented event never before has a dank meme been used to mobilize a charitable
effort of this scale i will admit that this event is similar to the ice bucket challenge from a
couple of years ago but i categorize that as more of a social trend and not a meme the ice bucket
challenge also became kind of tarnished because down the stretch people began to do it just
because it was trendy while ignoring the charitable cause i feel like the we are number one meme
movement has been a lot more genuine in its charitable intent while also showcasing some of
the most creative editing talents that youtube has to offer what began is just another meme quickly
became one of the biggest feel-good stories of the entire year it demonstrated that some silly
memes on the internet have the power to do some serious good in real life and for that it deserves
a spot this high on the list ask yourself this what single meme best defines the 2016 dank meme
revolution as a whole no it's not harambe the true mascot of 2016 memory is the one the only
the lord the savior
here come dat boy it's a gif of a frog riding a unicycle what's not to like but then again
what is to like why did this completely inert illogical idiotic objectively unfunny meme come
from basically out of nowhere and blow up into the most popular internet meme in just a couple
of days why do we need yet another frog meme isn't it completely unnecessary why does a frog
riding a unicycle resonate so well with black people twitter well uh i think when it comes to
dank memes like dat boy and all the ones i've included in this list in order to fully enjoy them
rather than asking why you should instead ask yourself why not why not why not why not if the
year 2016 has taught us anything it's that we should not just expect the unexpected but
unexpected the expected there is no conceivable reason why dat boy should have become a popular
meme but that's exactly why it did unbeknownst to all of us dat boy actually foreshadowed all
the weird shit that happened later this year it embodies the complete disruption of conventional
logic in society that this year brought maybe the reason that that boy became so popular is
because society itself is beginning to think differently consider this could dat boy have
become a popular meme 10 5 or even 2 years ago it's hard to tell for sure but if you just look
at the most popular memes from those eras nothing even comes close to the level of dank on which
dat boy lies the internet in 2016 is very different from how it was in 2011 information
propagates so much faster every thought is more instantaneous than the last memes like dat boy
reach insane levels of popularity but can only maintain those levels for a short amount of time
before they fall out of relevancy downward spiral downward spiral downward spiral the meteoric rise
and fall of dat boy reminds me of the careers of talented artists such as kurt cobain who reached
incredible heights and set entirely new paradigms in their medium truly brilliant in the moment but
that moment ends so quickly that boy died a horrible painful cringy death of oversaturation
by normies but despite its fleeting time in relevancy dat boy could potentially be one of
the most important memes of our generation that boy is so significant not because it was the
funniest meme not because it was the most relatable meme that boy is significant because
it changed the way that we as an internet society view memes it's no longer necessary for popular
memes to be completely logical or contain an obvious punchline dat boy showed us that anything
can become a popular meme and because of it meme culture will never be the same again now before
we get to the number one dank meme of 2016 here are some honorable mentions
i have crippling depression jesus christ that's jason born i'm rick harrison and this is my
pawn shop make a nation
i do not associate with mega faggot get the fuck out of my room i'm playing minecraft
i'll have two number nines this one player keeps kicking my ass is it the legend 27 enough
we are number one
there has been an awakening
have you felt it
the controversy surrounding the idea of the social justice warrior and the regressive left
has been swirling for just over two years now this whole debate essentially comes down to critiquing
radical liberal viewpoints that were previously unchecked in internet discussion starting in 2014
the anti-social justice movement was picking up some momentum for sure but by early 2016 it was
just another one of the thousands of different political viewpoints on the internet people on the
internet generally have a level of stubbornness which cannot be penetrated by conventional logical
arguments new ideas and ways of thinking need a little extra push to expand beyond this level and
change people's minds people need to be able to consume the idea in an easily recognizable image
or symbol this sounds like a job for memes specifically triggered began to embody the
entire anti-social justice movement with just a single label it's such a simple and straightforward
meme essentially just another way of calling someone angry so why is it the number one dank
meme of 2016 well its simplicity caused the meme to spread and along with it the ideas of anti-social
justice all of us thought we were just spreading a funny meme but what we were really doing is
swinging the ideological pendulum of the internet ever so farther away from the left there's been a
pretty big elephant in the room hovering over this video you all know what it is and this whole video
has been leading up to it so far in this list i've written over 3500 words analyzing and
speculating fucking memes and i'm getting pretty tired so all i'm gonna say is this recently i saw
the movie arrival and one scene stuck out to me in which the main characters discuss a theory where
the type of language you speak can affect the way you think so that got me wondering memes are sort
of like an internet language they are capable of communicating meaning between people and that made
me ask the question what if what if the memes we use have a greater influence on our behavior than
we think what if a meme could ever so slightly shift society's political views to the right
what if a dank meme revolution just so happened to unfold during a presidential election year
in which the right-wing candidate is much more meme friendly than the left-wing candidate and
what if memes could sway just enough votes to the right-wing candidate so that he could
unexpectedly win critical swing states necessary for him to win the presidential election
there's been an awakening all right people have disrespected and abused the power of memes for
too long the dank tension has been building and rising for years and in 2016 it reached the
boiling point it just needed a little push to set it over the edge and when hillary rod and clinton
forsake pepe for political gain she awoke an ancient meme force so powerful that it changed
the course of human society forever the cult of keck has been unleashed from its dormancy
an entire year of joking around about memes has reared its head and now a dank meme has been
elected president of the united states and it doesn't matter who you call triggered anymore
because all of us have triggered a dank meme ascension the likes of which we couldn't even imagine
but hey that's just a theory a meme theory thanks for unsubscribing
you
