This video was made possible by The Crew 2, a new open-world racing game from Ubisoft.
More about it after the video.
No sport is as logistically challenging as motorsports.
While equipment matters in any sport, in motorsport the human is only half the athlete.
The vehicle is the other half.
The performance of a motorsports vehicle is directly tied to having the right components
in the right place at the right time so the logistics are part of the competition.
Racing may be a sport, but it's not all fun and games.
Teams are businesses—businesses that are expected to make money.
The most valuable Formula One team, Scuderia Ferrari, is worth over $1.3 billion.
This means this team is valued at about as much as tech companies Discord, Bird Rides,
or DoorDash.
The wealthier teams, like Ferrari, are able to spend more money on transport to bring
more equipment and spare parts which can make the difference between winning and losing
when things go wrong.
Formula One is by many measures the most international sports competition.
Over its 21 yearly races the teams traverse five continents with as little as a week between
events.
A chaotic ballet of trucks, boats, and planes transports this show across the world each
year.
Ten teams compete in Formula One and despite it taking place worldwide it is by all measures
a European sport.
Eight of the ten teams are registered in and operate out of Europe.
Only the Indian and American teams are from elsewhere although the Indian team is actually
based in the UK while the US team, based in North Carolina, operates a secondary forward
base in the UK so that its staff doesn't have to travel all the way back to the US
between each of the European races which in recent years have been held consecutively
with the brief interruption of the Canadian Grand Prix in the middle of the season over
summer.
Thanks to this, the European leg of the season is, compared to the rest, relatively easy
logistically because within Europe, you can drive.
The cost of shipping by truck is so comparatively low to shipping by plane that teams bring
whole buildings with them to European races.
These buildings are what are modestly referred to as motorhomes but can be as large as Red
Bull's three-story structure that includes offices, bars, and a restaurant with a complete
kitchen.
All of that packs into a number of trucks and can be assembled in less than two days.
Along with all the other equipment including cars, spare parts, and electronics, convoys
of dozens of trucks per team crisscross the continent before each European race.
Typically races are held every two weekends on Sunday which gives teams plenty of time
to relocate before activity begins on the Thursday before the Grand Prix but from time
to time the schedule is crunched and races take place two weekends in a row.
This proves a more daunting logistical challenge as teams only have three full days to break
down, transport, and reassemble their equipment at the new race site.
Even worse, for the first time ever the 2018 season saw three weekends with three races
in a row.
On June 24th, the French Grand Prix took place in Le Castellette and the next weekend the
Austrian one was held in Spielberg finishing off the following weekend with the British
Grand Prix in Silverstone.
The Austria-UK transfer was the most difficult one as it involved driving nearly 1,000 miles
including through the choke point of the Channel Tunnel.
For this trek, each truck was manned by three drivers so that while one drove, the others
could sleep in an RV that accompanied the convoy.
That way, the trucks could drive continuously only stopping to refuel.
But again, these races are easy logistically compared to the ones outside of Europe—the
ones known as fly-away races.
Just like with the European races, a majority of fly-away races occur with two weeks between
them but from time to time races are scheduled on back-to-back weekends thousands of miles
apart.
These back-to-back fly-away races are the most logistically difficult weeks of the Formula
season.
On Sunday, April 8th, 2018, the Bahrain Grand Prix was held in Sakhir, Bahrain then seven
days later, the following weekend, the Chinese Grand Prix was held in Shanghai, China.
Over 4,000 miles separated those two racetracks and yet, just like with every race, everything
came down on Sunday night in Bahrain and had to be operational by Thursday morning in China.
Even worse, Shanghai is five hours ahead of Bahrain which is effectively five hours fewer
to do the work but in reality, the planning for this transfer began months before.
Around January 2018, three months before the first races of the season, each of the ten
teams packed up five sets of shipping containers.
Each of these sets held their sea kits carrying things like chairs, tables, appliances, cooking
utensils, and some elements of their garages.
They send these bulkier and less expensive pieces of equipment by sea as it's massively
less expensive than sending them by plane.
The number of containers per team varies as the wealthier teams like Red Bull will
take more but in general each team takes about three 40-foot containers.
Of course ocean shipping is slower, but since there are five sets there is always one at
the right place at the right time.
That January shipment sent the first five kits to the first five fly-away races—Melbourne
Australia, Sakhir Bahrain, Shanghai, China, Baku, Azerbaijan, and Montreal, Canada.
Then as each race was completed its kit was packed up and sent to the next fly-away race
destination without a kit.
The Australian one went to Singapore, the Bahrainian one to Russia, the Chinese one
to Japan, the Azerbaijani one to the United States, and the Canadian one to Mexico.
And then towards the end of the season, when there are no more tracks to send kits to,
they're sent back to the team's home bases for the winter.
At the race track, the Formula One logistics team's main downtime is actually during
the race itself but for the Bahrain to China transfer real work began the Thursday before
the race.
That's when each team's logistics manager started making their tear-down plan—deciding
in which order and into which containers their different pieces of equipment should go.
Once that was completed, there really was not a lot to do until Sunday.
On Sunday morning, before the race even started, the pack-up began.
Many of the spare parts can't be used during the race—they're not going to replace
an engine during the Grand Prix—so they're the first pieces of kit to be packed into
their containers.
Not much happened during the race itself but within 15 minutes of it ending, the main pack-up
began.
The cars, the most important pieces of equipment, were subjected to a post-race inspection to
be sure no illegal modifications were made but everything else was immediately ready
for packing.
All the equipment that the teams wanted at the destination first were put into one of
three priority pallets.
Together, each team's priority pallets filled up the first plane to Shanghai.
As soon as these were packed, they were driven directly to the airport only a few hours after
the race ended to be prepared for the early morning flight to Shanghai.
As that plane took off, the final pallets were being packed up back at the race track.
Only about six to eight hours after the drop of the checkered flag, all pallets were packed
up and on their way to the airport.
By midday Monday, all six of the Boeing 747s used to transport the team's equipment to
China were in the air.
These planes were chartered by Formula One but the teams still pay for the space.
Also on Monday, all the staff started their journey to Shanghai.
Many of the lower-level staff just flew on normal commercial flights while some of the
higher profile drivers flew private between the two countries.
After nine hours in the air, the first plane touched down in Shanghai around early evening
local time.
The freight was unloaded and brought to customs.
By midnight, all the priority freight was on its way to the race track.
Overnight, logistics workers arranged the different team's freight into their respective
paddocks.
No team is allowed to touch their freight until all the other team's freight has arrived
both for fairness purposes and safety to assure that there aren't many people around as
pallets are being unloaded and moved.
By Tuesday morning, it's game on for the assembly crews.
At this point each team had their three priority pallets and their sea kit.
In their priority pallets, teams didn't put the highest value or most important cargo,
they put the things they needed to assemble first—the bare bones of their garage.
That includes the wall paneling, the core of their electrical system, and the majority
of the IT and communications equipment.
By Tuesday evening that build was done and the track was once again made inaccessible
to the teams as the non-priority pallets were delivered overnight.
Early Wednesday morning around 6 AM the teams arrived back at the track and began work on
the final assembly of the garage.
Only after about four hours, by late morning, all the different team's garages were operational.
All in all, ten Formula One teams successfully packed up, shipped all their equipment 4,000
miles, and reassembled their paddocks in 58 hours.
Thanks to careful planning and practiced workers, Formula One pulls off this impressive feat
every year without a hitch.
Earlier in the video I mentioned how the short seven-day Spielberg Austria to Silverstone
UK transfer is the hardest race transfer in Europe but interestingly, about a month ago
Ubisoft brought me out to the Spielberg Formula One track to try out their new racing game,
The Crew 2.
The game is open world meaning that they actually recreated the entire US and you can drive
and race through all of it not only in cars but also motorcycles, boats, and planes.
Even as someone who doesn't play video games much, I enjoyed The Crew 2 a lot and it seemed
an accurate recreation of the actual racing I did that day on the Spielberg track.
If you think you might be interested in playing this, there will be a link in the description
where you can check it out.
Thanks to the support of The Crew 2 and Ubisoft, this video is an extra one so there will be
another Wendover video out next week.
