Hello, my friends. I hope you're having a wonderful day. Today, I would like to take
a moment to talk about a phenomenon that I like to call wishful thinking after the revolution.
And examining this idea shows us exactly what kind of people we're dealing with when we
talk about, very broadly, leftist revolutionaries. This is the earliest instance I can find of
this phenomenon. This is from 2017 on Twitter. Y'all ever think about what your roles will
be post-revolution? The first person, Groucho Marx, says, I hope to be a therapist, maybe
for general trauma, but maybe re-educating the antisocial tendencies out of people in
a gulag. Quest Riggs says, this is a great thread. Red Army or the party if they'd take
me. If not, communal farming. JL Hamilton says, logistics for the new Red Army, uniform
design and equipment procurement. Now, the first level analysis of this is that all of
these people are simply delusional. They think they would actually be allowed to control
their own destinies in some individualistic manner after a socialist or communist or anarchist
or whatever revolution. Even if they support those politics and supported that revolution,
we all know that there is no way they would simply be allowed to do whatever they want.
In fact, that's why there are so many memes of communist soldiers saying, that's amusing,
please face the wall now. These people are the useful idiots that Yuri Bezmenov described,
the ones that ideologically truly believe in socialism. And yet, after the power structure
that protects them, namely liberal democracy, is destroyed, the true revolutionaries have
no more use for them, so they are lined up and shot. So it's very easy on a surface level
to just look at this and laugh at these people for not understanding the nature of politics
or power and for being true believers in an absolutely horrible ideology. But that's only
a surface level critique of this stuff. For example, look at Groucho Marx's reply again.
She wants to be re-educating antisocial tendencies out of people in a gulag. So in a nonpolitical
sense, antisocial personality disorder is sociopathy. It's a mental disorder in which
a person consistently shows no regard for right or wrong and ignores the rights and
feelings of others. They tend to antagonize, manipulate or treat others harshly or with
callous indifference. They show no guilt or remorse for their behavior. But this is not
the socialist or anarchist view of antisocial. In a more casual sense, antisocial has come
to mean not interested in social activities. You know, you want to stay inside and play
video games all day instead of playing with your friends as a kid. That's an antisocial
activity. In the political sense, on the left, there is this idea, and yes, I've gone over
it a dozen times before on this channel. It's from Marx's On the Jewish Question,
of anti-individualism as a virtue. I do need to explain this, but I also don't want to
beat a dead horse completely. We've gone over this many times on this channel. So just
very quickly, in On the Jewish Question, Karl Marx critiques the liberal idea of individualism.
And there's a long passage on this, but I'll just read a short little bit of it. Liberty
is the right to do everything which does not harm others. The limits within each individual
can act without harming others are determined by law, just as the boundary between two fields
is marked by a stake. It is a question of the liberty of man regarded as an isolated
monad, withdrawn into himself. But liberty as a right of man is not founded upon the
relations between man and man, but rather upon the separation of man from man. It is
the right of separation, the right of the circumscribed individual withdrawn into himself.
Marx's critique here is that liberalism enshrines the right of one individual to stand separate
and apart from other individuals. When, Marx argues, correctly I might add, that the true
meaning of life comes from not who we stand separate from, but who we have connections
with. And this is of course true. Look at your friends, look at your family, look at
your spouse. These are people that you're not standing separate from as a rugged individualist.
You have some emotional connection there. Marx's critique is that that emotional connection
is not enshrined as a right. And of course it shouldn't be, because these are voluntary
things. You should have the option to choose who you are closely connected with and who
you are strangers with. However, Marx did not agree. Marx believed that because you
have some kind of economic connection between, say, the person that you buy your food from,
that economic connection engenders a permanent social obligation and responsibility. Because
you've engaged in trade with this person, they now have a say in what you do and you
now have a say in what they do. And it's this interlocking web that creates a society. And
so if you are an individual separated, as Marx said, an isolated monad, that is an egoist
antisocial way for an individual to act within a society. And so the socialist prescription
is that has to be stopped. That's why you see a lot of people like this Groucho Marx
woman who says, re-educating antisocial tendencies out of people. That is the anti-individualism
within socialism. But despite being massively made fun of, this question keeps coming up.
What's your job in the leftist commune? I'm going to be leading discussion on theory some
days, making clothes from scraps in other days, and making lattes whenever needed. Oh
boy, that sounds great. Our glorious communist utopia. We're all living on the leftist commune.
Who's making the food? I don't know. I'm reading theory, making clothes from scraps and making
coffee. That's all I can do. That's the only skills that I have. What will be your position
after communism is achieved? Oh Jesus, look at the quote tweets. Holy shit. Missionary,
doggy. Man, so many of these quote tweets are laughing at these people. I think everyone
knows how stupid this is now. Look at the delusion here. I'm going to be a local bookish
person who fishes a few times a week, teaches loosely organized seminars on history and
philosophy, and spends a lot of time hanging out with her lover in the forest. Why would
you be allowed? It's the people's forest. Those are all the people's resources that
you're using. The collective interest comes before your bourgeois desire to hang out in
the forest and contribute nothing to society. Here's one who kind of has the basic idea
down at least. The dirty jobs that are necessary, fair enough. Getting under the buildings and
working on pipes, roof repairs, digging trenches for the many purposes of a trench. Maybe the
one that you'll end up in. Pretty much anything manual labor that is required to fulfill the
need of the community. I happily offer my contributions. You can do that now. You can
get those jobs right now. What are my special talents? Music, mathematics, and teaching
are some of my skills. Under communism, those skills will be harnessed for the benefit of
the collective. The new human will be built on the basis of the new community existing
inside the new international society. How is this any different than the fascist conception
of individuals working for the glory of the state? The only difference seems to be that
the state in this conception spans the entire world. These people's conception of what communism
looks like is just fascism that is universalized rather than being particular to one people
or one ethnic group. But it's ultimately the same system. What job are guys going to have
under communism? I'm thinking I'll be a hunter in the morning, a fisherman in the afternoon,
a herdsman in the evening, and a critic after dinner. Oh boy. This is actually also again
a quote of Marx's. This time from the German ideology. This is a book I haven't yet covered
on the channel. The division of labor implies the contradiction between the interest of
the separate individual or the individual family and the communal interest of all individuals
who have intercourse with one another. And indeed, this communal interest does not exist
merely in the imagination as the general interest, but first of all in reality as the mutual
interdependence of the individuals among whom the labor is divided. And finally, the division
of labor offers us the first example of how, as long as man remains in natural society
that is, as long as a cleavage exists between the particular and the common interest, as
long therefore as activity is not voluntarily but naturally divided, man's own deed becomes
an alien power opposed to him, which enslaves him instead of being controlled by him. This
section is partially reaffirming what was said in On the Jewish Question, where Marx
believes that this communal interest, this lasting bond between people who have casual
contact with each other, a bond that exerts some kind of control, some kind of right,
which is something that liberals don't believe. We believe in individualism. We believe in
separation between uninvolved parties. But that doesn't exist within the Marxist framework.
As soon as the distribution of labor comes into being, each man has a particular exclusive
sphere of activity which is forced upon him and from which he cannot escape. He is a hunter,
a fisherman, a herdsman, or a critical critic, whatever that means, and must remain so if
he does not want to lose his means of livelihood. While in a communist society, where nobody
has one exclusive sphere of activity, but each can become accomplished in any branch
he wishes, society regulates the general production and thus makes it possible for me to do one
thing today and another tomorrow, to hunt in the morning, fish in the afternoon, rear
cattle in the evening, criticize after dinner, just as I have a mind, without ever becoming
a hunter, fisherman, herdsman, or critic. And that's the quote that this person is
appealing to. Of course, we all understand how stupid this is, right? You could be a
hunter in the morning, a fisherman in the afternoon, a herdsman in the evening, and
a critic after dinner, but then you would be shitty at all of them. I made this point
back during that video about the woman who worked at LinkedIn who had an extremely cushy
life. The reason that we have the society that we have is because of division of labor
and how the division of labor allowed people to become extremely specialized. A person
who only hunts in the morning will never be as good a hunter as somebody who hunts all
day every day. That difference between them will lead to a difference in output. The truly
amazing hunter who has practiced his craft his entire life will be the one who actually
brings home the bacon, not the person who lazily hunts in the morning and doesn't
really contribute anything. And in fact, that's why our society is what it is. Because people
have specialized and with that specialization comes high level skill. And with that high
level skill comes high quality and high quantity output. And this is the primary reason why
the question of what will you do after the revolution is not only jokey and stupid as
something that we can turn into memes and make fun of because it really is just brainless,
but it also shows how incredibly ignorant socialists actually are the destruction of
all barriers between everything as well as the destruction of standards, which is something
that the left definitely trends towards that also necessarily means the destruction of
the ability to become competent at a thing. So when Mark says that he'll be a hunter
in the morning, a fisherman in the afternoon, a herdsman in the evening and a critic after
dinner, that would be a truly hellish society if that's how everyone was behaving. Because
we need specialization. We need people doing the same jobs and becoming really good at
them. This is a system that just instantly falls apart because no one's actually producing
what is necessary to keep society running. You can't be a brain surgeon in the morning,
a mechanic of large machinery in the afternoon, an architect in the evening and then like
a high level chemist at night. Almost nobody can get good enough at all of these things.
They're just too complicated. Things are just too hard. These people genuinely believe there
will be no work within a communist system. They can all just laze around and enjoy the
fruits of somebody's labor. I don't know who's doing the work. This is why these people always
say such dumb shit like abolish work. They just don't know what's happening behind the
curtain to keep society running. So yeah, this after the revolution rhetoric, there's
really two ways to look at it. And the first way is that it's funny, it's memes. We can
laugh at how stupid these people are. They have no idea how anything works. And they
are young, dumb, entitled, bourgeois, champagne socialists. And the second way to look at
it is the underlying philosophy, which is not only anti liberal, but anti individual,
anti freedom, anti human flourishing. And no matter how much they talk about the utopia
or how free everyone will be or anything else like that. What lies beneath is this
deep desire to control other people in the name of the collective interest. These are
not good people. Best case scenario, they're delusional dumb kids who will grow up. However,
it's absolutely the case that some of these people, if given the chance, would be just
as fucking terrible as some of the worst monsters in history, if some other monster didn't get
to them first. But hey, the best thing we can do in either case is keep laughing. We've
seen many times humor is what disarms tyrants. Alright, I'm getting out of here. I'm sure
you can tell this video is kind of off the cuff. I don't have any of this written down.
I'm just kind of I'm just kind of spouting from the hip. I have to go and actually record
a scripted video now. I was just doing this one for fun. Okay, I'll see you next time,
guys. I love you.
