My guest of honor here is today.
Let's bring him on.
Hello.
Can you hear me?
Hello.
Oh, you are super low.
Can you
wait?
Am I low?
Yeah, you're super low.
It's hard to hear you.
How is that possible?
What do you have me set to on your end?
Let me look.
You're at a hundred and fifty percent.
I could turn you to two hundred.
Well, hold on.
Hold on.
I'll adjust some things.
Give me a second.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, he's a he's getting ready.
He's getting his tech stuff done gang.
Don't worry.
Just to let you know.
This is a call-in show.
So if you'd like to call in and talk to us about anything that you have on your mind,
anything you've seen either of us produce or an opinion.
We've stated that you want to talk to us about is more.
You're more than welcome to jump on.
I'll put the discord link in my chats.
You click that link.
You accept the rules.
You jump backstage will pull you in get in line backstage.
If too many people get in line, which sometimes happens.
I'll try to go in the order that I see you come in, but you know, I'll do my best.
It's not okay.
How do I sound now?
Oh, you sound much better.
I don't know what you changed, but I can hear you now.
So this is way too loud from my usual recording.
So I have to remember to turn it back down.
So I thought that we're gonna move is showing up.
Has she bailed?
I don't think so.
I talked to her this morning.
She's having a date night with her husband, but she's going to try to call in.
We'll see, right?
I don't know how that works, but we'll see.
I hope she gets here.
So let me send her a quick little message.
Yeah, when you approached me for this I was like, I have no clue why you'd want to do this because there's no set topic and I'm not an interesting person on my own.
What are you talking about?
Yes, you are.
My videos are interesting, but I'm not interesting.
Why do you why do you hate yourself like this?
Like if I didn't think you were interesting, I wouldn't invite you on.
I don't hate myself.
I just know where my strengths and weaknesses are.
Well, let's interrogate this a little bit like so I see you all the time have conversations with people hours long and people tune in people watch people view it.
What what what why is this different right?
Like there's several things that we could talk about like the Jew tunnels.
We have to I have to get your opinion, right?
I have no clue what's going on with that man.
It there's going to be some great memes that come out of it and we're probably going to see that video of that one Jewish guy climbing out of the sewer grate that's going to be reposted for the next 50 years.
I'm sure.
Yeah, but I don't know.
Did you see that?
I have I don't know that I don't know the main story there.
Like I've heard some people say that like that the tunnel is actually run to was it a children's hospital or an orphanage or something and they're having sex with kids down there and like I don't know I've seen so much wacky stuff.
I don't know what's true and I think the story is too new to know what's really true just yet.
No, I agree with you.
It's it's a it's something that they're going to investigate.
We're going to find out in the future.
But you're right.
The means are super funny.
And there's a small little interaction I saw on Twitter a while ago about a man in New York City who was complaining on Twitter that he was hearing Yiddish underneath his bed at night, right?
Like it sounded like there was Jewish people digging tunnels and he was tweeting about this in November, right?
And no one believes everyone thought he was just lying like he was this this huge anti-semite and I just I don't know.
I can't get it out of my head where I have this image of this guy who's like legit hearing digging sounds underneath and he's trying to tell people but no one believes them.
They all think he's just making it up to me.
I don't know that's peak funny, but you know, maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe I'm built different.
I don't know but I can't stop laughing at it.
So I don't know that is that is pretty funny.
Yeah, like I've seen a few people claim that the New York Police rather than investigate it are just filling the tunnels with concrete and trying to like hope everyone forgets about it.
I don't know if that's true.
I don't I don't know what anything about this like I think we'll have to wait a little bit to see what happens if we wait a month and no one said a single peep and the and the police aren't commenting then maybe you can talk about how it might be some sort of a conspiracy but right now it's probably too soon to tell.
Maybe I don't know.
It's a so the rumor I've heard the more reasonable rumor I've heard is that they built these during the covid during the lockdowns because they still wanted to get to their synagogue, right?
They would they wanted to congregate even during the covid lockdown, but I'm not sure how true that is.
It's just something I've heard so we'll see.
It's possible.
Yeah, possible.
Like I said, we'll see.
It's and yes, there's a lot of anti-semitism a lot of like sex with kids conspiracies and stuff and coming out of this but it's still funny.
So I can't I don't know.
It is pretty funny.
Yeah, but I'm getting I'm gonna try to find it.
Hold on.
Give me just a second.
A surprisingly good resource for this stuff is actually know your meme.
Really?
Yeah, because they do document means they also document at least some of the context behind them.
I wouldn't just trust them, but they sometimes have things that others don't.
So for example, here I'll DM you this.
Let's see what you got.
So I always take Twitter headlines of the grain of salt, right?
Like for example, this guy is claiming that the other tunnels are being sealed off by the police, right?
It's like well, maybe.
Well, I did see I did see video of them like the one of the sewer grates welding it shut again.
I have no I have no idea.
This yeah, I don't know how true this is either.
It is interesting though.
And unfortunately, it's going to feed into a lot of stereotypes.
We'll see how it goes, right?
We'll see how it goes.
But this is a call-in show.
So I just wanted to let my members know if you want to call in and talk to us.
You absolutely can.
Thank you for the super chats, by the way.
Thank you to Zephyrhash.
Nobody believes me when I hear wick in my walls.
Well, what they'll never find my Donald's buddy.
They'll never I'm too clever.
Okay, and Jacob for $5 says I know a lot about the community and can speak to this with confident knowledge.
Risky risky caller, but if you want to call in and then and tell us how much you know about the Jewish community like this could go one of two ways.
You could be deeply involved Hasidic Jew yourself or you could you could know what they are thinking and what they don't want you to know.
I don't know but you can absolutely call in and talk to us.
We do have a caller someone you and I both know and love.
I'll give you a second.
Our friend art of a spell.
Hi Artemis.
How's it going?
Not bad.
How are you doing?
Good.
So we're going with the Jewish tunnels as a topic or you you're the caller you get to talk to us about you want to talk about the Jewish tunnels.
I'm out mine, but it's not going to be as entertaining as a one might think.
Well, actually here do you usually you have some secret glowy knowledge.
So tell us about the Jewish tunnels Artemis.
Well, what do you know for starters the city of New York City has been at war with the city Jewish population ever since covid lockdown started speak specifically their shops and stores and stuff were like brutally like broken into by police because they were serving people.
And getting them all shut down by by the city.
I wouldn't be surprised to be honest, I think I think a lot of let's say more more religiously radical communities really bucked against the covid lockdown.
So makes sense.
Yeah, the it's actually so notorious that they were going after Hasidic Jewish population that they were filing complaints that they were targeting them specifically because of their ethnicity and religion.
That was early on with this tunnel thing.
I have heard about the child accusations and that comes from like an interview with a potential victim from a year or two ago claiming they were taken into tunnels and forced to do whatever on stained mattresses.
And then you see from this tunnel thing that you seeing these weird cheap ass matches being pulled out of the tunnels and they're just stained all hell.
So I think that's where they're pulling that from.
Yeah, that's such a such a loose connection for session.
It is but that's but that's the internet.
It's going to they're going to be connections drawn like that.
Well, here's the thing, like if you've ever done any sort of urban exploration, like into an abandoned building or into a like a sewer or a pipe or something that's big enough to hold people or or you go to like some isolated area, even out in the woods, you will eventually find just a dirty mattress.
And what it usually is is a homeless person was squatting there for a while, you know, it's usually not some sort of weird sex cult.
It's usually a homeless person who dug a mattress out of a dumpster and drag it into a tunnel and has been sleeping there for a bit.
Okay, yeah, but this is this is the tunnels that are like run and maintained by the Hasidic Jewish population of this.
Yeah, of this.
I don't know.
It's just like, look, I know people who have stained mattresses in their in their actual house, right?
Yeah, I think to my knowledge, they're not kidnapping kids, right?
To my knowledge, the bigger story is why is the NYC Police Department immediately going in and trying to fill the fucking tunnels of concrete without first removing everybody from them?
Is it concrete?
I've seen them.
I've seen them weld some of the entrances.
They've been they've been pouring concrete.
They try to pour concrete into the tunnels.
Is there proof of that?
Let me go find one of the images of the the concrete slurry that was poured and then thought.
Well, yeah, but it does kind of make sense that they would start welding some of the some of the entrances because you don't want people on the street falling into them and make that make sense.
Yeah, they they were the Jewish were breaking the pipes.
They were using the pipe the pump the concrete in the bike like breaking the tubing.
So let me go find that if I also it does make sense, right that they would try to because digging under the foundations of houses and structure.
It can't be good for the stability of those structures, right?
It can't.
Yeah.
Also also we're you got to put up that image IDM.
Do you bring that up?
Give me a second.
Hold on.
I am I'm okay gang.
I'm very bad at tech, but we will make this happen.
Boom boom boom.
Let's see.
Let me find the get the correct.
I'm pretty sure it should be immediately the first things I find.
Well, I'm trying to I'm trying to show it to you without like exposing.
All my tabs and bullshit like that.
Oh my God, someone made a D&D rule set called Talmud's and tunnels.
Again, the memes are going to be they're going to be a lot and they're going to be amazingly good.
Okay, let's see if this works.
Oh, let me get this off the cameras flickering.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What's going on?
Can we can we see this gang?
Can we see the teenage Jewish Turtles or whatever they got up here?
What tabs do I have with don't worry about my tabs.
Okay, don't worry about my tabs.
Don't worry about my being going to reveal all the DMS right?
Well, let's not let's not talk about it.
Okay, let's you know what?
Okay, everyone saw it.
Everyone got a good little good little look.
Yeah, it was good.
This is only the beginning.
This is only beginning there.
We're going to be mining for memes in the Jewish mines for a while and it'll be great.
But you made some you made a claim earlier Artemis that they were doing it before everyone got out of the got out of the system.
Yeah, do you have anything to corroborate that?
Yeah, I do because they had the police haven't gone into the tunnels yet.
What do you mean?
Let me the police have not gone into the tunnels yet.
There's still fighting the the Jewish people at the temple and then trying to board up the hole.
So you're saying that they're they're closing the tunnel all the tunnel entrance without actually going in themselves.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's no proof that they've looked at any of the tunnels they they've started filling them.
So that the issue with that is is that regardless of what that there's anybody in there.
They haven't looked.
Well, did you find proof that they're filling them yet?
Yeah.
Hold on.
No problem.
Give them a minute.
You know me, you know me results come up when I look for Jewish tunnels and concrete Hamas is still a thing, right?
No, I know I get it.
They learn from the best.
That's how they learn.
Oh God.
There's a Hogwarts meme of the the first movie.
The tunnels and the ring into the house pretty funny.
I thought you shouldn't know and then passes out.
Yeah, here's some some the WIC community members suggestion the Juni to the center of the earth.
No, that's pretty bad game.
Okay.
Did I even like it when it pops through my thing?
Okay.
Well, it's usually something I like when when I see it, but I'll try to find it and give it to you.
Sure.
What I actually came on here for please is to ask wick that some things and then maybe dev can chime in later.
Okay, if you have a process that leads to a guilty verdict that was founded upon corrupt methods and driving evidence through corrupt methods in illegal in illegal ways with the verdict should the verdict stand.
Well, when you phrase it like that, no fruit from the poison tree there are reasons why the method is important.
Like for example, Bill Cosby Bill Cosby.
He probably is guilty of what he did.
Okay, let's not mince words, but what they did to get the verdict like how they extracted his testimony violated his rights.
And so we can't let that stand.
Yeah, so do you know here's a another question and then I'll get the actual point.
Do you know the difference between White House Council and Special Counsel is not not taught my head.
Nope.
So White House Council is the council directly for the president.
So the attorney the attorney directly to the president sure a special counsel is a an attorney that has been selected by the DOJ or appointed by the or whoever in through their through the systems method to have a like immunity from interference to go after a certain thing or whatever.
Right?
Those are two very different things.
Okay, right.
Okay, so I got a question for you for the Fulton County DA Fannie Willis who has a point who apparently appointed her inexperienced lover as the lead prosecutor for Donald Trump's Rico case.
What do you think about that?
I don't know what think about it friend.
I can't comment on it until I look into it, right?
Like if you're just saying that it is like this is filed.
Is it nepotism?
Are you is that the accusation here?
Well, definitely it would be nepotism because there are several hundred different lawyers and attorneys.
Sure, but when we talk about like corrupt processes, yeah, I don't that's that's not what I mean, right them appointing a their cousin or brother or something to be the council that is an ethics violation and probably should be looked or potentially one I should say it could be looked into.
But I don't think it violates anyone's rights or affects the evidence.
None of that.
What do you think?
What happens?
Okay, go ahead Dev.
Let's hear it.
Hold on.
No, you go ahead.
Give me a second.
Okay.
So the second part is going to be what if that person that was that is the lover that is inexperienced meets with the White House counsel during their prosecution investigation.
Um, look, I don't I don't know how normal that is.
Biden's attorneys.
Sure, but I don't know if that's a that's necessary.
Like don't the the adversarial attorneys meet all the time to discuss courtship.
Is that?
No, no, no, you're making this is not an app.
This is not an adversarial.
This is not Trump's White House counsel.
This is the Biden administration's White House counsel.
Okay, what's wrong with that?
Yeah, that's not that's not that's not legal.
Oh, I understand but because it'd be coordinating with the political opponents to prosecute somebody.
That's what would be the illusion of it because for a fair trial, right?
You're supposed to avoid even the like image of corruption and bias.
Right?
Huh?
Okay.
This is well and true beyond that at the at this point in time.
I'll have to look into it.
I'll have to get more information on that.
But yeah, if it if it was an ethics violation or if it was illegal, it was criminal should be prosecuted and should be looked into and it could affect the ruling.
Absolutely.
Oh stupid.
Oh, it's the wick wick.
I sent you an article you can just read it really quickly here.
Trump co-defendant alleges improper relationship between Fannie Willis and fellow Georgia prosecutor in a filing seeking to dismiss the charges.
Michael Roman's attorney accused Willis and special prosecutor Nathan Wade of having a romantic relationship.
This is what you're talking about, right?
It's not an accusation.
They it's almost confirmed that the reason why it's almost it's an accusation now is because they have to unseal a document that was sealed recently that was talking about how Fannie's had a Willis had a relationship with that person.
Right, right.
In a 39 page filing seeking dismissal of charges an attorney for Trump co-defendant Michael Roman made accusations that Willis and Wade have traveled together destinations including Napa Valley and they've been seen together in Atlanta in a personal capacity.
And this is about the lover accusation.
Yeah.
Well, yes.
This is the lead prosecutor that Fannie Willis has appointed who is also apparently her lover that she's having an affair with.
Like I'm more interested in the other thing though the meeting with the Biden Council or whatever.
Yeah, that's in the
Yeah, if you have that you can just look at that too.
I think I do.
Hold on.
Yeah, because I sent it to you.
You should.
Yes.
Again, this is again, yeah, I'll send this to you as well.
Like this is again a Twitter headline.
So it's always good to look beyond Twitter headlines and actually look at some things a bit more deeply, but it's a good place to start a conversation.
Yeah, Nathan Wade Fannie Willis is the lead prosecutor met with Biden's White House Council on May 23rd and November 18th 2022 before indicting Donald Trump.
Yeah, so this is not the special council that was in charge of actually investigating him for crimes.
This is the White House Council, which is Biden's representatives.
So he has no reason to even talk to them at all.
So so this seems like before Fannie Willis.
Yes, appointed Nathan Wade as part of the Georgia Rico case.
That's what's going on here, right before that even happened.
Correct.
He had already met with the White House Council, which is why personal the personal loyal lawyer to the president.
Yeah, why would he have any capacity be talking to them?
I don't know.
Well, I guess yes.
So the answer is he doesn't have any actual official reason to be talking.
So what do you what do you find?
Well, one, the Fannie Willis is was coordinating to bring prosecution to Trump in Georgia.
She had a boyfriend who was not well known to to anybody in the public who she could send as a proxy to go talk to them.
And then she appointed him as the lead prosecutor in the case because one, it's your boyfriend to they they share the money that he makes from the prosecution.
Who they've they've already stated that in the allegations.
So this is all true, but it's also conceivable that you would have people working on the Georgia Rico case also talking to the president's office.
That also makes sense.
This guy before this guy ever was appointed and he has no experience prosecuting hardly at all anybody.
OK, he had no reason.
Hold on.
Isn't isn't he an attorney?
He like before he's an attorney, right?
Yeah, but not all attorneys do prosecutions, man.
OK, let's see what he's doing or high or high level ones for that matter.
Let's look him up.
What's his work history?
Yep.
Yeah, I mean, like you have to have a first case at some point, right?
Like you have to have a hold on.
You don't you don't you don't you don't send a brand new person to prosecute the former president of the United States.
This is not going to happen.
Apparently did.
Yeah.
Who is Nathan Wade Fulton special special prosecutor?
Let's see what he's done.
He's a special prosecutor.
He works in private practice.
He's a defense attorney and a one time municipal court judge.
Suburban Atlanta firm.
Wade and Campbell focuses on personal injury cases, contract litigation, family and domestic law and criminal defense.
A graduate of John Marshall Law School.
He was an assistant.
He was an assistant solicitor for Cobb County in 1999.
Yeah, the office that handles misdemeanor cases.
He became Marietta's first black male judge in 20, not black, black and male, you know, black and male judge in 2011.
He was appointed to a post in the city's municipal court.
He he tried to run for higher judge offices because those are elected in this location and he did not win.
Yep.
You don't need any type of credentials to be elected to as a to a judge.
It's got it's a populated contest.
Yeah.
So that so being a judge.
He was in 2020, he was retained by Cobb Sheriff Neil Warren to review complaints of use of force, racial biases, discrimination, neglect at the county jail after seven detainees died in custody.
So basically, he is a lawyer and he's held like a bunch of small time positions.
So you can say that him him being raised to this high profile job by what seems to be his girlfriend is improper.
That makes sense.
Right.
But hold on, hold on.
But that being said, him meeting with the White House is not necessarily improper.
It is.
Why is he one?
You don't meet with the political opponent of a person you're going to indict.
That that's not something you want to do as a prosecutor if you're going to prosecute a case because then you are opening up the door for reversible error in terms of bias prosecutorial malice possible.
That's possible.
That's why you know, that's why you avoid it.
OK, you do it outright.
You avoid that.
You find somebody who's not connected to anybody and you select them as the lead prosecutor to avoid these things because this is a a the very minimal stepping stone for a fair trial because the defense is going to tear your part if they find it.
That that's what it sounds like.
It sounds like they'll get they'll get torn apart in court then, but what else is there?
What do you mean?
What do you mean?
We said you said one.
Is there any other reason why this is bad?
Yes.
So if the if the person is going to a before having even being anointed as a special prosecutor and they're going to a the White House counsel to talk to Biden's representative, that means that there was already an intent to put them in as the special prosecutor ahead of time.
So that this is pre-planning in coordination by the administration with Fannie Willis ahead of time to to put a problem with that.
Oh, yeah, you're not you're not an inexperienced prosecutor on the case.
They hatched the plot to meet with him before and do what coordinate coordinate prosecutions across multiple states.
I just why would I will I don't understand the motivation other than
I want this guy to be the prosecutor because I'm sleeping with them.
Why?
Okay.
I don't understand why there has to be any deeper meeting than these people are.
Well, because you came in right?
Yeah, you came in and you say should these things stand when they've their corrupt processes of violate people's rights.
My answer that is no, but then I look at to okay, this is this is yeah, this is probably improper.
If what you're saying is correct, if what you're saying is correct, it's probably improper, but I don't I don't know if it.
Okay, so anything to the case, right?
So if you have some again, it goes back to a biased prosecutor prosecutorial.
We call malfeasance.
Okay charge.
I mean, maybe it's like I said, I'm not a legal scholar and I don't know much about the law.
I don't know much about the legal processes.
You could be absolutely correct here.
I just as a layman as someone just looking into these things.
It just doesn't it doesn't set off too many alarms other than yeah.
Okay.
They had their friend.
I understand that.
I understand that normal corruption in like Democratic areas is going to not set off alarms.
But when you already have hold on, hold on, hold on.
Let me finish.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
We have Fannie Willis nepotistically appointing an inexperienced and unqualified attorney to being a prosecutor for which he has no prosecutorial background.
As the lead prosecutor with unlimited power as a special prosecutor, okay against a former president of the United States when he had met with the president's political enemies before this you are now in so far into the get rid of this fucking guy and replace him with somebody better.
And at the very start that should have been the start thing but they went in have done all of this and then charged him and now I'm going to trial.
This is irreversible error because now you're showing that the system and the people in power are too biased to have followed proper conduct.
Well, then if our legal system is working and if what you're saying is correct, it's going to be a kind of an own goal on the prosecution side.
It is and this is the issue is that yeah, but like I said, I don't I don't know.
I think that's evidence that the system is working and I don't know.
I don't know.
Does that make sense?
At least that like, okay, they did something really stupid and they're going to be punished in court for it.
So this is the like at this is the this is the same Fulton County that has been stonewalling a ballot case for three years now.
Don't just bring up another fucking thing man.
Like come on but but this is true and you can't argue.
Okay.
Sure.
It's true, but it's unrelated.
Okay.
I'm just saying this is right here.
I have a question to ask you at the start of this.
Okay, I do have a question.
So what you've what you've brought here seems to be two separate things.
Okay, go ahead.
And the first one is Fannie Willis appoints her boyfriend who and she is a public figure.
He is not she is kind of well known.
He really isn't that well known his career what he's done in his career does not seem to warrant him be him being given this this huge position.
And so it seems like it's an it she has improperly appointed him.
That seems to be true from what we have.
All right.
All right.
However, the the second part of the second thing that you have here is why did this guy meet with the White House legal team, right?
Those are two those are two separate questions.
So for example, if it turns out that he actually has completely good reasons for meeting with the White House legal team like what hold on if that were the case then the first the first problem which is he got appointed nepotistically.
That isn't enough and shouldn't be enough to throw the entire case out, right?
Mm hmm.
Maybe no, no, hold on.
It would throw him and Fannie Willis off the case and probably be put under a different County da to coordinate and redo the entire thing because you're true because that's probably true.
Yes, everything everything in its case at the moment would be under suspect and judges would be really really hesitant to touch it unless they like it's been gone through with a fine to come.
Yeah, I don't you mean like they might say okay, like you two are clearly corrupt and you're scratching each other's backs.
We're going to get different prosecutors and like you guys are gone.
So that might be the case.
Yes, but in terms of disqualifying the whole thing solely because she brought her her boyfriend on board.
I don't see that being legitimate frankly.
Now the real question this is why I think with you were on that you're on the money is that the real question is why did he meet with the White House because I do think that there are actually good reasons as to why a person in his
position might do so well if you are prosecuting Trump and there might be legitimate information to let me finish it.
I let you finish things there might be legitimate information to come out of Biden himself or from other people working at the White House or from the White House office.
It seems reasonable that the prosecutor would go to people involved which includes people at the White House and ask them about it.
Yeah, so though that's that's kind of post hoc because this was he was he went there beforehand.
Sure.
He was even as a prosecutor.
But you're alleging that there can be no other reason than malfeasance for this to happen.
That is what you were you were kind of implying with your statements that the only reason that they could have a meeting is for corruption.
And if there are other reasons where it would be legitimate like Dev said yes, it's post hoc.
But the fact is we were how we're all having to like post hoc this because none of us have the information of what they were actually meeting about.
I'm not privy to those are at information.
Are you?
No, that's just what you avoid doing.
He's speculating.
We're all speculating.
We're all making guesses about what may or may not have and our biases obviously will make us lean one way or the other now again.
What should happen is they should be forthwith and like tell people right?
I'm all for more transparency and all these processes, right?
And so unless it violates some kind of national security risk, which it might or anything.
I think it's perfectly fine to release the logs of the meetings and things like that.
So so when a person is anointed through nepotistic and corrupt methods, it is not up to the people launching an issue with it to have to then prove that his
meeting with somebody he was he's not supposed to meet with would ever be anything other than proper.
Okay, it is up to the person that was corruptly anointed to show that their meeting was above board, which can be done through minutes or communication.
I guess we'll see if it is or not.
That's not that's not up to the people having an issue with a clearly ethics violation.
His issue to reveal that to isn't to you.
It's to the no, no, no, it is it.
No, it's to everybody.
That would be why, why, why, why, why, why, what, what obligation does he have to tell you shit, right?
Like you want to know, well, you're on the jury.
You're not in the county.
I don't believe right.
Is he he was selected as a public official.
So he is now when he is as a running as working as a public official.
He is now held to the standard of public officials, which is recording those things and then keeping that sure and releasing it to the people who need
to know, right, which in this case would be the court system, the judges involved in the case and the public.
It was because those things are publicly filed.
Yes.
So hold on, hold on, hold on.
This also seems kind of post hoc, though, Artemis.
Why?
So what as as you said earlier, when he he talked to he went to the White House in May and then again in November, right?
He hadn't been appointed.
He hadn't been appointed this in this public council position yet, right?
Yes, which is the issue, right?
So it could be the case that they knew they were going to appoint him and the and she sent him along to do some sort of secret talks, hoping that it wouldn't come up and said, you know, I'm going to point you in a few months.
You go do this right now and that, you know, even as described, that could be OK, depending.
I'm not sure.
However, sure, it's not OK.
We have secret talks when you're when you're working as a in your official capacity as a prosecutor.
He wasn't.
No, no, no, he wasn't working.
No, no, no, no.
That's the point.
And he wasn't working.
He wasn't working in a capacity.
Hold on.
Fanny was can't.
Fanny Willis can't send him to do that in a secret way.
That's that.
But it would be her problem, not his.
It would be her problem.
Not his.
Yeah, but it's but it's OK, but it still comes back to affecting the case because she said to me clandestinely to go talk to the political.
The enemy political enemy of the person getting prosecuted.
Well, all I'm hearing from this is I got to find someone that I can sleep with.
That'll suit me to the moon.
That will get me into the big leagues.
Who do I got to sleep with?
Is that how it is?
Apparently, apparently, according to so here's the thing, right?
Like because he did this before actually working in an official capacity, it could be have been for anything.
And that's really the point here, right?
Which is why you avoid ever having brought him into the prosecutorial position in the first place.
Well, I think actually that brings up a problem because now you're saying I can't bring in any lawyer who has ever talked to the president because someone might dig through it and discover that.
Sure, that's you have an infinite amount of lawyers.
You can pull through across the country for being an infinite amount of lawyers.
I mean, here, here, how about he had other reasons to go to like work-related reasons to go to the White House.
Okay, so hypothetically, let's say he has work-related reasons to go to the White House for some other case or some other instance or something else going on, right?
And so he has those two meetings and then he gets hired nepotistically by his girlfriend, right?
Now that makes it that makes not his meetings the problem, but the nepotistic hiring the problem, right?
All right, I'm going to make this a really easy one for you to understand and there was a wrap this up after this because we do have more people in line.
Do you remember a infamous tarmac meeting?
Which one the Loretta Lynch Clinton meeting was that?
No, I don't you got to remind me of this where they decided that I'm pretty sure it hold on.
Let me let me bring it up that way.
I guess what I'm saying, I guess what I'm saying basically Artemis is that everything that you're saying is possible.
It is more likely than but we do not have enough evidence for it yet.
And now I want to see more evidence for it, but it is possible.
Yes, so I'll send you the the Loretta Lynch Clinton story about the meeting on the tarmac without for no reason apparently, but that, you know, people can claim is above board and that nothing happened.
But the the the resulting actions after that meeting led to a reversing in the expected outcomes of cases.
So also the the person broke the story ended up dead, but that's that's a different reason.
There's all these implications and everything you're saying is like, oh, and also they ended up dead.
I wonder why I mean that I know why, but isn't it weird that he ended up dead?
Isn't it weird?
But there is the issue is that the there's the tarmac meeting is a really good example of where people would have to recuse themselves regardless of what was talked about on that plane on the tarmac.
The you cannot have somebody in any fashion overseeing a case when the person that the case is involved is the person you like representative you talk to on a plane where no one else could hear it.
Well, tell you what, Artemis, thank you for bringing this to my attention.
I'll check it out because again, I don't want to take your word for it.
I wouldn't take Dev's word for it or anyone's on the Internet's word for it.
I'll look into some some more check out some articles, see what they got and see if I can't find if there's any more information out there.
But I do appreciate you calling in, buddy.
Thanks for coming by.
And for now, though.
I'll send you away, send you to the void, as I say, I think you get a chance to reply to that last thing.
Well, what did you want to say?
I guess the TLDR is that the things that Artemis present sometimes are just crazy.
There's other conversations we've had where he's just I think he's just been wrong.
But like this, this is possible, but there's not enough evidence.
We have to wait.
That's all you're going to lose your right wing cred, buddy.
Like people tell people tell me that you're this crypto tanky guy.
Thank you.
Right.
All right.
Maybe a crypto communist.
Well, thank you.
Your communist is anyone who goes for Biden and certain people.
OK, right.
So, you know, like so not believing the conspiracy theory right off the bat.
What are you doing?
What's going on?
But gang?
Yeah.
If you want to call in, if you'd like to talk to us about something, it could be political.
It could be cultural, could be anything you'd like.
Hit the Discord link.
I'll put it in chats.
Escalation board, Discord and the Twitch chat.
Click the link, accept the rules, jump backstage, we'll pull you on.
Let's get to our next caller.
Whoa, they were here.
They were here just a minute ago.
There was people here, but then they vanished.
Because they got they got impatient.
And this is what happens, right?
They get in, they want to call and then they're like, oh, man, this is taking too long.
And then they'll just dip.
Oh, there we go.
Here we go.
Allison, hello.
You're live.
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
Hi.
Hi.
I don't have the camera today, if that's okay.
That's, no one has the camera in, except for me in this place.
So go ahead.
Okay, well, okay, I listen to NPR Up First every morning, and I listen to the Daily Wire's shameless ripoff of NPR Up First every morning.
Okay, so I get the little like mainstream right and left daily news perspectives and like, I'm subscribed to the times.
And I'm just like seeing constant reports about immigration all of a sudden.
I know it's always a big issue.
But I swear the last like five weeks, I just see article after article about like, Democrat mayor is pissed off about immigration, like New York suing bus companies that complied with Abbott's orders, like Biden suing to cut the razor wire in Texas.
He previously sued to get the floating barriers.
But it's like one after, I don't know if I'm just like maybe on alert for it because these fucking commenters keep telling me it's really going to affect the election in 2024.
This is going to be a big fucking deal.
I don't know if the priming has worked or whatever, but I just like keep noticing it.
Is this like a real thing or what's going on?
I mean, immigration has been a hot button issue since Build the Wall in 2016, right?
Like, or even before then.
So I don't, yeah, it absolutely is something that is a political football that's going to be tossed around.
There's people going to have big hyperbolic takes on it.
And there's more and more lawsuits, like more and more legal action.
I don't think it's just people talking like I think like shit is happening in courts more and more.
What do you mean?
Like, okay, so New York did just sue all those bus companies that complied with Abbott's busing efforts to sanctuary cities.
So the implication there is that they're trying to like stop private companies from like complying with the Texas governor's order.
In the past, Biden successfully, or his administration successfully sued to get the floating barriers in the Rio Grande removed, calling them an environmental hazard.
He's currently suing to cut the razor wire border on Texas.
And then also Texas recently criminalized crossing the border illegally on the state level, which would give Texas state cops the ability to like detain suspected illegal border crossers and like deport them or like refer them to ICE for deportation.
And so Biden's like, it's like, specifically, there's more and more legal fights between Greg Abbott and Biden's administration or related parties like the state of New York.
But it's just interesting to me.
It's like an interesting little I don't know.
You know, I don't understand why Americans are weird about their borders, like most other countries are like, oh, yeah, you can't come through.
That's just how it is.
How come there's so much for a second?
Can you repeat that last thing?
Okay, sure, sure.
I don't understand why Americans are weird about their borders because in every other country, it's like, yeah, you can't come into the country without going through a proper border crossing and you can't just can't just jump the border.
That's normal everywhere else.
Why is it that when it comes to the American Mexican border, you have people screaming that it's somehow racist to build a wall?
It's like, what the fuck?
Like other countries have walls is no big deal.
Like what's what's going on here?
I mean, I mean, also another steel man, the other side, they'd be like, well, we don't want that even though it's normal in other countries, like it's normal in other countries to pressure a population, right?
Do we want that?
Obviously not.
We could look at the EU, right?
In other multinational conglomerates, if you will, that have treaties that allow free movement between countries without any of these border restrictions and things like that.
So while yes, in many countries, it is normalized to have a straight, strict border security.
That's not the case everywhere.
Yeah, but I mean, Americans don't have that kind of news.
Oh, sorry, the Republicans have tied Israel and Ukraine aid to like a certain number of what they would say is common sense immigration reform.
Other people would say really conservative, harsh, harsh on people who are just trying to make it for themselves and their children.
So it like depends.
But that's another thing that's happening right now.
Well, I mean, if you wanted to start cutting deals, that's how you would do it, right?
It's like the conservatives want something, the liberals want something else.
You make a deal.
You reduce immigration, you get more aid.
I mean, it seems like it's a fair trade.
I feel like the Democrats, I mean, again, maybe I'm like buying the hype because all these like commentariat people keep implying that like the Democrats will probably be electorally punished for this.
Like this doesn't seem to be very popular.
Apparently, immigration is the issue that Biden consistently polls lowest in terms of confidence for voters.
We did have it.
It's like, are you sure about that?
Because I'm pretty sure it would be Israel-Palestine at this point.
Oh, I don't think it's like the top one, but it's amongst the top like three, I think, immigration is.
Well, but I don't know that it's like number one, least confident.
To that point, there was a recent poll out where I guess Biden's approval rating is only at 38%.
It's very, very low.
And it is an issue, right?
I think Biden's low approval numbers are going to have an impact going forward, but I don't think it's caused to panic as of yet.
I think this might change going into the general as one, the economy gets better and continues to improve, right?
There's a lot of really good signs that the economy is trending upward right now.
But yeah, we'll have to see.
There's some signs that might be trending downward, though.
I mean, I've heard that layoffs are coming in the next six months, like big layoffs are coming.
Oh, so they might come in the future.
Maybe, but like I believe it was the Wall Street Journal.
I could be wrong on who reported this, but in December wage increase surpassed inflation increase, right?
And that's been something that's been underwater since COVID for a long time.
And it's now kind of finally kind of surpassed that.
So it's not entirely fixed yet.
There are still some big problems.
But again, trends that I'm seeing are all pointing to things are going to get better.
Now, will that actually affect his poll numbers?
We'll see, right?
And when it comes to immigration to your topic, Alison, I don't know.
Like, I don't know if that's going to be the big issue of 2024.
I really don't, but I could be wrong.
We shall see.
We shall see.
Is there anything else you have for us today?
No, that's really it.
I see you have the line again, so I'll let you go.
Okay, Alison, thank you for calling in.
And I will talk to you.
Bye.
Bye.
Yeah, so what other signs, just before bringing the next caller, I'm just curious.
Other than the layouts, what other signs do you see that the economy is getting worse?
That was the main one.
That was it.
Fair enough.
It might be true, right?
Like, we can only guess at the future.
We'll have to see.
Five dollars from Artemis Fowl says, Wick, tell people about the Muslim Uber driver I told you about.
I will.
We're going to let some callers get in and get stories in too, though, right?
This is a community event.
Okay, but I'll tell that story if the line dies down.
Let me bring in the next caller.
Hello, you're live.
Hello.
Hello, so I have a stupid question and then I have a serious question.
The stupid question is, what do you like better, Pokemon or Digimon?
Hello.
Hi.
Hi, so I'm not that familiar with Digimon, so if I had to choose between the two, I'll go with Pokemon because it's more familiar.
That's me.
Hold on a second.
Hold on.
Hold on a second.
I'm having a problem here.
Give me a second.
Okay, no.
Hi, Sparkles.
What's going on?
Hi.
Well, okay.
So I've been seeing this word neoliberal a lot.
What does it mean?
That's who's saying it.
Neoliberal is usually thrown around as an insult.
I don't know the precise definition.
Let's Wikipedia it.
Okay, so neoliberalism is a term used to signify.
The late 20th century political reappearance of 19th century ideas associated with free market capitalism, which had fallen into decline following the Second World War.
Let's see.
All I know is that if someone calls me a neoliberal, they're not wishing me.
Well, okay, they're not one by you piece of shit.
Neoliberal shit.
One impetus for the formulation of policies to mitigate capitalist free market volatility was a desire to avoid repeating the economic failures of the 1930s.
And policymaking neoliberalism often refers to what what often refers to what was part of a paradigm shift that followed the perceived failure of the post-war consensus and Keynesian economics to address the stagflation of the 1970s.
Okay.
Yeah, so so basically.
From what I basically understand is after the end of the Second World War up until pretty much the 1970s.
You had a lot of a lot of like Social Democrats are the ones who were paving the way in the various mainstream left-wing parties in the world.
Lots of high taxation and lots of lots of lots of social spending, right?
But you did that for about 30 or 40 years and the economy eventually stagnated.
So you so with the neoliberals basically came in with them with Ronald Reagan and Reagan's idea was hold on, hold on, hold on.
How about and we don't necessarily need to get rid of all the social spending.
But how about we cut some of this regulation to allow people to be able to more easily work and companies to be built and there's more economic growth and there's more prosperity and that basically worked and was the political paradigm of the West.
I think until Trump.
They get lasted from Reagan to Trump neoliberals.
They called Nikki Haley and neoliberal.
Yeah, so so the the left will often use neoliberal as an insult towards people who maybe they have some.
Some more progressive social views like on gay marriage or something like that, but ultimately they're very pro-capitalist.
They're not socialists at all.
So they use neoliberal as an insult and they did what they basically mean is like, you know, fake revolutionary or you know, like a capital like rainbow capitalism is also kind of related to this idea where it's like somebody who's very inclusive socially, but still ultimately a capitalist.
It's like a socialist slur basically.
It was a conservative guy that said it.
Okay, so when conservatives use the word neoliberal as an insult, it's also not good.
So when conservatives do it, they're basically saying like neoliberals are trying to appeal to the economics of the right, but they tax too high and they're too progressive for our tastes.
Okay, okay, that makes sense now.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah, it's used as an insult by both sides.
Cuz at first I was like, I don't yeah.
Okay.
Cuz he I cuz he would say that she wanted to be the vice president be if Trump she they want Trump to have her as a would be his vice president.
I think she said she would do that if she was asked.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She said yeah, but he said no.
He said no.
He doesn't want her.
Yeah, not at all.
Yeah.
No, there's there's there's no fucking way that he would.
Yeah.
How do you Dev?
How do you respond to the accusations that you're a neoliberal?
I might be I mean, it sounds like here's the thing.
If you look at you know, the the Golden Age of the neoliberals things are pretty good.
Yeah, the nifty 90s.
It was a good time.
Can't complain.
You know, if it turned out that I was just a neoliberal in the end after everything was boiled down.
I'd be fine with that.
I don't hate neoliberals.
I think liberals hold on a bad rap in general, right?
I think that more and more cry.
I don't buck against the label.
If you want to call me a liberal kind of okay.
I'm definitely I'm definitely a liberal.
Yes.
Also the men it sparkles.
I think sparkles.
You've been watching me for years now.
It's the first time we've spoken sparkles.
I think it is.
It is I've been saying voice messages before but we've never talked about.
Oh, no, right, right.
Is this a first time?
No, you okay.
It's not a stalker situation.
Is it or no?
No, it's fine.
It's fine.
It's okay.
No, you've been watching me for years and years.
So what I what I recall is there's been and you've certainly seen this sparkles.
There's been so many people who get mad at me when they finally realize that I actually am a liberal and I haven't been dog-whistling this whole time.
And it happens pretty regularly where it's like we you're actually a liberal and you're not you know, someone who says they're a liberal but you're actually far left or far right.
It's like no, I'm not no, I'm actually a liberal.
All the time I don't understand the commie you get called that all the time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, people who are more who are way more right-leaning than me call me communist all the time and what they mean by communist is basically somebody who is in any way even just slightly progressive socially or believes in some level of taxation that isn't zero.
That's what they mean by communist.
And then and then you have like you have people on Twitter or you have like BreadTubers or something.
I've heard Vashj say this about me a handful of times that like I'm a fascist right or I'm alt-right or I'm some sort of not like neo-nazi or right way something right something.
Yeah, crypto fascist.
I thought he just called you a fatchus.
A fat, what did he say?
A fatchus.
Yeah, a fatchus.
Is that me?
He's annoying anyway.
Vashj.
Yeah.
I mean, I've heard that maybe he's he's like slightly maybe one drop de-radicalizing.
I don't believe it though.
But I mean, he's he's slowly he's slowly coming out of the Fortress Ark.
I've had a I've had him on my stream once before generally look, he's a nice enough gentleman when you interact with him one-to-one I have substantive disagreements with I think some of the ways he handles himself but in a lot of other ways.
I actually agree with him and in some ways right like I think that there is something to the to be said about critiques of capitalism and critiques of more fascistic or more right-leaning institutions and groups and things like that, but you just can't the my problem my biggest problem with him is he can't believe anything.
He says you have to research it on your own because he'll just go with things.
The funniest clip I saw was him reviewing the terrorist attack in Iran where they blew up a bunch of people attending this Memorial for so many.
I believe it was and he's watching this and he's the whole time.
He's blaming Israel like oh Israel.
This has to be a girl.
I'm like calling it and it's Israel Israel did this Israel did this it definitely is and then like a week later Isis takes responsibility for the attacks.
And so you can't really trust him, but he's fine.
I know what you mean.
What about Tacoma and I live by Tacoma and Tacoma has lead in the water and lead in the water can make it more aggressive.
So maybe that's part of his issue.
You think so?
I think he's rich enough.
He doesn't drink the poor's water right?
He probably gets some bottles.
Bye I could be wrong, but thank you for calling in Miss Sparkles.
Is there anything else you have for us?
Digimon is better than Pokemon.
That's it.
Bye.
Why?
Why though?
Why is it better?
I'm not sure it is.
Did you mind like they're basically the same thing, right?
You you catch the animal you raise them and you train them to battle other animals.
No, did you Mon like like each human like there's like special humans who are given one.
And it's like it's like like their permanent partner and they only have one and they go on these adventures where they temporarily evolve them, but they devolve after the battle.
It's different.
But it was definitely like it was definitely made in the wake of the Pokemon craze in the 90s.
Fair enough, fair enough.
Look, I I missed that.
I never grew up with that.
I played a few Pokemon games and it's fun for what it is.
It's just not something that really like captured me.
Let's bring on the the next guest.
I'm not sure which one of y'all joined first.
So I'm just gonna I'm just gonna guess and we'll find out.
Hello, you're live.
Oh, he's gone.
He went back.
Try again.
We'll try it again.
Sorry, sorry.
Hello, can you hear me?
Vaguely, you're very low.
Can you turn yourself up?
By the way, thank you for the subs and Twitch.
Thank you for the prime subs.
Oh birds.
Thank you for the gift subs and all that.
I really appreciate that.
Gang, if you want to donate to the channel through superchats
through subs, please do but caller.
Hi, give me money.
Give what needs the money now.
Give it to him.
Okay, so you'll be a vtuber wick.
You'll make money that way.
What are you trying to say?
Please?
No, I don't know if you guys have talked about this but this
is something I got into a bit of a discussion conversation
with a friend of mine coming back did a long drive from
Gen Con when the first Trump and diamonds really were coming
down and something okay first premise first kind of given
I guess is would Trump fans revolt would Trump cultists
or whatever fans people who want to vote for Trump if he's
indicted on every charge.
Well, look what they did in January 6 after he didn't win
the election, right?
That's that's what I'm saying.
So there would be a lot of to be clear like like en masse
nothing en masse what they do is nothing but there would be
let's say very small minority of very hyper partisan people
that would do some terrible shit.
Now.
This isn't unique to Trump right and a lot of people will
say it is but it's not I read a story recently.
That has made me kind of wonder if the reason we don't see
as much left-wing violence is because left-wing hard left-wingers
are just retarded.
There is a man in 2020.
I believe who the only reason the mayor of this the Jewish
mayor of this town is still alive is because this guy was
so incompetent in his assassination attempts.
He failed twice like he went there to kill him, but he loaded
the bullet backwards and the gun advocating for more gun
training for leftist is what I'm here.
I don't I don't know but it was just it was wild.
So it's embarrassing.
Yeah.
So here's the thing.
I've been thinking of it.
So everyone always says that right wingers are more violent
than left-wingers and you ask him.
Why do you say that?
I wouldn't agree with that statement.
Yeah, I know I know but like when when when asked if they
give you the proper answer the proper answer is that there's
some sort of database that is divided up different types
of violence, right?
And I think it divides it.
There's like hmm.
Was it left-wing right-wing and libertarian?
It might be that's what it might be.
But anyway, and like the overwhelming amount of of violence
is committed by right wingers.
I'm like, well, this is very interesting.
So I never never and it's like three years ago.
I never I never got around to doing it, but I should eventually
take some time and do it but I decided to like click on some
random instances of what they called in their database
of right-wing violence and a few of them were was legitimate
right-wing violence like violence for a political purpose.
But one of them was like there was a neo-nazi.
He was like a skinhead and he had like like swastikas tattooed
all over his body, right?
And he killed his mother and went to jail and that person
was flagged as right-wing violence.
I'm like, well, hold on.
I mean, he he seemed to kill his mother.
No, but like he seemed to kill his mother because his mother
was abusive, right?
And then the end of the situation is like, well, Is that
right-wing violence because a right-winger did it even though
there's no political motivation for the violence.
It was personal.
That doesn't seem to be that doesn't seem to be properly
filed. So at some point I was like, I'm going to sit down
with this 10,000 strong entry list and go through them that
I forgot to do it.
And I was like three years ago.
I forgot to do it and then like I keep thinking about it
like once every three months like I should do that and I
just I just don't well, it's something you keep hearing
right? You keep hearing that all right wingers commit more
violence in the West, right?
You hear that all the time and again, it might be true as
far as I know but but what I'm scared of, you know for this
premise really is to look back at January 6 and I'm scared
of people like Jim Jordan and Ted Cruz the button, you know,
the banality of evil how simple it was for them to just keep
saying well we object on behalf of you know, whatever other
state, you know, we want them to recertify their election
call new slates that that's what I'm scared of.
I what I don't like to see is when you have groups of people
that are in power who are scared of their own base by the
leader Trump scared into a position where they have to now
go. Okay.
Are we actively supporting this coup?
Can we tepidly support this coup?
Can we you know, you know back it up and just use our political
rhetoric speech where we say we fight like hell and we do,
you know, because we have so many sick fans that will defend
this online.
And even when all the facts and truth and how hours and hours
and videos out there.
It's easy to just have someone like Alex Jones say they were
led into the Capitol.
I was there, you know, and and at the same time and Tifa did
it so that so my whole the premise of the question was let's
say there's a legitimate threat from conservatives that let's
say Ted Cruz Jim Jordan many other conservative Republican
lawmakers. Okay, I'm not saying the Alex Jones people I'm
talking about lawmakers who say if Trump, you know, you know
gets charged now he's charged now he's going to go to prison
if he is actually going to be not acquitted and we're going
to put him into prison because of that, you know, that's
the ramifications of the things he's done.
We will, you know, try to succeed from the Union or fuck
them are like I don't care if it's a credible threat.
They alike.
Look if it goes through the courts the courts make the decision
and find that there is wrongdoing and he is something beyond
a reasonable doubt guilty of these things and it carries
a sentence that includes jail time and he's sentenced to
jail time and then people are going to revolt because they
think that he should be above the law not fuck that.
No, I don't care.
Like if you we have to at least put the law above being fearful
of how people will respond to law.
That's my instinct on this.
I understand what you're saying my whole premise to relied
on the fact that Biden to try to keep the country United
would announce before the election that he would acquit,
you know, he would pardon Trump because I think about Nixon.
I think about when's the last time something like this has
ever happened in United States history and it was with Nixon
Nixon did the you know, he tried to tamper with the election.
He you know got information from his political opponents
and lied constantly constantly until he was finally backed
up into a wall where he had to completely give up power and
I firmly believe that if Nick Nixon did what he did today,
he would only could get away with it just because the internet
and the way the internet works.
There's no way that he would not fight it more than someone
like Trump and especially have the character of someone like
Trump and what did we do to Nixon, you know, we completely
pardoned him Ford pardoned him.
That was the first thing he did when he got into power when
he became president to forgive the country right to you know,
like I said, I don't know if that will I don't know if that'll
that'll heal what divides us.
What do you think Dev given that premise you're in charge
your king for a day.
Do you go ahead and pardon Trump or do you just let the
consequences play out?
I mean, yeah, he's guilty is guilty right and that's how
it should be obviously.
But I mean the the question is basically like if it if it
turns out that Trump is legitimately guilty.
However, punishing him would lead to a riot and possibly
a civil war.
Do you do so the moralist in me says that you have to because
if you don't what where does that lead down the road, right?
You have somebody who does all this shit and just because
he's popular going to let him not do it.
I mean, you know, you're gonna let me get away with it like
that sounds like it's a terrible precedent to set.
I mean some some more cynical people will say well, you know,
the rich and powerful and connected they already get away
with it and to some extent they do already get away with
it. But do you do you want to codify that as the actual
overt standard?
I don't think we do.
I mean is there I mean his whole thing was that I he would
not vote for Biden if he announced that he would pardon Trump
because how can we let the you know, someone get away with
the rule of law and I guess that's another question.
Would you vote for Biden if he says this is something I'm
not in one issue right with them.
I would say that call but uh, I don't need my politicians
to be perfect and perfectly aligned with my values to vote
for them.
Sure.
Sure.
Sure.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah, I don't know.
I mean if there was a legitimate threat of Civil War, you
know, how far does that go?
Is there let's be real like if it was going to and I could
if I could scribe the future and I knew that would lead to
millions of deaths in a brutal bloody war then maybe I might
be like, okay.
Well morals be damned.
I don't want this but I don't know right.
I don't know the future like that.
I can only make decisions based on what I think is best and
what I think would be happened or think would be happened.
That's silly what I think would happen in the situation but
being scared the worst-case scenario.
I just I don't see a realistic possibility that this is going
to be a thing.
Thank you for calling in in pursuit of knowledge anything
else before I let you go.
No, that's all catch you later.
Yeah, like the the fear-mongering.
Well, if we do this is going to destroy the country.
Like if this is the rules these are the rules.
I'm a rule follower.
Does that make me sorry?
I don't know.
You okay?
Yes.
No, basically.
I had no idea what hold on.
Okay.
No, sorry about that.
Sorry.
Look I you have my full attention just as soon as he left.
I had a DM from somebody that I had to answer really quick.
I was actually asking I was asking Pisco in fact about what
he thought of what Artemis presented and he just call in.
He just Dino Pisco.
Yeah, he's been on my show before too.
Oh, yeah, tell him to call in tell him to jump backstage.
He's in the server.
Like all the people we've talked about today pretty much
are in the server watches in the server destination.
So all of them, you know, they're all allowed to call in
but while while you do that, I'll bring in the next caller
and we'll see what they have to say.
Hello your life.
Hey, can you hear me?
Yes.
Hello.
Hey, so I I just wanted to call in because I have some pretty
detailed knowledge about the tunnel.
I don't like calling it the new top like gives me a little
bit of the of the ick but I'm like of the wick you mean look
that's what it is.
It's a Jewish tunnel.
They made the tunnel.
I don't know what does he want to call it?
How about that Hebrew tunnels?
Hebrew the Hebrew that's not alliterative.
I guess you tunnel is in a little bit illiterate.
Yeah, it's lazy lazy.
We can do better.
We'll think of it.
We'll think of it.
Okay, the tunnels under New York City that were built by
Jews go ahead.
So I live very nearby to there like a couple of blocks away.
I am not a member of I'm not a Chabad Lubavitcher, but I know
a lot about them and this it's so interesting to me that this
community is now getting all this attention because of this
thing going viral.
But essentially the tunnel is actually the result of a
religious schism within the Chabad Lubavitcher community.
It's it how much of the lore about this?
Do you want to know give us give us the you have about 10
minutes on the call version.
All right, that's plenty of time.
So essentially I don't want all 10 minutes to be you explaining
this by the way, but go ahead.
Okay, super valid super valid.
There's a bunch of different Orthodox Jewish communities in
New York City that all come from different religious dynasties.
They call them that they came over from Eastern Europe.
So there's the sat Mars in Williamsburg.
There's the Lubavitcher in Crown Heights.
I don't remember what the people in Borough Park are called
you can tell the difference between them by the way, they
dress and stuff.
Anyway, the Chabad Lubavitcher's had this rabbi.
If you walk around New York City these days, you'll see stickers
all over the place that have his picture on them.
Let's say the Messiah is coming or the Messiah is here and
the difference between those two stickers is part of the
religious schism where there's essentially three different
groups of people.
There's the rabbi died the Reb died in 1994.
Um, some people think he's just dead and that's it.
Some people think he was the Messiah and he did die, but
he's going to come back to life.
Those are the people that say that he's coming and then there
are other people that think he's here and those people think
he actually didn't die at all because he was the Messiah.
And okay, first of all, the rabbi hole is amazing.
We may call it the rabbi hole from now on.
But um, I like that rabbi hole.
Yeah, that's amazing.
But uh, how does that connect?
Yeah, what?
Okay, you got groups.
They think this dude's a messiah or was the Messiah maybe
dead tunnels?
How does this connect?
So the tunnel that is the subject of all this, you know mess
was dug underneath 770 Eastern Parkway, which amongst people
in that community is a very famous building because it's
the synagogue that the Lubavitcher rabbi used during his
lifetime and after he died because of this split amongst
the community.
They weren't able to ever elect a successor and the actual
building is split in half and the people on top of the building
are part of the group of people that I think think he's dead.
The people on the bottom think he's coming back to life and
the people who dug the tunnel were the people who think that
he's still alive.
And they dug the tunnel because he allegedly gave some kind
of commandment that the synagogue needs to be expanded and
they were trying to dig a tunnel from a sort of unused like
former bathhouse.
I think either from another building or to another building.
I don't know exactly.
I think it was from another building.
So they could connect them so they could fulfill the Rebs
commandment of expanding and thereby do a mitzvah, which is
like the whole if you ever walk around New York will also
see they'll ask you if you're a Jew all the time all over
the place the same people because they're always trying to
do mitzvahs because that either makes the Messiah approve
of you or makes him come back sooner depending on your
interpretation is asking if you're a Jew or not a mitzvah
is just doing a good thing.
And it could be any number of different things and asking
someone if they're Jewish is a good thing because if they
say yes, then you have them do a prayer with you and having
a lapsed you do a prayer is one of the biggest mitzvahs
there is because the whole point is to get all the lapsed
Jews to become religious again.
And that's when the Messiah will return.
I know it sounds completely fucking ridiculous and it is
to me but like it's like the South Park Mormon episode,
you know where it's like this is what these people actually
believe. Yeah.
What do you think Dev?
I don't I don't know if I have.
Yeah, I have I have no idea about anything Jewish.
I can't I don't I don't have anything to say I can't comment.
I don't know what any of this stuff did.
It's interesting enough.
Thanks for calling in about it.
Well glad you glad you thought it was interesting.
I did I I just look there's got to be better memes out there
about it though because the truth isn't as important as
the funny memes, but thank you for calling in friend and
we'll talk to you later.
Take okay.
Yeah, that was a lot.
He could have just made that all up.
See this is a problem.
Like he could have just legit made every single sentence
of what he said of his explanation up.
I wouldn't know I've been like, oh really this one.
That's a I'll have to look into that.
But it's wild if true.
We'll have to see let's bring in the next we're getting through
them where I want to get as many people as we can.
We have a long line and we'll get to as many people as we
can. Let's bring in the next guest and I do want peace go
to call in.
So then we could pit Artemis foul against peace go that
would be fun.
But hello your life.
That'd be funny actually.
Yes.
Can you hear me?
Hello?
Yep coming through.
Can I ask to have a question about the Antonio Gramsci
video? Sure.
When you talked about the cultural Marxism Wikipedia page
you talked about like this woman Joan Braun and then later
on on stitch and Adam you talked about how a lot of it was
completely rewritten by her.
It's not like the entire story about that because that can't
be the case.
What do you mean?
Said that a lot of the cultural Marxism Wikipedia came
rewritten to her.
Yes, thank you.
I remember you saying is that is that is that just the entire
story with that?
Well, I mean I didn't put this in the video cuz I didn't
know it at the time but it turned out that a lot of the
edits to the cultural Marxism Wikipedia page are from her
internet username from back in the day and she just cited
her own paper and because it's like like no one connected
the dots on that.
It just stayed and that's what it is now.
Yes, I just wanted to double check that cuz I just don't
feel ridiculous.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks Dave.
Yep, that's that's what it is man.
I mean at some point I might have to do a video on Joan
Braun but like there's she's like a dime a dozen academic
Of someone who's just like leftist and corrupt and in academia
and writing completely nonsense fucking papers that are being
cited with some sort of moral and factual authority because
it comes from University.
Well, it's kind of like and I do want to talk about this
right?
It's like the woozle effect and I'm not sure if you've heard
of that.
Are you familiar with the term?
Nope.
So what it is is say you publish a paper.
You're an academic and you publish a paper.
Okay, then you get your friend.
To cite your paper.
Okay, and talk about whatever it is the subject racism or
now you have two papers, right two papers and then you'll
get a third person to cite that paper and then you will cite
the third paper and it becomes like a circle right this this
this woozle effect.
It's from a Winnie the Pooh story where Piglet and Pooh
were following their own tracks looking for the woozle, but
it turns out that they were just following their own tracks
in the snow.
And that's what happens a lot with the the citing of the
sources and things like that is especially in academia is
they'll all cite each other in this like incestuous circle
jerk of research quote-unquote.
And so you got to be careful from that and Wikipedia unfortunately
falls prey to that sometimes because their standards for
what gets cited as information is it has to be in a book.
It doesn't have to be cracked.
It just has to be published and so Wikipedia is a good
place to start looking for things but you should start
going like you should like read Wikipedia for at least
the mainstream view which to be honest is generally mostly
correct with some obvious examples, but generally mostly
correct but then after you've learned the mainstream view
you should start reading the sources in the Wikipedia
article right read the sources directly and then they will
have sources and you should start like you should at some
point start chasing them back, right?
Thank you, by the way for calling in a record.
Was that literally all you had?
Yeah, that's literally all I had.
It sounded kind of unbelievable.
Yeah, that's what it is though.
Speaking of academics.
I have a PhD that's once Colin Eucharist.
He's a great guy.
He's worked in academia and I want to he says he has
a story about this that he wants to tell us so we're going
to grab him to call in and tell the story.
Sure.
Lusmark you're alive.
Are you the PhD?
Can't even hear how to unmute.
Hello.
No, I'm sorry.
My voice is mostly shot.
So you're gonna have to bear with me.
Okay, but the phenomenon that you were just describing
I have a particularly funny story about this.
So this is a relatively legendary thing from where I went
to undergrad.
There was a student in West of class who had just learned
about the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand was reading
the Wikipedia article and had learned and this is this is
probably well over 10 years back at this point.
So Wikipedia moderation standards have improved dramatically
in the past five to ten years.
But one way that you used to be able to sneak some really
fun things into a Wikipedia article was by putting a minor
detail in a sentence that was already footnoted that would
sort of like escape notice for some time and then sort of
just get cemented and so he was reading through the narrative
of Gavrilo Princip pulling out his pistol and shooting the
Archduke and he added a fun little anecdote in that where
he said he pulled out his pistol pistol whipped a nearby
pedestrian and then shot the Archduke and just left it there.
Now if you go Google Gavrilo Princip pistol whip you will
find for example, here's a 2014 article from the Australian
Broadcasting Company on the anniversary of the beginning
of World War One that quotes this anecdote that says he pistol
whipped a nearby pedestrian and then shot the Archduke it
made it into a high school history textbook made it in newspapers
and then eventually got you know retroactively cited back
on to Wikipedia as like well, look these are reputable sources
that are saying that Gavrilo Princip pistol whipped a nearby
pedestrian. But if you go back and look at the edit history
of the article, there's this one fanatical editor who finally
got it removed because he's like I'm telling you guys this
wasn't a thing before this original edit all of the sources
that say it all come from this you guys are crazy.
He's just going nuts for months trying to get this off
and finally it's gone, but it happens.
It really happens.
So I salute you Autis whoever that guy was very very fanatical
about editing Wikipedia.
You are the glue that holds us together, but that kind of
a story isn't exactly uncommon.
It's not rare.
I should say it's not as rare as you would think and this
happens with in in especially in kind of streaming circles
a lot too is a rumor will start that will be covered on
different streams and then it will become it will it will
escape. There's an escape velocity to it where it doesn't
need to stand on any foundation because the foundation
it stands on is now people talking about it.
I don't know but that's good.
How are you by the way?
How's it going?
I'm doing okay other than losing my voice over the past
week. Yeah, I came because I had promised you we would talk
about the plagiarism stuff on Friday.
So I wanted to at least get a little bit of it out here
in the short time that I have because man there have been
so many things in the past year.
I don't want to put these on the same level, right?
They're obviously different but like October 7th is one
example and the the plagiarism thing is another example
of just like news stories that more than anything serve
to like show people's inability to just process facts at
all where like, you know, so for example like the hospital
bombing in Gaza you saw people who it never could possibly
have been Hamas or another militant organization that did
that or it was an accident, you know, it was always going
to be Israel and vice versa.
There are people who could never conceive of Israel doing
something bad same thing with the plagiarism accusations
obviously again, like probably 10 tears down and importance
but like there are people who for whom it is inconceivable
that this woman could ever have intentionally plagiarized
repeatedly throughout her entire academic career despite
all evidence and if you think that she did and you think
she doesn't deserve her post because of that while you're
part of you know, this right-wing conspiracy here to be
clear Chris everyone knows what you're talking about.
The plagiarism thing was Claudine.
I think that's her first name Claudine Claudine gay Claudine
gay was the president of Harvard.
She recently stepped down after credible accusations of
plagiarism hit the news, right and there are
and I'm sure still are today people who are defending this
through various variety of reasons.
One of the reasons that I was called a useful idiot by by
our friend smug bug because smug bug thinks that because
it was a right-wing organization that pushed this that it
must be something we have to resist because the right-wing
messenger gave the message is something that no good leftist
would ever countenance.
I think that's problematic for a few reasons.
One of those reasons being that there is this idea that
the truth is only the truth if it's told by the right people
and I think that's harmful.
We even if some even at the worst person, you know tells
you something that's true.
It's still true.
It's still correct.
It's still something that actually is factually true.
Now you can you can interrogate their motivations, but when
it comes to plagiarism, we don't have to interrogate the
motivations even if they have the worst intentions if they
expose plagiarism plagiarism should be dealt with especially
if you're a president of a academic institution, I don't
know especially the most prestigious academic institution
in the United States, right?
Like I mean in her in her New York wasn't New York Times
op-ed after she resigned former president yay said that she
did receive a lot of like actually explicit racist harassment
and I believe her I totally believe that there are people
who were absolutely giddy and gleeful that a black woman
was falling to this campaign.
I totally believe that but it my point in the argument was
smug about on Twitter and and and that I'll stand by is
that it's a type of accusation that doesn't have ammo unless
the evidence is there her academic record is public.
You can go look at her articles on Google Scholar.
You can Google the paragraphs and they will bring up other
things from other books right then she did not cite them
appropriately.
So it's you know, if there are racists who are happy that
she's fired, you know, I don't like making versus happy but
sometimes, you know, perfectly reasonable things make bad
people happy right like thought stuff.
Well initially I was thinking of those two CGP Grey videos
about following sources back through the centuries you guys
would know I'm talking about.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, the Staten Island story about the guy who had barrels
on his ship and he unleashed them to to win the race and
then there was the story about Tiffany.
Where did Tiffany first appear in the in the lexicon as
a name right and both of those stories involved him like
reading books that no one's read for like a hundred years
and they've just been sitting on the shelf in the back of
a library somewhere and no one like no one knows anything
about it and no one cares that such obscure knowledge,
right?
So I was I was thinking of that because there's a lot of
instances where you'll have let's say it's something that's
true just completely true right and it's in an old book.
All right.
And then someone will like 20 years later will cite that
off-handedly in their book and then it gets cited again
and again and it goes like five or six books down changing
a little bit each time just citing the previous book as
to where it came from and then it gets then eventually
as soon as the the internet hits then it's on Wikipedia
and it's probably in some kind of dumbed down form or
it's on it's an article somewhere and you know, it's
it's half truth at best at that point from all the
transformations it's gone through right?
So a lot of this sounds like that.
Well and and one one thing that makes the type of plagiarism
that she was committing.
I think so.
So the reason academics I think should care about it
so much is when you do omit question marks and citations
you risk this thing happening even more so you risk just
stating a claim that someone takes this fact from your
work. They cite it from your work.
You haven't cited where you got it from maybe like in
one instance with her thing.
She took someone else's paragraph wholesale and changed
one word.
It was about the relationship between you know X initiative
and voting turnout among the black population or something
like that and the original thing that she copied from
said it had a negative correlation and she flipped it
to a positive correlation not on the basis of her own statistical
analysis, but just changing a word and so she's completely
changed the conclusion that someone else arrived at based
on their own statistical analysis.
But now there's a paper out there that I could cite that
makes that claim that bolsters my evidence right and I
can't follow her chain back.
She's she's cut me off from even doing that work the
hard work to go dig up that book that nobody's ever read.
You know, like I can't do that anymore when she doesn't
put quotes when she doesn't cite what she's supposed to
yeah.
Yeah, that's what we should be able to do theoretically.
Yeah, I think it's just hilarious that the internet has
been okay.
Let's say the left-wing internet has been doubling down
on defending this woman over and over and over because
she is left-wing herself and she plagiarized what she's
left-wing at the same time like a week earlier.
The left-wing internet was in an uproar about plagiarism
when it was an H bomber guy put out that video.
Yeah, right about YouTubers played plagiarizing and it's
like guys like very clearly there's just a partisan angle
to this right where it doesn't like the plagiarism itself
doesn't actually matter to these people.
The only thing that matters is whether their guys are
winning or losing.
Look this this is what frustrates me because this is
the first time this has happened and won't be the last
time this has happened where there's like this huge
partisan angle to what we think is right or wrong.
I I actually believe in a lot of these these values right
that leftists claim to hold I actually do believe that
there is that racism is bad like anti-semitism is a problem.
I do think that plagiarism and stealing other people's
work theft of time and theft of labor are both really big
issues, right?
I think that there's all these things at stake, but you
hurt what I want to happen when you make a game of it when
you make it this political football game that you're playing
just to hurt the other team and make sure your team gets
those touchdowns.
I don't care about the team.
The only reason I'm on this team so to speak right is that
it has the values that I I think are correct and when you
show that you do not care about those values.
That's I don't care if your team wins or not at that point,
right?
I don't know.
That's just my thought.
Yeah.
Yeah, there's an article in the Harvard Crimson the student
paper obviously has been covering this a lot and there was
one op-ed by the editorial board that came to her defense.
I think one thing that gets lost in the whole discussion
is the actual timeline of events where much of the statements
that Harvard made and that the defenses of her came before
additional accusations had come to light and been sort of
adjudicated.
So there were early accusations that were raised in October
after the controversy with the congressional hearing.
So people started digging into her record because she offended
people and they found these things that look suspicious those
early ones were like, okay.
This isn't that bad like she cited this paper elsewhere in
the dissertation like she could probably could have done
better and then as time went on more and more things were
found. So the Harvard Crimson editorial board wrote in favor
of her, but then there was a dissenting member of the undergrad
Honor Council at Harvard who wrote an essay basically who
said I get to weigh in on decisions of whether or not someone
gets suspended or expelled at Harvard for exactly this kind
of stuff. And this is definitionally plagiarism.
I voted to suspend people undergrads at Harvard for violating
this policy.
How can our president be held to a lower standard than Joe
Schmoe jr.
Who copied a paragraph off Wikipedia in his senior seminar
or whatever, you know, like like how it's a really good op-ed.
I think like the student is like I take these decisions
seriously and it doesn't seem like Harvard is as a school.
So yeah.
Bro Dev, what were you going to say?
Sorry.
Yeah, I cut you off there.
So wick you and I had a very short back and forth and it
was over Twitter banning like left-wing accounts recently,
right?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I was that was my pocket in case things.
Yeah.
Well, I don't know.
I don't know if you were replying to this but I'll just send
you my tweet anyway, but it's basically someone said, you
know a bunch of left-wing accounts and journalism suspended
from from Twitter and then I posted that xkcd.
No, I promise you it wasn't a subtweet.
I've seen a lot of it on my time.
Okay, people celebrating this happening and saying good
right like the I'm not necessarily celebrating there is
some schadenfreude here for sure, but I'm not necessarily
celebrating but there's that legendary xkcd tweet where
the person says the right to free speech means the government
can't arrest you for what you want for what you say is just
that people listening think you're an asshole and they're
showing you the door right and whenever let's say, you know
over the past decade online a right-winger has been censored
and says what about free speech Leftists have always posted
this comic and they've been very smug about it.
You know what I mean?
They said well or even crazier you'll like I've seen this
from let's say even more radical accounts where they'll
say freeze peach freeze and because they make a mockery
of the idea of appealing to free speech and what's underneath
that this is something that I tried to Hammer home in my
talk on your channel wick with with Karl Max is that you
can't simply have a standard where you are not censored
and you can have all the debates about your ideas that you
like but your opponents are censored and the reason you
can't do that even if you think your opponents are evil
and that it would be good to censor them is because when
they get power and they will they will turn it around on
you. And that's what's happening now is that you like
yeah, the the cultural zeitgeist is shifting rightward a
little bit right Elon now controls Twitter and you're seeing
things move in a more rightward direction online and now
you're seeing Leftists get censored and so the liberal
response to that is hey, we shouldn't be censoring everyone
which is true and I agree with you on that right, but
if you if you have if you have if you have a paradigm where
Every time the left is in power they censor because they
don't care about liberal principles hypothetically and
every time I get a hypothetically the right is in power.
They do care about liberal principles.
So they don't censor that means that you that you have
basically a ratcheting effect only moving one way right
where you have things are pushed leftward and then when
things swing back, they don't actually swing back.
You just maintain a neutrality of whatever came before
So there is a good argument that unless your opponents
commit to not being censorious in the future.
You must also go against liberal principles and
censor them because liberal principles only work if
ever it is a trap it is a trap but but you have to
figure out that not doing it is also a trap though
because then things will they will just inevitably
win over enough iterated games, right?
So you have to say listen, we're going to punish you
by the same standard that you punished us and we're
going to do it until you recognize that your standard
is wrong and you can't do it to us.
That's not why they're punishing them, right?
Like that's not why it's happening.
They're doing it because it's team sports and so free
speech is a big issue of mine.
And one of the problems I have is that almost no one
actually believes in it, right?
A lot of people will say that they believe in it, but
they'll do this thing where they're always willing to
censor the other side because they're dangerous and
they're never willing to in any time the same weapon
is turned on them.
They decry it, right?
And one of the things the great things about organizations
like thefire.org.
I don't know if you're familiar with them.
Is that whether you're left right or center, they will
defend your free speech rights legally, right?
And that's how it should be.
Yeah.
Yeah, I agree.
But the problem becomes is it's a cultural problem
when we do this.
Well, it happened to us.
So now we're going to do it to you to show you what it
feels like.
It just perpetuates the cycle and so someone has to be
a bigger person and say no, we're not going to continue
this cycle.
We're going to stop it and we are going to both culturally
and legislatively defang the processes and methods on
which people engage in this attack on free speech.
So they say so I completely agree with you, but I think
that process can only happen after you've given the sensors
a dose of their own medicine.
So I can give you two examples, right?
So one I said when we were talking about this week, I sent
you that Star Trek The Next Generation clip.
Yeah, did you watch it?
No, I got to watch it.
I'm gonna be real with you.
Like I saw it on my Twitter.
I'm like, oh, that's cool.
I'll watch it later.
And then I just ever did.
Okay, so the episode is that Picard is kidnapped by aliens
and the aliens are actually very benevolent and benign.
They were just experimenting, right?
They didn't really hurt him, but then he kidnaps them and
he holds them and they're like extremely distressed and like,
oh, you can't be doing this.
We didn't mean you any harm and it's like well now, you know
what it feels like you can't do this to me.
And now that I've done it to you, you're going to know why
you can't do this to me.
And that was the lesson he he did it a bit and then he let
off and said now, you know, and then they parted ways, right?
And there was no eternal punishment of him.
There was if I thought if I thought that the people in power
right that we're going to punish the Liberals would just
do it like a card would then maybe I would agree with you,
but they're not going to do that.
You and I both know they're not going to do that.
Yeah, it's going to take it away.
It's escalating my medic cycle.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, the other option is they escalate and that's also
not good, right?
So so there's um, the other the other example is Destiny
talks about this a lot where Destiny says something like
he seems to be kind of fixated on when Obama's final Supreme
Court justice was stolen from him because they simply blocked
it for a year and a half by not holding that hearing.
Remember that work?
I do.
I remember it.
Yeah, I remember it distinctly.
There's all there's a lot of arguments there that that this
was Harry Reid's fault when he changed the filibuster rules
anyway, but carry on.
Yeah, yeah, but basically the even if it was legal it was
very clearly immoral and against the spirit of how things
should function right?
Yeah, and so so Destiny's opinion seems to be you know,
what we should once we once we have the capability to do
so we should do that once to the Republicans just so they
have a taste of it and then we can say okay, you know, we've
now hit you back now.
We both know we can't behave this way but we have but we
can't just get them get away with it.
We have to do it at least once to them so they know it's
the same principle here though.
Yeah, but that's never going to be how that works.
What that's going to do is people are going to say oh it
worked we're going to engage in it to show you a lesson.
Oh, wait, it actually worked again.
Hell this is going to be a power politics play from now
on and now it's normalized in the lexicon of how we behave
lexicons wrong.
Yeah, but you know, this is now yeah, but going my biggest
yeah, this is my biggest disagreement with Josiah pondering
politics first, but whenever I get my voice back, we're
supposed to talk about this book actually tyranny their
minority same authors who did how democracies die a few
years back and one of their arguments in both books.
Is that you do actually see like a deterioration of like
cross aisle and Democratic norms in the US particularly
around the Clinton impeachment and like since then things
have like become in an escalating cycle more and more hostile.
And so for example, like we didn't used to have real controversy
about Supreme Court appointments, but since Clinton we have
on both sides.
And so I'm yeah, I'm not convinced that there's ever going
to be a point where one side says well you did this and
now we get to clap back and that's going to be it like you
understand now how bad it's going to be I see it like yet
more like the ratcheting or more like I love Renee Gerard
and he talks about escalating cycles of imitative violence
and I think that's just sort of what's happening.
I don't know how it ends until one side decides to be principled
and and not do that but then that requires you know, a lot
of sacrifice as well.
So, yeah, I just I don't see where that definitive point
is where like I love Star Trek and I love that example.
I think it's great.
I think that's how it would work in an ideal world like
a lot of things in Star Trek, but unfortunately we're stupid
and not rational and that's not how people actually work,
right?
So here's the thing right because the options only seem
to be you you give your opponents as much unfairness as
they give use to teach them and then you stop or you both
escalate or you do nothing and allow them to escalate
unopposed and then like then you just lose right now.
There seems to be no other option.
No, Dev.
I disagree that you lose in that case.
What you do is you draw a delineation distinction in the
voters minds between it's been okay.
I'm talking about liberal democracies here, which we live
in. Okay, I'm not going to I'm not going to posit on whether
this works in a another system, but in our system what
you do is you say okay these this is why we're different.
We have principles they do not and generally this gives
you elections, right?
This is why you win elections generally and that's going
to happen all the time.
It's not going to be a clear and present thing.
But when you stoop to their level what you do is you make
it a situation where people cannot tell the difference between
you and them and then why would they vote for you over them?
Because I mean then it's just they can't they can't tell
you're both engaging in the same kind of chicanery and so
see that this this this makes sense up until the point that
the other side is actually able to fuck with how elections
are run and then this breaks down because then it doesn't
matter who votes for you.
As long as we're referencing apt sci-fi things, you know,
this my position I think is like the the war games position
right you the only winning move is not to play right like
that. You can't once you get in the cycle like everybody
dies or you know, somebody taps out.
Those are the only two options and in my estimation unless
unless we actually have strong enough institutional bullworks
that punish people when they start stepping out of the real
bounds, but I'm I used to be very optimistic about that.
I don't know if I am anywhere.
Honestly, I think America does I mean I've been following
the various Trump indictments.
I think he's totally fucked at least on the documents case.
The other ones are hitting this but like we'll see but if
you see that the most recent Michigan poll like he's up eight
points in Michigan right now, Michigan.
It's insane.
Like I if I was Biden I would be quaking right now if that's
if it's a good poll and all that blah blah blah, you know
political science stuff.
That's I did I did fake political science.
I do political theory, but my friends who do real political
science. Tell me all of these things so but that's should
be scary if you don't want Trump to win and I don't want
Trump to win even though I'm a conservative so like I don't
know what a second Trump presidency looks like.
I think it looks like gutting all those bulwarks.
I'm confident in if yeah, you all of these cases could stick
if they give him house arrest and he's still on the ballot
and he gets re-elected what happens?
I don't know.
Yeah, I mean I do like the the idea of Trump goes to jail,
but he's also the president and then you have like his Secret
Service in the jail with him because that could be that
could be like a hilarious movie, but it's yeah, it's it would
make a fun movie.
You're correct.
But a reality would be no, I don't want to know that Trump
Trump ruling the country from jail.
Oh my God.
Listen.
I'm glad I'm not an American you guys have fun with that
shit.
You Chris.
Thank you for calling in.
I'm sorry that you're not feeling well.
Well, that's great.
I'm sorry.
I just your chat has this neon Reagan guy who put conservative
and scare quotes fight me you Chris on Discord message me
anytime.
Let's ha ha ha neon Reagan's from my community.
He is like a he's a paleoconservative.
Oh, well, then we have more overlapping things, but he is
a pro Trump paleoconservative.
Oh, well, then that's stupid.
Okay, that's fine.
Okay.
Thank you for calling in you guys.
I like you Chris you Chris is one of the original Wickers
who would go and talk with me when I was like had two people
watching me, right?
So really good guy.
He's fun to argue with I have some substantive disagree with
some of them on a few things, but I think that overall whip
smart honest honest guy genuine and he's a PhD so I get to
throw that around a little bit.
So yeah, yeah.
I mean, oh man.
When it comes to the the whole academic thing the go-to food
shops in the chat, she knows what I'm talking about the go-to
is when for me just to show some of the the obvious bias is
when academic agent got fired right back in like 2019.
Do you remember that?
Do you remember the story there wasn't this President Sunday
related?
Yes, it was vaguely remember it remind me.
Yeah, so academic agent.
He ran like an anti SJW YouTube channel the back in that era
of YouTube and he was definitely like a center-right type
of guy.
But President Sunday back in the day.
This is in years and years and years ago got together a crowd
of people to send a bunch of messages to his University
because he was a professor at a University in the UK.
So they spam the University with various reports and they
said this in this guy.
He's a threat to your students.
He's far right and because the UK is way more sensitive
to the sort of stuff in America is he lost his job and
he can't he still has some connections in publishing.
So he's been publishing new books, but he doesn't teach
anymore.
Like he was he was kicked out of academia despite having
his PhD.
It's like that sounds ridiculous in my opinion, even though
I just I don't agree with him and I mean since being isolated
academic agent has radicalized very far right, but I don't
necessarily blame him for that because no one came to his
offense except for the right wingers.
Yeah, that that's how that works.
This is a tale as old as time right you kick them out.
So there's no one no one sane will associate with them and
well, who are they going to who they're going to turn to
because they're not going to cease to exist, right?
They're just go with the people who will listen and talk
to them and they ain't going to get pushback on their crazy
ideas anymore.
But no, I think that it's just scummy all around that whole
story.
So so so the academic agent story is where I first started
really paying attention to not just, you know, personal
left-wing bias, which I experienced a lot when I was in
University myself, but also institutional left-wing bias
where the rules actually are just applied one way.
And so for me once I saw the the Harvard plagiarism story
that was just like another data point in a very long list
of data points.
I've been collecting for like five years now of just how
how left-leaning academia is.
And and there's probably some there's probably some natural
inclination for academia to be left-leaning because the
right does tend to be more intellectual focused and the
left is like more blue-collar focus.
So there's probably some natural probably some of the
left-leaning ness of it is just how it how it is naturally,
but I think a lot of it is definitely like artificially
imposed and they're rigorously gatekeeping other ideas.
Yeah institutional capture.
Yeah, it's this idea.
Well, yeah, I'm on man's I won't explain it to you, right?
You know what I'm talking about, but I I think it's getting
better. I think that this is evidence of it getting better
because it this had happened in 2020.
We wouldn't have had the same outcome.
I think that funnily enough October 7th and the response
to it by a lot on the far left really just there is a
there's a there's going to be a divorce between certain
segments left the people who cheered and the people who
who didn't on October 7th, right?
I think that we're going to have a far-reaching.
Yeah differences.
So what was what's really funny is like when I went through
my leaving the left moment, it was 10 years ago, right?
And October 7th was something that I knew was coming for
a long time now like not that specific event.
But this idea this idea that liberals would eventually
see the liberals who didn't get like slowly pushed into
the socialist camp.
The liberals would eventually see exactly who they buddied
up with during the 2016 to 2020 era because there was a
lot of just broad leftist unity in the face of you know,
Trump getting elected and Bolsonaro and Brexit and there
seem to be the slow rise of the right-wing in liberal
democracies, which is still continuing in Europe.
There's no right-wing or right-wing parties are still
getting elected.
I saw that happen in Argentina as well video recently.
Did you see that one where they're all doing the Nazi
salute or whatever?
Which one was that?
It was very recent.
I think it was Italy could be could be Spain, but maybe
like a huge crowd of people all just doing the Nazi salute,
but yeah, so there has been this slow rise of the right
for sure.
And I think in least in the English-speaking world the
broader left United in the face of that but then after
you know, Trump Trump lost in 2020.
They kind of had to figure out why they were together and
I think October 7th was I knew something like this would
happen where liberals realized why hey you actually don't
fit with leftist all that much.
I didn't know what it was going to be but it was going
to be some big event.
It turned out to be October 7th, right?
So I see I see Brianna Wu, for example tweeting stuff that
I was saying 10 years ago and it's like you're going through
the exact same thing.
I went through 10 years ago.
The reason I went through through it 10 years ago is because
for me it wasn't a public event for me.
It was being in University and reading a lot of their political
theory and figuring out where it goes, you know, we all get
there in different ways.
I like to hear a lot of different perspectives for me.
It's not so much a left versus right thing.
It's extremist versus non extremist thing.
Like I can get I can get along with a right-wing moderate
right or someone who's a moderate and has very conservative
views. I would get along with that person but extremists
on either side even even an extremist who takes all my values
everything I want but they're extreme about it and they're
extreme about the ways they go about it.
It's something I don't want.
I don't want to associate with.
Well associates the wrong word.
I don't want to be on their team because I think that the
extreme nature of how you engage with the world affects like
it takes everything you touch it twists and contorts things
that I would consider values to be weapons in a lot of ways
and I don't like it.
So speaking of a speaking of extremism food shops after
announced to you guys food shops is in fact coming becoming
a right-wing extremist.
She's going through it right now.
I want to she's been reading Mencius mold bug.
She's been reading Mencius mold bug and she's becoming a
right-wing extremist guys.
You have to understand.
I don't I don't want to talk about food shops too much because
she can't defend herself on my channel.
She got banned because of the peto stuff.
But uh, wait from your server.
She's banned.
She can't come in.
She's banned.
Um, I don't know what you mean about it.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Was this your ruling or your mods or what?
My mods, my mods and my admins made this decision.
I haven't looked into the the I have seen I've heard some
of the clips.
They don't look good.
I have been meaning to get around to talking to her directly
about it.
Unfortunately holidays Etc.
I haven't yeah until I figure it out.
I'm gonna hold this for I looked into it.
Yeah, and I mean the I looked into it and she just seems to
be like schizo, which is fine.
It's fun.
But like like here's the thing.
I don't think everyone's like she's a pedophile.
I don't think she's a real pedophile guys.
I just think she has zero tacked zero ability to form a coherent
sentence.
No idea what when to not say the edgy joke and it's like,
okay, I did the clips I've seen and their clips to be fair
didn't sound like a joke.
It sounded like her argument.
Um, well also also here's the thing like like for me.
Here we can move away from food drops.
Thanks, Deb.
She says in the chat.
Okay, here we can move away from food drops.
Like I personally don't care that much about the drawn
lolly stuff because it's a drawing.
It's like I whatever I don't care, you know, if you don't
like if you like it, I don't care if you don't like it.
I don't care.
There are people who there are people who came over this
with the people who want to treat drawings as if they're
the exact same morally as real child porn.
I think that's ridiculous.
No, but it's like something can be worse.
But the original thing is still not good and not something
I want right?
Yeah, I don't I don't know.
I'd have to again.
I have to talk to her at some point.
Let's have the lolly debate with let's do it.
We might have the lolly debate.
We can do it right now.
We can we can monetize the shit out of it.
Why do it right now?
Well, we can make a production value of it.
Dev as the defense attorney for food stamps, right comes
on my show, right and then we'll have a prosecutor right
going and we'll and I'll be the judge.
I'll wear a wig will make some money and like if you if
you super chat will get that'll be like the jury, right?
Well, it's super chat to do the journey.
Nice.
Yeah, it'll be great.
But let's bring another color.
We've we've convinced that I want to get as many people as
we possible.
I know I said one to two hours, but we got a lot of people
so I don't know if you have anywhere to be or no, I'm good.
Let's go.
Okay, I can probably do do like one more hour.
One more hour ish.
Okay.
Well probably goes.
Okay.
We'll see how it goes.
But and you thought that this wasn't going to be interesting.
We have nothing to talk about.
You're foolish.
Let's bring in the next contestant on whatever the fuck
this is.
I still hope Brianna Wu shows up at the end.
Maybe again.
I'll send her another DM my alibi.
Hello your life.
Oh, how about now?
How's good now?
It's good greetings.
Yo.
Well, that's a lot to follow up of that was a good conversation
and all that but I'll do my best.
Well, yeah for us.
Well, so one I was backing off a topic earlier because I had
some interaction with it but like political labels where
liberal versus conservative people on the far left don't
like to call other liberals.
They'll just call them conservative neoliberal use
pejoratives and stuff and how again we can't even come down
to like simple facts on how to kind of label people or where
they fit in.
And like on the liberal side you have people who are pro Israel
and also pro Palestine, but then someone who might be pro
Israel a lot of extreme leftists won't like to call them
liberal at all.
Yeah, so let's go ahead.
No, I agree with your point here.
Yeah, they go on continue.
So like where do you know it because also the PhD guy who
was on earlier and I enjoyed that talking about kind of the
processing of facts how stuff can be edited.
How do you get people to come to kind of a common agreement
of what they call liberal or conservative and like just
because you don't agree with one liberal position doesn't
mean you're conservative and again, you're just bad faith
if you're so I think this is a this is a problem about people
swallowing an identity and making their identity or their
political party part of who they are as a person.
I have certain values right that I believe in.
More leftist progressive kind of things tend to fit with
most not all but most of those values tend to align with
them if that ever stopped being the case, right if that
ever changed I wouldn't follow the label.
I would follow the value and I think a lot of people are
the opposite of that they are invested in saying hey, I'm
a leftist or I'm a this and so if you are not this right
if you don't have the same beliefs I do you cannot be a
this and even when those parties change or those tribes
change they will cling to this and so they try to kind of
like gate keep the word or gate keep the label and push
people out that they disagree with and keep a pull in that
they don't but I don't get tied to it like that.
So to answer your question.
How do we get people to come to a common understanding?
I don't I don't give a shit what someone says it's conservative
or not.
I'm like, okay conservative cool.
What are they actually saying?
What's their proposal right?
What are they advocating for?
Is that good or is that bad?
It's very simplified way of thinking it but it is what it
is then I'll be okay with it or not.
I don't I don't care if they call it conservative or not.
What do you know that's a hundred a hundred percent fair.
I would say even growing up when talking politics with my
family, they would always like to label me.
Oh, wait, you are are you conservative you libertarian
you neoliberal and I always kind of yeah shocked those
labels and much rather like what's your opinion on this
and this?
Because it can be very nuanced.
What do you think that?
Yeah, pretty much.
I mean, I'm kind of feel the same way right if I if if my
ideals like if society shifted in my ideals became known
as far right then that's what I would be I wouldn't care
too much right or far left.
I still wouldn't care too much.
So okay, I guess I guess that's where I am.
I guess I'm far left or far right now fine fine.
What matters are the ideas themselves, right?
And here's the thing when it comes to when you're arguing
over labels rather than arguing over ideas.
What's really happening there is you're trying to place
a moral judgment on someone right?
So so for example, like when someone calls you a fascist
let's say they're left-wing and they call you a fascist.
What they're really saying is you're you are bad thing
and therefore you should you therefore you should be about
it. It's a moral judgment, right?
And the issue ultimately the issue ultimately is that if
you were to actually meet a real fascist someone who genuinely
believed in those values and thought they were good.
They wouldn't be insulted by you calling them a fascist.
They just be like, yeah, that's that's what I am right.
They wouldn't it wouldn't be an insult.
So the idea of attaching moral weights to labels and then
slapping people with them.
It doesn't really work and it really doesn't work to actually
discredit ideas, right?
Like everyone everyone everyone on Twitch poll, I think at
one point or another probably even including myself frankly
has simply used fascist as like a sentence ender or like
like an argument ender where it's like, well, you believe
in X policy.
Well, that's a fascist policy and it's like well, what's
the rest of the argument?
That's the rest of the argument that's being smuggled in
there is fascism is immoral.
So you shouldn't believe in this policy, right?
But that's frankly not a good enough not a good enough way
to talk to argue him up.
And I actually think this is a conversation win the argument
for a long time though, but it's always I think it's not
good enough anymore getting to that point where people are
seeing through it, right?
Well, it ships the argument because you have to defend yourself
not being a fascist over whatever you were originally talking
about. Well, there's there is that but there's also the fact
that you know seven or eight years ago.
It was racist, right?
Everyone's like you're racist.
You're racist.
You're white male racist, but that got to a point where
now no one gives a shit if you're called a racist sometimes
they'll just be like, yes, I am.
Fuck you.
Just just like him to fuck off, you know, and then which
by the way one that has allowed a lot of real racist
to get smuggled back into the conversation, right?
But secondly it they've now had to shift to a different
word and right now the word is fascist and we're approaching
that point to where nobody cares.
It's not there yet.
Maybe another six months to a year.
Nobody cares if they call you a fascist anymore in the which
by the way one that allows fascist to come back in the
conversation, but to that offers no argument against fascism's
here you go.
Here the optics go out the window fascism's positive qualities,
which it does have some right.
So like you have to you have to balance this where it's
like you have to actually argue against the policies themselves
and not really care what label they're under the the winner
in the story of the boy who cried wolf was the wolf and
you're exactly right the people when you are watering down
and flattening a term so that it just has very little meaning
anymore.
It helps the people who are actually those things to as
you say get smuggled back into society because the accusation
holds no way because it's very important right when someone
is doing fascist things that actually will be authoritarian
take away democracy take away people's freedoms of choice
take away people's free speech.
Etc to be able to tell people that and rather than go through
a whole litany shorthand is useful.
But again, we've over overplayed our hand.
I agree with you.
Yeah.
Actually here to to bring food shops back up again.
I had a had this conversation with her like last week.
Okay, and well, I was trying to explain this idea to her
basically and it was basically that okay if you're gonna talk
to a like a real fascist if you just because I think I think
she talked to Big Papa fascist at one point and like you
can't just scream about how your opponent's ideals are immoral
because they don't share that that that view of it with you.
So it's not an argument to them.
You have to she says in the chat.
I live in dev walls.
Fuck you.
Okay, so so listen listen what you have to actually do many
times you bring her up.
So go ahead.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, we have what you have to do is you actually have to
show how their own positive qualities are not fulfilled by
the Paul by the policies they want to implement right?
So for example, if you talk to a fascist and assuming he's
honest with you.
He'll say that like order is a great positive quality in
society, right?
Like you want an orderly society.
That's why that's why they're so strict with things right,
but then you realize that once you what once you centralized
all power into the great leader into one person your society
be that's a single point of failure for society, right?
So, you know hypothetically if Joe Biden is assassinated
today America will have a crisis.
It may even go to war.
However, your government doesn't collapse because you have
chain of command you have succession things are set up and
power is devolved to hundreds or thousands of different
people in hundreds of thousands of different offices all
over the country, right if you assassinate Hitler Nazi Germany
dies and so when the fascist says I want order you have to
be able to show them that well you might want order but the
way you set up your society is act does not actually guarantee
any order and in fact liberal democracies in their decentralization
guarantee more order, right?
So there is in my opinion a good argument against fascism
and I didn't once have to soy out about how immoral it is.
You know what I mean?
You didn't have to yeah, but no, thank you my alibi for calling
it a great topic.
Great question.
Is there anything else you have before we let you go?
Um, no, not really that kind of covers it.
The only other like before you throw me off into the void
would say I would guess like while there are select few
people who would welcome the label fascist.
I think there are a lot of people that if the term that
would readily like deny it just because kind of like you
were saying they think morally different they disagree
with you, but they're like the moral outcomes of what
their beliefs are wouldn't make them believe their effect.
Yeah, we're the one of the reasons we're so hesitant to
take a good conservative or good progressive or good leftist
whatever whatever ideology you think of as bad is because
we have spent so much time and so much so much blood sweat
and tears has been spent as tying that political label of
our enemies to be evil.
And so they can't have a good idea because they are evil
and this is a problem and it's made it very very hard to
work with each other and very very hard to work across
the aisle every time someone on one team or the other tries
to work with the other team.
They are seen as traitors in a lot of ways to and are often
primary now.
It's a big problem.
It's something we have to I don't know what to do about
it, but it's something we're going to have to deal with
at some point, right?
Well another part of the another part of this conversation
though something you mentioned earlier my my alibi is that
they wouldn't say that they're fascist and a lot of that
comes down to like if you were to like go to Nick Fuentes,
for example and say are you a fascist?
He'll probably say no and what he'll say is you mean I'm
obviously not you know, a member of the Italian fascist
party or the Nazi German party, you know because fascism
today looks very different from fascism back then right
and because ideas do change and like like the liberals of
today are not the same thing as the liberals of a hundred
years ago, right?
So things do like there is a genealogy you can trace back
through through political ideologies to see where things
came from but today's fascists are not the same thing
as Mussolini in 1910 coming up with a new ideology, you
know what I mean?
So they would probably it's a word game.
But if you're educated enough on why the policies are bad,
you don't need to you don't need to do the moral condemnation
educating ourselves as streamers.
What are you talking about?
What are you talking about?
To the void to the void.
They kicked him out.
I did.
Well, he I told him he's gonna go to the void.
I let him listen.
Look listen chat.
If you want to if you want to go down another rabbit hole
of weird fringe ideologies that like only if like a dozen
people actually follow go to the Wikipedia page for a
narco nationalism.
Okay, narco nationalism.
I've heard of narco capitalism, but narco nationalism.
Isn't that?
Yeah, so yeah, so you have like a narco capitalism.
You have a narco socialism, narco communism, syndicalism
primitivism.
You can definitely find a narco nationalism.
Okay, so okay.
I I just this is like that.
Yeah, I'll give you the I'll give you the tldr.
Okay, so yeah briefly because I don't want to get National
National anarchists syncretize ethnic nationalism with philosophical
anarchism in their support for a stateless society.
So they they're against they don't want a state.
They don't want a government but they do want a unified
society based on some sort of tribal lines whether it's
ethnic or racial or religious or something that unites
them together with like a very strict in-group out-group
view of the world, but there's no government and no state.
Okay, you know why we can just label all of those things
into the retarded category.
Well, if you look at a lot of the people that left-wingers
mistakenly call fascist nowadays, they do kind of line up
with with an narco nationalist ideas, which is kind of fun
because like like Nick Fuentes.
He definitely applies as an narco nationalist.
I can I can have based on that very brief description you've
given he hits a lot of the boxes.
It's it's it's one of those things where it sounds I wonder
how many of people say that there are these things just
to sound crazy or to sound different or to be unique or
whatever right to be edgy.
Yeah.
I'm sure you've seen like Twitter accounts or they'll post
like, you know this very specific type of this one leftist
writer who's part of this one movement from some country
70 years ago and that's the the specific strain of leftist
thought I believe in and it's like we all know you're just
you're just sitting around on your underwear eating fucking
chicken tendies and watching YouTube streams of bread tubers
and that's that's all you are true, but they got to make
it sound good, right?
Let's bring on the next contestant on whatever the fuck
this is.
Ali your life you are what a man what you got for us brother.
All right.
So I was wondering societally I've been watching and I feel
like things are going like more red pill blue pill, right?
Have you seen elaborate on that?
Yeah in terms of dating in terms of like ideology.
It seems like a lot of young people are really responsive
and they're really like hype to follow red pill ideology.
So the sneakers the fresh and fits of the world and I feel
like in that war that's happening that cultural war.
The only reason they're winning is because they have something
to offer or it like seems like they have something to offer.
So in terms of like money bitches cars profits all that shit.
That's what they have and the blue pill side has nothing
to offer.
So I feel like how do you combat that if you if you disagree
with with the ideology that that works for young people
specific is like specifically because if you're older you
can see through the bullshit, but when you're young, it's
really flashing you're like, ooh.
Well, I think this is a problem that solves itself as you
said it appeals to very young set demographic generally
and I think experience is the wisest teacher right and
I guess it's cyclical because every generation says this
is like well, we know better than the generation that came
before but I wish a generation that's coming after us would
listen to our experience, right?
So it's like a cyclical thing.
I think this is just a combination of social media the
incentives for that combined with like a noise amplification
of these very specific ideologies.
I I don't worry about it too much because I think that at
the end of the day the because when you say red pill that's
way too broad.
There are some red pill ideas.
I actually agree with well, I wanted to say conservative
and liberal but it wasn't I don't know if it's necessarily
that yeah again, that's way too broad.
Again, because it we have we can't think of it as so binary
as all that I think that there's a lot of people who are
pointing to structural issues that men have in in culture,
right in Western cultures and dating cultures that are just
true, but then they'll try to sell you a false kind of fix
and I think that what the blue pill could do quote-unquote
is simply expose that and say now these they're lying to you
and this is how and also we need better and I know this is
maybe cliche to say but we need better role models on the
more left-leaning spectrum that a don't get exposed as a sex
pest. Okay, that's a big one that we're having a problem
with for whatever reason and P they need to be able to show
hate to be able to explain.
Okay, you may be struggling now, but I promise after high
school it gets better because I didn't get many bitches
in high school.
But look at me now.
Okay, I got my own YouTube channel.
Are you getting tons of bitches now with look I'm swimming
by the troll.
Okay, moving me.
Well here here.
I'll jump in here, right?
So on some level what you're describing is I think just
impossible young people will always be attracted to radical
ideologies is just a part of growing up and there's
psychological reasons for this right?
Like if you if you read like Piaget's work on developmental
psychology, you realize that the experience of going through
puberty and experience and you're just personally experience
massive radical changes that are like half out of your control
that experience tends to lead young people to also realize
that a lot of society should also go through radical change
so that they may fit into society right because they are
different from the old paradigm.
This is a very common thing that people go through when
they're in their late teens in their early 20s.
It's just it's a part of human psychology and generally after
they go through this this phase of wanting to radically
reorder the world sometimes they do actually end up having
good ideas and how to reorder the world.
Sometimes the ideas are bullshit.
Sometimes they do reorder the world.
Sometimes they don't but either way after this psychological
period is done.
They tend to be more amenable to fitting into what society
is in reality.
And that doesn't mean that older people can't enact change
they can but but basically there we are psychologically primed
to want to engage in revolution in in in let's say our early
adult life and I guess that makes sense because if there
was a change that needed to be made that's when we are young
enough and strong enough and capable enough to to do it.
So I guess it makes sense.
It would happen then but also you lack the wisdom to be able
to do it, right?
So on some level you can't like outside ideologies red pill
stuff socialism even fascism, whatever it is stuff that is
not the current social norm that will always appeal to young
people.
It will always draw them in the only thing it was.
Yes.
Yes.
So the only thing you can really do is to understand that
a lot of young people will be doing this and that your society
is properly structured that they have viable off-ramps to
rejoin society when they're done with it, right?
So it's like, okay.
Yeah, you were LARPing as a revolutionary when you were in
high school or when you were in college, but you have a
college degree now and you can actually get a decent job
and you can actually, you know, find a girlfriend and buy
a house and become a regular member of society as long as
society is structured to grant some leeway to people who
are going through this phase and still provide them with
ways to integrate into society and and frankly even take
on some of their new ideas if they have if they happen to
be worth some something as long as our society is set up
like that, then they will naturally de-radicalize on their
own. But if our society is not set up like that and there's
some evidence it's not currently set up like that.
That's when you start to have lifelong revolutionaries and
you start to have massive social upheaval.
And I think that's the current problem facing liberal democracies
right now.
Response.
Okay understood.
I was just saying I'm just saying it.
So I from what I understood you feel so from what I got then
the society is pretty liberal right now.
So then the radical thing would be to go conservative and
everyone's just going conservative and you think that'll
even out in a little bit or you think that the conservatives
offer the conservative conservative side actually offers
something structural for people to like respond to it's both
it's both right conservative critiques of liberalism.
There there does seem to be a fair amount of meat on that
bone.
So it's not like they're just there's radical for the sake
of being radical right, but as long as liberal society is
capable of taking the good critiques and also taking the
people that believe them those people will naturally
de-radicalize right.
So I guess the issue like for example, you look at like
people who follow and Andrew Tate as a good example, right
and like there are young boys who are who are now, you know
devaluing women and and chasing money and you know, they're
not be like they're being alpha males, but they're not
being positive examples of what an alpha male should be
right.
That's that's big.
Yeah.
Yeah that too.
But like it like you can't deny that Andrew Tate's an alpha
male, but he's a very negative alpha male if that makes sense,
right?
So you have you have young guys that are that are looking
at that situation and in an ideal society, they would meet
maybe a decent woman who would be kind and interested in them
as long as they themselves were of course able to attract
her and then maybe they would have a real relationship and
he would realize that, you know, the scales would fall from
his eyes and he would realize oh my God.
I've believed completely wrong things about women this
whole time because you know having having a propagandist
tell you for years what women's true nature actually is
and then when you finally fucking meet one for the first
time, you know, the reality of it isn't doesn't stand up
to to the propaganda right, but if it's now harder to meet
women and it is and let's say the the ways in which you
would traditionally meet women it's now become more taboo
to do like at work or at the gym or at the store and it
is and maybe some of the ways in which you might meet a
woman which is you know on an app the types of women who
are on those apps they reinforce negative stereotypes of
women rather than dispelling them and that also seems to
be somewhat the case now you have like a cauldron where
radicalization is only going to continue and there's no
real off-ramp.
It's just going it's just going to bubble up and continue
to cook and so like it's funny because you see like a
lot of let's say to be to be not so kind right-wing schizos
on Twitter who desperately want the trad wife, but none
of them are going to church right?
None of them are going to church to meet any of the girls
because those girls do exist there right?
None of them are at University instead of partying.
They're in the library.
They don't even want them realistically they can claim
that they want them but the end of the day they really
want they want the hose that they claim that to hate.
So it's just like it's the same thing with the Muslim
if they want the four wives, but none of the people that
none of the girls dads are going to approve of that marriage
anyways to those people because you're not good enough
for that girl.
Yeah, it's a you're correct dev when you say that there's
like this kind of storm brewing.
We haven't really learned to deal with the new reality
that we are in right?
We haven't learned as a culture how to respond to and I
hate to use this canard, but the social media problem
and it is a problem and it's going to be something
that we're going to have to figure out rules of the road
for right figure out ways to handle it and to adjust
to everything being everywhere all at once and I think
that one of the things that's going to have to happen
are a lot of these things that have become denormalized
or stigmatized such as meeting people or talking to people
at the grocery store or the gym right approaching people
right that needs to become okay again.
It used to be okay back in my day.
It was okay, right when I was in my 20th.
You just go up.
Hey, I think you're cute.
You want to go get a coffee sometime sometimes be polite
about it.
Now.
Sometimes it'd be mean about it.
Sometimes they'd agree to it, right?
It really depended.
We need to we need to stop stigmatizing that and the adults
need to step up and say hey kids.
I know sometimes when someone approaches you with something
you don't like it can make you uncomfortable,
but that doesn't make them a bad person that doesn't mean
they're out to get you that doesn't mean they've harmed
you in any way.
You can simply learn how to say no and her learn how to
be assertive rather than weaponize your mental mental
instability and weaponize your social problems and sort
of an inability to be able to communicate and say that
oh, well, they're the bad guy because they're asking me
a fucking normal question.
I don't know anything else for us Ali.
No, just back to my original point is just that doesn't
sound as nice and glamorous as just do this and you'll
get the you'll fuck bitches.
Yeah, the marketing's got to change up.
But thank you, man.
What do you think of that social media take though?
I'm really curious.
I think that most of the problems we have today can be laid
at the feet in one way or another of social media specifically.
I mean when I was younger social media basically existed
to help facilitate offline stuff.
You get in touch with people so that you can go to a party
together or that you could it was it was a tool but it wasn't
your entire life.
Now social media is people's entire lives and that's bad
unless you're watching me on social media gang in which
case you should like and subscribe to my channel and live
vicariously through Wix discord.
You can try my conversations.
But yeah, listen, listen, if you super chat you can get
this pair of social relationship going wick will actually
be your real life friend Roo.
Hey with enough money anything is possible friends anything
at all.
Let me bring on the next contestant.
What you got for us?
Gentlemen.
Hello.
Hi, you're live.
Oh first and foremost, I've been listening for pretty much
the whole time.
So there's a lot of stuff.
I kind of want to go back first back to you guys is like
three guests ago.
You were having a unilateral disarmament argument about
how one side does something the other side is either forced
to or unilaterally disarming and wick said we live in a
liberal democracy where you can go and say we're the side
with morals and an ideal world.
Thank you are a hundred percent, right?
I wish we lived in that world but in reality we live in
a very partisan atmosphere where you can tell your side
where the moral people while also going out and being the
scumbag and your side will find small reasons to stand
up for you and damn the other side for very very similar
actions.
So unfortunately practically that doesn't work out as well
as I'd hope.
Oh, it's not a it's not like it's not a panacea.
It's not a bomb of Gilead that will heal all our wounds,
right?
But in the long term like playing the long game over several
iterations of elections of news cycles Etc.
I stand by this it works.
There is a reason that we swung leftward after the 90s,
right after the 80s and 90s where people saw that the right
wing was full of shit on their free speech like they would
ban books and all these things anti freedom anti video game
and to all these things right the anti fun party.
We took the wrong lessons from that and we think well,
that's when they had power.
This is what they were doing when they had power.
So it must be what works.
So the left started adopting shit like that.
Oh, yeah, that's a wrong lesson because that's that I would
pause it is why they lost power and again a more liberalizing
society more liberalizing culture and over the years we
have been more liberalizing.
So yes, you won't win every election.
You may not win the next election.
But again over a long enough period of time over several
iterations, you will win if you stick to it if you can message
control enough if you can again, there's a lot of ifs here.
It's not a perfect thing.
But if you can message control enough if you can take control
of enough of your of your party of your ideology of your
apparatus, whatever you want to call it and kind of say hey,
these are our values.
We don't fuck with our values.
Even if it's politically expedient to do so no one's
actually doing that.
So it's probably yeah.
I just didn't want to rehash the whole thing.
I just kind of wanted to throw that point in there because
I thought about it like you are correct technically, but
unfortunately practically doesn't work out as much like
that as I hope the next point is dev was talking about how
an inherent trait of fascism is an autocratic leader and
looking at some of the ideals of fascism you can almost
Implement or theory craft a way to have democratic fascism
where you wouldn't have that one autocratic central figure
that the government lives and dies by I'm not endorsing it
or anything.
I'm just saying I could envision a retelling of fascism to
be more of a congressional or parliamentary government as
opposed to an autocratic one.
Well, I mean Mussolini already did that right with the Grand
Council of fascism.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm so basically like fascinated.
Well, what basically what it was was in Italy any Italian
citizen could join the fascist party and then get elected
to the Grand Council of fascism right now wasn't like it
was a democracy and that people voted but it was not a democracy
because it was a one-party democracy right like you had multiple
different strains of fascism that were competing but no one
who is not a fascist could be in the government if that
makes sense, right?
So like it was it was kind of democratic right, but but it's
still ultimately all of that like under structure still ultimately
hinged on Mussolini being in control of everything and once
Mussolini was gone the entire thing collapsed to you.
I agree with you a hundred percent but like the he in a sense
it's because they're going through the change still once
you have that government established and you have that machine
well-oiled enough to sustain on its own it might take a couple
of decades, but I could see I'm just saying hypothetically
I'd see a version of fascism that isn't Central the Rock centralized
around one person in the state that it actually worked in which
I could argue that like, you know, like South Korea kind of
did you mean North Korea or no South Korea wasn't the where
they considered one of the seven fascist governments in the
world at one point.
I don't think so.
Look it up.
Might be true.
I don't have to read the book.
Let me see.
Let me see.
I know like Portugal and Spain were Romania Germany Italy
Japan.
I mean South Korea and and Taiwan both had nationalist governments
in the face of of like their like the socialist parties taking
over in Japan North Korea and then in China, right and they
had nationalist governments that eventually transitioned into
liberal democracies.
But were they fascist?
I'm not sure maybe it's possible.
I have to check the reference.
They weren't fascist.
It was a nationalist saying like I forget the guy's name, right
there their leader whatever they got kicked out.
They lost the war and they got kicked out to Taiwan to kind
of like as a last bastion and stuff.
But yeah, that kind of went away as well after the leadership
died. So yeah, so those were just two honorable mentions.
I wanted to my main point.
My main point is that we don't really have conservatism in
the United States anymore.
We have newer versions of liberalism versus older versions
of liberalism.
If you look at a lot of the history behind the libertarian
movement, this would go back to like the Mises Institute
writings and such.
I like Tom Woods if anyone's ever heard of him.
He's a really educated libertarian libertarians left the
Democratic Party around the time of World War Two because
they saw FDR as too autocratic of a leader for their ideals
and they slowly drifted to the right wing and the right wing
kind of has an idea of respect for institutions.
So they cut out their own anti-government quarter of the
right wing that actually kind of became a staple of the party
now. If you look at the inception of the Neocons, Neocons
were liberal Democrats for a long time.
They shifted away from the party when who was it Reagan?
I think they the first time they voted right wing was for
Reagan. And so they shifted into more of it was actually
meant as a pejorative and same thing with neoliberal.
These terms were originally pejorative and became the names
of these movements because they were people that switch
sides when the Democratic Party went a different way like
I said during that discussion.
I think they're still pejorative, right?
You know, you don't say neoliberal or neoconservative in
a positive sense.
I've never heard that right?
Yeah, I mean neoconservative is how like John Pott Horitz
at the commentary magazine.
His dad was one of the founders of the neoconservative
movement. He uses that term as endearment.
He's proud of it.
He just wrote a few months ago.
That's the exception.
And it doesn't doesn't Francis Fukuyama use neoliberal
positively too?
I think they're used positively a little bit. Fukuyama ended
history. He can do what the fuck he wants.
Okay, right.
liberal happily like I'm pretty pro-interventionist and
such so I would consider myself a neoliberal because I have
the core values of liberalism, but I also support that.
Uh, what's the word?
It's not meritocracy.
It's a fuck.
Technocracy the technocratic the status that the current
Democratic Party holds where they have a democratic elite
ruling elite, but they're made up of professionals that earn
their way there through merit.
Are you part of the only my friend?
No, no, I just support the fact that we need I'm a big about
specialization and think are you are you in the car?
That's what it sounds like.
He's like he's in a car.
Are you being are you okay?
Oh, come on Easter has camera.
I don't look I'm worried.
I'm concerned the camera is loading up.
I can't hear them either.
Can I okay buddy?
Well, thank you.
Thank you for calling in.
I wish he has gone to an accident.
Maybe more.
I hope not.
I hope he's okay.
That would be a feel really bad.
But I'm sending him to the way for now.
Um, I'm being told me think about let me think about that
for a minute.
What do you just said?
It's like I mean, he said like he might have been like an
NRX or something maybe but but I don't know I like what he
was saying was technically true like America's Republicans
are like older with with the exception of the Trump faction,
which is something new but like Americans Republicans before
Trump were like older liberals and then the Democrats were
like newer liberals if that makes sense like conservatism
as an ideology is just whatever the status quo is and so
for America because classical liberalism is the status quo
your conservatives are classical liberals, right?
However, if you if you're a conservative in the United
Kingdom, you're a monarchist which is different.
So I think it might be a little more nuanced than that.
Right?
I think that there are things such as conservative values.
I think that transcend the status quo, but I haven't thought
enough about it to really give it an educated kind of take
on it.
But this is just my instinct to be clear.
I think that look at the end of the day.
I think that there are more people today at least that vote
against things and they are that vote for so there is a lot
of people who are anti insert whatever here anti-right-wing
anti-left-wing and that's how they vote now.
They don't really vote for positive things anymore, but
that's just my instinct.
I don't have a point.
Not me that sounds about right to be like in retrospect.
I'm actually quite certain that the main reason Trump won
in 2016 is not because he was actually considered a better
candidate is that people really did not like Hillary Clinton.
Well, they did not like the status quo.
They didn't like that too.
The it was a I think Michael Moore described it as a firebomb
into the electorate right like that.
A lot of people just wanted to change shit.
That's why Bernie got close to Bernie Rose to National
Promise prominence, even though he was a politician for decades,
right?
He ran the reason he became kind of like this cause celeb
for a lot of people is a lot of people just do not like how
politics are right now.
They hate it trust in our institutions is dipping.
It's it's going lower and lower and lower every year.
They're perfectly valid reasons for that and there's some
some more silly reasons for that right?
It's beyond the scope of this discussion, but I think that
like the Venn diagram between Bernie voters and Trump voters
is bigger than you think for that reason is because both
candidates are seen as a fuck you to Washington, right?
There's a fuck you to the establishment.
So there's a lot of other things would have voted for Bernie
instead, right?
The main reason why I think Biden won in 2020 is because
after the fuck you vote, you know, we're not going to just
accept Hillary versus Jeb and no matter what happens.
We're you know, we get the same thing just with different
colors on it and we are going to choose something outside
the paradigm and they chose Trump and they had four years
of that and a lot of people I think realized oh shit at least
what's out outside the paradigm in this this instance was
really fucking bad.
Yeah, maybe the paradigm hat is it has a reason to exist.
So I think that's why things swung back in 2020.
Yeah, they realize.
Oh, no, we wanted change but not this change gang.
Please help and no, I think you're right.
Let's let's get through as many people as possible.
We only got a little bit of time left.
So we're going to rapid-fire these extra high.
Well, good evening gentlemen me howdy.
What's up?
Well, first of all Dev.
Thanks so much for staying some extra time.
I'm on the west coast over here and I just got off work.
So happy to have a chance to come in and say hello and second
of all there's a hundred and six people watching now on YouTube
and there are 16 likes what is wrong with you?
Get on.
I don't know why people don't like my shit like this is a
thing. This is not new to my experience.
You sound defeated wick.
I am defeated.
I've tried different things to get people to click that
goddamn like button, but for whatever reason they I'm stymied,
but it's okay.
They still watch and I still I still get five dollars from
Artemis Fowl for to say then explain the current swing back
in favor of Trump Dev.
Don't worry.
We'll talk more Artemis, but yeah, but anyway, what do you
got to say enough glossing me and love glazing dev here.
You can suck our dicks later.
But for now tell us why you're here.
Well, I think I like we're all we're all about changing our
minds here in the in the wick chat.
So I'd like to see if I can push dev a little bit about
changing his mind when it comes to the idea that you need
to censor in like teach a lesson so that then others know
what it was like to be censored in the first place.
There was a few callers back now, but I'd like to push
you out of that.
All right.
Okay, go ahead.
I don't know first of all if that can apply to populations
rather than like single individuals, right?
I can teach somebody that what they did was wrong by doing
it to them and like having them experience it.
But if I as a singular actor as a part of the left have
never done anything to censor and then get censored as a
retaliatory act then I have only all you've ever done there
is create another victim somebody who already now hates
the other side once again and you continue that cycle of
hatred. So what are your thoughts on that?
I mean, I agree.
Yes, you do have to do it on an individual level, right?
So for example, if you look at the people the reason we had
this conversation initially was because there were prominent
left-wing Twitter accounts getting banned one of them was
that fucking squirrel person who's like ridiculous, right?
They have done their share of censoring and now that they
are being censored as like, okay, maybe you can learn your
lesson, right?
You shouldn't just censor people who haven't done any censoring
even if they're aligned with other sensors.
That's true.
Yes.
Okay, and then secondly they mentioned something about
going back to war games and that there's no winning move
in a war game and I'm sure being people of the internet.
We're all familiar with the Prisoner's Dilemma.
There's a couple weeks ago now a Veritasium video about
it and the Prisoner's Dilemma has winning outcomes.
The first initial winning move is a tit-for-tat where you
only reply in kind to any offense that's done to you.
Yeah, I saw this video.
Yeah, I know you're talking about.
Yeah, and then but generous does better than that right
occasionally giving back in and saying okay this time.
I'm not going to attack back even though you did to me that
does even better.
So do you have any argument against that?
So not not really because it does seem to be pretty much
true, but even in generous there is a point where you must
strike back and you cannot simply take it and take it and
take it and take it eternally and then do nothing right like
even it within generous like if you could take it eternally
if you I think even for the generous the generous algorithm
if it was faced with an algorithm that would simply attack
it relentlessly without any without changing a strategy
at all.
It would still attack back like it wouldn't it was it was
not eternally generous, right?
So there's there has to there has to be some limit where
you say, you know what, you know, I've given you a few
chances.
I've forgiven you a few times now you do actually have to
be hit back like you can't you there's no there's no pacifist
option here basically.
All right.
Well, that's everything I had for you guys.
I appreciate you so much.
We're doing we're doing rapid-fire gang.
So extra thank you for calling in.
Well, I see so yattle in the chat.
I've seen is so yattle following me around.
He's always in like things that I'm on viewer.
I don't know what to tell you.
Yeah, he's been on my show to write like okay here to bring
up the Forbidden Topic.
I was on food shops a stream and he was there too.
So I'm just like is it is he following me?
Is that what's going on?
He might be I mean that could be true.
He could be a wick viewer and following you at the same
time stalking you.
I don't know but so yattle is just a nice enough guy.
Let me bring on Tom Jones your life.
Hello.
Hi.
Hello.
Oh, this is exciting.
This is rapid-fire.
So let's uh, what you got?
I just say a big fan of you dev.
Anyway, so thank you.
Should be very only recent discovered you like but you seem
cool to you know, I'll give you that so it's quite the
question could be very broad.
I'll try to keep it narrow.
So in society today, we've become increasingly secular,
you know non belief in religion is on the rise and I want
know if you guys think that is the problem considering,
you know, pretty much every society throughout history
has been very religious.
What do you think wick?
I'm gonna be real.
I didn't hear the question.
I was looking at the DM.
Oh, it was it was about people becoming less religious over
time. And if it's a bad thing, I think that it's had some
negative consequences.
I don't know overall.
It's bad.
Like I hear all the time about people lacking community
about people being more atomized.
I think that the going away from being religious is partly
to blame for that.
We used to meet every Sunday in a house of worship at least
in America, right less and less people are doing that and
I think that has made it has had some negative consequences.
I think that regardless of what you believe in the truth
of religion.
The communal aspect of it is helpful in a lot of ways not
always there are some negatives to that too, but I think
that a lot of people are seeing the reverberations of this
destruction of communities and partly that sounds about right.
Yeah religion.
So do you think is anything that atheists or more secular
people can do to try and retake that concept of community?
Yes.
Get off get offline, right and start actually meeting
in person right a lot of the times what this would look
like in non-religious circles is going to like Community
Act activists stuff right like being involved in your community
to make it better in other ways.
Well another another benefit that religion had was the charity
work. It did I remember being a young Mormon growing up
and I would go every summer right we would go and we would
do hurricane relief things and we would go as a church like
as a youth group to go clean up the community centers, right
or clean up the parks or volunteer nursing homes Etc.
More of that without the religion would be grand.
And so I think that yes a lot of people can we need to we
need to incentivize people doing good for goodness sake
right rather than doing good if it'll get me likes and updo's
on social media.
Yeah, I mean atheists have a rough time with this because
at least if you have God then you have a commandment to
do it right there's some sort of universal moral force
that applies to everyone objectively and you can't really
argue against that because it's the ultimate moral arbiter
right but with a see a thesis that doesn't exist.
So it's it's much harder to to get atheists to do some
sort of community building without without that that moral
force behind them.
Anything else before we let you go?
That's all thank you.
I appreciate you guys and have a good rest of your night.
Bye.
Thank you again.
Thanks, man.
$15 from pondering politics who's blowing up on YouTube
right away to say yes, he's getting more views than I I
remember when I was a big boy, right and I was inviting
him on my platform like hike it.
I got 5,000 subscribers and now he's got like what 80,000
or some shit.
He's got a hundred and seven thousand.
Yeah, it's blowing up.
Like I said, so he's a he's doing well.
Oh, this is this is ruminate, right?
This is Josiah.
Well, I think you've talked to Josiah before have you?
Change his name from ruminate.
Yes.
I think so.
Yeah ruminate.
Yes.
Yes.
This is running ask.
I've I've I've spoken to him a little bit but only privately
and primarily knowing him as ruminate now ask SFO to weigh
in on Trump's legal argument today that he's entitled to
absolute legal immunity.
Even if he murders a political rival.
That's ridiculous.
Obviously, what is your favorite TV show?
Have you seen the memes by the way?
I saw this guy make an AI generation of Biden a seal team
six assassinating a dude like shooting a gun.
Yeah, so I think I saw the meme.
Yeah, it was hilarious, right?
Because that's the that's the kind of that's where that
leads right if you think it's okay for a political person
to kill their political rivals or order a hit on that.
That's that's what's going to happen, right?
And I it's not a world.
I want to live in so it looks like roommate you're doing
like the the daily, you know political take you know, not
I'm not comparing you to this person because for any moral
reason it's just a similar type of content like like the
quartering right where you put out a video or like two videos
a day and you just like kind of flood the algorithm with
daily content and it's working out for you.
Good job, man.
I'm looking at your channel now.
Yeah, like yeah, he's a small video.
S is small video.
S is there like a definitely way to go?
I was doing it for a while and I got too fucking lazy.
I've been too lazy recently, right?
That's my problem is as I enjoy doing this because I get
to interact in a long form with people and to to send that
like 10 minutes snippets.
I don't know.
Yeah, well, I mean I did it for a while and I want to get
back to it.
I am 99% after watching destiny go through the meth stony
arc with with the the ADHD medication.
I am like knowing knowing my own my own issues.
I am like I'm very convinced.
I probably have some form of adult ADHD and I should probably
try out I should probably try out.
What do you got himself on?
Not simply like well, here's the thing where you see it a
lot and then suddenly you start having the symptoms because
that's all you ever looking at and seeing I've had this for
years, man.
I've been like this for years and years and years.
Yeah.
Yeah, the self-diagnosis.
Here's the thing, man.
It's um, I spent years and years fighting through it and
actually doing very well because like there were times where
you know, I would leave the internet for like three months
because something went down now.
I might have to take a day off of something bad goes down.
Right there are times when like I couldn't focus on anything
to get a video done.
Like it took me like two months to get a video out now.
I've been able to like hit spurts of one a day or one every
two days that last for a couple months and then I like relapse
back into old habits, right?
I definitely hyper focus on video games for like 16 hours
a day sometimes and also coffee gives me that very calming
effect when it makes most other people jittery.
What's the most recent video game you've binged out on?
Oh, Project Zomboid.
Really that good?
Yep.
That's really good.
I've been playing XCOM 2 and I've been busy.
I've been spending more time making all the little streamer
characters as the the people little XCOM agents, right and
making sure that they're decorated correctly and things
like that.
I don't know what that says about me as a gamer, but that's
been most of my experience and then I will play with them
and see who dies first etcetera.
Right, right, right.
You're trying to sing social contagion.
Here's the thing.
It's not social contagion because I've recognized this in
myself for over 10 years now.
I just haven't been able to fully put it together until I
watch Destiny go through like he had the same symptoms.
He went through a very similar process and it's and like
you can say like copycat stuff because it's like a streamer
you watch and they go.
Yeah, I understand that there's definitely some danger of
that but the fact that it that the symptoms he described
are so similar to similar to mine.
It's like maybe I and here's the thing you can go on for
medication for a month and then be like this ain't for me
and then stop, you know, you're going to stay on it forever.
You know guys like it's not one of those things.
Right?
So I'm going to go like it most medications.
Yeah, I might give it a go and just see like if after a month
like there's also some reports of people who go on ADHD meds
and they they report like losing all their creativity.
I wouldn't want that to happen.
Right?
So if that happens, I'll stop taking it.
It's like, you know, it's pretty easy.
Um, okay.
To answer the actual question though, uh, Trump's legal
argument today that he's entitled to absolute legal immunity.
You know, he mirrors a political rival.
Like that's fucking insane.
Obviously there's no fucking, even if like, because of the
way that some old law is written or something that's never
going to hold up in court.
Like that's, that's ridiculous.
Right?
Um, my favorite TV show, honestly, even though it's an
anime, probably attack on Titan.
Because I really like, I really liked it.
I haven't, I haven't, honestly, it doesn't get good until
season two and then it gets exponentially good every season
through two, three, and four.
This is, is it on crunchy roll or whatever off the, yeah,
yeah, it is.
I'm pretty sure it is.
Um, five more dollars from common cure.
Um, again, I'm prioritizing since we're coming to the end.
I'm prioritizing money.
Uh, so if you pay me five dollars to say dev, please
explain your thoughts on small towns.
You were shitting on them the other day and I was wondering
if you thought there was any hope for them.
Okay.
So what he means when he says that I was shitting on them
the other day is I put out this tweet.
Let's see if I can find it real quick.
I'll do like a quick search of town or towns.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I said that, uh, I grew up in a small town.
Everyone was in your business.
There was no privacy.
There's no privacy.
Infrastructure rollout was slow.
People move away like crazy due to lack of opportunity.
Small businesses regularly die.
Drugs are rampant.
And my small town is now a ghost town.
Uh, the towns, one large employer finally pulled out, leaving everybody
who stayed behind out of jobs, alcohol, alcoholism, and drug use is
skyrocketing be on it's already high rates.
The place was on its deathbed.
Even before that though, there's no future in small towns.
That was my take basically because of my experience growing up in one,
you know, I moved away to the city because there was nothing for me there.
And like half of my, half of my graduating class in high school moved
away to some city somewhere in Canada, where it's a Toronto or Vancouver
or, or Montreal or Ottawa or wherever.
Right.
They moved to some city and sort of died.
Um, and then the half of them stayed behind and the half that stayed
behind the half of that half.
Like they're now druggies and they've like lost their kids.
I have them all on Facebook.
So I'm like keeping track of the old drama back there.
Half of the half of the half that stayed behind are addicted
to drugs or alcohol.
A lot of them have lost their kids.
There's like public fights breaking out and people like it's just trashy stuff.
And then the remaining half that actually did have steady jobs and
were doing okay for themselves.
Well, the town's one employer just pulled out and now there's no jobs
and everyone lost their jobs.
And it's like, you know, I understand that there's the, like the right wing
has this very nostalgic view of whatever, like a, you know, the peaceful small
town where everything's a little bit slower and everyone's friendly.
That might be true some places, but in my experience, it's not true.
In my experience, small towns are just places of despair.
I grew up as a military brat, right?
So I don't have no experience with city versus small town.
I was always on a military base of some sort, right?
Growing up for most of my, my childhood, um, since I have grown
up, however, and have lived on my own, I'm now 40 fucking years old.
I have lived both in the city and I have lived in very, very small
communities, right?
My preference is to live in the small community and visit the city, but
that's a, that's something where I've already, I have, I have, I have
a job outside of my local area, right?
So, um, Doing streaming.
I can do that from the city where I can do that from the small town.
I prefer doing it from the small town because less people bother me.
Um, I like the feeling of, of being kind of away from it all.
And if I need social interaction, which I do on occasion, I'll drive
in and I'll slum it in the city.
Oh, that's fine.
Yep.
Yep.
I mean, I live like 10 minutes from downtown where I am and I am actually
moving cities in the spring and where I'll be moving is about a half
an hour from outside of downtown.
So like it's, I'm still like in the city.
I can still access all the amenities of the city, but it's like a
quieter part of it, you know?
So, yeah.
Cool.
Uh, five more dollars for fun.
Do is Wicca tactics gamer.
Also, please watch Freerun beyond journey's end.
That's an anime.
That's an anime.
Okay.
The current elf waifu who has the silver hair and the smug face.
That's from the one that's on Twitter everywhere right now.
That's Freerun beyond journey.
I don't follow the same people you do.
I don't see it unless it's a, you tweet, uh, I'll make sure to
retweet them.
Oh, well, thank you.
Uh, five more dollars from Artemus Fowls say object to the
characterization of the immunity argument and the stupid phrasing
used by the Donator and Dev and five more dollars from Artemus
Fowl.
There's nothing to argue the immunity arguments made by the
Donator and Dev did not take place at this point.
So here's the thing.
I've been, I know that this was, this is related to pondering
politics.
I've been arguing with Artemus in private now over the Jan six
stuff.
And I was like, Artemus, listen, you've been sending me all this
evidence out, believe your evidence after examining it, but
you like he, okay.
I've seen Destiny talked to like Aidan Paladin who walked in
with nothing and got destroyed.
All right.
I saw Destiny talk to Rob Knorr who did better than Aidan
Paladin, but still got destroyed.
But, um, Artemus is unironically presenting to me more evidence
of the Trump side of the January 6th and election conversations
than I've seen from anybody before.
All right.
So I do think that speaking to Artemus about this topic is
worthwhile.
I still think he's, I think he's, I think Artemus is
fundamentally wrong about them, but he's, he's like, he's
actually bringing evidence that I haven't seen anyone talk
about before, which is interesting.
Yeah.
So like, that's why I've said like, Hey, listen, Artemus
probably should talk to Brianna Wu at some point.
Artemus probably should talk to pondering politics at some
point.
I tried to set up Artemus versus Destiny, but artists wouldn't
do it.
Artemus, what are you doing?
Come on, come on.
Look, you're, you're a reasonable guy.
You're a rational guy.
You're a civil guy.
We need more of that in this space, less screaming
autistically and more civil reasonable.
Here's evidence and we can argue over the evidence.
That would be great.
And pondering politics is down for it, right?
We could do a pondering politics versus the world thing
if you want.
Like, do you want to do, do you want to do Artemus fallow
versus pondering politics?
That'd be interesting.
Yes, because so, so I pondering politics, I don't know if
you heard me.
I'll just repeat it very quickly.
Artemus of the people who are on the pro-Trump side of January
26th and the 2020 election.
Artemus is probably the most reasonable person I've seen
more so than anyone that Destiny's debated on his channel
or that usually do these sorts of debates.
Artemus does seem to be the most reasonable person of that
side, even though I think he's wrong.
Still he has better arguments and he brings up more evidence
than any of them.
And this is to you Dev and I can set up this up with you.
But if I think that to add to that and I'm not sure where
I'd rate them, but are you familiar with a streamer small
libertarian streamer named Lactoid?
No, no, he's another he's a practicing lawyer, right and
he has a very good grasp.
We did a discussion on last year.
I said as long time ago at the end of December with Pisco
pondering politics Lactoid and a couple others about the Trump
removing the Trump from the ballot in Colorado, right?
He brings facts.
He brings figures.
He's a pretty reasonable guy.
So you might enjoy if you enjoy Artemis Fowl, you might enjoy
him too.
Not to say you're not you're not a great guy.
Artemus Fowl, we like you, Artemus Fowl.
I just want to broaden our heart.
Here's the thing, right?
Like I do not know much.
I mean, I know some of American law, but I'm not I'm no expert,
right? My wheelhouse has always been political theory and
to a lesser extent history and then of course video games,
right?
That's unrelated to politics.
But political theory and history is my thing.
Like I can sit here and tell you the entire life story of
Antonio Graham.
She off the top of my head.
I cannot tell you whether or not any of these indictments
are 100% going to go for Trump or not, you know, like I
can tell an arm is found even when he calls them like I'm
not a lawyer.
I can't argue these.
I don't know, right?
I just don't know and I'm not going to pretend I do.
Artemis Fowl another five dollars.
I will inevitably be sided with by the courts and why destiny
will be mad and blame the Supreme the corrupt quote-unquote
Supreme Court think so so because here's the thing like
there's here.
Let's say that the best possible scenario is that the Georgia
Rico case completely falls apart because of what Artemis
Fowl presented at the start of the stream, right?
The the person appoints the his her boyfriend and it was
improper and something actually comes out of the meetings
with with Biden and like let's say that everything falls
apart, right?
So the Georgia Rico case is now out isn't there still
three more indictments against Trump?
I'm pretty sure there's at least three more and the documents
one looks like the documents one appears to be ironclad
against Trump.
So I'm just sitting here thinking like even if even if Georgia
Rico falls apart because of what Artemis presented earlier,
like that's only one angle of attack against Trump right
now. Yeah, but the classified documents case has the most
favorable judge a lean cannon.
So it's entirely possible between that and a favorable jury
pulled it even though they have the debt to rights on the
case during nullification to get in the day.
Well, I think so.
Well, hello, Josiah Potter in politics.
You're going to be a last caller by the way.
Hey, wait.
No art.
Artemis is in the chat there.
Bring him in.
We'll do it right now with right now.
Hi Artemis.
What's going on?
Hey, dude, what's up?
Oh, just hanging out.
Also, you're in the room.
Same room Josiah meet Artemis Artemis.
Hey, we talked we talked before.
What's up, buddy?
But have you guys really actually on my show?
Yes, I believe.
Oh, oh neat.
Oh, is this the the guy that said that the the crew people
that brought the Colorado case were nonpartisan?
That they are a non-profit.
Yeah, that was that was not correct.
They no, no, no, no, no, no.
Well that they are a non-profit but they were the argument
was that they were partisan.
Now that they were nonprofit.
They okay.
So you were the guy who said the Democrats brought the case
even though it was right.
It was media.
It was Republican and Independent voters who by the way
are famously not Democrat Republicans are that the one the
one Republican voter that seems to be voting in every state
somehow and is bringing the case by a company owned by media
matters.
I don't know.
So, okay.
He's not they're not the party to the case.
It's the Republican.
They found they found they found a guy that would push it.
Yes.
Yes.
Thank you.
Case on the part on behalf of Republicans and Independents.
We want to frame this as a strictly partisan issue.
It is a partisan issue.
Everybody can see it.
That's why it's being thrown out everywhere else.
Wait a minute.
So it's a partisan issue when Republicans and Independents
bring the case when media matters when media matters shops
around and finds one guy that's willing to be it doesn't matter
that they shop.
It doesn't matter that they shop around Republican voters
and Independent voters brought the case by definition you
keep saying Republican voters.
They literally found so okay.
I should clear this up.
I should clear this up.
So Republicans are the people who vote typically for Trump.
Okay Democrats are a different party.
Okay, come on guys.
You could you could do whatever you want say that but everybody
I understand I know I have all these other state rulings.
So Donald Trump is a Republican if that helps.
He's not a Democrat.
He's not even a Republican at this point.
I don't I don't even know what he is a Republican.
So you struggle with words.
It seems to me.
I think I think why is it becoming personal?
He lied.
He lied to people on fucking this guy's lying right now saying
that they were not a Republican even though he's running as
the Republican candidate.
He was the Republican is Bernie Sanders a Democrat and in 20
no, he's a registered Independent who caucuses with Democrats
weird, so is Donald Trump is Donald Trump an independent
or a Republican I would say Republican I would say he runs
in the Republican hold on.
Hey, hold on.
Hold on.
Hold on.
He's doing Hassan pikers bullshit of arguing some tangents.
Is this on pikers bullshit using like facts logic and definition.
No, it's definitely not.
It is definitely.
Well, hold on like you guys guys can I jump in here?
Let's have maybe be a be the the centrist that he was born
with the centrist.
Okay, I mean, it's very clear that Donald Trump is a part
of the Republican Party.
However, it's also very clear that he has no I'm sorry.
He finished me finish you tell that I just want I just want
I already missed that.
However, it's also very clear that Donald Trump has no real
allegiance to it.
And if it served his purposes, he would leave it.
Correct.
So so what are we probably what Artemis Fowl should have
said is that Donald Trump is not conservative and he's not
conservative.
I would agree.
But he is a Republican a Republican is part of a political
party. Donald Trump is the leader of the Republican.
I understand.
This is Hassan Parker fucking thing to do in an argument
Artemis Fowl.
I'm going to tell you genius and you're an adult idiot.
Okay, we're going to do this.
We're going to do this.
Both of you stop both of you stop.
I mean, I would love to have this as an actual kind of back
and forth.
I don't think that now is the best time for it when we're
closing down because we're about to get a whole lot of I need
to say something because you told me I could after I waited
for death.
Well, okay, sure.
Go ahead.
But then I'm going to say as well.
So there was a statement at the end of a stream about the
Colorado Supreme Court decision and that it was brought by
a nonpartisan organization and that was claimed here on the
stream to you.
What was the organization?
It was Cruz something or responsibility and ethics in Washington.
So I would watch dog.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And there are they actually nonpartisan?
No, they well, well, they they are actually they are led by
a Bush-era Republican.
He can he struggles with the word, but a Republican is not
a Democrat and they go after Democratic corruption to there
just happens to be more corruption on the Republican side
and this was this was this was the the bot and Bailey site
mountain Bailey, there we go.
So after looking into it and looking at all of the receipts
and everything for it media media matters actually owns
crew. They actually have they they're in the same building
ran by have multiple people that in the same organizations
working in in different parts of each.
It is it is.
So it is not a nonpartisan organization.
It is ran by media matters.
It gets funded by Democratic.
What do you call it?
Donor dark money.
Yeah, dark blue stuff.
Basically.
Yes.
Yes.
So it's not a nonpartisan group.
I don't know why people keep claiming that just because
there's a Republican in it instead of just covers a Republican.
What is the name of it again?
I'm looking at real.
What's the name of it?
This is for responsibility and ethics in Washington.
Okay, I had a big issue with this because I don't like
when people try to couch obviously partisan hackery behind
a veneer of non-partisanship that was my I understand
I understand so he takes issue with the fact that it's
led by a Republican and cases in question have been brought
by Republican and independent voters, but because he's
a MAGA cultist.
He can't cope with that.
Listen, it's all it's all partisan.
Well, then you never voted for trouble.
Then you shouldn't have a problem reconciling this organization
is an organization goes after corruption including Democratic
corruption. You see what they have to say about Senator
Bob Menendez and elected Democratic senator.
They're led by a Republican and if the cases in question
are brought by Republican and independent voters, then
it's probably fair to say it's nonpartisan just because
it's against Trump.
Maybe maybe there's actually a valid case against Trump.
Now, we're going to hold on a second.
We're going to look at that go go ahead the donors to crew
include such groups as Democracy Alliance, which is a network
of progressive mega donors service Employees International
Union, which is a union in Canada the United States featuring
service workers or representing service workers the ARCA Foundation
which is a progressive American philanthropic Foundation
and the Gill Foundation, which is an LGBT Foundation.
I mean, even if founded by a Republican it does seem to
be funded primarily by left-leaning sources.
It is it is not a nonpartisan organization.
This is just a fuck.
So what do you so what is nonpartisan?
It is let's clear it up.
Let's go ahead.
It is a or is media matters a nonpartisan organization.
What does nonpartisan me?
Hold on because maybe we have a lot of you what okay to
rephrase the question.
Can you give us an example Artemis of a nonpartisan organization
in your opinion?
What would you go?
Jesus.
Let's see.
The DMV DMV is a government agency.
What about a political organization clarify a political
organization?
Fire would be one.
I'll give them that one.
I heard of that the fire.org.
It's a free speech free speech organization Foundation of
individual rights and expression.
It takes.
Oh, yes left right and center though.
A lot of people have accused them of being right-leaning
because some of their donors are from the right some of them.
Okay.
Do you have another one SPJ the Society of professional
journalists would probably another one.
All right.
So here's my question if we go through this in real time.
Can we find examples of allegations where or credible evidence
where the nonpartisan groups that you list skew towards a
particular political affiliation because here's my point.
I want to be very clear about this.
I do not mean to suggest that Cruz output is neutral in the
sense that for every Republican complaint, they have a Democrat
complaint want to be very clear about that it go after Republicans
more than Democrats.
The reason I call them nonpartisan is that they will go after
Democrats when they think Democrats are guilty of corruption.
Bob Menendez is a great example.
I think you're struggling to deal with in my opinion.
Maybe I'm wrong and maybe you have good examples to the contrary
is that right now there tends to be more corruption within
the Republican Party than there does the Democratic Party,
which is why you don't see what do you have evidence for
that claim?
I can give you examples like so no evidence like numbers like
I don't need fucking anecdotes.
Why do you keep saying that you're you're giving me anecdotes
when you talk about the partisanship?
You're like, no, no, no, I don't think they're I don't think
they're nonpartisan.
They skew too much towards the left and then the examples
that some of the examples that you just provided apparently
the perception is they skew to the right.
I don't have hard data to how would how would I compute that?
I'm confused.
Well, first of all, I'm going to be a wick partisan jmac.
Thank you for the 20 gifted memberships really appreciate
you. Congratulations to all those who get those memberships
anyway, I'm confused.
Is it media matters the organization that try to get all
of the was it the stuff pulled from X by intentionally fucking
with the algorithm to put advertising next to Nazi tweets
also?
Hey jmac.
What can you jmac is the answer is yes.
I don't know who he is individually, but I know he comes
around sometimes and says hi jmac is the Adam and sitch mega
whale.
Oh the mega whale the Adam and sitch mega whale won't look
throw some of that whale action my way buddy.
Thank you for being here.
Thank you for the 20 gifted memberships really appreciate
you. Yeah, jmac.
I was dreaming tomorrow.
Join me.
Jamie medium letters backs crew makes me partisan.
Hmm.
I would say no.
I would say you won't let him answer let him answer like
because you asked him a question.
He asked.
Okay.
Well, you can ask the full thing, but I think you got the
point across.
He's asking if something is sponsored by something.
Does that make it innately partisan?
But the fact is is that media matters and crew both have
multiple people from both that work in both companies and
I'll put the lawyers are pushed the media matters lawyers
are in the crew case.
You can since you talked about evidence.
Can you send me that link?
Yeah, let me actually shit.
Rick.
Do you still have that?
So I said to you ready 20 links dude.
I probably do.
I could help probably there.
I'd have to look for it.
So so the socialist answer to this is that as long as money
is changing hands, they're inherently corrupt and it's eternal
and that's just how it is and that nothing everything is
political.
Nothing can truly be nonpartisan.
And listen, I'm I'm fine.
I'm fine with that.
I'll if that's your definition of what a nonpartisan is.
I'm fine with it's very strict, but I'm fine with the reason
I said they're nonpartisan is because they will go after
instances of Democratic corruption as well.
I use Bob Menendez as a great recent example.
That's why I said they're nonpartisan.
I don't and I also like the concept of they get one off
like one one Democrat for every thousand Republicans or
whatever. That's that what is that what the ratio is?
I have no idea but the like I've seen media matters do this.
Wait, what is that?
What is the ratio?
That's media matters.
I'm five percent.
I don't know the ratio be clear, but it's a ratio is like
big 55% of the people that get got by them are Republicans
and 45% are Democrats.
Does that is that close enough to suggest non-partisanship
to you or is it too much?
I think anything like 70 30 would be fine.
Like I don't really yeah, so I don't have a breakdown of
the cases.
I don't all I know is that yes, they go after Republicans
more but they have gone after Democrats as well.
They are or were led by a George W.
Bush former employee a bush-era Republican and our media
matters. That's a different organization.
If you want to make allegations about media matters,
I'm fine with that.
I'm not nearly as conversant on media matters and they're
not party to the lawsuit as far as the lawsuits are concerned.
The reason that I made a big deal about of this if I remember
our first conversation is because the lawsuits are being
brought by Republican and independent voters.
I found something I found something as relevant.
Okay, so right on the Wikipedia page.
Basically from 2005 and 2014 their annual reports named
25 corrupt Democrats and 63 corrupt Republicans, so that
would be 28% Democratic and then whatever the other amount
is. When did media matters by?
I don't know.
I see through you're going to find out that that number
is going to add line up pretty quick, but to kind of interrogate
you pondering.
I said both of them too, by the way ting great and interrogate
you pondering for the moment or under that definition of
going after the other side and as an astute wick chatter
pointed out would that make Fox News nonpartisan because
they sometimes will go after Republicans as well.
I would say that Fox News has a liberal or excuse me a
conservative bent, but this was my point when we go back
to nonpartisan as I said probably 15 minutes ago if if Artemis
wants to say that crew has a favorable is a favorable perception
of Democrats because they criticize Democrats less often.
I'm sympathetic to that.
I just think that I that to me doesn't contradict nonpartisan
unless you have an extremely strict view of what nonpartisan
is which is for every complaint you have against a Democrat
you have to bring one against a Republican and vice versa.
I do not contest that crew spends more time going after Republicans
than Democrats and never suggested otherwise.
The reason I said that they were nonpartisan is because they're
an anti-corruption watchdog group that will persistently
go after corruption even from Democrats.
They just don't go after Democrats as often I would argue
that's a function of Republicans just being more corrupt.
Yeah, I'm going to go with the it is obviously it's ran by
media matters.
It is looks like I can't find when they when they purchase
it though.
I can't find that it's 2015.
Yeah, there was a a article that came out saying look who
now owns it or whatever the fuck or lined with it.
I have to go find it again.
Okay, that sounds good.
I can find it.
No again, I'm fine with that but it was Republicans and
independents who brought the case.
It's not just liberals bringing this case.
I don't know why you think that that means anything they
found a fucking why wait.
Why why do I think that it matters that no, no, it doesn't
matter what case we're even are you even arguing about the
Colorado the Colorado removal of Trump from the ballot?
Yeah, so Artemis right Democrats in the left bringing this
stuff against Trump and my position is it's a bit more nuanced
than that because Republicans are the ones making the claims
important.
He says it doesn't matter because I got a crew is the one
backing them.
So I got a question for dev and wick.
Okay, so so if you can if a single person cannot sue for
fraud in the 2020 election individually as a voter, why
would they be able to sue in a primary to get somebody off
the ballot?
Because they would have no standing either way.
It doesn't seem like they should be able to answer that
question before you answer that question.
I'm sorry, can because it sounds like we're going on to a
different thing.
No, no, no, I was just like that just came into my head and
I was I wanted to get that out before I put there.
I mean, yeah, what I recall is that in 2020 some of the
lawsuits were thrown out for standing and the standing was
you can't have a random Joe just sue because it's like,
okay, that makes sense.
And if it is equivalent, then I guess it would make sense
here too.
Yeah, and the the answer is you can literally find a random
person as a as the front the front face to a lawsuit by a
large corporation.
That's why it doesn't matter who they find for this primary
issue is because they could literally just pay anybody to
do it.
I think so, but the court decided to hear the case the
correct which is the process of arguing it and writing out
their opinion.
What about the actual merits of the case?
Are you do you say because I thought at the end of the day,
this is the same problem.
I had when people were talking about the plagiarism things
like oh a Republican brought that so we have to ignore that
and Republican brought that to the forefront.
I don't give a shit.
Are the allegations true?
Does the case have merit or does it not?
I don't care about the message at the end of the day.
There's a mere ways with can we can we point out one thing
so that the crux of the disagreement least the one that
he brought to me in this conversation is he doesn't think
it matters.
It doesn't it basically this is not a this is still a scheme
by the left and the Democrats Republicans play no role in
this apparently no Republican challenges Donald Trump's
eligibility under section 3 of the 14th Amendment.
It is purely Democrats and the left because he says that
the fact that Republicans are filing a suit doesn't matter
when they've got a left-leaning nonprofit behind them.
Yeah, do you think it matters?
Well, first of all first of all Artemis.
Do you think that's a fair recounting of your position?
It's sort of because I can't remember what state Supreme
Court said it but they literally threw it out because
of this because it was obviously a bid just to get somebody
removed off the ballot.
But that's what it was and I'm trying to figure out which
state it said it in so I can use it is it Michigan?
Yeah, Michigan said that because they pointed out that
they are literally a partisan organization that pushed
this specifically because that's why we have the Supreme
Court to adjudicate and different court and that's where
it's going to go and that's why it's going to get struck
down because regardless of who took it up.
They never should have it's going to get wiped out.
So Wick my question to you is is it possible for Republicans
some Republicans in this country some conservatives in
this country to genuinely believe that Trump is ineligible
under the 14th.
I I know them right.
I know that that's the thing though.
I do like it.
The fact that both of you are asking me questions to snidely
well apparently apparently this is what do you think about
this and I'm going to frame my opponent's argument in the
worst way possible.
But no, I think it's fine.
So Artemis is there so he believes that there are people
in this country conservatives and Republicans who do genuinely
believe Donald Trump is disqualified under the 14th Amendment,
which is my position.
Do you agree or disagree?
I think there's probably people out there that do.
Okay, and I don't see at this point what the beef is.
I think that we have gotten as asymptotically close to consensus
over who's behind this.
I agree that certainly it would favor the Democrats this
particular outcome over the Republican Party in general.
My position is that these suits it does matter that Republican
voters are bringing the suit that I that it's not we don't
have no evidence that their feelings are insincere or that
it's just some sort of elaborate scheme brew probably has
motivated reasoning.
They think Donald Trump is corrupt.
They probably also think he is ineligible under the 14th
Amendment and there are Republican and independent voters
who feel likewise.
I think that matters.
Let me hear let me let me give you a olive branch, right?
If a organization that was without actually like actually
nonpartisan and didn't really have any backing from a obviously
partisan source brought this case and succeeded it would
have a lot more way behind it.
The problem is is that they chose a an organization that
was backed by Media Matters because it's ran by Media Matters
the people from Media Matters in the organization is caused
doubt to be produced in this court case.
And that is the issue you're going to run.
You're going to see this come into the Supreme Court case
is that it's going to be pointed out but here the Artemis
like I don't think I cannot think of a scenario where it
wouldn't cause a sizable portion of the Republican Party
to doubt the merits of it just simply based on the accusation.
I cannot think of any organization that brought this forward
like even if Liz Cheney, right?
Remember when Liz Cheney and all those Republicans voted
to impeach Trump and immediately they were decided all these
are Republicans.
So what if a person just hired an attorney from a regular
like lawyer's office and then did this?
Yeah, I think that people would just be like like people
would find there's no there's no can well meet they would
they would struggle.
It would be wouldn't be nearly as easy.
It'd be really fucking hard.
I don't know if that's true.
I'm not I'm not sure what you yeah, I'm not sure what you
mean there out of curiosity since with brought up Liz Cheney
Liz Cheney recently came out and admitted or confirmed.
She thinks that Trump is disqualified under section 3
of the 14th Amendment.
Do you agree?
Like do you think that she's a you think that her beliefs
are sincere?
No, well hold on.
I believe that she sincerely hates the man and probably
think so look she would believe it.
I don't doubt her beliefs.
I mean he shit all over her father.
She has every reason to hate him.
So it would probably be colored in that way.
You think it's possible that she let's say she hates him
you think it's possible it's because of his actions not
because he insulted her father.
I there's no way to tell that that would be a mens rea
thing and I will you just speculate it as to her men's
rail. No, no, she definitely hates him.
She she sacrificed her seat as a hold on.
She sacrificed her seat as a congressperson to destroy him
in the January 6th thing that she dedicated herself to
that. She said I am going to destroy him off the get him
off the ballot.
You were willing to speculate that the reason was because
he insulted Dick Cheney her father.
So you were happy to speculate that that was the reason
correct.
I'm asking you is it possible that maybe let me try it
conservative ahead.
Let me try it this way.
Someone joins the military.
They go off to the foreign country and they fight the war
and they kill a bunch of the enemy, right?
Do they do that because they love their country and want
to put their lives on the line and destroy its enemies or
are they doing that because they hate those people and
want to kill those people?
I think it's I think it's slightly different reasoning
because because Liz Cheney hated Trump before January 6th.
No, she did not.
She oh, she definitely fucking did.
I don't know where she didn't.
They are what do you think they are several indications
that she said you think it matters?
Do you think it matters?
Let me let me ask you this.
How a congressperson Haves or how they vote.
Do you think these are reflections of support or opposition?
Vice can you say that again?
Do you think how a congressperson any congressperson Democrat
Republican?
It doesn't matter how they behave who they support and
how they vote.
Do you think these things matter?
Yes, for the most part you voted with Donald Trump 93% of
the time higher than Jim Jordan higher than Mike Johnson.
She put her money where her mouth was.
She voted for him in 2016.
She voted for him in 2020 and when she served in Congress
while he was president 93 times out of a hundred she backed
his legislation.
It was one of the highest Republican ratings while Trump
was in office.
She was a dutiful soldier until January 6th.
Well, I said hold on go ahead.
Okay, so we have the voting part of that right you said
there was two other things right how they conduct themselves
and how they I can't what was the other one and how they
vote how they vote how they conduct themselves who they
support so so Liz Cheney did not support Donald Trump at
all in terms of outside of voting, right?
She's a definitely a log cabinet Republican.
She she's made her statements clear that so outside of the
one way of support that actually matters.
She didn't okay.
So, okay.
Well, here's the issue right most of Trump's legislation
wasn't created by Trump.
It was created by other Republicans right was going to get
the credit for it.
I mean from I guess no, it's not it's listen.
This is this is the beef.
It's not an I guess when legislation passes under the
it's the president who gets the credit.
That's just how our politics works.
Whether whether that's right or wrong and you could easily
make the argument that once you get to the nuts and bolts
as wrong, that's how it works.
She backed Trump's legislation 93% of the time more than
the vast majority of not just Congress, but even fellow
Republicans she voted for him for president twice.
What do you have prior to January 6th to indicate her strong
opposition that would that is meaningfully counterweights
what we just described.
Okay.
When did Trump call Dick Cheney?
A loser or is it coward?
Let's see.
Was it now that seems way too.
Are you sure you're not thinking of John McCain?
Was it McCain?
Trump called a lot of people.
It was McCain.
Not yet.
It was John McCain.
Not, you know, not Cheney, but but to be fair.
It's an easy mistake to make as Trump has said a lot of bad
shit about a lot.
They're both.
I think I'm pretty I'm pretty sure that he he also shit on
like that.
It's just possible.
He might have he he should have a lot of people.
Let's be honest.
Yeah, he did.
No, I'm pretty sure.
Yeah.
I think this is a mix-up because I know Megan McCain after
her dad got shit on by Trump.
She like immediately turned on Trump and she did so long
before January 6th, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
That is not my recollection of Liz Cheney.
Liz Cheney was a dutiful soldier with her with how she voted
as a member of Congress in 2000 2016 to 2020 almost most
definitely and again to the reason I brought it up is because
her and the other Republicans were immediately cast out and
Immediately castigated as never Trumpers as all rhinos.
She was the third in command of the House Republican Conference.
She had a job that currently Elise Stefanik has.
She was censured by the Republican Party as a result of
her opposition to Trump post January 6th.
So no, I listen.
I'm not saying that that means you have to accept the merits.
It's entirely possible that there is a relatively bipartisan
coalition of anti Trumpers and that doesn't mean you're obligated
Believe that they're right.
I'm just telling you it is a fact and it is a fact that
it's not just Democrats.
It is mostly Democrats, but there is a sizable portion of
lifelong conservatives and former Republican officials who
despise the man and for legitimate reasons, not just because
he insulted their dads last word Artemis and I'd like to
have this in a more long form, but I know that actually
yeah, cuz I wanted to talk about the January 6th committee.
Yeah, so Artemis and I you and I've been I've been talking
for like a week now with the January 6th committee.
And yeah, yeah, they've been some fun conversation.
How about this?
How about this next week next week?
I have I'm putting my schedule together.
You guys tell me when you can make it and I'll say some time
and we can do the January 6th.
I am procrastinating right now.
Like you wouldn't believe we're all here.
Let's just chat for like half an hour.
Let's just like listen.
Yeah, I got hungry.
I got whoever is under you don't have to do you just be
here. Hold on.
Hold on.
I've got it here.
We can TLDR really quick.
So basically Artemis you and I were arguing you are just
let me know if I'm if I'm mischaracterizing you.
Okay, you think the January 6th committee is not valid for
two reasons as far as I understand, right?
And one reason is because it was it was based.
Well, first of all, one reason is because evidence from it
was destroyed and the second reason is because there were
no Republicans on the committee or they were there like Rhinos
on the committee and not actually McCarthy's five picks,
right?
Was it those two reasons?
I would actually say that Liz Cheney and the other guy were
probably more Republican than the actual Republican Party
is now.
Okay.
The issue is you can't call Liz Cheney a rhino because
Republicans were stood for blood and mine oil.
Like okay, no fair enough.
They would go to fuck up every other country.
There was here.
I'll rephrase there were no like Pro Trump positions on
the panel.
No populist types.
Yeah.
Yeah, and so therefore because Jim Jordan who's the most
notorious for I'm gonna get drink keep talking cross-examining
witnesses was not allowed on there is one of the biggest
things and so when you and I argued about this I said well,
it was because Jim Jordan was one of the guys being investigated
by the panel.
So it would be inappropriate for him to sit on the panel
investigating the event when he was part of the event.
Yeah, and I and I criticized that because the the the the
panel the J6 Commission didn't exist to do to state that
they're investigating in before that decision was made.
So yeah, so it was yeah, so so so your view from what I
understand is that it's that that's post hoc reasoning.
It's like how did we know that Jim Jordan was involved in
the situation before the panel was put together?
So when Nancy Pelosi rejects Jim Jordan as a pick, how
did she know that he was inappropriate to sit on the panel
because the panel hadn't discovered anything yet because
there's no evidence of her reasoning.
I mean if she if she had it she should have posted at
the time right and my view on that is basically that Nancy
Pelosi is this cutthroat lifelong politician who probably
has her finger in every single pie in Washington DC and
there is no way she didn't know beforehand that Jim Jordan's
name was going to come up in this committee.
Well, I believe if because you got to remember that there
was evidence and you know, just due to the the reporting
of the event.
I'd have to go back to the timeline but there were I'm almost
certain allegations of Jim Jordan's impropriety with respect
to Trump's schemes to overthrow the election prior to the
formation of the January 6 select committee me and if unless
I'm wrong it's possible, but I doubt it that means that
she had a sufficient predicate to think that Jim Jordan
may be materially relevant to the the scope of the investigation.
I think that's a fair assumption to me.
So here's the thing if that's true though because Artemis
and I went through this if that's true.
She didn't say it at all because we went searching for
like what did Nancy Pelosi say before the January 6 or
he was formed we went looking and the only thing she said
is she just said I think he's inappropriate his actions
in his comments.
She was very vague about it and I can only point to the
Fox News nighttime things where he was on there talking
about it about the what he said to the president and that
was it.
Right, right.
And I think that's some of the the evidence I'm thinking
of because I remember people asking him and there were a
couple of awkward interviews like did you hey, did you ever
talk to Donald Trump on January 6 and he's like why me?
I talked I talked to the president all the time.
It's a great moment.
I saw that.
Yeah, the big issue is is that oh, no, go ahead.
Sorry.
No, I was just gonna say and by the way Artemis kidding
aside and this is why I didn't have a problem with this
earlier. I like throwing elbows and we can tell you that
was fun.
I love yeah, I love going off on lactoid and back and forth.
Yeah, so so I don't I don't I miss the Bloodsport days when
I was actually known on the internet right now.
You're known for being an Irish teen genius who so yeah,
yeah, it was a horrible movie.
Oh, but without revealing this without revealing the secret
Artemis had a different name black back in the Bloodsport
days and he had a name for himself back then which he abandoned
a large man.
Oh God.
Okay.
All right.
Well, I do not want to know.
I'm just popping off.
I'm just good reason YouTube.
I don't want to know.
Go ahead.
Go keep going.
I was just gonna say I was just gonna say so in conclusion
I would offer as a as a counter proposition to to to your
point that that Pelosi never gave reason explicitly maybe
she felt it would have been inappropriate to kind of like
precast Jim Jordan's going to be under investigation.
I'm not saying that that's the right way to handle it.
But that I that makes sense to me.
So so do you know Eric Swalwell is do okay.
Do you remember what the big what the big committees he
was on? I believe it was oversight and Judiciary wasn't
it? I thought it was like intelligence right as well House
and tell there is a House Intelligence Committee.
Yeah, and he was on there in his his his fling with a suspected
Chinese pie.
Yeah.
So when they didn't remove him from an obvious relationship
with a spy Chinese by that never like that that was confirmed
a relationship at a for a period of time doesn't really
matter how long or like they didn't get into what they discussed
at all, but that in and of itself they never removed him
from that committee at all during that period of time.
So I would I would want to go back and fact-check the details
of that because number one, I don't know if it was ever confirmed
that she was a spy number two the extent and the timeline
of the involvement probably does matter but note that they
didn't kick they didn't kick Jim Jordan out of the House
Judiciary Committee or how to vet of anything else.
They just said that he couldn't be on this specific subcommittee
and I do think that's different than kicking somebody off
a committee on which they already are.
I do think that's different.
I don't know if Peng Feng or Christina Feng or whatever
her name is was ever confirmed 100% but almost by the way,
I just want to clarify.
I don't think I do think that that merits investigation.
I'm not saying that that means that that you give them a
blank check.
So normally what happens in an investigation?
I have a top secret clearance secure compartmentalized
information one whenever you're on investigation for security
issues, you lose your clearance temporarily and you're
removed from any jobs related to that until the investigation
is over that is a normal process.
So when they didn't do that and he sits on classified boards
and briefings still during that period of time.
He wasn't removed until the Republicans took over and he
was denied his seat again.
So right, so he was yes, he was removed from the committee
once the majority change hands a couple of things.
I'll say again because because you have me at a disadvantage
here in the sense that I'm not intimately familiar with the
story except the broad strokes number one.
I don't think the house has anything to do with top secret
clearance in the sense that I don't think they're the ones
who give it.
I think that's all.
No, no, they receive it.
Right.
That's on there that he would be executive.
Yeah, I'm the executive branch.
So I agree.
What I'm saying is that's not Pelosi's call to make that
would have been that would have been the relevant executive
branch agency.
I think actually would be well losing these clearance would
be an executive right, but removing it from that community
would be her decision.
That would have been her call.
Yes.
So what I'm saying is I would need to know more about what
steps if any were taken and what the rationale was but I
could conceive of a situation where it's like listen, she's
a suspected spy.
It doesn't look good, but we have no real evidence to suggest
that you had engaged in any acts of impropriety.
So we're not going to remove you from a committee on which
you already are in contrast.
Pelosi could have been saying based on reports.
We do have some evidence to indicate that Jim Jordan was
involved in whatever Trump was up to up to legal or illegal
whatever but the subject of the investment.
Let me put you like this reason Eric Swalwell if there was
an investigation into Eric Swalwell's mistress, Eric Swalwell
should not be on that committee.
If he's on the committee, he should be removed.
If he wasn't on it in the first place, he should never be
put on it.
That's what I think more comparable what happened with Jim
Jordan. In this case, Jim Jordan's Chinese mistress was Donald
Trump. And so I think the issue would go to okay.
Well, I look at the details if you want them.
So so basically Christine Fang she had been since 2012 cultivating
contacts with politicians in California that the Chinese
government had had believed would one.
Yeah.
Well, so they independently found something from the Chinese
government saying that China taken took an interest in a
list of Californian politicians and swallow was on the list.
And then this woman Christine Fang shows up and starts getting
heavily involved out of nowhere starts getting heavily involved
in his campaign.
She was also cultivating contacts with everyone else on that
list. So they didn't really they didn't get her on being a
spy, but she was doing all the things that a spy would do
based on the document they got from the Chinese.
She also fled to an embassy and then got you know, which
yeah then left.
Yeah, the return of China.
Yeah, so probably probably a spy probably a spy.
So what happened was she participated in his campaign in
2014, but in 2015 US intelligence briefed him about
possible spies and then Swalwell said oh shit.
She's probably a spy and then cut contact with her and it
turns out that Fang didn't even get any documents or any
information from him during that time that that because
here's the thing she was involved in his campaign, but
she was not involved with him after he got elected and
no information was leaked to her during during their
hold and I thought the story was I thought he'd been sleeping
with this Chinese chick who is taking.
I thought he might have been well, here's the thing they
discovered it.
Well, maybe he slept with her.
Well, they discovered they discovered that she had been
sleeping with at least two of her other contacts that she
had developed but not necessarily him.
So so if you wait, hold on Artemis, you said he admitted
to sleeping with her.
Is that true or not?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's true that he said that because
we can find that cats it has sexual relationships with two
unidentified Miss Midwestern mayors, but not with Swalwell
though allegations persisted.
He was a national security threat by being associated with
her. So I think it's because I think it's because they did
investigate him and they discovered that nothing was actually
leaked.
So they just kind of let it be but I'm sure if they discovered
oh, he's actually compromised.
They probably would have taken him off that committee and
rightfully so.
Yeah, cuz here it says that Saul refuses to say if he had
sex with Fang Fang claiming it's a matter of national security
not that he could share any details of their relationship.
No, the fact that her name is Fang Fang is like a James Bond
movie, dude.
It's great.
Well, they say they say Fang is one.
You guys remember I'm going to make a racist joke.
You guys remember the this isn't even a joke.
This is a true story.
The Chinese jet who rammed an American spy plane back in
1999 2000 that kind of air vaguely vaguely recall this.
I think yeah, the pilot's name.
I shit.
You not was a long way.
So let me ask you Artemis because I'm doing some last minute
Google food here.
Go for it.
And that was also not a racist joke.
That was just a come through reference to just just make
the racist jokes.
It's okay.
No, no listening.
I'm popped again.
I can't I will not compromise my trajectory with that
shenaniganry true.
So does it does it matter to you that so according to Wikipedia
Destiny's favorite source on in May late like mid-may 2019
or excuse me, May 19th 2021.
That was when they decided to drop it, right?
No, that was when they decided to form the house January 6
select committee.
Yeah about May 19th 2021 the matter to you that in March
2021 Kevin McCarthy went he tried to remove Eric Swalwell
the House Intelligence Committee by passing a resolution.
So for context he they tried to move to remove Eric Swalwell
from that committee two months before the committee the
separate committee the the house January 6 select committee
was launched from which Jim Jordan was rejected.
So actually it was Kevin McCarthy who made the first attempt
to move.
So the the statement by McCarthy was because a person that
had relations with a quote-unquote spy a clear issue with
having holding a class AA clearance on the House Intelligence
Committee that is the the stuff there as a as a leap of logic
is almost non-existent.
You could just you could easily see why somebody would have
an issue with somebody being on the committee, right, but
I would argue the same I would argue.
I don't know where where it measures but I think that you
could easily make the case for Jim Jordan given what we knew
about Jim Jordan's relationship with Trump and on the events
leading up to January 6th at the time.
Yeah, I think you could easily make the same justification
that listen this guy might fall under the scope of the investigation
maybe not but either way we can't we need to not give him
a position to influence the investigation and they and they
did it after and they did it after McCarthy tried to remove
Swalwell.
I think that matters.
I well there was a recommend.
Hey, I'm sorry.
My camera just kicked off.
So I'll just be on audio.
Okay, I've been using my I would say two things one that
was a request that didn't go anywhere which we know of as
for the J6 things.
I'm gonna make a two different arguments one is a knowledge
based argument.
If you have reason to suspect that somebody is going to be
implicated in a investigation for the quote-unquote overthrow
attempted overthrow of the United States.
You might want to put that out into the public that way
they can understand your decision-making at least some of
the evidence there because we didn't you're going to get
maligned with accusations of bias.
The second thing is a pragmatic argument of if you didn't
have this evidence to throw out there, but you had you know
suspicions for the sake of looking a nonpartisan in a neutral
RI body trying to do fact-find you don't get rid of the top
Republicans.
That everybody likes out of the Commission and deny them
because you're going to get an issue where we have it now
where the J6 is nothing but considered evil Satan on the
right and the average population or the average citizen
of the United States doesn't actually give a shit about
what it found.
So a couple of things number one.
It wasn't a request Kevin McCarthy made a formal resolution
to remove Swalwell from House Intelligence Committee.
It wasn't a request.
He tried to get it done by force.
He just didn't have the votes number one, right?
So it was a when I say request.
I mean like he proffered to do it and he tried to do it
and if he had his way it would have been done.
He just didn't have the support for it number one and he
get attempted at first and it was also a committee on which
Swalwell was currently seated number one number two, I would
argue that you wouldn't put that information out in the in
the public prematurely, even if it casts a pall on the investigation
like why aren't you seating Jim Jordan?
I agree that there's probably no satisfying way to do it
because if what if what you recommended was done and it
could be seen as prejudicing the investigation.
Okay, what's your evidence?
Well, we're not prepared to produce it yet because the committee
hasn't gotten started and by the way, we don't know where
it's going.
So the last thing we want to do is preemptively make act
against a sitting member of Congress.
I think you could easily make the argument that that was
the responsible thing to do and number number three, which
is the second point on this last part is the reason that
the committee ended up being so skewed is because Kevin McCarthy
Nancy Pelosi who did not have to do this.
He could have played hardball and said I'm the speaker Kevin
McCarthy. You're my bitch.
I'll just do whatever I want said is a gesture of good faith.
She said listen, let's do it 9-11 style.
I'll pick five Democrats.
You pick five Republicans will get equal subpoena power equal
time yada yada yada.
McCarthy offered five nominees and Nancy Pelosi shot down
two who were seen as potential witnesses or potential
potentially involved in the situation.
So she said listen those other three fine.
These two can't do it.
So can you pick some others and Kevin McCarthy said no it's
either my five the five that I named or none at all.
Yep, that's McCarthy's decision me because if you keep going
and I'll respond.
That's why I can say Kevin Kevin McCarthy.
It's not like it's not like Pelosi said you can't make any
Republicans or that there are no Republicans whatsoever.
She said give me five.
You just can't have these two and Kevin McCarthy refused I
would argue given that there were hundreds, you know, at
least 150 Republicans in the house at the time.
I can't remember the exact breakdown.
I think it had to be close to 200 plenty of other options.
So that's that's McCarthy's fault.
Not Pelosi's I would say that you're you're trying to say
trying to so you're looking at this in a vacuum.
Unfortunately, the Democratic the Democrats I just got out
of two different impeachment attempts where the impeachment
inquiry was basically rail road through by one side and
so he attempted an olive branch by allowing pro-Trump voices
onto the thing to give some balance to this committee, even
though it was obviously the findings are going to be negative
towards Trump and Republicans, but he was trying to provide
some balance there and once they were rejected the two most
like the most favored Republican Congressman in the nation
that people like never removed from it.
I there was no there was no like nobody was no Republican
was going to be satisfied with McCarthy and vote for him
again if he allowed it.
Wait, so so so this is this is where okay.
So yes impeachments tend to be partisan right now.
We're experiencing a partisan impeachment the impeachment
effort against president was partisan as well and Bush
impeachments are partisan by definition now, so so I don't
think that that has any bearing on the January 6th select
committee because Pelosi said well, let's do it bipartisanly
equal numbers equal subpoena power.
She just said you can't have these two.
That's a reasonable request to make and you say well, they
needed a pro-Trump voice.
I would I reject the argument or the suggestion.
I'm not saying you're arguing this but the implicit the
implicit suggestion of your argument is that there were no
other pro-Trump voices besides Jim Banks and Jim Jordan
who could have been put on that committee and I just
categorically reject that there were 200 Republicans in
Congress can and and and would is or to think so McCarthy
chose the most respected Republicans in the nation to go
on there that people liked that they could be relatively
sure that people would accept being on that committee and
that would be would give some good faith to it.
So he picked people that would give some credibility.
How could it be?
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I have to interrupt.
How could it be good faith if Jim Jordan is not only pro-Trump
which is fine.
Yeah, but he is potentially involved.
They have reason to believe that he was involved with the
efforts to overturn the 2020 election.
Well, let's go.
Let's go with this, right?
So the the other side is staffed with Democrats who have
all unanimously tried to impeach Trump twice.
Sure.
Okay.
So there was never going to be a nonpartisan in the way of
not asking for not but wait a minute.
I'm not asking for nonpartisan.
I agree.
I agree.
You're not going to find you're not going to find neutral
people. I'm saying they could have found other partisan
Republicans who were pro-Trump that weren't potentially
involved. The United States population had faith in.
Like they only know Jim Jordan is the only one to have that
the United States has has any faith in again.
Actually, here's the issue.
Trey Gowdy and Jim Jordan are there.
Let me hop in here Artemis because I mean Matt Gates was
in the house.
Wasn't he?
Isn't he like a well-known right-wing figure that people
on the right trust?
Like why didn't McCarthy tap him?
Because Gates and McCarthy were going at it.
Yeah.
Okay.
I mean, I don't know about that.
Maybe got him removed.
Yeah, correct.
They were fine.
They were for sure.
Sure.
But that was later.
That was like in that was no, no, no, no.
That was later.
It's a long time coming.
Yeah, it was like I was like, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's he was doing an option that even for his post
when he wasn't like removing McCarthy from the position
McCarthy was removing him from like committee assignments.
Okay, right.
So I looked into into fought into the five original picks
that McCarthy brought up and one of them was Troy Nels and
Troy Nels was never involved in Trump's plans, but he was
very pro Trump and he did, he did vote to have, you know,
the ballots inspector there or the electorate inspector,
whatever, whatever the case is.
He was one of the guys who did that, but he wasn't involved
in the, in the, you know, the Eastman memo implementation.
Right.
Yeah.
So she didn't throw Troy Nels off of the five.
So Nancy Pelosi seemed to be willing to allow, you know,
very pro Trump voices onto this committee, just not the
two that were involved.
You're going to, you're going to, I'm going to go back
to the, the, the, the Republican electorate know of Jim Jordan.
He is a known quantity to them.
Right.
Let's see home most popular Republican Republican House.
Okay.
Let's see.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's a, that's a comment that people
are making about Jim Jordan.
Now, I think if you take the polling literally that also
puts Jim Jordan above Donald Trump, if I remember correctly
when I cover probably from Jim Jordan's attempt at a speakership,
but listen, I don't number one.
I don't think that was the reason Kevin McCarthy offered
at the time because to be quite frankly until Dev pointed
out that Troy Nels was one of the names I couldn't even
remember the other three names.
So it's not like they were, you know, Kevin McCarthy was
going necessarily for star power.
No, no, it's not, it's not star power.
It's, it's the, it's trust and faith in the system.
You need trust and faith in a committee for people to believe
the committee's findings and because you remove the people
that would give it the most legitimacy.
You're going to restore resulting is going to be distrust.
Well, here, here, how about this?
How about this?
How about this?
How about this?
So, so like there's definitely a conspiracy worm in my brain
that says Pelosi knowingly rejected, knowingly rejected the
most popular Republicans in order to, in order to make this,
you know just, just a witch hunt for the Democrats to go
after Trump there.
That's a conspiracy worm that I mean, it's possible.
I guess it's possible, but there's an alternate
conspiracy worm though, where, where basically McCarthy
put forward people that, yes, McCarthy put forward people
that he knew would have to be shot down because he didn't
even want to be part of the proceedings at all and that
gave him a justification to pull out.
And paint it and paint it as partisan as a result.
The issue is, is that there's no, there's no evidence of
him knowing that, that that was going to take place.
There's evidence of him offering what he would normally
offer, the leading like Republican figure, which is Jim
Jordan, a position that he asked for on the committee and
then getting, they're getting rejected and then saying,
okay, well, this is obviously partisan and pulling out.
Like we have evidence for those two things.
I think I reject some of the premises there.
Number one, I don't know if that was the reason that Kevin
McCarthy offered Jim Jordan in the first place.
And even if it is, I don't think that if that obligates
Nancy Pelosi to accept Jim Jordan, when there's sufficient
reason to believe that Jim Jordan may be implicated in
the scope of the investigation.
Yeah, I don't, I don't, no, no, no, because it's fine.
The bet, the back and forth is good, but I just don't want
to lose my train of thought here.
Yeah, go for it.
I don't think that Nancy Pelosi was obligated to give
Jim Jordan that position while knowing that, that he may
be implicated in the scope of the investigation.
I think it's reasonable for Nancy Pelosi to say, listen,
I'm kind of being generous right now anyway, doing this
9-11 style bipartisan commission and giving you all equal
subpoena power.
You have 200 members in your conference.
You need, you can find five pro-Trump names who are trusted
by their constituents to put on here.
You just can't put people on here who may be implicated
in the scope of the investigation.
And for Kevin McCarthy to just reject that out of hand
and say, listen, no, it's Jim Jordan, Jim Banks, and these
other three or none at all.
I think that, let me ask you this.
What should, what should Pelosi have done, especially with
hindsight? Hindsight, if she wanted the J-6 committee's
findings to be considered anywhere credible, she should
have had Jim Jordan on there.
Regardless of whether or not he would have been called to
testify, they could have that instance happen where the
committee calls Jim Jordan to testify and he just publicly
says, no, I'm not doing it.
I would be fine with that.
I'm sure you would be.
I just don't know.
Let me, I don't think you would ever accept it if the shoe
was on the other foot.
Hey, give this Democrat witness who may be investigated and
put him in a position to influence the investigation in
question with equal subpoena power.
I don't think you would accept that nor should you, quite
frankly, that would be absurd.
We had to accept that during the crossfire hurricane and
the special counsel for Robert.
What was it?
Robert Mueller.
Okay, before you get into that, I know I'm now an hour
late and I have to go before you get into that.
We are, I have one final question.
Can you give me like the 32nd version of it?
Just the other instance of, I have heard something about
the January 6th committee destroying evidence.
It wasn't just nonsense.
I read an LA Times article about how some of it was destroyed.
What was the deal there?
Um, I know the, how do I say this?
So there was supposed to be exculpatory evidence that some
of the defendants were asking for that like videotapes of
themselves and how they were caught or whatever and they
weren't given any of that.
And then when they went to go asking for it, they said they
didn't have it and didn't have to give it.
And then when the Republicans were taking over the house
and the committee was told to preserve all of the data,
they didn't and then now it's no longer in existence.
Yeah, so from the LA Times article on the topic, possession
of the massive trove of evidence collected by the committee
was long expected to remain an issue on Capitol Hill once
the panel's work was done.
The select committee's 18 month investigation is believed
to be among the most extensive probes in congressional history,
but much of it was done behind closed doors, so the full
extent of what was collected is unknown.
Committee staff spoke with more than a thousand people
for the investigation, which resulted in millions of pages
of depositions, cell phone and text records, emails, staff
notes, and analysis by outside organizations.
Official records are typically handed over to a successor
committee, then to the house clerk and eventually to the
national archives where they're shielded by law from public
view for at least 30 years.
When Republicans took control of the house in January,
they included something new in the rules for the 118th
Congress, an order that all documents that were retained
from the house January 6 committee go to the house
administration committee.
All materials already sent to the national archives
were to be returned.
But I guess because this was from a new Congress,
they didn't honor that rule because it took place
in the previous Congress.
The leader of the committee said that he didn't think
they were, that he needed to preserve them so he didn't
is the, I think the direct quote.
If you, if I'm looking at that article with you because
again, I've heard this allegation as well.
I recall fact-checkers saying that it was not true, that
evidence was not knowingly destroyed.
If you read on those articles, it says that house rule,
it looks like seven, job lines preservation of house records
at the end of each two-year Congress and has been used
by nearly every Congress including the current one loosely
defines what has to be preserved.
It says the committee should preserve quote an official
permanent record of the committee including any record
of a legislative oversight or any or other activity of
such committee or subcommittee thereof.
What committees consider an official record have varied
widely over the years.
For some, the definition includes transcripts, official
correspondence, and drafts of legislation.
Other committees might include staff notes and internal
memos. Some preserve only their final report and notices
of hearings that were held. McCarthy, who is now speaker,
sent Benny Thompson a letter in December demanding the
preservation of all records collected and transcripts of
testimony taken during your investigation in accordance
with house rules, but he had no authority to enforce it
because the committee disbanded moments before the new
Congress controlled by Republicans was sworn in, their
new rule for ordering preservation of any non-concurrent
records from the committee could only apply to records
that had already been transferred to a successor committee
or to the National Archives. In essence, the Republicans
couldn't order the Jan 6 select committee to turn anything
over because it didn't exist existed.
Yeah, I read that one.
Yeah, and that tells me that because it because they because
it the new rule didn't take into place until after the
J6 committee was torn down and McCarthy didn't have any
power to tell them to hold on to it.
They decided not to keep it or that that tells me that
But if you if you read two paragraphs down, do you see
the step that Thompson said the select committee was not
obligated to archive all video recordings of transcribed
interviews or depositions, but determined that written
transcripts were sufficient.
So there is a record just not the total record that Republicans
wanted which was apparently the video tape.
So here's the thing.
Here's the thing, right?
Well, let me jump in here because I do I do have to go
right now.
We got a gang.
I'm hungry.
I'm starving.
Yeah, you get angry with get a snicker.
So basically like like I know that this is the legal proceeding.
It's probably all done above board in terms of the the letter
of the law, but as a data hoarder personally, I don't like
the idea of stuff due to a rule being like arbitrarily destroyed
or deleted or not able to be seen anymore that just bothers
me in a personal level because I like to keep I hoard every
single thing that I come across in case it's useful for later
every slip of paper every link every weird conspiracy Theory.
I keep it all backed up somewhere penis doodle.
Hoarders episode for you somewhere.
I'm sure yeah, I hoard data.
I hoard data like crazy.
So when I hear this like I don't know if this could be used
legally, but it does make me think like why don't you just
why don't you just keep it guys?
Like what the fuck there is it raises questions that didn't
need to be raised.
But um before we go up, I just want to thank you Doug for
coming on spend some time with me and collabing with me
a bit.
I'll put my check to you in the mail because this is business
transaction, right?
You saw that tweet funny.
Oh my God.
Okay.
There was like a vtuber who was saying like listen every
every time you collab with someone like someone's got to
be paying someone.
It's all it's all transactional.
There's no real friendships in the online space.
It's like what the fuck it like are you sociopathic?
What are they living in?
This is all friendship based which I mean great terrible
at the same time, right?
Dev asks me for money all the time.
Oh, well, yeah, that's because that's because you make a
cake on that's because you make six figures a month.
I don't care what I'm on.
Holy shit.
Right.
Okay.
I look yeah sidebar what we'll take letter.
We'll take what I knew but for now gang Josiah, thank you
for coming on Artemis really appreciate your perspective
as well.
I would love to have like a more sit-down thing about this.
But again, you caught me when I'm trapped.
I was going to go to McDonald's now.
I can't because it's closed.
So fuck all of you.
I'll see you guys later.
My next show is on when I not Wednesday Thursday, sorry
Thursday at 6 30 p.m.
Eastern and we're going to have a bunch of alpha males explained
to those silly women why feminism has succeeded for them.
Whereas the women the silly silly women that they are are
going to explain why modern feminism has failed them.
So it should be a fun debate should be a fun discussion tune
in 6 30 p.m.
On Thursday check us out for now.
We're going to write out and to Nina so way by everyone
if you can.
Oh, wait.
I'm the only one who can goodbye.
Yep.
Yeah.
Bye.
