US President Donald Trump gave his first State of the Union address on January 30th, 2018.
It was, in my opinion, an average speech.
Probably the highlight of it all was the story of Based Crutchman, who managed to escape
from North Korea after losing a leg in an accident, an event that Donald Trump used
to emphasize the brutality of the North Korean regime.
That's not to say that there weren't a few low points either.
Nancy Pelosi spent the entire night looking like she was playing with her dentures.
The Democratic side of the room booed when Trump motioned to the two sets of parents
of kids killed due to illegal immigrant gang violence that were in attendance.
And the Black Caucus looked like somebody shat in their dinner when it was announced
that, statistically, poor black people were economically doing better than ever.
I guess it's going to be hard to convince them to vote for you solely on the basis of
race, if they're not stuck in perpetual grinding poverty, eh guys?
But everybody expected the Nunes memo to drop during the State of the Union.
The timing was right, and it would have been a great way to decisively win that conversation
once and for all.
Personally, I'm glad that Trump didn't do it, though.
I don't know about you guys, but I'm fine with the State of the Union being a little
less partisan than normal political affairs.
Nonetheless, during Trump's walk out of the room, the memo did come up.
And there you have it.
Trump's agreed to release the memo.
And it's about at this point in the timeline of events that Democratic propaganda went
into overdrive.
But it was all for naught, because on February 2nd, 2018, the Nunes memo was finally released.
Let's give it a read.
Oh, and if you've already read it, timestamp on the screen is where you want to skip ahead
to.
This memorandum provides members an update on significant facts relating to the committee's
ongoing investigation into the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation
and their use of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act during the 2016 presidential
election cycle.
Our findings, which are detailed below, raise concerns with the legitimacy and legality
of certain DOJ and FBI interactions with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court and
represent a troubling breakdown of legal processes established to protect the American people
from abuses related to the FISA process.
On October 21st, 2016, DOJ and FBI sought and received a FISA probable cause order,
not under Title VII, authorizing electronic surveillance on Carter Page from the FISC.
Page is a US citizen who served as a volunteer advisor to the Trump presidential campaign.
Consistent with requirements under FISA, the application had to be first certified
by the director or deputy director of the FBI.
It then required the approval of the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, or the Senate-confirmed
Assistant Attorney General for the National Security Division.
The FBI and DOJ obtained one initial FISA warrant targeting Carter Page and three FISA
renewals from the FISC.
As required by statute, a FISA order on an American citizen must be renewed by the FISC
every 90 days and each renewal requires a separate finding of probable cause.
Then Director James Comey signed three FISA applications in question on behalf of the
FBI and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe signed one.
Then DAG Sally Yates, then acting DAG Dana Boente, and DAG Rod Rosenstein each signed
one or more FISA applications on behalf of the DOJ.
Due to the sensitive nature of foreign intelligence activity, FISA submissions, including renewals
before the FISC, are classified.
As such, the public's confidence in the integrity of the FISA process depends on the
court's ability to hold the government to the highest standard, particularly as it
relates to the surveillance of American citizens.
However, the FISC's rigor in protecting the rights of Americans, which is reinforced
by 90-day renewals of surveillance orders, is necessarily dependent on the government's
production to the court of all material and relevant facts.
This should include information potentially favorable to the target of the FISC application
that is known by the government.
In the case of Carter Page, the government had at least four independent opportunities
before the FISC to accurately provide an accounting of the relevant facts.
However, our findings indicate that, as described below, material and relevant information was
omitted.
The dossier compiled by Christopher Steele, the Steele dossier, on behalf of the Democratic
National Committee and the Hillary Clinton campaign, formed an essential part of the
Carter Page FISA application.
Steele was a longtime FBI source who was paid over $160,000 by the DNC and Clinton campaign
via the law firm Perkins Coie and research firm Fusion GPS to obtain derogatory information
on Donald Trump's ties to Russia.
Neither the initial application in October 2016 nor any of the renewals disclose or reference
the role of the DNC, Clinton campaign, or any party or campaign in funding Steele's
efforts, even though the political origins of the Steele dossier were then known to senior
DOJ and FBI officials.
The initial FISA application notes Steele was working for a named U.S. person, but does
not name Fusion GPS and principal Glenn Simpson, who was paid by a U.S. law firm, Perkins Coie,
representing the DNC, even though it was known by the DOJ at the time that political
actors were involved with the Steele dossier.
The application does not mention Steele was ultimately working on behalf of and paid by
the DNC and Clinton campaign, or that the FBI had separately authorized payment to Steele
for the same information.
The Carter Page FISA application also cited extensively a September 23, 2016 Yahoo News
article by Michael Iscoff, which focuses on Page's July 2016 trip to Moscow.
This article does not corroborate the Steele dossier because it is derived from information
leaked by Steele himself to Yahoo News.
The Page FISA application incorrectly assesses that Steele did not directly provide the information
to Yahoo News.
Steele has admitted in British court filings that he met with Yahoo News and several other
outlets in September 2016 at the direction of Fusion GPS.
Perkins Coie was aware of Steele's initial media contacts because they hosted at least
one meeting in Washington D.C. in 2016 with Steele and Fusion GPS where this matter was
discussed.
Steele was suspended and then terminated as an FBI source for what the FBI defines
as the most serious of violations, an unauthorized disclosure to the media of his relationship
with the FBI in an October 30, 2016 Mother Jones article by David Corn.
Steele should have been terminated for his previous undisclosed contacts with Yahoo and
other outlets in September before the Page application was submitted to the FISC in October,
but Steele improperly concealed from and lied to the FBI about those contacts.
Steele's numerous encounters with the media violated the cardinal rule of source handling,
maintaining confidentiality, and demonstrated that Steele had become a less than reliable
source for the FBI.
Before and after Steele was terminated as a source, he maintained contact with DOJ via
then-Associate Deputy Attorney General Bruce Ohr, a senior DOJ official who worked closely
with Deputy Attorneys General Yates and later Rosenstein.
Shortly after the election, the FBI began interviewing Ohr, documenting his communications
with Steele.
For example, in September 2016, Steele admitted to Ohr his feelings against then-candidate
Trump when Steele said that he was desperate that Donald Trump not get elected and was
passionate about him not being President.
This clear evidence of Steele's bias was recorded by Ohr at the time, and subsequently
in official FBI files, but not reflected in any of the Page visa applications.
During this same period, Ohr's wife was employed by Fusion GPS to assist in the cultivation
of opposition research on Trump.
Ohr later provided the FBI with all of his wife's opposition research, paid for by
the DNC and Clinton campaign, via Fusion GPS.
The Ohr's relationship with Steele and Fusion GPS was inexplicably concealed from the FISC.
According to the head of the FBI's Counterintelligence Division, Assistant Director Bill Priestap,
corroboration of the Steele dossier was in its infancy at the time of the initial Page
visa application.
After Steele was terminated, a source validation report conducted by an independent unit within
FBI assessed Steele's reporting as only minimally corroborated.
Yet in early January 2017, Director Comey briefed President-elect Trump on a summary
of the Steele dossier, even though it was, according to his June 2017 testimony, salacious
and unverified.
While the FISA application relied on Steele's past record of credible reporting on other
unrelated matters, it ignored or concealed his anti-Trump financial and ideological motivations.
Furthermore, Deputy Director McCabe testified before the committee in December 2017 that
no surveillance warrant would have been sought from the FISC without the Steele dossier information.
The Page FISA application also mentions information regarding fellow Trump campaign advisor George
Papadopoulos, but there is no evidence of any cooperation or conspiracy between Page
and Papadopoulos.
The Papadopoulos information triggered the opening of an FBI counterintelligence investigation
in late July 2016 by FBI agent Pete Strozik.
Strozik was reassigned by the Special Counsel's Office to FBI Human Resources for improper
text messages with his mistress, FBI attorney Lisa Page, no known relation to Carter Page,
where they both demonstrated a clear bias against Trump and in favor of Clinton, whom
Strozik had also investigated.
The Strozik-Lisa-Page texts also reflect extensive discussions about the investigation, orchestrating
leaks to the media, and include a meeting with Deputy Director McCabe to discuss an
insurance policy against President Trump's election.
Also, yes, that was a steam key in my mentions.
And yes, by the time this video goes up, I will have claimed it.
Too bad, suckers.
Boy, there's a lot to unpack here.
First of all, I want to make it clear that the Nunes memo is not evidence of anything
in itself.
It's a description of evidence that the FBI has in its possession, that the members
of the HPSCI have viewed and reviewed personally.
I think it's important that the actual evidence behind this memo also sees the light of day,
at least in some kind of media-digestible format, which to be fair, not all evidence
can be, sometimes due to its very nature.
Secondly, a lot of people are calling the Nunes memo a dud because it focuses on Christopher
Steele's personal bias against Donald Trump.
The FBI deals in biased sources all the time, and Steele's public opposition to Trump's
campaign shouldn't be enough to discount his information used in the FBI's FISA
warrant application.
But the Nunes memo implies that it is.
And well, those detractors are partially right.
Steele's personal opinions alone aren't enough to dismiss the FISA warrant application.
But you know what is enough to dismiss it?
The fact that the money for Steele's investigations came from the Democratic National Committee
in the Hillary Clinton campaign, as stated in the memo.
But not only that, in 2016 the community organizing group, Obama for America, the group that President
Obama's campaign infrastructure eventually morphed into after a second presidential win,
also contributed money to Steele's project.
Moreover, the FBI corroborated Steele's data in the FISA warrant application using
a Yahoo News article, an article that instead of acting as an independent source of information,
used leaks from Steele's dossier, covertly provided by Steele himself to Yahoo News.
And none of these obvious conflicts of interest were included in the FISA warrant application.
Yeah, those facts might give the Nunes memo a bit more clout, eh?
It doesn't matter that Steele opposed Trump personally.
What matters was Steele's conduct.
What matters is that Obama's FBI was so willing to ignore the obvious red flags in the pursuit
of a political agenda.
There's also been criticism of Nunes himself for not personally looking at some of the
evidence used in the memo.
On the surface, this sounds like a valid criticism, but it's pretty clear that it's coming
from people who have no idea how politics actually works.
Senators and congressmen don't actually write legislation themselves, you know?
They have an army of aides that each study a specific strand of an issue, bring their
research together, construct a bill or a speech, and then the official they work for looks
the final product over, revises it, and receives a briefing on its contents.
The honest truth is, elected officials are simply too busy to spend thousands of hours
researching every fine grain of every issue they come across.
The demands of the job require that they hire people that they trust to be politically aligned
with them to do a lot of the legwork.
In the case of the Nunes memo, no, Nunes didn't actually read the FISA applications
themselves, as a lot of outlets are now reporting.
But do you know who did read them?
Trey Gowdy, another member of the HPSCI, and one that co-authored the Nunes memo.
The implication that Nunes just shat out a memo without anybody even taking a peek at
the evidence is a ridiculous falsehood.
Frankly, it's really telling that the democratic narrative switched from the Nunes memo being
a grave danger to national security if released, revealing intelligence sources, compromising
the nation, and on one occasion from Nancy Pelosi, being too complicated for the American
public to read, to the Nunes memo being a nothingburger.
It can't be simultaneously destructive and benign.
And really, you just listened to it here.
Did any of that sound like sensitive information?
Was any of it especially hard to grasp?
It's almost like I said in the previous video, the response to the democrats has been
one of desperation, grasping at anything they can.
It's also really telling just how firmly under the democratic thumb the mainstream
media is too.
Let's think back over the past, say, 40 or 50 years of politics.
Do you guys remember the Pentagon Papers, Watergate, the Iran-Contra affair?
Do you remember any situation in the past in which the government would have preferred
the media simply ignored them, and the media flat out refused?
This whole Nunes memo situation is one of the first times I can recall that the press
would rather conceal government misdeeds instead of expose them.
Oh, but you want to talk about the Trump-Russia connection?
Sure, go right ahead, shit up the entire Overton window with that garbage endlessly.
I'm not even taking a firm stance on the Russian collusion issue right now, I'm actually
in the middle of the road on that one.
But when the media will blow up the smallest scrap of half-baked evidence, the smallest
whisper of 5th party hearsay, but completely shut down all reporting when it comes to a
government authored memo that may swing Trump's way?
Journalism is dead, guys, at least in the mainstream media.
Even the pretense of ethics is gone now.
And finally, if we needed a glittering reminder of the absolute cancer that the Third Way
Democrats are, this is it, and it's been a long time coming.
Ever since the Clinton years, the Democratic party has had no problems with weaponizing
apolitical branches of the government against the Republicans.
Obama's use of the FBI in this manner was only the latest incident.
For some reason, today's Democratic voters have completely forgotten the rapid expansion
of surveillance under Obama's NSA, or Bill Clinton's use of the Internal Revenue Service
to target his political opponents, or Filegate.
Of course, the left has more important things to do than worry about stuff like that.
Like hey, how about complaining about the State of the Union address as another way
to distract from the whole thing?
I mean, the ACLU is angry that Trump used the word America a lot, because the word America
is exclusionary to illegal immigrants.
Yes, the American Civil Liberties Union is mad at Trump, the American President, for
using the word America in the State of the American Union address, because illegal immigrants,
who have illegally immigrated to America, are going to be angry about being reminded
exactly whose borders they illegally crossed.
Jesus fucking Christ.
That offense doesn't stop them from crossing over, though, and it also doesn't stop those
poor innocent Dreamers from the last video from breaking the law, too.
Border agents arrest DACA recipient in Texas for smuggling immigrants.
It's almost like everything I fucking said in part two of this series has come to pass.
But this is okay, because Democrats want Dreamers and DACA, and even illegal immigrants too,
because that's more Democratic voters in their pocket.
That's why California is experimenting with granting anybody who holds a driver's license
the ability to vote.
Even illegal immigrants who hold a variation of the license, specifically for illegals.
Yeah, I'm just going to stop here.
The deeper I go down this rabbit hole, the dumber this shit gets.
At this point, it's a long shot that the New News memo was crafted to draw attention
away from the government shutdown, and I now have another reason to disbelieve that possibility.
If that were actually the case, it would be the dumbest Republican stratagem yet, because
the Democrats shutting down the government over DACA is increasingly making them look
like villains.
Honestly, this story has a lot of little pieces that don't fit together cleanly, but are
still important enough to include as context.
Like this older video of Comey admitting under oath that he had no knowledge of a campaign
by the FBI to wiretap then-candidate Trump's campaign, which we now know to be a lie.
The president stated, I bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that
President Obama was tapping my phones in October just prior to the election.
Director Comey, you're a good lawyer.
Can you make out a great case that President Obama wiretapped Mr. Trump's phones just
part of the election, in light of the fact you've said there's no evidence of that?
All I can say is what I said before, that we don't have any information that supports
those tweets.
Now, here I think you've said there's been no evidence of an illegal wiretap by President
Obama, is that right?
I've said the FBI and the Department of Justice have no information to support those tweets.
Or like the upcoming second memo on the FISA applications, this one authored by Adam Schiff,
designed to report from the other side of the issue, since the Democratic position is
that the Nunes memo is inaccurate.
The Schiff memo still hasn't been voted on, and the mainstream media is claiming that
the Republicans are blocking the release, when the more likely answer is that they're
still just working through the process.
And to be clear, I support the release of both memos, as well as the available evidence.
Or like Feinstein and Schiff's request that Twitter and Facebook block the Release the
Memo hashtag, and docks the accounts that use the hashtag to the US government.
All the while, groups sympathetic to the Democrats set up spam bots to flood Twitter
with we need to be heard loud and clear, followed by hashtag remove Nunes 12 times, followed
by retweet, copy and paste, let's get it everyone.
To summarize, I'm not sure if everything in the Nunes memo is 100% accurate.
But let's take a look at the situation.
Democrats regularly weaponize arms of the government against their opponents.
Democrat money was involved in obtaining the evidence, and then laundering that evidence
through Yahoo News, for a FISA warrant.
Democrats used every trick in the book to either stop the memo's release, or downplay
and discredit it after the fact.
And at least so far, nothing in the Nunes memo has actually been directly argued against
by the Democrats.
Taking all this into account, I'm currently leaning towards believing the Nunes memo.
I mean my opinion is not finalized, the Schiff memo still needs to come out, and even if
it never sees the light of day, the reasoning Republicans use to block it will speak volumes
itself.
Like I said earlier, I'm still on the fence regarding the whole Trump Russia thing.
But at the end of the day, did Obama, Hillary and other forces in the Democratic Party weaponize
the FBI against Trump's insurgent presidential campaign?
I think the answer might be yes.
Thank you.
