I have a vague recollection of having done this topic before on the channel.
I think I did a video on it like 5 years ago, I don't know.
That might actually be one of the rare lost SFOs.
I'll have to go shake Dave's tree to see where that one ended up.
But it's worth retreading anyway because things have gotten far worse since the last time
we talked about it.
There's this dumb trend in gaming right now to judge a video game solely by its concurrent
player counts.
If it sees a massive drop off of players then the game is dead.
In fact, if you were to take the Game Journal's opinion on it, every game is dead.
All of them.
All the time.
Lost Ark peak players down more than 80% from all time high.
Anthem's player count paints a very grim picture.
The Division's player count has dropped 93% since launch.
War Honor has now lost 95% of its player base.
Realm Royale lost more than a year ago.
New World has lost more than a year ago.
Star Wars Battlefront's player count is lower.
Games media has this obsession with how many people are playing a game.
And I get it, you know?
I remember being in school playing the original World of Warcraft and a good chunk of why
that game was so fun was because it was a lively game.
It felt like a lived in world.
When you walked into Orgrimmar for the first time and saw all the other players going about
their business and you were this level 5 noob trying to get your first trainer quest done
and this level 60 in epic armor rode by on a mount, it felt like you were a single player
in a world with a bunch of moving interlocking pieces.
World of Warcraft was extremely well designed for its time but what gave the game its magic
was how popular it was and how that popularity influenced the player experience.
In an alternate universe where World of Warcraft never got big even if it was exactly the same
game, it would have been a lot less fun.
In fact, anybody who played on a dead server can attest to that.
Walking around any city on a server with no players feels like walking around a ghost
town.
Sure there are NPCs wandering around but without that human element everything just looks automated
and lifeless.
I think it's for this reason every time Blizzard announced a new server back in the day there
was a massive rush of people eager to experience being on the edge of the server's level ups
once again.
Even on a populated server if most people playing there were max level the low level
areas still felt like ghost towns.
The point I'm getting at is World of Warcraft's quality came from, at least in part, something
outside of the game's design.
It came from the experience of playing it with other people and so when game journos
publish article after article on how a game is losing players there's a subtext here.
Don't play this game because it's trash.
How do you know it's trash?
Because nobody else is playing it.
There's a huge problem with this logic though isn't there?
Like for example when they did this to Elden Ring it was considered a gigantic fucking
joke.
Elden Ring is the best game of 2022 and yet we still saw yahoos publish shit decrying
the game for losing 90% of its concurrent players on steam.
Well yeah you dolt it's a single player experience.
This isn't World of Warcraft or Fortnite or Apex or Valorant or whatever else you kids
play nowadays.
This is a game that is meant to be played on your own, summons and invasions notwithstanding
and once you've finished it you put it down and move on to the next game.
Not because it was bad but because it's over and it goes back on your shelf until you feel
like playing it again.
And yet game journos are treating Elden Ring as if it's a failure for not being able
to maintain the player base.
Like it's an RPG you're not meant to play it forever.
This was back in the day when I was a kid heading off to Blockbuster or whatever to
rent a video game for the weekend.
Imagine this scenario.
Some of the best gaming experiences of my life.
Chrono Trigger, Earthbound, Legend of Zelda, Ocarina of Time, Final Fantasy Tactics, Ogre
Battle 64, Secret of Mana.
These were the games that I first encountered by renting them several years after they had
released.
These weren't new games when they were new to me.
Whenever I talked to the other kids on the playground about them they had a lot to say
about them because to them they were old.
But they were still accepted by all of us as really good experiences.
I had no idea or care how many other kids were playing these games simultaneously while
I was.
If I could hop online and read an article saying Donkey Kong 64 or Metal Gear Solid
loses 90% of its current player count, massive flop, player decline, etc.
I may not have picked up any of those games.
In fact when I did find a hidden gem like for example Goof Troop on the Super Nintendo
where nobody on the playground knew what the fuck I was talking about it actually felt
better.
Less people were playing it but that made the game my little secret.
It was my private experience that I could choose to show just to my friends and we could
enjoy it with that added spice of knowing that it was just ours.
But I think post World of Warcraft, maybe even post Diablo, games began to shift to
these always online experiences with no real end point.
There's an expectation right now that every game at least try to be a forever game, meaning
that it's a game that you don't stop playing.
It keeps getting updated.
There's always new content, new expansions, or DLC or patches, there's loot boxes or
season passes or skin stores or whatever.
And the game is set up such that it's not a narrative experience that ends when you
finish the story but it's a potentially infinite set of endlessly regeneratable experiences
played online against either the AI or other people.
Look at how many people play League of Legends.
Now look at how many of those same people played League of Legends 10 years ago.
The same game for a decade.
Some of them are grinding rankings or trying to go pro.
Some of them just played a little bit after work, the equivalent of watching a bit of
TV at the end of the day.
But I think that this shift towards forever games has become toxic to the gaming industry.
Every game being made right now has to have that online foreverness to it.
Fortnite's online mode is a side mode.
That game actually had a story mode for all the good that it did it.
PUBG, Team Fortress 2, Overwatch, Apex Legends, all of these games are designed to be games
that you play for the rest of your life where they regularly release new maps or heroes
or whatever to keep you interested.
But at the end of the day, you're just playing online against other people.
That's fine.
There's absolutely a place for those kinds of games.
But how many games have been designed to be the most blatant cash grabs and then just
collapsed and failed because they wanted to be the next Fortnite?
When it comes to online games, nobody wants to be playing a dead game.
Naomi is going through this right now with Overwatch.
She loves that game.
There's a little bit of a trash fire that Overwatch 2 is looking like.
She's not going to be getting that one.
So she's been playing Overwatch and watching it slowly wither away.
And it's actually been a pretty sad experience for her because when we're not doing a stream
or something else and she's got a little bit of downtime, she likes to play some Overwatch.
And your accomplishments feel more meaningful in a game like that.
If there's a thriving community in Overwatch, if you've got golden guns or if in World
of Warcraft, you got a rare drop mount or a legendary weapon or in TF2, if you have
a rare hat or something like that.
These in-game accomplishments in an online game feel meaningful only if other players
can see them.
If it's a dead game, then who cares about the accomplishments?
In an offline game, it's a different story.
For example, I've got a save file on my old PlayStation 1 memory card, where I actually
managed to get Excalibur 2 in Final Fantasy 9.
If you don't know what that means, it's legitimately quite a feat, but I did that
for me.
What am I going to do with it?
Next time I have a girl over and I want to impress her, I'm going to boot up my old
scratch to shit copy of FF9 and show her Excalibur 2?
Yeah, that'll get me laid.
No, I did it for me.
I did it for the accomplishment.
And in a single player experience, it feels like an accomplishment that I can look back
on with fond memories.
But in a multiplayer game, maybe because the purpose of it is to be presented to others,
I don't know.
I don't look back on my experiences in the same way.
I mean, I still talk to some of those old World of Warcraft people that I used to know
from back then.
A couple of them are actually viewers of this channel now, which is quite nice.
The friendships remained, and so the fun times with those people in-game have become good
memories.
But considering the current state of World of Warcraft, it's not like we can go back
to it now and enjoy those old accomplishments anymore.
Not really.
If you have Ashes of Alar or Invincible in Warcraft, other players are still around to
care about that, at least to an extent.
But if you had some cool thing in WildStar, or heaven forbid, Tabula Rasa, nobody cares
anymore because the servers are gone.
Fun fact, even though Tabula Rasa's server shut down in I think 2009, you could still
buy it from Walmart in 2015.
I pity the poor kid who grabbed that off the shelf on a whim.
Hold on, future dev here recording this while editing.
Walmart still sells Tabula Rasa online.
This game has been dead for 13 years.
What the fuck are you doing, Walmart?
And then there's the absolutely braindead idea to try to make offline games forever
games.
The most notable example of this recently was Fallout 4, where your settlements kept
getting attacked by the same raiders you just cleared out over and over again, and you kept
getting the same quest to defend them.
The game was designed to be an open world RPG with procedurally generated content that
wouldn't stop, so you could just keep playing it forever.
But the only thing that that did was make the game get so annoying people just shut
it off.
Probably the worst case scenario is when a non-forever game, a single player experience,
loses something because online support is pulled from it.
There are a few minor examples that affected me.
The Nintendo DS and 3DS Pokemon games, for example, had some primitive online modes with
unique content that is no longer accessible because those servers have been shut down.
Same with some games in the Wii and Wii U.
Those games are still playable, they just feel a little bit empty in a few spots.
Where there was once a fun side thing, there's only a can't connect message.
A more serious version of the same thing is when Ubisoft announced they're pulling the
plug on the online modes for 15 of their older games, including Far Cry 3, Prince of Persia
Forgotten Sands, and at least 5 of the older Assassin's Creed games.
Any online multiplayer for those games is now gone, and in some cases access to DLC
is gone as well.
For some of them, to be able to even play the single player story mode, you have to
disconnect from the internet.
And for others, you won't even be able to play it at all.
That's the worst case scenario.
To lose access to the single player game you've legally purchased because a company has decided
to turn off a server somewhere else on the planet.
All of these cloud versions of games, from the Google Stadia to Amazon Luna to the cloud
versions on Switch, these will all go bye-bye one day.
The watch battery in my Link to the Past cartridge that I got when I was, like, a fucking fetus,
that's still ticking.
I can plug that into my SNES anytime.
But these online games, they're vanishing.
And while this state of affairs is entirely unacceptable, and is what makes piracy morally
justified, I can see the other side of the conversation when it comes to forever games.
If a developer puts out a forever game with promises for content down the road, but the
player base just isn't there, that content isn't coming out.
At that point, the game enters a death spiral.
Who wants to play an online game nobody else is playing, and isn't going to get updated
because the revenue isn't there?
In that case, I understand the obsession over player counts by the game journos.
It's actually a useful bit of consumer information.
Beyond that, though, it just seems to be an easy way to dunk on games that the journos
don't like.
There's a reason they chose Elden Ring for this, you know?
I'm going to guess it's because all those same journos were whining that the game was
too hard, and it needed to have a baby mode in the name of accessibility.
Now, I'm also guilty of this to an extent.
In a previous video, for example, I had a good ol' laugh at the player count of zero
for several years out of that commie game Tonight We Riot.
That's because the player count was zero, that's a bit of an outlier.
That's not, oh people have moved on to the next game, that's nobody ever played this
turd ever.
So the takeaway is, if a new online game launches and player count rapidly drops, that actually
tells us a story.
Maybe the game's too unreliable for people to be able to actually log on, maybe the game's
glitchy, maybe the game isn't good, or maybe the game's late-stage content isn't really
all that developed yet.
But if a new offline game launches, then it could just mean that people beat the game
and they're putting it down to play something else, and that's perfectly fine.
I think it's ultimately destructive to the video games industry, this desire of developers
to build a game that will be played in perpetuity to the detriment of both their company and
their users, or this desire of players to avoid feeling left out and alone to the point
that they're searching for a game that they're constantly connected to, that when they post
about it on social media, everyone knows what they're talking about, and they feel like
they're connected to other people.
This generation of a feeling of unending connection to other, wait, wait a second, this is going
to end in Marx's On the Jewish Question, isn't it?
Even in a fucking gaming video, I can't get away from it.
