Hey guys, Dev here.
Now I know we said other gamergate videos were coming out first, and they're all still
coming.
But Camera Lady wanted this one rushed out just because of how ridiculous this all is.
Let me tell you about my evening.
I came home, recorded a rather enjoyable session of Borderlands 2 Let's Plays with Lindsay,
Ian, and Dave.
Went outside, troubled the driveway.
As I was finishing up, Camera Lady was coming home.
She told me there was an absolutely riveting hour of TV that we had to check out.
So let's see what's on the old telly tonight, shall we?
One of the players Ravi played with got carried away and killed him.
Well, that's kind of far out.
Mazes and monsters is a far out game.
Well, that seems about right.
Was anybody seriously surprised at this?
Mainstream media has shown time and again whenever it tries to tackle not just gaming
but any kind of subculture, it fails miserably.
Everybody knew this was going to be a shitshow, especially coming from Law and Order, a show
that I've only seen my retiree father to ever actually watch.
But let's take a good look at just how ridiculous this gets.
Right off the bat, we've got the number one trope of any shitty episodic police drama.
Any time one of these shows decides to ham-fistedly do a story on a subculture, this tired technique
is trotted out.
We've got one guy, Ice-T this time, who's in the know about the subculture.
Well not really, but he's paid to poorly act like he's in the know.
Look at his fucking face, he's got no idea what he's saying.
So he rambles on about games, sprinkling in a bit of lingo here and there, which allows
middle-aged Samus Aran to ask, as she's not at all into games but at least wants to have
some knowledge of what's going on around her.
This dynamic on its own isn't necessarily bad.
Every story needs exposition to establish itself, and one of the easiest and overused
ways is to bring in a clueless character willing to ask the questions an equally clueless
audience is also asking.
However, what spells trouble is pro-Jared over here.
Check him out.
See he's in the dark as much as she is, but his role in this dynamic is to react negatively
to any exposition given, as if to say, no matter what you actually say, this subculture
is bad, we disapprove.
When your clueless character exposition scene includes one of these guys, it's an immediate
red flag that this story has an agenda it wants to push, accuracy be damned.
Oh shit, it's a 45 year old voice in a 20 year old body.
You know nobody's really talking about this line, but I think it's actually one of the
more telling ways on how out of touch this whole show is on its subject matter.
I get that the writers have an anti-gamer gate chip on their shoulder.
I get that they've swallowed the media narrative of sexism and harassment over the truth of
corruption and ethics.
I get that they're trying to tell a story that depicts women's struggles in predominantly
male spaces, trying and failing, but trying nonetheless.
But if you actually knew anything not only about the subculture you're attacking, but
the position you are taking to attack that subculture, why didn't you have your wardrobe
department put a fedora on this guy?
What's too insult here, just a ball cap?
As the scene stands, her line makes absolutely no sense.
Woah woah woah hold up, pause it right there.
Is that the Zelda font?
I think it is.
Okay, I know from the story structure of this episode, as well as the agenda the writers
are trying to push, that the female indie developer is likely meant to be either Brianna
Wu or Zoe Quinn, and you're actually comparing their work to the Legend of Zelda?
I don't want to ever downplay physical rape or sexual assault.
I can confidently speak for every single member of gamergate when I say that, if and when
this type of thing happens in real life, we don't support it and we want to see the perpetrators
brought to justice.
But the show sets it up like this is simply what video game culture is.
Real life, women getting raped in a bathroom as a normal and accepted occurrence.
Angry Joe recently had the best reply to something like this.
That's not fucking gaming culture, that's shitty people culture.
What happened?
These guys, they just can't stand women and gaming.
Now here's the first real obvious clue that the writers had an ideological axe to grind.
This line, they can't stand women and gaming, is lifted directly from the anti-gamergate
straw manual.
In real life, it's a blatantly and provably untrue claim, used when the unethical want
to hide their crimes.
But in the show, they just slap it on to the end of an attempted rape and call it a day.
In essence, the show, in concocting its fiction, is trying to give further credence in the
real world to the use of sexism as a scapegoat to hide unethical behavior.
What did they do to you?
They leveled up.
Oh come on.
Ignoring the fact that, unless you're fucking camera lady, it's really unlikely for you
to mouth off a quip after an attempted rape?
This sort of thing happens all over this episode.
If you die in the game, you die for real guys.
How many cliched, hackneyed pieces of garbage tackling gaming used puns involving game over,
next level, or reset button?
How do these people still have jobs writing such drivel?
Well in their world, developers like guys, and some guys aren't ready to give a girl
that power.
I'm not sure if developers are really considered gods by gamers.
Kamiya gets shit on constantly.
Kojima is considered a brilliant nutjob megalomaniac.
Gamers seem to look down on devs more often than not, especially the shitty devs who cut
corners.
The only one who's really considered a god is Miyamoto.
And when you look at this list of actual women in gaming instead of only listening to the
ones screaming loudly on Twitter 24-7, a lot of these women actually get treated just as
well as their male counterparts.
In fact, if there's any harassment, it's from sex-negative Western women directed towards
Asian women developers for daring to work on projects like Bayonetta.
Did she also tell you these creeps have a grudge against you and your game?
There's nothing in the game for them to be angry about.
You can choose how you play.
You can wage peace or war, have a patriarchy or a matriarchy, be eco-conscious or industrialized.
I know.
I read on Kotaku that it's better than Civ V with the Brave New World expansion pack.
I read on Kotaku.
Oh man, read on Kotaku?
Better than Civ V?
What's worse, the fact that Ice-T reads Kotaku vigilantly, that he's enough of a plebeian
that he doesn't recognize the mastery of Civ IV.
This is really just another one of those hit pieces done by people who know absolutely
nothing about games, isn't it?
With a couple of added anti-Gamergate narrative sprinkles on top.
This is Reina Punjabi, the indie dev in charge of Amazonian Warriors, a game that, according
to the story, everybody hates.
Now, if Amazonian Warriors were actually hated as much as the story lets on, and this were
the real world, here's what would happen.
If Punjabi were a member, or friends with members of Game Journal pros, Amazonian Warriors
would be getting disproportionate press on Kotaku, Polygon, etc.
Gamergate would protest a game due to its lack of quality and due to the apparent collusion
regarding journalists reporting on their friends' games.
Gamergate would be labeled sexist and racist for doing so by the mainstream media.
Amazonian Warriors may or may not get on Steam, but it ultimately probably wouldn't sell
very well.
Punjabi, and the clique that supports her, would likely blame the failure of her game
on misogyny.
Gamergate, meanwhile, would just play better games.
Like Civ V.
But, this is the insane world of right-wing masquerading as progressive conspiracy theories,
where every single tumblr box is ticked, every single mainstream media gamergate stereotype
is employed.
A 4chan knockoff called Redchan, complete with viral sub-threads?
Check.
Where was that posted?
The sub-thread on Redchan.
Swatting?
Check.
Even though the vast majority of swatting targets in real life are male gamers and streamers.
Hoodie, an off-brand anonymous mask wearing teens threatening SJWs?
Check.
She and her social justice warriors don't live gaming now?
We will meet them.
Accusing them of being cyber-terrorists?
Check.
This is, it's terrorism.
Wait, wrong clip.
Uh, check.
The cyber-terrorists win.
Hacking a lighting control panel at a stage event through the internet and screaming,
no social justice in gaming in a bane knockoff voice?
At this point in the story, things start to pick up.
It becomes less about individual instances of idiocy, and more about chase scene after
chase scene on the trails of three criminals who kidnap, gang rape, and plan to execute
Punjabi, while Ice-T injects every so often to explain another bit of gamer lingo or make
another dumb pun.
Their videos are framed a lot like, you guessed it, ISIS videos.
Remember, the writers are taking pages from the anti-gamer propaganda handbook, and bigots
have been unfoundedly comparing gamers and gamergate to ISIS for nearly six months now.
Nobody's surprised that eventually somebody would stoop so low as to film a farce like
this.
The only question was how long until it happened.
Also, the group uses a skull and grenade logo in the background of every single video they take.
Hey, wait.
That's Rogue Star's symbol.
They're even alluding to Rogue, calling the main guy the thematically similar name of
Acid Rain.
Holy shit, these people are insane.
Also, I don't know if anybody noticed this, but the no-name brand Rogue Star symbol shows
up all over the episode, and not just in the backgrounds of the assault videos.
Why is it on the corner of the game footage the cop is playing?
Why is it on the corner of everybody's game?
Did I miss something?
Hey, Rogue Star, how about you tweet Ice-T and see if you can clear this all up for us?
Ohhhhh.
The show ends with a predictable firefight, employing more gamer quips, revealing the
tired plot twist that the gamers can no longer see the difference between the game and reality,
and this very memorable line.
Women and gaming.
What did I expect?
I know anti-gamergate probably won't believe me, but I don't want to see this happen
in real life.
I don't want to see a woman developer beaten and raped out of the industry.
If a person of any gender makes a bad game, and it sees an undeserved push via press or
awards due to corruption within the industry, I want to see the journalist lose their jobs,
I want to see the award shows shut down for fraud, and I want to see the developer's
game not sell.
But nobody wants to see rape and assault.
Reyna, you're asking the audience, women and gaming, what did we expect?
Well, I'll answer that question.
But I'll send my answer towards the real life women and men in gaming, the people who
are not victims of rape by gamers, but rather are the sources of corruption within our industry.
What did we expect?
We expected ethical conduct.
On top of being anti-gamer propaganda, this episode is meant to be a thinly veiled gamergate
show.
It fails due to its lack of focus on the topic of gamergate.
Ethics.
This show is what anti-gamers desperately wish gamergate was in real life, so that their
baseless vilification could become true.
In essence, this is anti-gamergate pornography.
I'd like to take a minute and discuss a few extra things at the end here.
This episode is not groundbreaking, nor is it unique.
We've seen this type of moral panic raised by conservatives for years, from the invention
of the automobile allowing youth to leave town during a Sunday, to rock and roll with
Elvis throwing up the horns, to Dungeons and Dragons turning children into satanic ritualists
sacrificing goats and whatever, and now with video games.
The specter of the anti-gamer began to rise in the mid 90s, and we thought we'd finally
struck it down with the disbarment of Jack Thompson.
With the rise of gamergate, its opposition has brought the hysteria back in full force.
But why is this type of stuff just so effective in our larger society?
In our traditional culture, and really in most traditional cultures, males are allowed
to occupy one of three social spaces.
Boiled down, they are baby, adult, and outsider.
The baby is a male child.
He has no agency of his own, and is cared for and controlled by both women and men in different ways.
He is also generally not thought to be responsible for his actions, except in extraordinary circumstances.
The adult is the mature male, not just physically, but socially.
He is required to be a leader when called to the task.
He is required to be a warrior when there is fighting to be done.
He is required to hunt or otherwise provide not only for himself, but for other people.
He is required to work to earn his masculinity.
The outsider is the natural default of the male.
All males, if they're not babies or adults, are considered outsiders.
Outsiders can be enemies, or they can be people unwilling to contribute to society.
This is obviously a very tribal definition of masculinity, and while it may have been useful in ages past,
it still exists as a holdover today.
Little boys are still coddled, but that practice has begun to erode in recent years.
Adult men are still required to be breadwinners and providers, soldiers and leaders, even if they aren't inclined to be.
And outsiders? They're the deadbeats for not wanting to be fathers.
The man-children, for enjoying pastimes conservative society has deemed childish.
Lazy for not working out, roid ragers for working out, sissies for being sensitive, assholes for not being sensitive, and so on.
Male privilege, as Second Wave Feminism describes it, exists, but only adult men have access to it.
Babies do not, outsiders do not.
Just as women are forced into the roles of either Madonna or whore, men are forced into the roles of either adult or outsider.
And just as individual women are human, with far more complexities than either role allows them, individual men are just as human.
So, let's bring us back to gaming.
The show immediately begins by framing the main story around the chief's adopted son, who's been giving her some trouble.
He's rough and tumble, his form of play is very active in comparison to the two adorable girls who just sit quietly.
The given reply is,
Boys run around and break things, they hurt themselves, it's in all their DNA.
The implication here is clear, you have a baby, one day he will grow into an outsider if left on his own.
You must teach him to be an adult instead.
This is simply the conservative idea of women existing to be a civilizing force in men's lives, repackaged to fit the young male narrative this show is about to present.
This is all too clear later in the show, when she stares at a photo and wonders if her boy is going to grow into one of those nasty, vile gamers.
Most of the men in the show are portrayed to be undesirables, entirely absorbed in their gaming hobby.
They're outsiders, they're certainly too old to be babies, and they've yet to willingly take on all the duties men their age are expected to take on by society.
This is obvious in how they act, how they talk, how they look.
The show presents them as if they hate not only women but themselves, solely because they enjoy an activity that their society considers childish.
They know of their outsider status, they hate being a member of that class, but they cannot change.
That is pointed out rather quickly in this scene.
I don't really need to say anymore, do I?
She even later berates one of her co-workers for playing video games, where he has to reassure her that no, he's actually an adult, not an outsider.
I fought off those tendencies long ago, ma'am.
Of course in real life, humans are more complicated than this.
One can obviously be a mature, responsible adult and be a gamer.
But forcing the mutually exclusive triad of male identities of baby adult outsider into the portrayal of every single male character in the show
is exactly what is thematically required to make the episode operate as an anti-gamer propaganda piece.
It's certainly not good storytelling, but it is functional propaganda.
And that propaganda is reliant on this very conservative and ultimately grossly inaccurate understanding of men
and portrayal of both gamers and the gamer-gate they so very much want to mention but never actually do.
Moreover, for a show that wants to push a progressivist agenda,
well, not a real progressivist agenda, because if that were the case, they'd portray gamers as a diverse group that is actually not at all abusive, but you get what I'm saying.
Did you actually have to go with naming your Indian character Punjabi? Jesus.
I have to wonder, was the actress herself a bit offended by that, but just swallowed her pride and took the paycheck?
I don't know how it is anywhere else in the world, but where I'm from, Punjabi is generally considered a racial slur.
And while thematically she's meant to be Brianna Wu or Zoe Quinn, she wears Anita Sarkeesian's earrings, purposefully I'm sure, and looks more like Jenny Barrage than anybody else.
Do keep in mind that last I heard, Jenny Barrage has received harassment for being a girl gamer as well as for trying to build basegamer.com,
but her harassment hasn't come from angry male gamers, her harassment has come from the angry supporters of the journalists and developers that oppose gamer-gate.
Law and order literally got nothing right in their story.
Speaking of those angry supporters of corruption in anti-gamer-gate, let's see what they have to say about this whole thing.
Here's Zoe Quinn hiding in a bathroom being crushed by the weight of it all.
I don't know if Law and Order should trigger you this much Zoe, if it does you should probably just turn the TV off and do something else.
Here's Rob Cipher describing exactly what Law and Order actually just did, and he says this quality film about social activism will annihilate the gamer-gate mind hive once and for all.
Yeah, I have a feeling it's not going to do that.
Here's Warren Light, someone who actually works on the show, saying that women are thanking him for taking on misogyny in gaming.
Well you didn't do that, you made up a boogeyman.
Here's Brianna Wu, the part of the Law and Order episode that seems implausible is how there's an online threat to women and the police do something.
Yeah, the thing about threats is that they have to be proven, Brianna.
And so far, any threats towards you that I've seen has come from one Twitter account which got banned, and all of us are in complete support if Twitter decided to backtrace that account, get the IP, and have the person arrested.
And of course she says, I'm concerned about this Darknet Ice-T was warning us about.
Okay, Jonathan McIntosh often says that gamers cannot tell the difference between fantasy and real life.
The basis of the movies Mazes and Monsters and Skullduggery and a lot of other D&D propaganda was that people who play D&D cannot tell the difference between the game and real life.
This is something that we hear a lot, and yet here's Brianna actually thinking that Ice-T's comments about the Darknet warrants real world investigation.
She also thinks she's Batman. Here's Ben Kucera, and this actually plays to a larger point.
He says it's kind of hard to be snarky about bad TV shows dramatizing this when vulnerable people are still actively targeted in the long term.
Anti-Gamergate is turning on this show. They weren't promoting it before. They're turning on it now.
I think it's because they're finally starting to realize that when they take their own narrative and play it out, it looks ridiculous. But more on that later.
Here's good ol' Alex Lifeshits.
I'm sure it isn't. Do keep in mind, though, that in the show, the threats were reported. People were traced.
If you've received threats, if Zoe's received threats, report them. Don't brag on the internet that you've reported them.
Don't make it a big thing because the police will inevitably say, hey, don't do that. Report them, do what they say, and get them caught.
I know Zoe has said, August never ends. August never ends because you don't want it to end.
Here's Maya Kramer and Cara Ellison, both of them saying basically that the ending was a downer. Law and they've already won order.
Law and quit your job, women. Who cares what you do? It's true. The ending was a downer.
I don't want to see that happen to women. Absolutely not.
I do want to see corrupt people, men or women, lose their jobs. I do want to see them be punished legally, if applicable.
Nobody wants to see them raped. Nobody talks about that.
And here's social justice Kirby complaining that the internet is making memes again. Someone please plant the no fun allowed sign.
Here's everybody's favorite dog rapist, Sarah Butts.
The narrative of gamergate SVU was essentially that despite the best efforts of law enforcement, certain tragedies are unavoidable.
No, that wasn't the narrative. The narrative was that all gamers are terrible human beings and that is not true.
And they decided to stage a rape scene on a show in order to push that narrative.
To slander an entire group of people, a very diverse group of people, all for their own ideological ends. It's disgusting.
And here's Zoe saying that the story was basically all about her and that she should have been contacted by law and order to get her permission to actually do the episode.
I think that's why they went with somebody who wasn't you, Zoe.
Zoe, the world doesn't revolve around you. Gamergate doesn't even revolve around you. You're the Franz Ferdinand of gamergate.
And I must point out, I know that this person wasn't based on you because as shitty as Amazonian Warriors is, it still seems to be a lot better than Depression Quest.
I'll end it off with Jason Schreier because this kind of speaks to my larger point.
He says law and order is a terrible television show. He makes fun of Ice-T. He says that Civilization 5 is obviously much better than Amazonian Warrior.
And he wrote an article on Kotaku about it. Now his Kotaku article entitled, So that was law and order's gamergate episode, is very very negative.
And I think this is very interesting because the narrative that these journalists and these developers have pushed this whole time, pushed for six months, is that women are being harassed.
There is no ethical violation anywhere. This is about harassment of women. This is about women being chased from their homes. This is about women being hit with rape threats, women being hit with death threats.
That's their narrative. That's what they're saying. That's what they're saying everywhere they can, anywhere they can.
But suddenly, when a show like, say, Law and Order comes along, takes that narrative and actually puts it into practice, actually crafts a story from that narrative, they release it publicly and people watch it.
Suddenly it's a bad episode. That episode is based on your narrative. That is what you're pushing.
It's an untrue narrative, yes, but it's the narrative that you push. And now various writers are latching onto that narrative, making stories out of it, and throwing it back at you.
And now you're seeing why you're so incorrect?
A lot of gamergate's opponents thought that this Law and Order thing was going to be like a nail in the coffin for gamergate, and it's just backfiring in their faces.
Because people are beginning to see just how ridiculous, how wildly out there the claims of anti-gamergate are.
The narrative of misogyny and death threats and harassment culminated in this episode.
And now that people are seeing what actually happens when this shit goes down, and comparing it to what's actually happening in gamergate in real life, they're realizing, oh hey, that's not gamergate.
Now I would go over what pro-gamergate thought of the episode. However if you go on twitter and check out the hashtag, it is 100% shitposting and new memes. Thanks guys.
Where does he game? Where does he play his video games, ma'am?
