All right, now that the book of Bubba Fett is over, let me give you my take on it.
It was awful, thanks for watching!
Right, that's not going to hit the eight minute minimum for full monetization on YouTube, is it?
Naomi and I have had a ritual now for a few years.
Every Thursday morning we gather up all the episodes of the various shows that we're
currently watching, make a big breakfast and have coffee, and lounge about for several hours and
play catch-up. We do this with both old shows that Naomi's never seen that I can rewatch with her,
as well as new shows that have new episodes coming out every week.
Most recently we've done this with Twin Peaks, both old and new,
Star Trek, both old and new, Attack on Titan, and The Mandalorian.
The Mandalorian is a pretty interesting show, all things considered. Let's see if I can describe how.
When Disney bought Lucasfilm, something like 50 years of expanded universe canon was wiped out.
As if millions of voices suddenly cried out in terror and were suddenly silenced.
Disney announced that in order to make things less restrictive for their writers,
they weren't going to completely follow the EU canon. Where Luke gets with Mara Jade,
and Admiral Thrawn is going around being badass, and the Yuuzhan Vong invade, and Han Solo's son
Jason Solo becomes Darth Katius and is killed by his twin sister. No, I'm not worried about
spoilers of decades old stories that are officially non-canon now, as cool as they are.
And hey, you know what? I get it. How much of a surprise would it have been, and how
restrictive for the creators, if episode 7 was about Admiral Thrawn, episode 8 about the Vong,
and episode 9 about Darth Katius? Sometimes you just need room for new stories. I don't like this
whole wipe the slate clean tendency, when you should be cultivating properties, not destroying
them. But at the very least, Disney didn't wipe any mainline movies or whatever, so there's that.
Therefore, after Disney took control of Star Wars, the new canon looks something like this.
The prequel trilogy from 1999-2005, set during the first half of Anakin Skywalker's life.
The original trilogy from 1977-1983, set 20 years later. And the Clone Wars TV series. No,
not the good Tartovsky one, that was overwritten by the shittier CG version. Everything else was
made non-canon, and placed under the label of Star Wars Legends. From garbage-tier stuff like
the courtship of Princess Leia, to the story of the founding of the Rebellion from The Force
Unleashed, it was all rendered moot. Future Disney-owned outings would properly tell the
story of Princess Leia's romance, or how the Rebellion symbol came to be, thank you very much.
While some Legends characters would later return, reimagined for the new lore, the only thing that
was considered foundational as far as Disney was concerned, is the two trilogies in the Clone Wars
series. Afterward, they began to add their own new entries, and boy were they shit. I've already
gone over the sequel trilogy in detail in a previous video, but even beyond them, Rogue One
was shit, Star Wars Rebels was shit, Solo was so shit it caused the cancellation of the upcoming
Boba Fett and Obi-Wan films. While mainline Star Wars turned itself into a public mockery,
at Disney immolating the property for short-term gain and destroying its legacy in the process,
a subtler, less bombastic, and far more interesting show quietly released, and that
show was The Mandalorian. The Mandalorian's first episode came out on November 12th, 2019,
a month before Star Wars Episode IX, The Rise of Skywalker. And even though Episode IX was this
billion-dollar blockbuster, with constant advertising, and merch, and toys, this thing
was shoved everywhere you could fucking look, people really didn't like it. It made money,
yeah, but way less than it should have, especially considering its budget, and the story was
absolutely atrocious. But most importantly of all, it was completely upstaged and outshined by its
smaller, quieter brother, The Mandalorian. The Rise of Skywalker was this bombastic,
galaxy-spanning story about saving the universe from the first, uh, sorry, the final order now,
with huge space battles and thousands of star destroyers with Death Star cannons on them,
and there's a race against time to use an ancient Sith dagger to unlock a puzzle,
and there's the wreckage of the Death Star on Endor, and Emperor Palpatine returns as a
primordial Sith evil who's been alive for thousands of years, still not giving a shit
about spoilers, by the way, while The Mandalorian is a story about a bounty hunter who goes to the
seedy underbellies of planets to try and find work. The stakes are lower, and that's a good
thing. There's more room to breathe, there's more time for character development, there's no sensory
overload of a billion ships all firing at each other in a space battle to end all space battles,
at least until the next movie comes out. The Mandalorian knows when to have loud action,
and when to be quiet for a little while. Do you recall when Star Trek Picard was billed
as this quieter show about Picard in his old age, not getting into his own huge space fights,
but instead being involved in a smaller story around town? Which brings back Patrick Stewart,
as next-generation Captain Jean-Luc Picard embraces a more deliberate pace that matches
its 79-year-old star, finding Jean-Luc on his French vineyard as he spends time with his loyal
dog Number One. That means fewer space shootouts and more quiet introspection, and that's just how
the team behind Picard intended it. And then they turn Picard into a giant pile of space laser dog
shit. Well, The Mandalorian is actually for Star Wars, what Picard was advertised to be for Star
Trek. Another point in The Mandalorian's favor, which is equally important but a lot easier to
explain, is that in the timeline it takes place between the original and sequel trilogy. A lot of
extra Star Wars stuff takes place between the prequel trilogy and the original. The era of
The Rise of the Empire has been explored to death, but the time period between Luke and Rey is still
pretty sparse, even now, so it's refreshing to get another look at how The New Republic works,
or see the Empire in decline before the First Order shows up, especially from the point of view
of a character who is not aligned with either faction like The Mandalorian. Also, there's Baby
Yoda, which instantly became a meme, something that Disney was somehow not prepared for. So,
when Christmas Time 2019 came around, they had all of this worthless Episode 9 merch that nobody
wanted to buy, and they had to quickly rush out Baby Yoda branded stuff to meet the demand.
Check this out, this is The Mandalorian merch from 2019. Look at this shit, it's low quality stills
from the show printed onto shirts and mugs and phone cases. It looks like they quickly slapped
it together on cafe press. How is it that Disney thought this shit was going to go gangbusters,
but didn't even notice that the quiet little brother of Star Wars was calmly putting out a
money-making machine? The first season of The Mandalorian respects Star Wars lore while artfully
adding to it, positioning the Mandalorians as an order of people who are the mortal enemies
of the Jedi, and have used their mastery of technology and weaponry to counter the Jedi's
use of the Force. The Empire wants to experiment on Baby Yoda for some kind of Force-related
Metachlorian bullshit, the Mandalorian decides to rescue him, and the two of them go bopping
around the galaxy getting into trouble. There is an overarching plot, but each episode also functions
as a standalone, where the Mandalorian comes into town, takes a job, solves the problem,
and moves on. It's as much of a space western as Star Wars has ever been, and its simplicity works
wonders. Season two of The Mandalorian is where it starts going into the shitter, presumably
because at this point Disney noticed that they had tanked everything else Star Wars related,
and The Mandalorian was the only thing earning them both money and the love of their audiences.
The success of The Mandalorian season one, and the failure of both Solo and episodes eight and nine,
caused a massive reorientation in Disney's plan. The Bubba Fett and Obi-Wan movies became TV shows,
since people's attention has been shifting away from film and towards TV for over a decade now,
and season two of The Mandalorian became less about telling good stories like season one,
and more about setting up as many spin-off shows as possible. Bubba Fett shows up,
and his show is given that coveted post-credits scene at the end of season two. Ahsoka Tano makes
an appearance, and a full arc of the show exists solely to sideline The Mandalorian,
and serve as a backdoor pilot for her upcoming show. Rangers of the New Republic is also a
planned show, stemming from the recurring appearances of these guys. Basically, Disney
noticed that the only thing that was taken off that they had made was The Mandalorian,
so they hitched as many possible fucking things to it, guaranteeing that its own
momentum ground to a halt. I haven't even talked about the book of Bubba Fett yet,
and that's because you really do need to understand all of this stuff to know how much
of an unmitigated disaster it is. But now, we're here. Bubba Fett is an iconic Star Wars character,
but unlike the other iconic characters, he's a blank slate. Luke is young and naive, but
good-hearted. He confronts evil before he's ready, and he's scarred by it. He matures,
and conquers the enemy within and without. He's the hero. Han Solo is a bit more dirty,
he's in it for the money. He's not above underhanded tricks or scheming or stealing,
but when the chips are down, he'll do the right thing. Leia is the bureaucrat, trained in the
art of politics, but not accustomed to doing fighting herself, and she grows into a capable
military leader in her own right. Lando is the former scoundrel who goes straight. He now runs
a respectable business, but he can't quite shake his sketchy past. He's a smooth talker and deal
maker. Darth Vader is the quintessential villain, the tortured soul who regrets the mistakes of his
youth, but he's in too deep to quit now. Bubba Fett is the guy with the cool armor and the cool
ship, called Slave One even in the original canon, which Disney refuses to recognize ever
again, always referring to it as Bubba Fett's ship, or my ship now. And he does have a couple
of lines that make him sound like he's a ruthless dude, but most of the time he just stands in the
background looking cool, until he unceremoniously gets smacked in the back by Han Solo in episode
6, causing his jetpack to fuck up, sending him into the sarlacc pit. My point is, for some reason
that I think just boils down to the rule of cool, fans treated Bubba Fett like he was a main Star
Wars character, even though there wasn't really much to him. Even George Lucas was surprised that
he was so beloved, saying he wouldn't have killed him if he had known. In the case of
Bubba Fett's death, had I known he was going to turn into such a popular character, I probably
would have made a little bit more exciting. Bubba Fett was just another one of the minions,
another one of the bounty hunters and bad guys. But he became such a favorite of everybody,
he said for having such a small part, he had a very large presence. And now that his history
has been told in the first trilogy, you know, it makes it even more of a misstep that we wouldn't
make more out of the event of his defeat, because most people don't believe he died anyway. I'd
contemplate him putting that extra shot in where he climbs out of the hole, but you know, I figure
it doesn't quite fit in the end. It's because he first showed up in the Star Wars Holiday Special?
The Mandalorian Season 1 was Disney's way of making a Bubba Fett show without committing to it.
Din Djarin looks like Bubba Fett. He behaves like a reasonable extrapolation of Bubba Fett's
appearances from the original trilogy, and to a lesser extent his appearances as a child in
the Clone Wars series. This was Disney dipping their toes into the Bubba Fett waters, and because
it was extremely well received, they decided to fully lean into it. But in this case, fully lean
in means Disney sends their billion-dollar wrecking ball crashing through everything.
The Mandalorian Season 2 introduces Bubba Fett proper, looking for his armor,
which Din Djarin just so happens to have. Fett gets it back, then he tags along for the rest
of the season's adventures, before returning to Tatooine to take over Jabba the Hutt's now-vacant
throne as crime lord. And holy shit, in both Season 2 and Bubba Fett's own show, does Bubba
look ridiculous. He's just a fat old man wearing the armor of a character that should have died in
the Sarlacc pit. Look at him in Return of the Jedi. He's a thin dude. Now he's got a chest
that reeks of congested heart failure. His armor barely even hangs off of him. Like, okay, I get
it. You hired the Jango Fett actor, and he's a bit too old for the roll-down. Fine. You know what you
do? You scale the armor up and try to play it off, because keeping the armor tiny just makes him look
ridiculous. Here, watch, I'll fucking fix it myself. You just take the armor, make sure its
dimensions are locked into their current ratio, and just scale it up, make it a little bit bigger.
There. It doesn't look good, but it looks better. The book of Bubba Fett was given seven episodes
to cover the following. How Bubba Fett survived the Sarlacc pit. What he was doing between Return
of the Jedi and his appearance in The Mandalorian. A five-year span of time. Establish why he wants
to take over Jabba's throne, and make that desire link up properly with his actions and behaviors
during The Mandalorian Season 2, and then have him actually go on his own quest to do that.
That's a lot of story arcs to cram into seven episodes, seven hours of content, especially
considering that the second half of the show goes back to focus on Din Djarin again and not
Bubba Fett. And the show wraps up everything by the end of the season finale. The entire thing
feels rushed and half-baked. The book of Bubba Fett opens with telling the story of that five-year
gap, and it is a by-the-book hero journey. The descent into the underworld, the fundamental change
in the self, and the return to civilization with newfound knowledge. In this instance, Fett wakes
up inside of the Sarlacc pit in the middle of his own digestion, and he uses his armor's technology
to escape it. Once he escapes, he collapses. Jawa's scavenge his armor, and the Sand People nurse him
back to health, teaching him their ways of living. He becomes an honorary member of their tribe until
they're killed by a speeder bike gang, upon which he returns to civilization. It's the best part of
the show, and it mirrors other well-told tales. The hero suffers a tragedy and is thrust into
the unknown. They need to survive it, learn from it, and eventually master it. They grow and change
as a result. Eventually, the hero returns home, able to appreciate its comforts but irrevocably
changed. Hell, it's Luke's story from the original Star Wars. The problem is, the reason this story
archetype resonates with us, is because it also happens to us in real life. When you move out of
your parents' house for the first time, when you're responsible for getting yourself up to go to class
in university, when you're responsible for your own rent after getting your first real job, the
same process is happening. It's not nearly as traumatic, but the parallel is there. You start off
young, naive, secure at home, but that can't last forever. In order to truly grow up, you need to cut
yourself loose from your support system and contend with an unfamiliar world. And when this
happens in real life, it overwhelmingly happens to young people. It's for that reason that most
heroes in fiction who undertake this process are young too. The reason the hero's journey is a story
for the young, is because parts of human psychology undergo a crystallization process as we get older.
Barring a major transformative event, like a hugely traumatic experience or a spiritual
awakening or something, most adults don't go through this process the way that kids do, because
adults have already gone through it and they've already learned how to go through it. In other
words, when Boba Fett is swinging his gaffey stick with the Sand People, I knew what story the show
was trying to tell, and all I could really think was, he's already gone through this, when his father
was beheaded in front of him in episode two. There is no way what they've shown so far is as
transformative an event as losing a parent at a young age. After the obligatory slaughter of the
Sand People, which spurs Fett back to civilization, he goes looking for his armor, which is where the
events of Mandalorian season two happen. Fett tags along because that's the deal that Din Djarin cuts
with him for the return of his armor. After that, he decides to go back to Tatooine in his own show
to rule the planet, and I spent most of the time wondering, why? You've been all over the galaxy,
why do you want the throne of a backwater shithole? We're given exactly one line describing
his motivations and it is this, I'm gonna kill that bloated pig who double-crossed me, take his throne.
It's not even downstream of the tragic Sand People backstory we got earlier. Okay fine,
you want to be your own boss, but why Tatooine? Why crime? Boba Fett's not even much of a crime lord.
He's not nearly ruthless enough throughout his show to be effective at the job, which is even
weirder because ruthlessness was the only noticeable character trait Boba Fett originally had.
The real answer is because there wouldn't be a show otherwise. We need Jabba's palace and
Tatooine and Rancor's and Wookiees and the green pig guys and all the other Star Wars shit, so
why the fuck not? The show's meager present-day action is framed by the far more interesting
flashback sequences, but once those flashbacks have run their course, the show starts being
framed by cutaways to what Dinjarin is doing, how he's holding up without baby Yoda, what the other
Mandalorians are up to. Man, I thought this was a spin-off show, I thought season two would
introduce Boba Fett and then he'd go off onto a new adventure, but at this point the most interesting
parts of the show are the times when we cut back to The Mandalorian, and that's when I realized
this show, The Book of Boba Fett, was originally meant to be part of The Mandalorian. No, really!
The series was originally conceptualized as The Mandalorian season 2.5 according to those who
worked on it, and the production treated it as such. The first episode of The Book of Boba Fett
was referred to as 301, the way a third season's first episode would be according to normal TV
show convention. The music is more reminiscent of The Mandalorian than any other property,
and the ending title crawl featuring concept art is directly pulled from The Mandalorian.
The season's entire second half focuses more on The Mandalorian than Boba Fett, and the final shot
of the last episode is The Mandalorian flying off to have a new adventure. Imagine being one
of those die-hard fans of Boba Fett, waiting for decades for his own movie, his own show,
something, and this is what you get. He's turned into a side character in his own show,
he's nothing like he should have been, and the person who sidelines him is exactly what he
should have been like. The actual plot of the present time events of The Book of Boba Fett
is extremely paint by numbers. Boba Fett wants Jabba's throne. Jabba's cousins leave it to him
after a short confrontation because the CG to do those characters is expensive, but the reason they
give is because a new villainous group, the Pike Syndicate, is showing up on Tatooine to take over
instead. The Pikes are extremely ruthless and they've bullied the other crime lords into
submission, and of course it turns out in the end that they were also the ones who slaughtered Boba
Fett's sand people tribe, because why the fuck not. Boba Fett manages to recruit a ragtag group
of people to fight with him, including Fennec Shand, a new character who's been in multiple
other Star Wars shows, bridging the lore gap between them. Two green pig guys who act as cannon
fodder and predictably die at the end. A Wookiee because do you remember Chewbacca from Star Wars?
And a biker gang. Except the bikers all drive on shiny futuristic Vespas and look like really
bad cyberpunk cosplay. These guys are easily the worst part of the show. Look at this chase scene,
it's fucking abysmal. Even my fat ass can run faster than these guys are going. They've got
all this tense music blaring but this is no forest of ender let me tell you. These dudes are totally
useless in a firefight too. They don't look like people who can shoot and they certainly don't act
like it. Nothing like a superfluous spin to increase your accuracy am I right? I'll try
spinning that's a good trick. Also what the fuck is that? Did you see that? Do you see this? You
can see inside the facade of the sets from this angle. How do you miss this? How do you not CG
this shit out? You guys spent 15 million dollars an episode on this and the city looks like the
inside of my shed out back. Anyway Din Djarin also comes back to help out and when the war comes,
Bubba Fett convinces the other crime lords and remain neutral while he and his like 10 guys
fight off the entire pike syndicate which is a deal they all promptly break. So it's Bubba Fett
and his 10 guys who fight off all the pikes and all the other syndicates and they just win. It's
laughable they even directly say it. Our forces are quietly patrolling the streets of the old city.
The pike syndicate has not yet arrived in numbers but the minute they do we will see them before
they see us. The Gamorran guards are posted in the Platoonian territory at the starport and will
alert us if any of the pike syndicate forces arrive. Chrisanton is in Trandoshan territory
keeping tabs on the streets of the municipality in front of city hall. Drash and Skad are with
the other mods keeping an eye on the workers district and the aquillish quarter. As you can see
all our flanks are covered nobody is sneaking up on us. They're literally putting one or two dudes
at each post. They're not a mafia, they're a club. They never credibly establish that anybody cares
about Bubba Fett's organization but we've got a rush to the final confrontation where Bubba Fett
manages to win because he pulls out his rancor. Okay yeah fair enough it's a cool sequence but
it's unearned and that's the entire show cool but unearned. The overall plot is a lot like
walking tall. Hero leaves civilization and learns new wisdom. Check. Hero returns home with newfound
perspective. Check. Hero discovers his home is now overrun with baddies in his absence and he sets
out to make things right. Check. Hero liberates the community and the townspeople spread rose
petals along his path when he walks. Check. But none of it is earned. The skeleton of a solid plot
is here. They never spend enough time developing any of the essential connections that would make
the plot actually work. They never show the people suffering under the heel of the pikes
or the hut cousins and they never show the people secretly crying out for Bubba Fett to save them.
In the absence of popularity they don't establish that Bubba Fett has the numbers or the power to
simply impose his will on the city. In fact they explicitly say he doesn't. I have plenty of
critters. What I'm short on is muscle. They don't even establish why Bubba Fett wants to do it,
not in any meaningful way. He just does it because Disney sees dollar signs. That's it.
The book of Bubba Fett suffers from cool scene-itis. The Rancor fighting the robot
scene was cool. Bubba Fett and Din Djarin fighting off wave after wave of gangsters was cool. The
train heist was cool. But none of these scenes are earned. You earn a bombastic action set piece by
giving your characters moments to breathe and develop. I'll give you two examples from the same
show even. Game of Thrones season two. The Battle of Backwater is a huge action set piece and it's
earned. It's slowly built up across the entire season. Characters are preparing for it and
reacting to it. There's ample character growth and we're invested in the battle when it finally
comes. It's not just that the action is cool. It's that we care about what happens to the people
who are in it. Contrast that with the final season of Game of Thrones where the forces of light
stupidly send out their Dothraki cavalry from their fortified position to attack the army of
the dead. Not because it makes any sense. Not because any named characters are at stake. And
not because we as the audience care. But because that visual of the wave of flaming swords blinking
out in the darkness looks really cool and impactful. And sure it does. It does look cool.
That's only a cool moment. And a cool moment with nothing holding it up feels hollow and unearned.
And that is the entirety of Boba Fett. A series of unearned hollow cool moments. At this point
the question is why do so many shows nowadays suffer from cool scene-itis? Well first of all
it's entirely possible it's a product of diversity hiring. If you're picking people based on race or
gender rather than skill you're going to end up with people who only know surface level stuff.
And cool scene-itis is absolutely a product of a writer who doesn't know how to write but knows
just enough to know that something should look cool. But of course we don't know if the writers
were diversity hires. It could be just that they're bad at writing. But even then same thing applies.
Secondly corporate greed is a factor. Regardless of how you feel about the Marvel films they spent
a decade building up to the final confrontation with Thanos and that slow burn drastically helped
the series. Compare that with the DC universe which crashed and burned right out the fucking
gate by moving too fast with their own overlapping plot arcs. The Mandalorian season 2 finished up
the Baby Yoda plot line as well as having the final confrontation with Moff Gideon which really
should have been the series finale years down the road because they didn't have the patience for a
slow burn and subsequent Mandalorian storylines are going to suffer for it. The way they hamfistedly
brought back Baby Yoda for the Mando scenes in Boba Fett already shows that to be the case.
And finally I think it's because prog writers truly believe that shoehorning in their politics
or if they don't or can't do that shoehorning in representation replaces the character development
required for a cool scene to actually be earned. I'll use Star Trek Discovery as the example this
time. Seasons 3 and 4 have an ongoing story arc involving a non-binary human and a trans man trill.
For clarification's sake the non-binary person is biologically female and being a trans man means
transitioning from female to male. These characters have big moments in Discovery but they feel hollow
because rather than having big character scenes that set them up their characterization is
replaced with representation. I paid attention as best I could and the only thing I know about
Adira aside from the fact that they're non-binary is that they have low self-esteem and I know
absolutely nothing about Grey except that they're trans and they also have their consciousness
transferred into a robot body and at that point are they even trans anymore? The robot body uses
biotech to be identical to a human one so surely they just make it a male body and call it a day
right? My point is these characters have climactic scenes that feel unearned because the meat and
potatoes writing that should build up to those scenes instead revolves around their identity
and their romantic relationship to the point that they almost feel like they're in a completely
different universe than the rest of the show. The problem here is a character saying I'm non-binary
or her so I would prefer they or them from now on. Yeah that counts as only the shallowest
character development and does nothing towards building some kind of a climax but to a progressive
writer whose biggest influence is Tumblr fan fiction it's probably the only way to write
that they've ever known. The book of Bubba Fett wasn't nearly as bad as Discovery sure but every
time the mod gang was on screen I just wanted to groan. This is Tumblr fan fiction pure and simple.
The real Bubba Fett would have shot them in cold blood the first time they mouthed off to him.
And so that was the book of Bubba Fett. A string of cool unearned scenes held together by focusing
on literally everybody else but the titular character and the few times that he actually
gets the spotlight it's nothing like established lore and those changes go completely unexplained.
Even the actor who played him ultimately agreed. I was hoping not to say as much as I have already
in the first two episodes. I speak far too much in fact in the beginning I was trying to get
pass my lines on to Ming Na and I was like excuse me director I really feel that Ming
Na should say these lines because I want to stay mysterious I want to stay quiet.
At some point this has to stop right? They can't keep dumping loads of money into a fire pit
forever right? Like there has to be a breaking point. There's only so much subverted flaming
garbage these people can pump out before it begins to bankrupt these companies. I didn't pay for this
shit. I got it courtesy of the pirate bay and man oh man do not shell out a single dime for it
ain't worth it. It's like I said during the Lord of the Rings video this stuff only has
worth when youtubers make content out of it. There's nothing else in here that's of value.
Thank you.
So the Wookie gets a melon and weed though.
Here's something you want to share.
What happened? Nothing Link we were just about to have a feast.
Great!
