5.
MOUSE
Recently, a Tennessee school district banned a Holocaust novel called Mouse over concerns
about its violence, nudity, and profanity.
It's a comic book about the Holocaust, where the Jews are portrayed as mice and the Germans
as cats.
It's meant for a young adult audience, as the serious subject matter combined with the
cutesy style would suggest.
The school board's objections were that the comic showed characters being hung, children
being slaughtered, you know, and children shouldn't be subjected to that type of imagery,
even if it's still cats and mice.
And fair enough, maybe not small children, but like I said, it's probably appropriate
for the teen years.
At the end of the day, to teach up with the Holocaust, you must show the reality of the
Holocaust, and that reality is brutal.
Of course, because the Streisand effect is a thing, Mouse's sales shot up as a result
of that negative publicity.
When I was a kid, I'm talking around 12 years old specifically in my case, when I learned
that a book was on my school's banned list, and there were a few, I generally went to
the library to read it, as I was an avid reader growing up.
And nowadays with Amazon or other online shops, people can buy these books relatively easily,
so I've always found that schools banning books is just a big waste of time.
But the real story here is how the Mouse event was covered on The View.
Now, I don't know a single person who actually watches The View, and I haven't seen an episode
of it since I lived at my parents' place, because as far as I recall, my mom loved that
shit.
And you know what, I kind of forgot it existed, until Whoopi Goldberg got in trouble for this
comment.
Also, if you're going to do this, then let's be truthful about it, because the Holocaust
isn't about race.
What?
No.
It's not about race, but it's, it's not about race.
It's not about race, because it's about man's inhumanity to man.
Okay.
Okay, she's technically correct.
The Holocaust was about man's inhumanity to man, but it's also about race.
Do you see this book here?
I fucking read it.
There's a lot in here about race.
I don't know what you're fucking talking about, dude.
That's what it's about.
But it's about white supremacy.
Well, it's not about race, but these are two white groups of people.
And there's the rub.
This is a very American viewpoint on race that Whoopi Goldberg is presenting here.
She considers Jews to be white, and so to her, the Holocaust is simply white on white
crime.
But that's not how the people involved in the Holocaust sought Hitler.
You know, in that book, he doesn't actually talk about the white race.
He talks about the Germanic race, the Aryan race, the Nordic race, and their relationships
with the Slavic race, or the Mediterranean race, or the Jewish race.
All groups of people that we overhear in North America generally lumped together as white,
but to Nazi racial ideology, they were not considered part of the same stock.
Well, they didn't have to feed them as white businesses.
But you're missing the point.
You're missing the point.
The minute you turn it into race, it goes down this alley.
Let's talk about it for what it is.
It's how people treat each other.
It's a problem.
It doesn't matter if you're black or white, because black, white, Jews, everybody eats
each other.
To Whoopi's credit, she's actually correct here.
Every group of people on earth is both an oppressor and the oppressed.
That's just how it is.
So is it, if you're uncomfortable, if you hear about Maus, should you be worried?
Should your child say, oh my God, I wonder if that's me?
No, that's not what they're going to say.
They're going to say, I don't want to be like that.
The music coming in to try and play it off.
Not happening this time, Sam.
Well, hopefully.
I don't want to be cool.
Most kids, most kids, they don't want to be cool.
No, they don't.
We're living in an era where people are comparing vaccine cards to the yellow stars, where people
are comparing vaccinations to what Anne Frank went through.
So it is necessary for kids to learn about.
Yeah, it's not at that level.
Let's hope it ever gets there, lady.
Thankfully, it's turning around in most places.
But there's still that one school making kids wear yellow stars if they've got a medical
exemption for masks.
Jesus.
To learn about man's inhumanity to man, however it exposes itself, I have to cut you off.
I just want to say that Maus was banned and it flew to top 20 of Amazon's rules last thing.
Of charts.
Yes.
The more you ban it, the more we want to read it.
And there you have it.
What a shit show, eh?
The problem here isn't that Whoopi Goldberg is hateful or anything, though, I mean, maybe.
It's that she's operating with a very specific, very narrow lens on race that leads to her
saying such dumb shit as, the Holocaust wasn't about race, because the American experience
on race is extremely black and white.
Literally, in fact.
From the Nazi perspective, it was Semites versus Aryans.
They felt no kinship with them based on skin color.
Of course, Whoopi Goldberg went on to apologize on Twitter.
Is that a new avatar?
I will say it fits the situation.
On today's show, I said the Holocaust is not about race, but about man's inhumanity to
man.
It's about both.
As Jonathan Greenblatt from the Anti-Defamation League shared, the Holocaust was about the
Nazi systematic annihilation of the Jewish people, who they deemed to be in an inferior
race.
I stand corrected.
The Jewish people around the world have always had my support, and that will never waver.
I am sorry for the hurt I've caused.
What quickly followed was a series of funny and weird events, starting with the president
of ABC suspending Whoopi Goldberg from The View for two weeks, stating, while Whoopi
has apologized, I have asked her to take time to reflect and learn about the impact
of her comments.
The entire ABC news organization stands in solidarity with our Jewish colleagues, friends,
family, and communities.
Whoopi responded by wearing a jacket that had innocent printed on it, even though she
had already apologized.
Alright.
People also began to take note of the obvious hypocrisy.
In March of 2021, Sharon Osborn was invited to leave her position on CBS's The Talk
over accusations of racism, for defending Piers Morgan's criticisms of Meghan Markle.
In 2018, Roseanne Barr had her show canceled off of ABC after sending this, uh, pretty
spicy tweet about Valerie Jarrett, one of Obama's advisors.
If the Muslim Brotherhood and Planet of the Apes had a baby, Jesus.
I'm sure her supporting Trump didn't help either.
And of course, Gia Serrano was let go from her star role on Lucasfilm's The Mandalorian
for stating that being a Republican today is like being Jewish during the Holocaust.
Me personally, I don't want to see any of these people fired.
I like free speech, but considering that CBS, ABC, and Lucasfilm are all owned by Disney,
it's not like there's a difference where the buck stops.
Osborn, Barr, and Serrano all said some pretty bad stuff, but none of it is as bad as Holocaust
revisionism.
And yet, unlike those three, Whoopi Goldberg only got a slap on the wrist.
Maybe it's because she's black, and her blackness affords her an extra level of protection in
a CRT intersectional world.
Maybe it's because she's characterized the Holocaust as being whites against whites.
And so from a black perspective, what does she care?
That's also valid from the CRT point of view.
In fact, she said exactly that when talking to Stephen Colbert.
Like, asking the Nazis, they would say, yes, it's a racial issue.
Well, see, this is what's interesting to me, because the Nazis lied.
It wasn't.
They they had issues with ethnicity, not with race, because most of the Nazis were white
people and most of the people they were attacking were white people.
So to me, I'm thinking, how can you how can you say it's about race if you are fighting
each other?
So it all really began because I said, how will children how will we explain to children
what happened in Nazi Germany?
This wasn't I said, this wasn't racial.
This was about white on white.
Back in November of 2021, Goldberg had another spicy conversation on The View, though this
one flew under the radar.
This time, it's a discussion about the Virginia election and how critical race theory was
impacting the race.
It is college level stuff, at least it was when I went to university.
When I was younger, intro to critical theory was a first year course, but it's certainly
not only law school, it's an offer for anybody.
The discipline may have started as critical legal theory, but it's expanded far beyond
that.
And hey, who knows?
Maybe it's wormed its way into high schools by now.
I know that at least gender studies has.
Yes, but you know, you live in the United States, you know, that color of skin has been
mattering to people can't we change it that it was weak, we need white people to step
up and do that.
But I think that we they've been doing that since the Civil War.
And I'm not saying no, no, no.
My God, whoopee.
Do you think the Civil War was blacks versus whites?
Do you think no white blood was shed to end slavery in America, this idea that everything
is whitey's fault, and everything bad is white and everything good is black has got
to fucking stop?
It's legitimately racist.
Yeah, was, where is it okay now whoopee?
This is fucking crazy, dude.
You're so married to your own trauma.
And let's not pretend here that you've experienced any of it since you got rich, that you would
rather see the trauma perpetuated instead of actually solving problems, because solving
problems means you can no longer perpetually blame white people for whatever ails you.
Race is defined as a category of humankind that shares certain distinctive physical traits.
Ethnicity is defined as the fact or state of belonging to a social group as a common
national or cultural tradition.
There is an overlap there, sure, but they're not the same thing.
Regarding the American experience, white and black skin are so visually distinct, it's
easy to conceptualize racial groups at a quick glance.
But when Whoopee Goldberg says that the Holocaust is white on white, and it's about ethnicity,
not race, she's wrong.
It looks that way to her because she's an American intersectionalist, but it's not the
fact of the matter.
Nazi race science explicitly relied on distinctive physical traits with distinct religious, cultural,
linguistic and territorial similarities of ethnicity taking a back burner.
That's why they focus so much on semantic racial traits, like darker skin and hair,
or curly hair, or larger noses.
Whenever you see pictures of those German doctors measuring the width of somebody's
nose or the size of their skulls, they're not appealing to ethnicity, they're appealing
to race.
So yes, Whoopee Goldberg is just wrong, but the reason she sticks with such a bizarre
view is because of critical theory.
I will have to eventually cover that shitshow in depth at some point on this channel.
But here's the sky high CRT view.
The overarching intersectional view of the world is that the white 1% control institutions
and governments in order to uphold a global system of capitalist patriarchal white supremacy,
and that even if individual white people don't agree with it or have anything to do with
it, they still benefit from it and victimize non-whites as oppressors.
Meanwhile, Nazi ideology believed that a small minority of rich Jews, without a nation-state
of their own, controlled institutions and governments across Europe to uphold a capitalist
system of Jewish supremacy, where even individual innocent Jews benefited and victimized non-Jews.
Does this sound familiar?
Oh, also, as Whoopee said earlier, the intersectional view is that Jews are in fact white.
No wonder she's so flippant about the Holocaust.
A lot has been said recently about the prevalence of black-on-Jew crime in America, and about
the rise of people like Louis Farrakhan, the anti-Semitic black supremacist.
A lot has been said about the anti-Semitism on the broader left, with the UK's Labour
Party being full of it, with the socialists routinely noticing that their globalist 1%
bourgeoisie has a lot of heavy overlap with the Nazis internationalist Jewish banker class.
Moreover, it's not hard at all to find prominent Jewish leftists who call themselves white
when it's time to publicly denigrate themselves as oppressors, and who call themselves Jewish
when it's time to present themselves as victims of a hate crime.
Of course, all of these people conveniently ignore that black Jews exist.
Some of the more extremist elements in Israel even go so far as to say that they're not
real Jews.
Hell, back in 2011 Whoopee Goldberg herself claimed she was Jewish, that's a twist.
Way to throw your own Jewish in-group under the bus for your black in-group, lady.
Wait a minute, actually she didn't even stand up for her black in-group either, because
damn she's laughing on a white guy who does blackface.
And she's standing up for pedophiles too?
What the fuck?
I guess the TLDR on Whoopee Goldberg is that she's just a fucking moron.
But the ideology guiding her, that's what's worth talking about.
It brought her to this ridiculous point of saying that everybody is racist except the
Nazis.
That was just white on white.
Would she feel the same way about the Rwandan genocide, since it was one black group killing
another black group?
Or how about the Japanese and Nanking, that's just Asian on Asian.
The ultimate issue with critical race theory framing is that it requires white people to
always be the evil oppressor due to institutionalized power.
And so blacks can't be racist, they're just punching up.
Anybody with their head on straight knows exactly how dumb this sounds.
Even they know how dumb it sounds.
The ADL is a garbage organization, but for a long time their definition of racism was
the belief that a particular race is superior or inferior to another.
As the ADL moved away from the liberal ideal and regressed into the tribalism of intersectionality,
they changed that definition to the marginalization and or oppression of people of color based
on a socially constructed racial hierarchy that privileges white people.
And under this view, Whoopi is actually correct.
The Nazis weren't racist because their actions oppressed whites, not people of color and
privileged Germans, not all whites.
The critical theory view, the intersectional view has to be pro Nazi.
After the Whoopi Goldberg shit show hit the fan, the ADL changed the page to an interim
definition, basically admitting that this was temporary just to get people to shut up.
Racism occurs when individuals or institutions show more favorable evaluation or treatment
of an individual or group based on race or ethnicity.
Expect this definition to vanish after the storm has passed.
CRT is legitimately racist.
Intersectionality is absolutely bigoted.
That doesn't mean that you need these things to be racist or bigoted.
The old style white supremacy can still exist, but you have to be a moron to think that nowadays
it's actually ascendant.
Most people today are just centrist liberal types.
They genuinely want people to be judged on the content of their character and not the
color of their skin.
But that completely reasonable desire, that trend towards individualism, is why progressives
screech racism every time and it's why Whoopi Goldberg can get away with minimizing the
Holocaust along racial lines.
When they cry racist, they're calling you what they are and they're expecting you
to be shamed for your reasonable opinions when their direct actions are infinitely worse.
