A month ago, a relatively unknown subreddit called r slash anti-work went viral.
The point of the sub, at least at that time, was to highlight feel-good conversations of
workers sticking it to their shitty bosses.
The point of the sub, at least at that time, was to highlight feel-good conversations of
workers sticking it to their bad bosses.
Everyone loves a good dose of karma.
I mean, check this stuff out.
I think this was the one that made the sub famous.
Good evening.
I was reviewing the cameras from our shift today and noticed that you were sitting on
a stool for the majority of your shift.
This is completely unacceptable behavior and we'll be discussing it tomorrow before shift.
I cleared it with the lead.
I have two broken bones in my left foot, doctor documented.
Aside from that, I packed 240 uph for the entirety of my shift, 12 full hours.
I'm not sure if you're aware, but we do have a ranked list for packing displayed directly
above our stations.
My efforts earned me first place today.
So just to be clear, my impressive performance was overshadowed by the fact that I wasn't
uncomfortable enough while doing it.
I'm really not appreciating your attitude.
You could have just said the first part where it was clear with another lead instead of
being disrespectful.
This type of behavior isn't going to get you anywhere here.
Hey, thanks for wasting my precious off time with some garbage you didn't bother to investigate
beforehand.
Seriously, 240 uph.
What you claimed you'd depend on the performance there, I achieved it and I get grief because
I was sitting while doing it.
You guys need to get your priorities straight.
It's no wonder that you have such difficulties retaining staff.
I'm not concerned with going anywhere there.
It's a toxic environment with ignorant people at the helm.
I won't be in tomorrow or ever again.
We don't need to rush to you leaving.
Please talk this in the morning.
We can sort it out.
No, thanks.
Have a good life.
This is a classic example of a boss not understanding that he's about to lose his best employee
because he just has to maintain his position of power.
This sounds like a pretty skilled worker who will definitely land on his feet and this
sounds like a business that will probably flounder as they lose more and more employees
to bad decisions like this.
Let's check out this one.
Where are you at?
You told Mark you could work tonight.
No, I didn't.
I told Mark I couldn't work Monday.
You told him you couldn't work in the morning, but you could work normal hours.
As you know, I found out yesterday my dad passed away.
I'm going to go ahead and take at least the one day I get a week off to mourn his death.
I am so sorry for any inconveniences I'll cause you.
My uncle died a few days ago.
I lost my grandma.
Stop being a victim.
Mail me my check.
I quit.
Go fuck yourself.
That holy fuck.
Okay.
So obviously the boss is being fucking ridiculous here.
Like I don't think anyone's going to argue that.
The only point I will give the boss is that it sounds like earlier in the conversation
he's expecting him to come in and he hasn't yet been informed that his dad passed away.
That could be the case.
You don't have to leave work because someone dies.
You should, you should tell them obviously, but yeah, this whole stop being a victim thing,
man, that boss lost any, you know, the one sympathy point I had for him.
He lost it.
Hey Brandon, we're short staff for the rest of the year because Sarah just quit without
any warning.
Early backed up.
So I'm going to need you to come in during Thanksgiving this year.
Don't be shocked if you have to come in during Christmas Eve and day two.
Hey, you know, personally, I'd probably take that if it actually included, um, over time.
Fuck yeah.
I already told you three weeks ago.
I need that week off and you agreed now you're changing your mind.
I will not be working Thanksgiving and if you ask again, I will not be working for you
at all anymore.
We've had to set expectations with you multiple times this year.
Coming in is the least you can do.
Your PTO request has been denied.
I'm not asking you to come in.
I'm telling you that you have to.
I'm telling you that you'll have no worker at all now.
I quit.
I'm actually on the fence about this one.
You know, I mean he put in for time off.
It sounds like it's been denied though.
Clearly not officially.
We don't know what set expectations means.
It could be that they're terrible bosses or it could be he's a terrible employee.
Who knows?
Hey, Becky canceled on Saturday.
I need you to come in and cover for her.
That's not my problem.
Saturday is my day off.
I'm working eight days straight and really need it.
Damn.
I'm sorry.
We're short staffed.
I need you.
I'm not coming in.
So you have to.
I'll see you Saturday.
No, you won't.
I'm not coming in.
You can't make me.
You sure you want to do this?
You really want to put your health insurance on the lot?
Jesus.
Health insurance.
Like back when I worked other jobs.
Yeah.
I had the occasional dispute about time off.
I never had someone say this.
What are you going to do?
Fire me?
I know you're short staffed after Hunter and Page quit last week and you're already short
bartenders.
I accept that type of attitude.
Last chance.
I'll see you Sunday.
I won't see you again.
Did you really just threaten me with health insurance?
Whatever.
I'm done with this.
You can consider this my notice.
I don't know if you're bullshit.
Shitty bosses definitely do exist out there guys.
And sometimes they definitely do need to be put in their place, but it seems like leftoids
believe that the entire left is pro worker and the entire right is pro boss.
And that's it evenly cuts into two different camps and it's like, no, that's not how the
world is at all.
I need you tomorrow.
Saturdays are my days off.
I'll be with my fiance.
I'm short and I need you to come in.
Okay.
How much am I getting?
You're short staffed and you need to work tomorrow.
We call that expedited for 39 75.
I can be there tomorrow for 13.
I'll see you on Monday.
That's cheeky.
Most of my jobs that I've had have been union jobs.
And so the, the rate is basically set.
Even if you, even if your boss wants to give you a raise like this, they can't has to go
by the union contract.
But assuming this is a non union job, this is absolutely something that you can do.
You should do it.
Hello.
Sophia has just quit and we're already short staffed.
I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but it looks like I need to come in on Thanksgiving.
Unfortunately, I'll be out of town visiting family.
As I told you in October, you approved it.
I'm an older chairman plans.
I'm sorry.
I'm going to appreciate the tone.
What tone?
We have enough staff in October.
What I said no longer applies.
Again.
I apologize.
We need to come into Thanksgiving.
It won't be happening.
Speak to me like that again.
And you'll be really short staffed.
You're about to get yourself into some big trouble cooperate, or you may find yourself
here on Christmas as well.
Got it.
Yeah.
I'm not sure how I put up with your shit for almost a year.
I quit.
Good luck finding someone else though.
How, how dumb do you have to be to just keep doubling down like you boss, Mike, Mike from
work?
You need this person.
What are you?
What are you doing?
Oh God.
The boss's name this time is Robert C.P.
I need you to come in from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. today.
We have an event scheduled.
Only one bartender.
No, thank you.
Tomorrow's my day off.
You need to be a team player.
It isn't all about you.
Please come in tomorrow.
Why are you just now telling me at 3 a.m. that you need me to work 11 hours tomorrow?
I've had a few drinks.
I don't feel like coming into work hung over and working from that long of a day on my
day off.
You need to stay ready for work.
Getting too drunk is not a good look if you can't stay prepared.
Sometimes things happen.
You're telling the bartender not to drink on his time off?
Want to go tell the chefs not to eat off the clock too?
Dude, if you had given me more notice I would have considered it and just not have had any
drinks so I don't have to work hung over.
But you waited too long, I'm already drunk and I don't feel like coming in while hung
over.
Don't you know how to bartend too?
Even if you don't we literally have flashcards for each drink on the menu for each event.
You can literally just tape them to the counter and use them as a guide to make the drinks
yourself.
We are going to talk about this attitude when you come in on Sunday.
No we're not.
Bartenders are needed all over the place now.
I think I'll just go to work at one of the dozens of places I'm hiring around here.
I'm fed up with you.
Give me a call.
Let me make such an impulsive decision.
You're making a mistake because you're drunk and you think it's a good idea.
When you wake up tomorrow you're going to regret this.
Eat my ass.
If they want you to be on call make sure that they're paying you so that you're on call.
I must admit I haven't really had the displeasure of experiencing any of this kind of stuff.
Places that would call me in when I work for them and I said listen I'm sorry I can't do
it today.
They're just like okay understood you know have a good day and that was it.
No one ever pressured me when I said no it was no and maybe just like a Canadian thing
because most people around here like they don't they don't get this stuff.
I think everybody's felt this way before you've got a shitty boss who clearly doesn't know
how integral you are to the operation or who doesn't care and thinks he has your balls
in a vice and you always daydream about the day you can finally tell him to fuck off because
you don't need this job anymore you quit.
Those aren't illegitimate feelings and since we have to go into political theory now Marx's
idea of alienation is one of the only things he got kind of right.
The theory of alienation is basically the idea that living in a capitalist society with
social classes creates an alienation of people from aspects of their nature resulting in
an estrangement from their own humanity.
Specifically in this case the alienation of production Marx theorized that a worker who
does not work for himself and keep the full produce of his labor but instead works for
another and exchanges his labor for money experiences alienation from his own labor.
In practical terms because he's lost the ability to direct his own production since
that's managed by a boss as a consequence he loses the ability to determine a portion
of his own life that time spent on the clock.
Marx's view was that downstream from this alienation was an eventual loss of the right
to think of themselves as the director of their own actions to define their relationships
with others and eventually the loss of ownership as a concept itself meaning that people would
not mentally understand what it means to own something.
In this conception Marx has presented what he believes to be liberalism's ultimate
end.
Workers as legally autonomous self-owned human beings but who have no choice but to enter
into business contracts with the bourgeoisie to sell themselves to survive and eventually
whose lives and consciousness revolves entirely around the selling of the self and this does
in fact seem to be the case though I think Marx overstates his argument at the end there
when he thinks that the most grinding long-term employment results in people losing the faculty
of self-thought and self-ownership.
But what's obvious to me is that what Marx considers to be liberalism's end it's a better
version of what socialism's actual end is.
Every commie in Prague out there every so-called left libertarian, libertarian socialist and
comm whatever despite the tenets of their theories they're all calling for increasing
government control especially in the wake of COVID.
They're all cheering on the increasing authoritarian centralization of the modern era.
They literally think you own nothing and will be happy is a good end.
Communism is a philosophy full of contradictions in this way.
All of the evil it does it claims its enemies will do and then when they do it they call
it good.
R slash anti-work like any other sub on reddit before it rapidly stopped being about funny
stories and interactions with shitty bosses and quickly became all about politics.
The sub now no longer features interesting text exchanges it's all about leftist theory,
articles about strikes, twitter screen caps about communist bullshit.
You know exactly what I'm talking about.
The entire sub has missed the main point and the entirety of the socialist movement has
missed it for the last hundred years.
That workers walking off the job is not socialist praxis it's not unionism it's liberal capitalism
in action.
Liberalism's founding moral principle isn't capitalism it's choice.
If we accept that we are free thinking feeling speaking beings with rights and responsibilities
that means we're self-owned our bodies and our lives are our property.
That means we can consent to arrangements with others we can say yes or no and that
means that we can consent to a job with a wage or we can stop consenting to it and stop
receiving the wage.
We don't live in a feudal society where the king can march up and order his serfs to work
under the threat of death.
We also don't live in a socialist society where the local commissar or SS officer can
give us a work voucher at gunpoint.
What the leftoids call capitalism is just the aggregate consent of people making deals
within a liberal framework and to shatter capitalism you must shatter the ability of
people to give consent.
The common socialist rebuttal to this hard truth is Vosch's coconuts argument which I
have gone over before.
The TLDR of it is if other people own all the businesses and you need to eat food you
must work in their business to be able to afford the food and so it's no different in
practicality than being ordered to work by a king.
This argument falls flat on its head however as soon as you ask how else it should be.
They inevitably say something like you should be given food because the human right you
shouldn't have to work for and the logical end result of that is that farmers who labor
to create food must be forced to give it up without compensation because it's the right
of other people to eat it and in that case why would you ever be a farmer?
This is why all socialist societies that grow beyond a simple family unit eventually starve.
Here's a great example.
And by the way there is another operating major thing here which is that all of these
societies have an abundance.
Despite having a gross abundance America has more than enough to feed the whole world.
We have such a great abundance and yet we still force people to work and I don't think
that would be a problem in an abundant communist society where things are shared.
I don't think that would be a problem at all.
If somebody decided for their own reasons I mean I think people have good reasons for
not wanting to work.
What demon mama is describing here if you dig a bit deeper is a situation where farmers
get paid nothing for their food.
It's not even a blowjobs for coconuts exchange, it's blowjobs for nothing, it's a worse
arrangement.
And though she will never say it if you scratch beneath the surface her politics and the politics
of every other socialist communist left anarchist whatever is all about that shattering of consent.
Returning to r slash anti work what makes the sub so funny is that they think they're
engaging in revolutionary praxis but the truth is this is liberalism just working as intended.
You got a shitty boss or a shitty job quit take labor elsewhere or work for yourself.
Somebody even posted this tweet talking about a company that raised its wages to attract
workers and suddenly they no longer had a labor shortage like it was somehow an own
of capitalism.
No this is how the system is meant to work.
The reason you don't think it works this way is a combination of shitty Marxist professors
telling you nonsense while you're in school and living in decades of unfettered immigration
decreasing the value of your labor due to inflated foreign competition.
It turns out when there's not many workers and too many jobs companies start competing
to buy labor and the price of labor goes up.
This is a fact that somebody with a professional level career knows all too well.
If you're high up in a company if you've got rare or invaluable skills organizations
will outbid each other to secure you because you're a valuable asset.
The reason non-compete clauses are big in the professional world is because if you quit
your boss doesn't want you taking all of your knowledge to their competitors and that
non-compete comes at the pay bump to compensate for it.
The current anti-work phenomenon is not something that could happen in any socialist system.
In a stateless moneyless classless society forget it.
Why should you have access to the commune stores if you aren't contributing to it?
Either you'll be kicked out or the commune will collapse.
In a more national socialist or national syndicalist society the economy is almost always restructured
into a neo-guildist system where you must be a member of the national trade union in
order to even qualify for work and then the powers that be will direct your production
for the good of the nation or the people or whatever.
You will never own your labor.
Your labor will belong to the collective.
Soviet Russia, Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy all implemented their command economies in
this way with some minor variations and communist China is doing the same right now.
But none of this is liberal economics.
None of this is anything close to free market capitalism and only when you have a sufficiently
free market do individuals have the freedom to quit jobs, make lateral moves or start
businesses of their own.
The people at r slash anti-work are literally too stupid to understand that they're cheering
for socialism while performing liberal praxis.
Please come into work.
We are short staffed.
No, fuck you.
I'm busy.
Well then you're fired jackass.
Don't come back.
Okay, I pull up.
You and all your friends.
I got baited.
I got baited guys.
