I figured I'd give you guys a quick update on what I'm doing today.
In the next one to two weeks you're going to see a lot of my backlogged videos disappear
off of the SFO channel.
I'm doing this based on some advice that I've been given from multiple people who have gone
through this process before.
When YouTube examines your channel for re-monetization, they will often go through your entire backlog.
So I'll be taking down all of the streams that I've done, as well as a few select videos.
That doesn't mean they're going to be gone forever.
The videos are still up on my bitshoot at bitshoot.com slash shortfatotaku.
And if SFO's monetization is restored, those videos will instead be uploaded to the Devonitize
channel I started a couple weeks ago.
That channel will become basically the backlog for videos that are too edgy to get monetized.
And how I plan to handle it is that there will be playlists on SFO for the various types
of video.
And if there's any holes in the backlog, it will simply link to the Devonitized version
of that video.
Also, for that re-monetization to happen, I have to keep my watch hours up.
So if you've ever considered re-watching my old videos or checking out some stuff that
you might have missed, the next week or two is probably a good time to do it.
So the plan will be that the monetization comes back on SFO, the edgier videos will
be on a side channel as well as on my bitshoot, and then will continue as normal.
However, if it turns out that monetization just won't come back, and that's actually
very rare, because one of the people that I talked to, he said that he applied and reapplied
and reapplied over the course of six months, and eventually got his monetization back as
he trimmed out more and more of his backlog, hopefully it won't take me six months.
But if for some reason I find out that monetization just isn't coming back, well then I will have
to start a new channel.
SFO will probably become the backlog, and Devonatized will probably become the main
channel where I'll upload new stuff.
However, from what I've heard, I don't think I'm going to have to do that.
There is at least an okay chance that things will turn out fine.
As always, if you want to support, there is a Patreon and a Subscribestar.
There's my affiliate links and Amazon equipment wishlist in the description of the video if
you want to contribute that way.
I still do the daily streams over on Game Boomers, that's twitch.tv slash Game Boomers.
And since I'm a twitch affiliate, I do have monetization there, so you can also donate
through their platform as well.
And I plan to start those daily SFO streams tomorrow with the watching of the final debate
with Lilith and Scrump, Scrump the guy who caused the problems in the first place.
And we'll see who else we can get in there as well.
So yeah, drop by tonight for the finale of Carrion, and drop by tomorrow night for the
debate stream.
I'll see you then.
I love you.
Oh wait, no, there's actually something else.
Check this out, check this out.
So I was in Lore Reloaded's stream.
He's a Star Trek YouTuber, he's not political, and we're friends and stuff.
But I was in there watching his stream, and he showed me this screenshot.
Apparently all of my chats have to be manually approved now, whenever I'm on the SFO account.
And I tried a few other chats on YouTube, and it's the exact same way everywhere else.
It turns out that that is just how it is as long as I'm demonetized.
Because I was demonetized for hate speech, even though it wasn't me actually doing the
hate speech, Scrump.
Until this is solved, this is what my YouTube chatting experience is going to look like.
Thanks guys.
