Hey guys, Dev here. Welcome to this week's The Weekly Sip. Today I'm going to be having
this. It is Kicking Horse Coffee. 454 horsepower, dark, velvety, earthy, spirited ground coffee.
This was mailed to me by a viewer, JT Viper. He watches the videos. He's in the Twitch stream
sometimes. Thank you very much, dude. I really appreciate it. He said he wanted me to try it out
on The Weekly Sips. I'm going to try it out. This smooth, riding, dark horse conjures up power from
the depths of the shadows. This is the winner, the champion of taste. The one that goes the
extra mile. Hop on, hold on, and head for the hills. Let's give it a try. You know,
I've never quite had a coffee like this. Usually, like, for example, my coffee is stored in the
Zelda thing. The sugar's in the Game Boy. Naomi's tea is in the Overwatch loot box.
But I've never really had any kind of specialty coffee before, so I'm kind of excited.
Keurig's heating up. Oh, that's quite the strong smell to the grounds. Jesus.
Oh, yeah. All right, I'm back in the office. And listening back to that video, I didn't think you
guys could hear the rain out there. It's a pretty rainy day today. Hope you guys don't mind. But
let's try out JT Viper's, hopefully delicious, donated coffee.
Oh, based on the smell, I thought it would be more acidic, but it's not.
It's definitely very strong, though. Holy shit. Oh, and it leaves like a
like a lingering coffee aftertaste in my mouth, the way that most coffees don't actually do.
It's good, though. Thank you very much, JT Viper.
Any of you guys who do want to send me stuff to have me try it out on the show,
I have put my address out there. It's no big deal. I don't really care.
So in one of my videos this week, I mentioned Super Gonorrhea.
And I got a couple questions. What the hell is Super Gonorrhea? Well,
this is what Super Gonorrhea is. Super Gonorrhea spread causes deep concern on the BBC News.
Two women in the UK have been infected with Super Gonorrhea, sparking deep concern from
sexual health doctors. A European party destination is one line of inquiry,
and health officials are trying to contact subsequent sexual partners in the UK.
Both women have since been cured of their infections, which are resistant to the main
therapy. That's why it's Super Gonorrhea. It's resistant to usual Gonorrhea therapy?
I swear to god, thoughts are gonna fucking kill us all.
Both women were infected with a version of Gonorrhea that was resistant to the
first choice antibiotics. The cases were not related to the world's worst case,
which was detected in the UK in 2018 after a trip to Southeast Asia.
Oh, I wonder what the world's worst case was. World's Worst Super Gonorrhea Man Cured.
He picked up the superbug having sex with a woman in Southeast Asia,
despite having a British partner. Well, this is one way to find out that your man's cheating on
you. He gets Super Gonorrhea and makes the news. But yeah, the bacterium Nasiria gonorrhea has
rapidly developed resistance to new antibiotics. I made the argument in my Where Have the Good Men
Gone video that the complete loosening of sexual morality led to basically a lot of suffering
through the extreme propagation of STDs. And now there's definitely a component of the modern
sexual lifestyle that values safe sex. But even that's being dismantled by the SJWs because they
made it legal in California for people to hide their HIV status, claiming that it discriminated
against gay men. Basically, the adaptation of STDs to all of our various drugs is going to continue.
So either we find new cures or we change some of our behavior. There's really no way around this.
Here's something really stupid for you guys. Your fancy new brunch place is probably colonialist,
and you're a colonizer. Gentrification is just the latest iteration of colonization,
but now it comes with eggs benedict and bottomless mimosas.
Okay, so let me get this straight. You have a ghetto in a city and you gentrify it,
you kind of spruce it up. You build parks, you have like higher class properties.
That's colonization. In linking colonization and gentrification, you're making the argument
that white people just naturally live in gentrified areas and that black people or
whatever race, whatever non-white race you're talking about. I assume it's black people,
it's an American article, but black people live naturally in non-gentrified places.
There's no debate here that a gentrified area, property values go up, the houses are nicer,
the shops are nicer, the streets are cleaner. It is making a place better. And you can argue that,
oh, well now poor people can't afford to live there. Fair enough. That's also a problem that
needs tackling. But if you're linking gentrification with colonizing, then you're explicitly saying
that non-white people don't deserve to live in high class areas.
I don't know how you get off writing this article and not instantly be considered a fucking racist.
They call it RINO, short for River North, but those of us who grew up in Denver, Colorado,
it's still Five Points. Coined the Harlem of the West, Five Points was once an area of jazz joints,
black culture, and cuisine. A place that white folks would once desperately avoid,
or at best pass through on their way to somewhere else. But in the past five years, aggressive
big money gentrification has changed that. Today, the neighborhood brims with local microbreweries,
high-priced bars, and a bevy of brunch joints, where people wait upward to an hour and a half
for a cramped table of two. I gotta say, why can't black people enjoy microbreweries, high-priced
bars, or brunch joints? Is there something... is it allowed? Like, what are you saying here,
Simon Moya Smith? Black people can't go to those things? Are black people cordoned off to
jazz joints, black culture, and black cuisine? Is that all they're allowed to do in your eyes?
Families and local businesses in cities across the U.S. are being hurled from their beloved blocks
and neighborhoods as a result of gentrification, as a result of these new posh places. Oh,
maybe you're complaining that white people are moving into your neighborhood,
and, you know, it sucks because you grew up in that house, and all your neighbors were the same
race as you, and you all had the same basic subculture, and now when you go back, there's
a white family living in your house, and there's white people all over the neighborhood, and things
have changed. Okay, you know, I kind of get it. It's not really you're right anymore because you
don't live there anymore, but I get it. Now, what I've just described is something that white people
have had to deal with for at least 50 years, because immigration usually moves into low-class
white neighborhoods, and they usually slowly take them over. You know, you go to the U.K.
where neighborhoods have become predominantly Muslim immigrant, and they've implemented
like no-go sharia zones and nonsense like that, and look at how ridiculous this is. I've heard
for so long that white flight is racist, that as black people move into a community, white people
move out. That's racist. Here is white people moving into a black community. They're staying
with black people, and that's racist. So it all seems to be racist, all right? If you stay there,
and you resist the incoming waves of people that aren't like you, and you just stay in your
location, that's racist for not moving on, but it's also racist for moving on because it's white
flight, and if you move into a black neighborhood, it's gentrification. It's intruding upon their
space, but if you don't move into a black neighborhood, you think you're too good for them.
Everything is racist, it turns out, which is why if everything is racist, then nothing is,
and I certainly believe that some things are racist, so everything can't be racist,
and so these people just by default are ridiculous. That is the starting point for
this conversation. I saw this when I lived in Brooklyn in 2015, just up the block from my
cramped roach-packed apartment in a neighborhood long known as Sunset Park. The local grocer,
a neighborhood staple, has announced it was shuttering after 36 years. In the 70s and 80s,
the former owners would pay the mafia $500 a week to stay in operation,
but by 2015, the needs and desires of the hipster kind became too much.
The hipsters are more demanding than the mafia, my then girlfriend said at the time.
There's a difference here. There's an obvious difference. In fact, there's a few obvious
differences. One, why would you want to continue living in a cramped roach-packed apartment?
Why wouldn't you like that place to be fixed up a little bit? Two, the hipsters don't demand more
than the mafia. The mafia demanded $500 a week just to exist. The hipsters just didn't shop at
an old-style grocer. That's it. I also made a point in a previous video that a lot of these SJWs
equated white culture with success and black culture with stagnation. I remember saying that,
and I still kind of believe that. That's why you get black people who are successful. They're
called not black enough, or they're told that they act like whitey. Maybe this is it. Maybe
the fact that this person does not want their cramped roach-packed apartment to be fixed up
or replaced with a better apartment or something else is part of this. I understand not having much
but being proud of what you have, but you can't let that get in the way of improving your situation,
can you? I mean, if you do, you end up like America's black community, where for a long
time now they've stagnated and they've refused to improve because it's their culture, it's their
way of life, it's their thing, and acting in an objectively better way to them is acting white.
It's nonsense, and this article's nonsense. Check out this ending, though.
There is no immediate solution to the scourge of gentrification, mainly because we lived in a
rigged cor-corpocracy and an evil oligarchy. But maybe, just maybe, I said this in a previous
episode. If someone ever writes that phrase, instantly discount their opinion because they
don't fucking get it. And yeah, it turns out I was right. Diva was right all along. Enjoy your brunch.
I will. I will enjoy my brunch. Thank you. Thank you, Simon Moya Smith. Fuck you. So I saw this
picture floating around, and in it there's five new stories, but all quite old, in fact. They're
from between 2012 and 2017, but this picture is relatively new. And it kind of made me laugh. It's
as the story gets stupider, the Wojak also gets stupider. I love the retarded Wojaks.
There's the one with the guy whose head is a bicycle, or like a hamster wheel.
But I decided to look up these five stories and actually see what they were all about.
This is on aboutislam.net. Do you know that the U.S. liberty statue represented a Muslim woman?
Really? Early models of the statue were called Egypt carrying the light to Asia.
It was meant to be a female Egyptian peasant as a colossus of Rhodes for the industrial age.
You know, fair enough. You can kind of see the resemblance to the colossus of Rhodes, right?
However, the U.S. liberty statue does not represent a Muslim woman.
It was originally supposed to be a Muslim woman, but it is not one now. And I think that people
started pushing this story because it became politically relevant to do so. Maybe there's
a point to be made that the Statue of Liberty was originally planned to be a Muslim woman,
Egypt carrying the light to Asia. However, there is also a point to be made that it ended up not
being a Muslim woman. But let's check out the second article on this list here. Why kids love
fascist cartoons like Paw Patrol and Thomas? What what makes them fash? This has to be
this has to be a joke. It's not April 1st, but it has to be a joke. People like to see themselves
as purveyors of possibility. We want our children to inhabit a world in which identities are both
mutable and equal and imagination and empathy reign supreme. But children, as dictated by
their tastes in popular culture, have something else in mind. They're drawn to worlds in which
identities are fixed. Order trumps imagination and transgressions are met with routine punishment.
What? Is this is quite literally an old person complaining about what the kids today like?
This clash between what parents desire for their children and what children desire for themselves
is most easily observable in cartoon preferences. So often, the more parents like a show,
the more the children love it. Two of the most divisive shows are Thomas the Tank Engine and
Paw Patrol, both of which have been eviscerated by grownups and discussion boards.
Don't your kids understand the evisceration that grownups have given these shows on internet
discussion boards? Thomas, the long-running television franchise about a group of working
trains chugging away in the island of Sodor, has been called a pre-modern corporate totalitarian
dystopia in The New Yorker, imperialist and sinister and slate, and classist, sexist and
anti-environmentalist in The Guardian. And yet people, presumably parents, spend one billion
dollars on Thomas merchandise every year. Parents, how could you? How could you do this
to your kids? How could you do this to yourselves? But most importantly, how could you do this to
your journalist ruling betters? The New Yorker, Slate, and The Guardian have all told you what
you should be doing and thinking, and you have refused. You have refused to listen to them to
the tune of one billion dollars a year. How could you? Even Buzzfeed called the show terrible and
pointed to instances of gender and social inequality. How could you not understand?
Rage as we might, these shows are a source of comfort for our young children, whose id-driven
brains seek out the order, stability, and even punishment in their entertainment. You know,
order, stability, and sometimes even punishment are not negative things. I know for some reason
you hate the concept of order, but it is very important and not all order is fascist,
even though you slapped fascism into the title of this article. You haven't even brought fascism up
yet. Where is it? Where's the fascism? Hold on. So as it turns out, there's only three uses of
the word fascist in this article. One is in the top bar where the title is repeated. One is in
the title itself. And the third one is here. This woman has no qualms letting her four-year-old
watch Thomas, which is his favorite thing in the entire world. I think it's evolved a lot over the
years, which is why I don't really agree with the fascist label. But that seems to be it. That's the
only... is there anything like fascism? No. Is Nazi in here? No. Totalitarians in here once.
So the only thing that makes these cartoons fascist is that your peers have called them
fascist. This has to be the most worthless article I have ever presented on this show.
Let's check out the middle one though. Women's March expected to be the largest gathering of
people with disabilities in US history. Oh boy. Dude, she skipped leg day. Okay, that was a really
bad joke. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. What happens when a man who now has the keys to the
highest office openly mock people with disabilities? They fight back. Didn't the
Women's March fall apart? I've had a back burner video kind of brewing for a while about just the
beginning and end of the Women's March. Maybe I should do it sometime soon. And yeah, this article
seems to be nothing but just talking about how they didn't like that Trump did that whole hand
hitting his chest imitation of a disabled person. Which yeah, that was pretty rude. But it seems
like something a teenage boy would do, because it's something that many teenage boys, including
myself, did when we were teenagers. Or even when we were younger than that, even when we were 12
or something. If we wanted to make fun of one of the disabled kids in the special ed classes in the
school, we would do that. And I'm not saying it's good. I'm not saying it's proper. I wouldn't do it
in polite company. I probably wouldn't do it as an adult anymore. I was a dumb kid. And the fact that
Trump did it as an adult kind of makes him look stupid. But that's really it, isn't it? It doesn't
delegitimize him as president. It doesn't mean that his other speeches are all inherently bad.
It doesn't mean that his policies or the work that he's done is all bad. It just makes him
an insensitive asshole. And I don't think people elected him for him to be nice. We're going down
the list here. Americans who practice yoga contribute to white supremacy. You know, I've
seen this claim made before. I think I talked about it in one of the How Cucked Us Canada videos,
where there was a yoga class in Ottawa that was... People tried to shut it down because it was
run by white people. And they said it was cultural appropriation. And then they went to a temple
in Ottawa. And they said, hey, do you think that white people practicing yoga is cultural
appropriation? And they said, no, it's fine. It's happy that you guys are spreading and enjoying
our culture. Just like we're here in Canada and we're enjoying yours. Cultural appropriation has
always been dumb because cultures have always mingled. It's stupid. White people who do a
downward facing dog are contributing to a system of power, privilege, and oppression.
Yeah, I'm sure they are. Sharina Gandhi. Are you related to the actual Gandhi?
A religious studies professor at Michigan State claims in an article she recently co-authored
that Americans who practice yoga are contributing to white supremacy and promote the yoga
industrial complex. Yoga industrial complex? Are you fucking kidding me?
Okay, what's this article that she wrote? Hold on a minute. The Praxis Centre,
Arcus Centre for Social Justice Leadership. Yoga and the roots of cultural appropriation.
Hold on. Sharina Gandhi and Lily Wolf? These can't be their real names. They must have changed
their names to imitate influential figures. There's no way. Yoga's popularity was a direct
consequence of a larger system of cultural appropriation that capitalism engenders and
reifies. While the misappropriation of yoga may not be a life threatening racist,
it is part of systemic racism nonetheless. And it is important to ask what are the
impetuses for this cultural grabbing? Maybe it's because yoga is healthy and there are
people who want to be healthy and so they are willing in fact to go cross culture to gleam
bits of useful information and practices from multiple different cultures to create a healthy
lifestyle because no culture is perfect, obviously. Oh god. How to decolonize your yoga practice.
Okay, show me open democracy. How do I fucking decolonize my yoga practice?
I've gone down like a link hole it seems. This is basically just me link surfing on the show now.
Oh, 404 page number. We can't do it, can we? I guess we just can't decolonize yoga. Fuck you.
Racism, ahimsa, and yoga in the face of inequality. What would you know about a white girl?
Like, hold on. You're a white girl, aren't you? Oh, you might be mixed. You might be half white,
half Asian. I have to know. I have to know if you're a racist. I have to know.
Walnut Creek, California. Why am I not fucking surprised?
Oh, and it turns out that her progressivism has rewarded her with a Netflix show.
All about yoga. I wonder if you're part of the problem here. The final one appears to be
a picture of a TV with the headline PB&J sandwiches. Are they racist?
I couldn't find this specific clip, but I do have this. Peanut butter and jelly racist?
Portland School Principal. Of course it's fucking Portland. Ties sandwich to white privilege. This
is back from 2012, so it's pretty old, but still, it's fucking stupid, isn't it? And of course it
would be Portland. Portland 2012 is like the rest of the world 2019, it seems.
The sandwich has broader implications about race. No, it doesn't. It's a fucking sandwich.
The sandwich was reportedly mentioned in a lesson plan last year.
A teacher used it as an example of a subtle form of racism in language.
What about Somali or Hispanic students who might not eat sandwiches?
Another way would be to say Americans eat peanut butter and jelly. Do you have anything like that?
Let them tell you. Maybe they eat torta or pita. Who cares? This isn't a fucking buffet.
It's a cafeteria. Eat your sandwich. Bring your own lunch. Go somewhere else. Like,
imagine the fucking entitlement you have to have, the chip on your shoulder, to walk into
a cafeteria. Look at the selections and say, no, I want something else. You're going to make
me something else. And it's racist that you don't, and it's racist that you don't already
have alternatives to begin with. Fuck you. One refreshing thing about this article is
that because it was written in 2012, the part of the article that talks about regular people
on Twitter mocking the whole story is simply presented straight. It's not twisted in such a
way that your average Joe on Twitter is painted as a racist for not taking this deathly seriously
like it is in 2019. What's the verdict on grilled cheese? Racist? Sexist? All sandwiches are racist.
It's the name sandwich the poor tortas are discriminated against. Yeah, see, this sounds
like just shit posters, right? And in 2019, you would get a warning for this stuff. But in 2012,
it's all good fun. Let's go back, guys, please. Let's just go back. 2012 YouTube, 2012 Twitch.
It was just a better internet all around. That does it for me, guys. I know that it wasn't
necessarily up-to-date articles, but I think it was fun to have a little dive into the past there.
Thank you very much, JT Viper, for the coffee. It is quite delicious. Speaking of 2012 Twitch,
when I stream on my Twitch channel, twitch.tv slash game boomers, I basically treat it like
it's 2012. Whenever I do gaming content on the internet, I treat it like it's between
2009 and 2012. The modern golden age of video games. It wasn't quite as good as the actual
golden age like the Super Nintendo and 64 era, but it was still pretty good. The Wii PS3 360
generation was was quite a lot of fun in my opinion. I bring all that up because I am in fact
streaming tonight. It'll be me and three other friends piling onto a coach and playing Tales of
Vesperia, which surprise, surprise, I think is a 2011 era 360 JRPG that has been re-released
on the PS4 and like a high definition quality. And we've been making our way through the story
mode of that game as a four player group. So we'll be doing that tonight. Drop by, say hi,
I'd love to see you there. I'm actually still working on the 50,000 sub video. I know it's
been like a month, but I've kind of had, I've had something planned that I needed to wait for some
props to come in for. And so I will be able to get that out to you maybe in the next two weeks
or so. Of course, I'll try to keep on the daily videos as well. As for D and D Sargon says it's
up this this week on Wednesday. So let's hope guys. Anyway, I'm getting out of here. Hope to
see you guys at the stream tonight. I love you.
