Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the right opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and family channels, they still haven't won me over quite yet.
Whether it's the ACE family's exploitation of influencer status, the store for false
enchantment surrounding adoption, or their former facade of faithfulness, there is a
sense that the presence of cameras can corrupt one's perception of what a family means,
and the honesty and values that would typically be shared behind closed doors.
The only value that such channels will offer is as a guide to parents, and soon to be parents,
who want to be the best they can be, sometimes as a template on how to practice parenting,
and sometimes as a template on how not to.
You'd still be within your rights to ask the question whether this trade-off is worth
it for the broadcast of what is a very personal attachment during formative years, and if
it would actually be more effective to seek guidance from professionals in the field.
But if family channels are here to stay, let's hope they can provide some instruction for
the next generation of parents.
The truth is though that most channels in this genre are disinterested in serving that
purpose, they're more there to entertain audience members, and although some may try
to defend certain videos as edutainment, a lot of modern family channels just take a
rather generic formula of content creation and add children.
With that said, there are exceptions to this rule, couples and channels who do promote
navigating challenges within their families, and either provide advice or insight into
how certain issues are resolved.
Of course, there is no one-size-fits-all manual on how to properly parent, and over the past
century the brailing wisdom on how best to instill clear morals and values into the youth
of today has evolved significantly, alongside our own morals and values, with many families
from all over the world moving towards more moderate blueprints on discipline from within
the family.
This has received broad support from pediatric psychologists, although it's still been
met with some resistance from people who feel that the traditional model worked on a practical
basis for them, and therefore there's no reason for why they should deviate from it.
With the opportunity for families from all backgrounds to broadcast themselves online,
you are inevitably going to experience a wide pool of parenting techniques, some of which
may lean towards the more traditional methods that resonate with the cohort of the population.
At the same time, traditional parenting is a system that has needed to evolve as well,
particularly given how aspects of that system, including physical reprimand, is now widely
reviled and considered outdated.
It's uncertain therefore whether it's more fitting or ironic that one of the most progressive
places to video share has become a bastion for people promoting more traditional parenting
styles, especially with the common narrative that today's youth are out of control.
The truth is, though, that ultimately, regardless of what an expert might say, everyone is always
going to have their own ideas of how to do something, and without the constraints of
network approval or peer reviews, parents are free to share their own techniques on
YouTube.
But what does the modern form of traditional parenting look like?
Well, for a few years towards the end of the 2010s, one individual thought she had it down
to a T.
So let's head on down to the wonderful state of Utah, to a mother of six and content creator
by the name of Ruby Franky.
Ruby Franky was the matriarch of the 8 Passengers YouTube channel, a channel which documented
the rearing of her six children alongside her husband Kevin.
This channel was launched in 2015 at a time where family channels were experiencing a
lot of popularity on the video sharing platform.
Although not becoming an overnight sensation, she steadily accrued over 2 million subscribers
in the coming years, and found herself becoming a guiding light for many aspiring parents
on the subject of how to raise children.
Her techniques stem from a more traditional perspective that focused on punitive measures
to teach her family the importance of responsibility.
Her family were part of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also known as
the Mormon Church, and although she didn't necessarily sing from the rooftops about it
in her content, her faith clearly played an influential role in her life.
Nevertheless, she was also a modern parent in how she promoted these techniques and explained
her thought process, appearing more methodical and philosophical in her reflections on her
actions, which her fans appeared to create some degree of understanding and respect,
enshrining her as a millennial model for the traditionally minded mother.
In spite of this, as her channel amplified its reach, she began to draw criticism for
the treatment of her children, which often involved measures that many felt were extremely
disproportionate to their actions.
These measures often resulted in a deprivation of aspects to one's life that many would consider
quite basic, and would widely be criticised as having an outwardly detrimental effect
on their development.
In spite of this, she would defend her parental technique due to its results, those being
the perceived respect that her children demonstrated towards her in content and how it had seemingly
resolved behavioural issues and challenges.
Ultimately, from her and her husband's perspective, this style was conducive to a happy family,
something they promoted on their channel to millions of viewers.
If you wanted an operational family life, then this was the way, but what happens in
front of the cameras is only ever a fragment of the full story.
Yes, in the years that followed the spotlight being placed on her parental techniques from
content creators, Ruby Franky's life began to implode quite spectacularly, with a disintegration
of nearly everything that she knew, culminating in 2023 with the deletion of her remaining
YouTube channels, alongside her arrest and detention, the judge deeming what she was
accused of as too severe to even be granted bail.
It seems that Ruby Franky didn't just possess a parental style, she was possessed by something
far more sinister, and today we will be delving into that, and the consequences of those
actions.
I'll add that given the legal sensitivity and potential victimization of individuals,
certain figures will be having their identities censored in this video, that information is
not relevant to what I'll be discussing today regardless.
So fellow internet friends and fiends, I suggest we examine the online remains of Ruby Franky,
which is exactly what was really going on.
On her YouTube channel, Ruby Franky was a mother, first and foremost.
My house right now is a combination of smells of banana peel, wet diaper, and garbages that
There was a fair bit more to her than initially met the eye.
First of all, she was part of a significant vlogging syndicate with her wider family,
all of whom had started somewhat successful channels themselves.
Ruby had posted a couple videos onto YouTube over a decade ago, mostly grainy videos of
her playing piano pieces, and an interesting upload about Chick-fil-A.
There was some other content as well, but these were presented at the time as standalone
uploads.
In her description, she states that this is because she was already a happy mother of
four wonderful children.
Her sister Ellie had launched a couples channel with her husband Jared, in part to document
their struggle of overcoming infertility, which was well received at the time.
In the following years, each of the Franky siblings launched their own channels, Ruby
being the last to do so.
In spite of being the oldest and seemingly having a stable family life by this point,
in an interview she gave approximately a year after beginning to upload on the video sharing
platform, her rationale appeared to reflect a perspective that she wanted to live in the
moment, stating,
The channel therefore to her stood to serve as an archive of those happy family memories
and milestones, something that you definitely received the impression of by watching a sample
platter of her content.
Now given the deletion of the 8 Passengers YouTube channel, we don't have a full catalogue
of content available to us, but I selected a few videos that would hopefully give me
and yourselves, if you choose, an insight into the family dynamics.
On the one hand, it wasn't hard to see why the woman of the house had accrued a following.
You guys, this is like a landmark in our family.
Getting rid of the car seats is one.
It's huge.
Getting rid of car seats is huge.
We're not quite there yet.
We're still in booster seats.
We're out of diapers.
You guys, none of my kids had training wheels.
Having children all at different stages in their life allowed her to show the diversity
of experiences the raising them presented.
It allowed her to demonstrate her abilities to navigate situations, while addressing her
own shortcomings as a mother occasionally.
The channel page would provide this impression.
One popular series of videos advertised was the Sorry, Not Sorry, So Sorry, which accepted
that in a family where no one is perfect, they all have to learn to say those two words.
In content itself, Ruby's demeanour often presents itself as calm but also firm.
You wouldn't necessarily receive an idea of her parental style from just randomly clicking
on a video.
She wasn't loud, she wasn't necessarily aggressive, she was obviously involved as
parents went, but it didn't necessarily purport itself as overbearing.
With that said, Ruby still had a narrative that she appeared to craft using her content,
often making loaded statements to her children to seek agreement and validation from them,
though not always specifically asking how they truly felt.
I was talking to Daddy about you last night, and you know what we said?
What?
How much we are just amazed by you and your love of learning.
You do it because you love to learn, don't you?
It's not about grades for you, is it?
It's all about...
Sort of?
You enjoy it, I can tell, I'm very proud of you.
It's clear that she wanted herself and her children to be perceived a certain way by
the audience, perhaps as a reflection on her own parenting abilities, something that was
always prone to public scrutiny as a content creator.
In a world of far more avaricious channels who exploited drama and conflict, Eight Passengers
often avoided conflict by simply choosing not to focus on those parts of their lives.
The reason that Ruby Frankie's sentiments often flew under the radar is because it was
not the centerpiece of her content, many unassuming viewers simply would not notice anything unreasonable
about her demeanor a majority of the time, and she would often seek to avoid publicizing
that side of her completely.
She laid down boundaries regarding what the child would document, stating that certain
conversations would be dealt with off-camera.
What do you think about it?
Well, we'll discuss it when we get home.
I know, yeah, I saw the text.
It's not something I want to discuss on the vlog.
Why?
Because it involves behaviour, attitude, and consequences, which we don't tend to vlog very much.
These often related to possible emotional challenges and disciplinary measures.
Ruby made the active decision to often keep these potentially sensitive discussions off
the channel, for some that would be a reasonable decision as the presence of a video camera
could very easily influence how two people interact, however it also might prompt a discerning
audience member to wonder exactly what those conversations entailed.
The glimpses we did receive into Ruby's message definitely appear to lean into austerity.
One such measure that jumped out was when one of her daughters went through a manicure
kit, making a mess on the floor and carpet, before hiding under the bed, likely out of
embarrassment.
Although visibly bothered, Ruby doesn't seem enraged, nonetheless, her punishment
of denying her nail painting services to said daughter for the following month would definitely
strike some parents as quite strict, especially as Ruby says that it's her daughter's
favourite activity.
However, the daughter seems to accept this, and there's no apparent bad blood on camera.
You're still going to have the consequence of not having your nails done for a month.
Do you understand that?
Yes.
And I still, I still want to buy you one of the another rugs.
You still want to buy me a new rug?
Maybe you can do some extra chores to help with the money.
Um, Mom.
It's a deal.
Give me a hug.
Um, Mom.
It appeared that Ruby valued accountability and consequence.
She wanted to make sure that her children were aware of these tenets, and she wasn't
the only person who appreciated that.
Yes, despite launching her channel after those of her sisters, by 2020, 8 Passengers was
the most subscribed channel out of Frankie's entire family.
Ruby's tough love model of parenting had resonated with a variety of people, and although
the punishment may strike some as harsh, there often wasn't a great level of discourse
on it.
The truth was that 8 Passengers harvested a strong view count with established sponsors
for a majority of their lifespan.
Um, 999,999, and then it jumped straight to a million and 5, and then 6, by the time
I got to look down it was like a million and 10, oh my gosh.
In spite of their success though, come 2020, the family channel heyday had mostly passed,
with a lot of 8 Passengers content only receiving a few hundred thousand views per video.
If anything, they'd survived the viral stage of their career, and were moving into a more
perhaps low-key era, where they would be able to focus on holding on to the law of
viewership and perhaps experimenting a little with content.
However, there are certainly limits to that experimentation, and although setting down
boundaries for what was enforced on and off camera, Ruby Franky was about to be a bit
too frank with her audience.
How would that happen?
Well.
There's an unpredictability about parenting, there are many ways that one can prepare to
raise a child, and help support them to be the best versions of themselves.
At the same time, there are always factors that one cannot control, be them outside the
parenting sphere, or be them within the child themselves.
Some people are not blessed with balanced chemicals within the brain, and that can cultivate
conflict during their development.
In the Franky family, this appeared to be the most conspicuous with their oldest son,
who although appearing rather mild-mannered throughout much of their content, was reported
by Ruby and Kevin to be experiencing some issues, which resulted in a suspension.
This incident appears to be alluded to in the earlier clip that I showed, where Ruby
stated that she felt this was not a discussion for the camera, however approximately half
a year after his suspension, Ruby's oldest son vanished from content on the channel altogether,
and although I doubt anyone assumed the worst, some people likely did ask some questions.
These questions would be answered at the end of 2019, where the Frankys go into more detail
surrounding their attempts to set their son on the right path, explaining over sentimental
acoustic music that they had decided to send him to a corrective course.
We debated whether we should talk to the viewers about what's been going on.
We wanted to do the right thing, so we got a lot of opinions from a lot of adults.
Who did this corrective course entail, exactly?
Well, it's our old friend, the Wilderness Camp, to be particular, the Anasazi Wilderness
Camp in Mesa, Arizona.
Today has just entered the Anasazi Foundation wilderness therapy program, where he's going
to spend the next eight to ten weeks living in the Anasazi desert, the desert mountains
of Arizona.
Now, I've already spoken in part about the concerns surrounding wilderness therapy in
my Dr Phil video, but generally I'm not an enthusiastic advocate for that form of treatment.
With that said, Anasazi is not Turnabout Ranch, and there are many issues related to Turnabout
Ranch that were independent from the concerns relating to wilderness therapy as a whole.
Although Kevin and Ruby are more revealing than they may usually be in this video, they
also still refrain from indulging details regarding their son's behaviour, stating that
it's been an ongoing issue outside the channel.
It's an accumulation of things over years, well before we ever started YouTubing, or
well before we ever got into social media, and it's reached a point where he needs to
develop some very basic maturity and skills that he's going to need as an adult.
One can't help but wonder whether if this was a problem before the issue channel, then
they should have been addressed before setting up a media account on a public platform, but
if that's how they decide to go about it, then so be it.
Although this upload likely drew skepticism from individuals who felt these camps were
detrimental, the Frankie's had already made up their mind, and despite hesitancy to talk
about it at first, over the coming months they continue to report on their son's progress
favourably, pulling some of the highest view counts of the year for their channel.
Their son returns home to a fanfare from his family, and in the coming months is heralded
as a resounding success.
It seems that wilderness therapy had worked this time, and Ruby's son was on his way
to becoming an upstanding citizen of society.
The next half year passed without a major family incident, they moved house, and formed
a united family front during the first cold months of the coronavirus pandemic, even chronicling
their response to the 2020 Salt Lake City earthquake.
It was safe to say there wasn't a scarcity in subjects and experiences to cover.
At the same time, having all the children home at once was obviously a great responsibility
on anyone, and many of those youngsters who were used to actually going outside on a regular
basis found the restrictions to cause a great restlessness, and restlessness can beget acting
out, and in one video at the end of May entitled What We Haven't Told You, Ruby reveals that
while herself and her husband were away at a retreat, the rules they set regarding allocated
use of technology had been breached by two family members.
She was obviously not thrilled by this information, and decided to be more vocal than usual on
the punishment that she deemed appropriate for these shenanigans, stating that electronic
items in the house would be banned for the coming summer, though this doesn't really
have to do with what they didn't tell us, does it?
Well, let's reintroduce her oldest son, who Ruby encourages to share his own personal
experience with the punitive measures imposed by his mother, which included the confiscation
of his electronic items as well.
Ruby- Every day I would wake up around 5am, and I would go and do my daily thinking in
front of that safe full of all my electronics, like the Xbox, and the iPads, and all the
iPhones, and the laptops, and the TV remotes, you even locked up the TV remotes, because
you locked them up for the entire summer.
We assume that this refers back to his past behavioural issues, and although some would
deem it rather strict, some would still argue that many of these devices are not items they
were necessarily entitled to, he at least still had the opportunity to hang out with
his friends and socialise in other ways.
This was already more information than many viewers were privy to usually, but the video
then takes a stranger turn with Ruby herself as the parent asking her son if he thinks
that she should confiscate the TV.
He responds saying that he was under the impression that she was doing so already, with Ruby's
response to be accusing him of quote, telling stories.
Ruby- You think you're reading my mind, and I'm-
Ruby- That's a story?
Storytelling?
Okay, fine, then take away TV from me.
Is that what you would suggest?
Sure, unless it's like a family movie, because I see him all the time watching Netflix.
Her son eventually concedes and says that he thinks it's a good idea, and although I'm
in favour of more democracy, it seems a very intriguing time to shirk one's parental responsibility.
We then cut to her divulging more information about how she confiscated her daughter's
phone, and what those punishments represented to her as a parent.
So, in our house, we, when we take something away, it's because they have shown that they
are not responsible enough to manage it.
Although none of her diatribe felt completely unfathomable, her narratives were beginning
to feel a little defensive and unnecessary, with strange rules that I'm not even sure
anyone knew existed until this video.
It has to be consistent over a minimum, minimum of six months, and that-
One of the consequences is she will not be getting her nails painted for a solid month.
It was clear that this conversation was moving into new territory, but few could have been
prepared for the bombshell that was about to be dropped.
I don't think our viewers know that.
Not even Ruby.
Up to this point, you could easily question Ruby's disciplinary decisions,
but there was no catalyst for the sort of public attention that such methods could draw.
However, when discussing this six-month rule, her oldest son reveals that he had been without
a bed for a full seven months.
My bedroom was taken away for seven months, and then you give it back like a couple weeks ago.
I've been sleeping on a beanbag.
I've been sleeping on a beanbag since October, and they gave me my broom back like two weeks ago.
What was the reason for this?
That I woke up at two in the morning and told him that we're going to Disneyland and he
has to pack, and he got up and made his bed all neatly and then packed all his clothes
in the suitcase, and then he walked out the door and he's like, why?
And he's all happy, has his sunglasses on, and I was like, we're not going to Disneyland.
Well, it appears that the oldest son played a prank on his younger brother,
waking up at an ungodly hour and telling him that they were going to Disneyland, when in fact,
they were not.
This inevitably led to a lot of disappointment, and does seem like a rather cruel joke.
Ruby clarifies, though, that this was not the only issue, more so a final straw as he admits
he had been tormenting his sibling in other ways as well,
including on the day that he came back from wilderness therapy.
Ruby- When he began at his face and hung him on the basketball.
Ruby- Basically, basically...
Ruby- The day I got home, too.
However, although you could argue that demonstrated a potential issue in sharing a bedroom with a
sibling, few could see how forcing the son to sleep on a beanbag for seven months was a
just and proportionate punishment for such hijinks.
If you believe that two people can't share a bedroom between them,
then you need to take adequate measures to ensure that each party at least has a bed available.
Ruby's point isn't aided when it's revealed that since moving house,
they've actually had a whole bedroom available,
they just didn't allow their son to move into it due to the past incidents.
Outside of these details, Ruby's own response was somewhat indicative as well,
forcing out a nervous chuckle while observing that this was new information to the audience.
It would be easy to cut the recording here and edit out this discussion,
like I'm sure she had many times before.
But after her son had explained the predicament,
she decides that actually there was a point to be made.
What would her explanation be?
Ruby- Showed that he was not able to manage himself sharing a bedroom with...
Chad- So when we moved, um, the bigger room in the basement was automatically his,
and I didn't have a room.
Ruby- So a lot of you are like, hey, that's not fair because got the bigger,
the lesser bedroom and got the bigger bedroom.
Chad- The smaller bedroom.
Ruby- Got the big bedroom and got the smaller bedroom and the bigger bedroom also had a bathroom.
But what you guys didn't know was you didn't get any room.
Well, honestly, not really much.
Once again, it seems more like a problem of coexistence rather than a problem of having
a bedroom. In a way, sometimes giving people a private space would be more helpful than
depriving them of it.
Although it feels like none of those in the video feel the punishment was proportionate,
even spending a fair amount of time laughing about the incidents, they still accept it.
The video only becomes more depressing by the minute, with both the kids she was filming
with stating that they have no friends at all, so they can't even hang out with them
for the summer.
Although Ruby expresses some form of sympathy, she doesn't seem particularly motivated to
do much about it, more just thinking about how it's perceived by the viewers.
Ruby- You can play with friends.
Chad- No, like I don't have friends.
Ruby- I don't have friends either.
Chad- I literally like told my friends I'm not hanging out with them anymore.
Ruby- See, because they're-
Chad- They say some pretty messed up stuff.
Ruby- How do you feel about not having any friends?
Chad- Sucks, but I don't feel safe or accepted in any friend group, so.
Ruby- That's really vulnerable of you to say that on camera, because you don't have to
film that.
No Ruby, you do not have to film that.
And yet, you did.
Still amongst this all, Ruby takes the time to make sure everyone knows how hard it's
been on her, though I'm not sure her son was completely buying it.
Look, when you make these choices with your family to take things away as a parent, you
really do want them to have these things, and it's been so, so, so difficult to take
a phone away, to take a bedroom away, to take iPads away, to take access away.
Like, it hurts me just as much as it hurts my kids.
Although the video finishes on a somewhat lighter note with Ruby finding some middle
ground with her younger son, people had already seen enough and began to call her out for
depriving her son of a bedroom and a bed.
This began on social media, with some using the clip and letting Ruby and Kevin know that
they were not happy, that Frankie seemed to be aware of this negative response because
the video was deleted within the first couple days following upload.
However, as people began to re-upload it and comments were able to be left below, it became
clear how many were not simply going to let this slide, with content creators soon providing
their input as well.
The video is titled, What We Haven't Told You, and in this video, her eldest son details
that he has not been sleeping in a bed, let alone a bedroom, in the past seven months.
But I just feel like as a punishment for pranking his brother should have just been like him
hanging out with his brother more, but, you know, this is an extreme form of parenting
here.
When a clip like this goes viral, many look towards the rest of a creator's body of content
to see if there were any other incidents that could signify a clear pattern of behaviour,
and like clockwork they did, with many netizens unearthing older video excerpts where they
felt she had gone too far in her parental approach.
Outside of publishing very revealing details and moments that many felt breached their
individual privacy, clips of her disciplinary measures included threatening to forfeit her
son's dinners if they continued play fighting, even though it was quite apparent it was in
jest, refusing to supply her six-year-old daughter with any additional sustenance after
she forgot to make herself lunch, threatening to behead her daughter's fluffy toy as she
continued to act out with these scissors, and this one where she's in her best Miranda
Sings cosplay.
Those few clips in particular picked up traction because they just seemed unnecessarily harsh
without any real motive.
People forget things, people muck around, especially when they're young, Ruby was and
is no exception, and to preach that a six-year-old needs to go hungry or else she won't learn
to make her own lunch is just an unreasonably cynical perspective, especially given that
as far as we know it was the first time that this had occurred.
When you put all of the incriminating clips together, they create a pretty damning portrait
of the sort of household that Ruby Franky was operating, and many felt at that point
she was already unfit to be a parent, with an individual launching a change.org petition
to have CPS investigate the parents, and to ensure the safety of all those involved.
This was escalating very quickly, with many clips painting the parents in a very unflattering
light, however there were always two sides to the story, and the Frankys were gearing
up to present their own.
What would they say?
Ruby Franky-"I'm going to do a video and post it tomorrow, but I think I'm just gonna do it right now."
As noted, in spite of their content not exactly inviting people to make their voices heard,
the Frankys were extremely sensitive to audience response, and removed their upload nearly as soon
as they began to sense negative feedback, very shortly after Ruby took to Instagram Stories
to address the criticism directed at her.
Ruby Franky-"I'm going to, um, I'm gonna post tomorrow. I don't normally post on Saturdays,
and I would love to validate all of your anger, and to let you know that I hear you,
and I understand why you're upset."
The first clip onto her Instagram acknowledges the feedback, and commits to responding the
following day. It's slightly hard to interpret how she feels about it, although she is vocal
in stating that the people expressing their concern are heard. Her tone is marked by an
undercurrent of disdain, particularly when referencing people who have sent her messages,
many of which she claims are supportive.
Ruby Franky-"It's always so interesting when things go black and white.
Not everything goes black and white, but every once in a while there's a post where
you either really hate what you've heard, and that's usually what fills up in the comments,
and then it's in the DMs where people don't want to be attacked for giving support,
which I totally get, but I've gotten a lot of support in the DMs, so for that, I thank you."
However, six hours later, with the situation clearly ballooning online, Ruby changed her
mind and decides to tackle it once more on her Instagram story, appearing in the car with her
husband Kevin, for a ten minute statement which explains the rationale behind her controversial
upload. Ruby Franky-"I didn't anticipate all the upset, however, listening to all of your comments
and your feedback and your feelings around things, it totally makes sense to me why you're
angry and why you're upset." She explains that she was surprised that the son has spoken about all
the quote outcomes of his behaviour, and had repeatedly reassured him that she was happy to
cut it from the upload, an offer which her son declined, stating that this should be uploaded.
However, in hindsight, she can see why the content was upsetting for certain viewers.
This is where Kevin chimes in, expressing sympathy towards the viewer's perspective,
but also going into detail about their son's background, and why they felt,
after consultation with professionals, the sanction imposed on their son was justified.
Kevin-"Long before we started YouTube, there were a lot of behavioural and emotional challenges that
we were dealing with with our kids, and we've been consulting with mental health and emotional
health professionals for years. And the things that we show and share, and the things that
many of you are criticizing and calling abusive, are actually things that mental health professionals
have counseled us to do." There are pudiate claims that this sort of treatment could ever be labelled
as abuse, with Ruby stating that although she would agree that parents who deprived their
children of beds could be classified as such, she hasn't done this for fun, from her perspective,
this was a warranted forfeiture, and that was something that had also been enforced at the
Anasazi camp. This was all in line with her parenting style, and she wasn't fazed by the
accusations as she'd experienced them before, and considers those accusing her this time as
uninformed as any of those prior detractors. Ruby-"We got accused of child abuse when we sent
to Anasazi. Guess what? The first thing that they did was take a bed away. They don't have beds,
so slept on the hard ground for months, and it's, you know, it's run by psychologists and therapists,
and if not having a bed was psychologically damaging, then they wouldn't have suggested that."
She states that the bottom line is this is how they parent. They receive a lot of comments
wondering how their children are so well behaved, and the results are there on the YouTube channel
for anyone to actually see. Kevin and Ruby then accuse many of those criticizing them for
projecting their own experiences onto them. Ruby-"And so if you are triggered, and you're upset
because of something Kevin and I have done with our children that is actually working really well
for us, then I would invite you to look at it and ask yourself what is it that I'm projecting
onto this situation, because you would be upset, and you would be angry if I was your mom doing
this to you." The next five minutes are a mix of dollar store psychoanalysis of those attacking
them, and a variety of further disorganized thoughts on the matter. I don't really have
too much to add here, it should be clear by now that their line of response was to acknowledge
those who may be concerned, and attempt to show that they were listening, but also dismiss
accusations implying that people were not adequately informed or familiar with the relevant
context to actually appreciate these methods of parenting. This response was not received well,
with many feeling that the Frankies were trying to shift the responsibility of interpreting the
situation onto anyone but themselves. Paired with the unravelling allegations regarding other clips
they had posted on their channel, they decided to continue uploading content while ignoring
the criticism. One of their next uploads though was announcing their son's new room,
this was to be expected as they had done this before for other siblings, but it wasn't really
a good time to post this, and although people couldn't voice their thoughts as the comments
were turned off, the like to dislike ratio reflected a still present eye towards the
embattled family channel. However, in spite of the criticism, no platform seemed inclined to act in
the moment, the petition ultimately went nowhere, and although it was reported they had received a
visit from CPS, this case was also closed pretty quickly. In the weeks after granting their son a
new bedroom, and with the storm clouds on their way out, the Frankies began to fight back finally,
firstly issuing cease and desist letters to many YouTubers who had in their opinion posted
defamatory content. Further this, they issued one more response to the media website, Insider,
though not entirely unopposed, the title framing these YouTubers as speaking out is certainly an
interesting choice. The article briefly recapped the situation before going over the perspective
of how many felt this punishment was harsh, and even drafting in multiple psychological experts
to explain how harsh punishments affect the mental development of youngsters, even having one explain
why seizing a bed would be extremely upsetting, seemingly setting up some quite strong criticism
of the Frankies. They respond however by stating that they actually never chose to forfeit their
son a bed, they gave him a choice on the matter, and that he was offered a guest bed and an
inflatable mattress as well, they were just separating the siblings as recommended by their
own psychologists. Ruby insists that they are teaching their children to be self-governing,
and that their son chose the bean bag because it was the most comfortable to him, and in spite of
her previously stated six-month rule, her son could have actually had the new bedroom at any
point his behaviour changed, it just happened to take seven months for him to make that choice.
And so we don't just turn around and give it back as soon as they start acting good.
It has to be consistent.
It has to be consistent over a minimum of six months, and that's showing up consistent in
every aspect of their life.
This response doesn't appear any more honest than the others, as a matter of fact there are many
details that don't seem to add up at all or line up to her previous narratives, even ones spoken
about in previous videos. The Frankies conclude by stating that the story is his to tell if he
chooses to, and with that they draw a line under the situation and all points of view surrounding
it. They say that they are proud of how their kids have handled it, and there are passionate
defences of their parents, including their daughter who posted on her Instagram in a message
which doesn't sound remotely like anything her elders would say, and the son in a wonderful
place right now, with a good group of friends and a healthy outlook on life where he holds high
standards and high boundaries. It seems that this challenge had only made their bond as a family
stronger, there was nothing that these malicious online trolls could say which could ever hold them
back, was there?
In the insider interview, the Frankies also provide their input on one more clip, the one where
Ruby refuses to give her daughter lunch after she had forgotten it.
Ruby- And hopefully, hopefully nobody gives her food and nobody steps in and gives her a lunch.
Once again they state there is missing context, and in fact Ruby had a lot of sympathy, but ultimately
they were so near the end of the day and that it was a one and a half hour round trip etc etc etc,
and maybe there is the distant possibility that this is true, but it's just not how it came across.
Ruby- She was responsible for making her lunches in the morning and she actually told me she did
pack a lunch, so the natural outcome is she's just going to need to be hungry,
and hopefully, hopefully nobody gives her food and nobody steps in and gives her a lunch.
There almost certainly is missing context because it's a clip from a YouTube video,
but this additional context provided by the parents doesn't really undermine the simple
observation that you sat in the car and chose to say that you hope nobody gives her food to
teach her a lesson. The Frankies' responses in the article appear to attempt to present their
parental style in a different light than their own content does, and given that they're the
ones who choose to upload those videos in the first place, it wasn't particularly convincing
as backtracking goes. If any of the people who advocate over this style of parenting read these
articles, they probably would have found it weak, and many of her critics were still not convinced.
On one hand, by the end of June 2020, the outrage over their parental conduct had mostly passed,
and a large majority of the Frankies' critics were not necessarily followers of the Eight
Passengers YouTube channel, so their investment or lack of shouldn't have influenced the ability
to upload successful content. Nevertheless, the family responses hadn't really instilled
confidence in viewers either. For people who had casually viewed her content and not necessarily
noticed these parental strategies until they were pointed out, Ruby and Kevin's responses weren't
convincing. The simple fact was that whether a psychologist recommended that her two sons
be separated doesn't negate the information they still actively chose to leave an available
bedroom empty after moving house, something that I do wonder how psychologists would feel about.
However, if you were a fan of the Eight Passengers YouTube channel and actually found their parental
style to be appealing to you, you probably don't like their moving the goalposts either,
because it seems to imply that they've actually been leaving information out of their videos
to make their parental style look stricter than it is, which for a YouTube channel that
occasionally presents themselves as an authority on parenting is a betrayal of sorts.
Austin! What are you... What are you... What's going through your head?
Oh my god!
A lot of family channels on YouTube managed to maintain an audience despite being pretty awful
because they don't necessarily set up the pretense that they possess any actual wisdom on parenting.
As I said at the start, people watch them for entertainment, and therefore when they publish
controversial or provocative content, their core viewership isn't necessarily switched off by it,
even if others do call them out. With the Eight Passengers channel, Ruby always attempted to find
some form of moral foundation to underpin the content with, to turn around and say,
well that isn't the entire story, even if it's in the form of defending yourself is going to
disillusion at least some of those who had formerly found value in what you created. The truth was
that although the anger from external sources had mostly passed, there was a degree of distrust that
lingered amongst viewership. When the situation initially broke, Eight Passengers lost a fair few
subscribers, and if they successfully vindicated themselves amongst those viewers, they would have
returned. A check of Social Blade would tell you that that did not happen, as a matter of fact,
quite the opposite. I can't believe this is how freeze-dried gummy bears look. I feel like I did
something wrong. Look at this, those are really good. Those are really good. Eight Passengers
continued to upload over the remainder of 2020, and for the extent of 2021 as well. Not too much
was said about them online, and going over their content in this time, it was noticeably milder,
with nearly a complete avoidance of confrontation altogether. It was very apparent that their brush
with their critics had steered them completely clear of addressing disciplinary issues in their
family, and they wanted to rebuild their image, although they were integrating some more curious
language. I don't know how to write a book, and then when I wrote the book, I learned new things,
and I went back and I saw all of the distortion that was in my first book, and I thought,
this can't be right. Interesting way to use the word distortion, but
I digress. Obviously, people still felt the way they did, but even amongst declining viewership,
the words of what they said at the end of the Insider article still rang true. What mattered
is that they were a healthy, happy family first, and although they had been shaken by the drama,
they must have seen the bright side of it, right? Well, there was one more article published in the
aftermath of their run-in with the internet. Published by The Ramp, this think piece once
more reflects where the Ruby and Kevin's own punishment was justified for how they were
portrayed. I don't really care too much for what The Ramp says in this article, but it certainly
provides an interesting insight into where the Frankie's were now. Over a year on, still
ruined the legacy of a situation that lasted a couple weeks, talking about the mob and the
sponsors they lost due to it. There's a real element of despondency in the tone of the Frankie's
throughout the article, they have not moved on. Despite being a channel with approximately 1
billion views from content, an extensive catalogue that many people frequently return to, despite
surviving the slew of criticism and still scoring at least 100,000 views a day on most days,
it was not enough. As a family channel, what you're providing is, in essence, a slice of life
content, you're documenting things that in many households would occur naturally. This doesn't
mean that YouTube is any less of a job for those people, but there's a purported sincerity that
this is what you love, and you would still do it the same way even if the cameras were off.
Ruby's husband, Kevin, still had a well-paying job as far as we knew, the YouTube channel was
a wonderful bonus, and in videos, Ruby didn't present it any other way.
Cooking in the kitchen when my kids were little was not very fun. I hated it because it was always
messier and it took longer than it really needed to, but what we really like to do now is cook
together, we're constantly making food together. I think we pretty much live in this room constantly.
I'm going to be blunt here, but there was something about how they speak in this interview
which provides the impression that they care more about the content than they do their own family.
The fact of the matter is that both sides had the chance to present their perspectives,
and as Ruby and Kevin noted themselves, most of these critics were not frequent viewers of
the channel. Unfortunately, their response wasn't convincing enough for some who were,
and they couldn't recoup that, and in spite of the fact that they still actually retained a lot,
they felt more comfortable lamenting what they could've had, rather than what was in front of
them. They still had their family, right? Well. There's often justified reason to question the
authenticity of YouTube couples. When you build a life around that, there's a pressure that you
must stay together for your image, for their perception of you. When that becomes intertwined
with your business, it can cause a lot of complications. I'd say the same could be said
about family channels. By this point, it was apparent that people weren't receiving the full
picture of what was truly going on inside the Frankie household. Although they had since mostly
avoided discussing discipline on their channel, they still defended their actions when asked,
which to many would imply that this reality they were creating for the camera was more manufactured
than ever. Their statements to the rap reinforced this, if you're not happy with the channel where
you post your life, the memories of you and your family, then how can you truly be happy with that
life either? And at the start of 2022, the 8 Passengers YouTube channel posted its last video
before falling inactive. Maybe they'd finally realised how detrimental this environment was
to those they loved, and took steps to remove themselves from that so they could heal properly,
or maybe they were just investing their energy into something else. So with that in mind,
let's introduce a supporting character to this lovely tale.
If you're like me, you've had pain in your life. It could be from a divorce, work conflicts,
relationship issues with children, grandchildren, spouse anxiety, depression, or fear that you don't
understand, feelings that you're not enough, or that you're unlovable. Connections is the solution.
This is Jodie Hildebrandt. She is a founder of self-help company Connections. With over two decades
experience in the psychotherapy world, at a passing glance she may not strike you as anyone
out of the ordinary. However, her background does deviate a little from that of the usual therapist.
She completed a graduate work in educational psychology, and registered as a licensed counselor
in Utah with Cirque Lodge, a rehabilitation clinic for people struggling with addiction.
However, she left the profession not too long after joining, expressing dissolution of the
welfare of her patients. In her own words, they were not healing. So she decided to set up her
own organization, with a goal to empower people, helping patients harness the truth, and avoiding
the treacherous distortions that manifest themselves in our lives. This assistance takes
the form of paid courses that you can access online or in person. Although in many ways it
doesn't appear the most threatening, there is certainly a language choice that would strike
readers as somewhat cultish, and further reading wouldn't inspire too much hope either. Hildebrandt
herself had been subject to a period of probation in 2012 after breaching patient confidentiality
multiple times by revealing information about her patients to other counselors, church clergy,
and even a local university, all of which without their consent. Although she successfully regained
her license and resumed her practice, when you pair it with her present-day ventures, you wouldn't be
wrong to exercise some caution. Nevertheless, that didn't stop people from signing up.
A couple of those people being Kevin and Ruby Frankie. Kevin- And some of these parenting-isms, these
cultural-isms that have contaminated parenting are things like beliefs that, it's my job to make
my kids happy. Hildebrandt- Give them a magical childhood. Kevin- It's my job to give my child
a magical childhood. It's my job to make my children smile and laugh. It's my job to make
my children successful. It's my job to prevent my children from having pain, right? All of these,
they all come from the same place, and it all comes from this belief, this distorted belief,
that I can measure my worth as an individual by how I parent. The Frankie family's first public
association with connections came via announcement on their Instagram page, where they were proclaimed
as panel members at an upcoming couples conference. However, one can assume that they were
likely involved in the business before then, especially given that they had previously
traveled to Europe with Paige Hanna, another creator who was previously affiliated with the
business. They appeared to have started counseling towards the end of 2020 due to videos posted on
connections' Facebook accounts. In spite of this, it seems that the controversy is what pushed them
to be more vocally involved, possibly seeking reinforcement for their own beliefs, and in the
coming couple years they were featured more and more promptly on the website and accompanying
social media, with a favor even being returned on the 8 Passengers YouTube channel. Hildebrandt- One
resource that I really like for mental health is connectionsclassroom.com. I will have the
connections classroom website down in the description box below, and you can also follow
them on Instagram over at connections coaching. Ruby in particular seemed to be devoting significant
portions of her personal time to associating with connections, and with the YouTube channel firmly
in the rearview mirror, she began to take this venture rather seriously, if not a little too
seriously. The first casualty of her new commitment was the 8 Passengers Instagram account. In the past,
this had been a supplement to the YouTube channel, where she had shared many of her fondest memories,
but on the 28th of June a new post was uploaded, a series of images overloaded with circles,
underlining, and various words capitalized, alongside a text post rambling about what the
principles are. Next to a litany of hashtags at the bottom were the messages of honesty,
responsibility, and humility, words we'd seen before, but this time it was Ruby Frankie who
was promulgating them. Around this time the 8 Passengers Instagram account rebranded to
Moms of Truth, with it becoming an account dedicated to Jodie and Ruby's thoughts
and teachings. It was almost somewhat scary how disposable all the previous
family content was to her, but she had clearly found a new calling.
Truth is love. Truth creates. Truth gives inspiration. Distortion deceives. Distortion
destroys. Distortion attacks. Distortion looks for proof. Distortion points the finger. Distortion
blames. In the following months, the post did not let up, with Ruby using this platform to promote
various pieces of doctrine. Although it received positive feedback from supporters, many followers
of the previous 8 Passengers Instagram account seemed confused, and even concerned about the
language she was using in these video posts, utilizing anecdotes and analogies to speak
very cryptically about parenting. Truth is not aggressive. Truth stands alone. Truth doesn't
need to be proved. Truth just is. It's like the sun, the sun doesn't have to get allies to come
around it and give it validation that it exists. It just exists. It doesn't need anybody to point
it out. It's just there. It seems, though, that this wasn't just having a negative effect on her
public presence. Towards the end of Summer 2022, rumours began to circulate that Ruby was no longer
living with her husband Kevin, and that although there was no official divorce, there wasn't any
apparent intent to re-establish contact. Word was that further this, it was reported that their
oldest son had also moved out of the family house, possibly staying with their father. It also began
to spread that Ruby's oldest daughter was no longer in contact with the family either, and
towards the end of September, she took to Instagram to respond to these rumours, stating that although
it was true that she was no longer in contact with those formerly close to her, and that she had
denounced the teachings and connections, many of the rumours were also unhelpful, and that she
would appreciate some privacy on the matter going forward. With the 8 Passengers YouTube channel
being brought to an end, you wouldn't be amiss to think that it could have provided an opportunity
to finally cut away from the superficiality that such a platform constrains YouTube, and back to
being that devoted parent. The cessation of uploads meant that Ruby no longer had a commitment to the
image she portrayed on said YouTube channel. However, it seems that image was actually more
charitable than reality, and now that she was unshackled, she was falling into a dangerous
spiral towards a fanatical belief system that sought to justify her parenting. If Ruby's
social media has told us anything, it was never about her family.
Intro
The problem when you're being pulled into an organisation like the one Jodie Hildebrandt
was operating is that you often don't realise that it's happening. Even if Ruby Franky was
never someone you wanted to run into, prior to the renovation of her Instagram account,
she still possessed some characteristics that could be identified with her. In these videos,
though, her only real personality was spreading the message of connections and applying it to
her own life. It should have been clear that this was a person deeply unwell. Nevertheless,
although many had now vocally expressed their concern, even likely many of those close to Ruby,
one of the scariest factors of cult mentality is that explicative dissonance, that you can just
dismiss someone by stating they're too ignorant to understand, and I have no doubt that's why
the Franky mother continued down this path without any outward trepidation or apprehension.
Her language was filled with a plethora of buzzwords that wouldn't really make sense in
regular conversation, but obviously held meaning within connections, and although most of the
online crowd rejected these doctrines, one person continued to reward Ruby's loyalty.
Jodie, who towards the end of 2022 invited Ruby onto her connections podcast and YouTube channel,
and appointed her to the business team and acclaimed her as a certified mental fitness
trainer. Certified by who? Well, we don't know, but I'm sure it only further emboldened Ruby's
image of herself as a missionary for this message in her mind. Perhaps this made little sense given
Ruby's staunchly religious upbringing, but although there were mentions of God and Christianity
in Connections writings, it mostly seems like a pseudo-scientific approach to supporting certain
conservative religious values. It seems that everyone who was in proximity of Ruby was
escaping as quickly as they could, but what about the people who couldn't?
If your kid came to you on fire, would you say, I'm so glad you trusted me to tell me you're on
fire, that if I put out the fire that's gonna really hurt and you're gonna end up with scabs
anyway, so I'm just gonna love you where you are right now? No! You throw them on the ground and
you start rolling them, you get a blanket and you start hitting the flames, and they're gonna say,
you're hurting me, you're beating me, you're controlling us, like, no dear, hold still,
I'm getting the fire out. That's what a loving parent does, because nobody will do it, it looks
to the world crazy. Her Moms of Truth account, although being a rather transparent advocacy
platform for the Connections way of life, also revolved around topics of parenting, hence the
Moms part of the account name. By now, people already had an idea of her parental methods,
but with more of these videos in the posts, it began to dawn on people that Ruby's opinions
were becoming even more extreme and aberrant. Ruby- What in the world? Yes, yes, sleepovers
are distorted. She wouldn't let her children sleep over at a friend's house, she doesn't like laid
back children or angry people, she and Jodie just get really annoyed at a meme for some reason,
and you also shouldn't be doing your nails out of insecurity, I guess. Ruby- I'm going to go out and
do my nails per se, there's nothing inherently inappropriate or distorted about doing your nails,
however, if I go and do my nails because I'm feeling ugly or I'm wanting to have some social
activity with somebody and I don't have any of my friends around and so I want to go engage with
the people at the nail salon because I want to distract myself because my life is not comfortable,
then those would be motives that would not be responsible. Ultimately though, I think what is
most concerning is the sort of morals that underscore this content, particularly from a
parenting perspective. Really, living in truth is just connections jargon for having an extreme
level of control in one's life. Everything you do is a choice, from every action to the expression
of every emotion, and you're more than what you feel, etc. It's not an inherently dangerous point
of view when presented under that image, and it's never a bad idea to try and encourage people
towards a state where they can channel their feelings more productively. At the same time,
this is a dangerous manifestation of it, and it promotes the ideal person through a very
homogenous lens, which is why Ruby and Jodie waste no time getting to micromanaging the motives
behind doing your nails. Those sorts of behaviours must be stamped out, and that's a particularly
detrimental point of view for one demographic, children.
Ruby- You, the mom, are not responsible to make school fun and entertaining.
Jodie- Whaaaat? Ruby- Yeah, you're not.
Guess what, if your child finds homeschool boring, that's because he chose to be bored.
That's because she chose to have a perception of needing to be entertained. It's a form of entitlement.
I don't need to explain the psychology behind why younger people may struggle
over controlling their emotions and their actions more than older people.
Misbehaviour is an inevitability, and what matters is that the lesson is learned.
The philosophy of connections, though, wants a mould, and a person to fit very tightly inside
that mould. Ruby Frankly was always a person who leaned towards more punitive parenting to
teach her children those messages, she saw as her duty to enact the consequences of those actions.
Yet with an ever narrowing view on what was even represented by good behaviour, her parenting style
was appearing more and more unhinged, with her continuing to promote these methods in her podcasts
and live videos, stating that she cared more about the pursuit of principles than her own children.
It would lead some to be quite concerned about the safety of a family in the care of this person
who seems to think that she has free reign to act as she wishes. After all, she is in truth,
and you are in distortion, something that she seemed to embrace when
emotionally reflecting on her decision to discontinue the 8 Passengers YouTube series.
You wonder why I left YouTube? It's to save my kids. No amount of money.
And I'm telling you, I was making millions, and I left it, because my kids were being
hurt with entitlement, they were being hurt with people's advice, and they didn't have a mother up
the front saying, I don't care what the world's opinion is, this is the truth, and this is where
I stand. And fortunately, I had a chance, I had them in my home long enough to do it,
and I'm not going to lose them. Normally, this would be a very good decision. I think most of
her critics agree that she should not have been sharing aspects of her family's life on the
YouTube channel, and it wouldn't be healthy for a marriage. But without any record on how she was
treating the children now, people are actually growing more concerned, especially how she spoke
about parenting in these clips. She seemed to not just be promoting traditional values,
but obsessive, overbearing, and restrictive ideas with the expectation that her children
will just turn around and say thank you. They're trying to hold you hostage, saying you need to
give me privacy, you need to honor my boundaries, you need to honor my feelings, you don't care
about me, you're invading my space, those are my personal feelings. No. In this home, you don't get
personal space, because this is my space, because I'm the parent. If you want your own personal
space, you'll need to get your own space. This is mine. And as long as you're living in my home,
it is my job to know everything about you. In 2023, these concerns were not eased,
and more TikTok accounts and media outlets began to pick up on her downward spiral, even referring
to older clips which had come under scrutiny in the past, but Ruby persisted. She was also still
distant from her husband, with many wondering if divorce would be the final outcome, but Ruby
persisted. Her relationships with her family weren't appearing to improve either, and one of the
strongest slights of all, her oldest daughter celebrated her 20th birthday at her sister Bonnie's,
with them celebrating in a video that was uploaded to their YouTube channel, but Ruby persisted.
So, Jodi and I have each shared an example from our own lives of what real love looks like,
which isn't what the world thinks is love. They'd push back and say, whoa, that's mean,
you're not going to be loved, your children are going to kick you out of their lives. Anytime
that you make a decision, and in the back of your mind you have, well, I want them to take care of
me in my old age, that's not love. That's not love. There was no circumstance under which her style
of parenting could possibly be wrong, and although she may have been a neglectful,
selfish parent in the past, this time she was going to get it right, by being a part of every
one of her remaining children's lives. She had to show them the way of truth, and lead them out
of distortion, towards those principles of honesty, responsibility, and humility.
Police say this is the house a young child escaped from, and went to a neighbor's house,
asking for food and water.
Yeah.
Music
On August the 30th of 2023, the police were called to the household of a concerned civilian
in Ivins, Utah, to follow up on reports of a juvenile in need of help. This individual was
described as malnourished with duct tape on the extremities, a condition so severe that the
authorities decided they would require hospital treatment. The evidence led officers to a nearby
home where they found another youngster in a similar condition, and transported them to a
hospital as well, with the remaining children in place under the care of the Department of
Child and Family Services. Following further investigation into this incident, two arrests
were made, Jody Hildebrandt, and Ruby Franke.
Music
It seems that many people's concerns were more than justified, and that it may not have just
been as bad as some may have imagined, but worse. Over the coming days, more details would be
revealed as neighbors and family members expressed relief that action had finally been taken. Ruby's
oldest daughter was one of the first to post a statement to her Instagram, stating that herself
and her family had been trying to tell the police and CPS for years about this, and they were glad
that they had finally stepped in. Franke's sisters also posted a joint Instagram statement expressing
the necessity for Franke and Hildebrandt's detention. Ruby's oldest also requested help on
finding any incriminating clips that could help the legal case against the two detainees. This
would be elaborated on in future videos by Bonnie and Julie, both of which state that they had an
otherwise pretty strong family relationship until Jody and connections became involved,
and would eventually cause the rift between them and Ruby to open up. As sisters, they're obviously
going to be more sympathetic to a family member they've known for years, but they still don't
defend or justify her actions.
Jody Hildebrandt-"We all felt weird about this Jody lady, we weren't comfortable with it,
we didn't like it, we didn't like the teachings Ruby was bringing to the family functions,
and we were this close to telling her if you come to our family events anymore,
we do not want to hear what you were learning through connections because we don't like it.
My thoughts towards Ruby and Jody and Kevin and connections is that it was all bullcrap.
It was complete indoctrination of this thing that they created."
It was also revealed that even Ruby's neighbors had contacted the police on multiple occasions
regarding her behavior, which included taping paper over her window, leaving her children
alone in the house for weeks on end, and having them pulling weeds outside in the garden in 100
degree Fahrenheit heats, stating that although the police would make an appearance, they could
never find any actual evidence of illicit activity. On Friday the 1st of September,
with evidence of videos filmed at Hildebrandt's house a couple days before placing them at the
scene of the crime, and evidence consistent with the wounds inflicted on the victims,
they were both charged with six counts of aggravated child abuse and denied bail due
to the severity of the injuries sustained, which were revealed to be allegedly from
being restrained while honey and cayenne pepper were rubbed into wounds. Over the following weeks,
old plates would re-emerge once more with the context of what we were now aware of,
leaving many to argue that this could have been prevented if authorities had acted faster.
And they're gonna say, you're hurting me, you're beating me, you're controlling us, like,
no dear, hold still, I'm getting the fire out.
Frankie appeared in court via video link on the 5th of September to defend her actions,
and with the presence of her estranged husband, state attorneys, and other parents,
proceeded to make detailed accusations of serious sexual misconduct against her own child.
She provided no evidence for this, but did not hold back, and even referred to the offspring
of people in the room. I suppose the implication is that she is using these allegations to justify
her own reactions. It didn't appear to work though, although the judge requested the child
be placed in a home with no other peers as a precautionary measure. A few days later,
adding to the ever increasing list of people speaking out, Kevin's sisters gave statements
against Ruby's claims, and also revealed more information regarding her and Kevin's separation,
stating that Jody had moved in with the Frankie's in 2022, which is when she tightened her strangle
hold on the family, not even allowing Kevin to speak to Ruby unless she was present. Eventually
she encouraged Ruby to separate from Kevin, and he was moved to a townhouse where a minder from
connections would watch over him. The in-laws viewed Kevin as being brainwashed, and although
they believe he's a good person, they admit there are more questions than answers relating to how
he behaved throughout the situation. Like Ruby, at this point he had not made any comments to the
media, so people were unsure of his position. In a brief statement on the 18th of September,
his lawyer stated that he did not wish to point fingers and wanted to focus on rebuilding
relationships, though this did not address his involvement in the actual allegations.
This would change on the 5th of October however, when People Magazine would publish an article
titled Inside the Ruby Frankie Case, which provided a perspective from the estranged
husband with his lawyer once again doing a majority of the talking. Relating to the claims
at hand, Randy Kester, speaking on behalf of Kevin, stated that Ruby's former life companion
was shocked at hearing the details of the arrest, claiming that he had been awfully deceived into
the status of the children, and that he had only spoken to Ruby sporadically over the past year,
with her separating from him after claiming that his attitude was infesting their family,
whatever that means, and that the oldest son had also moved out with Kevin, but Jody had stepped
in on that matter as well. His lawyer states that he was isolated from his whole family, and was
only reached out three or four times over the next year, thus was not kept in the loop regarding
the rest of the family's status. This seemed to separate him from the recent events as a whole,
in spite of the observable problems on the YouTube channel and elsewhere on social media.
It was clear that Kevin was being highly cautious about making statements to the press,
and why he had mostly refrained from doing so, he wanted custody of the remaining children,
and this was clear from the September statement. In comment sections, many were still suspicious
as to his involvement with the whole situation though, with Bonnie being quite vocal about his
inaction while it transpired, and further news being released that he had attempted to have
his daughter charged with theft following a house visit in which he took some items.
Bonnie- The one person that could have done something within his legal right was Kevin.
We had zero contact with him. It was Kevin's job to check in on things, and he did not.
With everything leading up to the arrest of Ruby Frankie and Jody Hildebrandt in mind,
their detention could have signalled an end to this terrifying saga, but it turned out to be
just the beginning of increasingly bizarre and contentious claims from all sides that only
provoked more concern, and let the living situation of vulnerable parties in limbo.
How much did certain parties know, and how much could they be trusted?
The shadow of one woman still loomed over the case.
On the 17th October 2023, the judge presiding over the case ordered it closed to the public
and the media from there on. This is probably for the best given the beast they were dealing with,
and the fact that anything said would immediately be reported on and speculated about. Ruby Frankie
still has immense power as a former content creator, and even if what she said was held
in contempt, it was still disseminated and discussed, which likely wasn't the best for
any parties concerned. However, in spite of the subsequent silence we may see from this case,
this uncertainty will not necessarily provide security or reassurance.
On the 18th December, Ruby enters a plea deal shifting blame onto her business partner,
of which I'll give an overview soon, but with censoring set for February,
although prison time is a possibility, nothing is guaranteed.
It's difficult to say what the exact outcome will be of the following months. To all internet
dwellers, the evidence presents an open and shut case, but the real world never operates by the
rules of the world wide web, and it's not impossible that Ruby walks out of the courts
as a free citizen. However, this also does not mean that civil courts will agree with this
verdict, and going off the evidence available, they probably will not deem her fit to be a parent.
In spite of it all, there is a distinct possibility that she will come out fighting,
and that this isn't the end of the saga. She made it very clear in her court appearances the length
she is willing to go to defend her actions, and who knows what she may say about other parties
when given the opportunity to. While she still possessed a voice, she was going to use it.
Custody is a very sensitive matter that you cannot rush analysis of. To deem someone mentally
capable of overseeing the lives of multiple youths, particularly when they may have already
suffered, is something that one cannot really afford to mishandle. Yet looking at the immediate
family and potential guardians, you'd be a bit pressed to really trust anyone. When you fall
down such a rabbit hole, you're prone to often pushing the more reasonable people in your life
away, and the only people remaining are people who may be treated with suspicion. From what we know,
Ruby cut off nearly everyone in her life, or vice versa, with only a couple exceptions,
Jodie and Kevin. I think we can rule out Jodie as a potential custody bearer, but what about
her estranged ex-husband? He had clearly set out intent to rebuild the bridges that had been burned
in the past year of their separation. Additionally, he had recently filed for divorce,
officially severing the ties between himself and his estranged wife. This seemed to be the
signs of someone determined to make his own statement, but how much could he be trusted?
Well, I'll just say it, I wanted to have sex a lot.
With cult mentality, it's very difficult to tell where the network begins and ends. In this case,
the prime individual to obtain custody over the children, Kevin, is a very untrustworthy figure.
Outside of recent events where he reportedly acted with hostility towards the eldest daughter,
accounts from even his direct family tie him very close to the connections network. We know that
they were involved from at latest 2019, before any of this transpired, and this persisted to 2022
or even 2023. Though they were very sympathetic to his predicament, as revealed in the article,
even his sisters were concerned that he was still suffering from the symptoms of brainwashing.
Regardless of whether he is a victim of cult indoctrination in this case, it doesn't make
him more mentally fit to be a parent right now. If anything, he should be focused on actually
sorting himself out before expecting a responsibility that he had demonstrably
failed to live up to in the past. Although he did not initiate the separation as far as we know,
we know he did agree to it, did not challenge it, and accepted little to no contact with his
children, even when Rui was visibly mentally deteriorating on social media. There are some
very cynical voices in this that could even say that he anticipated this happening and
agreed to the separation to give himself the best footing for a future custody case.
I know that's a very tenuous speculation, but there is a serious lack of trust right now.
So imagine going out and weeding your garden, but by weeding the garden, I mean you have this
belief that weeding the garden is plucking the leaves off of all the weeds, but you leave the
stems and the roots in place, but you just gotta weed, I gotta go pluck the little leaves off.
That's parenting today. Video archives still build a case that is skeptical of his intent.
It appeared in videos with his wife justifying their actions, actions they took while working
with connections that was a pipeline to Ruby's downward spiral. Just because he didn't go to
the extremes that his spouse did, just because he is the lesser of those two evils doesn't mean he
is the good option. So what are the choices outside of that? Well you could look towards
the rest of the family, Ruby's siblings in particular appeared quite invested in safeguarding
the children, and on the surface they didn't seem to have any direct connections to connections,
with all of them quite openly disavowing the institution after the Moms of Truth were arrested.
At the same time there were still questions surrounding their background and given how
similar it was to Ruby's, particularly given their YouTube channels, and how a large majority
of the family members have all been involved with that content at some point. Outside of the cults,
there was another network that may provoke caution within the courts and the concerned parties.
Yeah, I'll send the bull over to Ruby, you ask the question, and we can all answer, or
we don't have to all answer, just a few, so kind of just say what you want.
Although it goes without saying that Ruby's actions are not a reflection on any of the
sisters or family members at that, there was a very strong YouTube relationship built up with
her and her family in the years since the founding of the channel. I think many would agree that the
children need to be as far away from that as possible, the first thing they need is privacy.
Unfortunately, although most of the worst actions happened after the YouTube channel, it is Ruby's
influencer status that has brought her the most attention in this case. The family vlogging
network has been somewhat shaken by Ruby's actions, the only person who has made an appearance
elsewhere since Ruby distanced herself from her sisters was her daughter, who was an adult at the
time, and could make her own decisions. It would be hard for the children to have a healthy home
environment if the others still intend to upload content. Bonnie, who was probably the most vocal
about her sister's actions since the arrests were made, has made some interesting decisions on
speaking on the matter, including uploading a now deleted video where she recounted her childhood
relationship with Ruby in rather extensive detail. She deleted the video, probably realising it
wasn't necessary, and that it could also be a legally sensitive matter, but it did almost
represent one of the concerns of this sort of family affair, that when you've been online for
so long that sometimes you lose grasp of the line between what needs to be online and what can be
left for the real world.
So when I say that Ruby and Kevin and Jodie and connections have been destroying our lives offline for the last three years,
that is exactly what they've been doing.
In the years leading up to arrests, Ruby had either distanced people so much from the family
that they had no involvement in the lives of those concerned at all, or caught them in the
orbit of something so toxic that question marks loomed over their heads. As the most influential
family vlogger in a family of family vloggers, I suppose that was somewhat inevitable, because
something had been done about it sooner. Well.
And it didn't make sense to me to hold my kids accountable, hold my kids accountable, and then
Christmas come, and then it's not consistent, and all of a sudden they get Santa Claus coming and
pouring gifts upon them. And so we're going to not be celebrating Christmas in the same way that
we've done in the past. We're going to celebrate Christmas for what it really stands for, which is
the Savior was born, and because the Savior was born, we get this beautiful opportunity to change,
our hearts get to soften, and so for Christmas we're inviting you to soften your heart.
Ruby Franke was always a strict parent, and certainly didn't act in line with many people's
expectations of a 21st century millennial mother. Nevertheless, for the times she was known for
threatening to behead fluffy toys, and not bringing a hungry daughter lunch, there would
always be people who were quite vocal in defending her as working from a more traditional parenting
model. To many of them, this was just a person who was raising a child, as they had been raised
themselves, this was a cultural and ancestral matter that had likely been held over generations,
and had seldom failed. At the same time, most of them would inevitably go on to disagree with what
the authorities discovered, and declare that she had fully lost the plots. You could see this shift
in comment sections in conservative news outlets before and after her arrest. On the other hand,
to many critics, these clips were signs that something should have been done sooner, and this
behavior was a slippery slope to what inevitably occurred. I think there is a point behind this,
at the same time there is a somewhat exceptional element to Rui's parenting that was often
overlooked, but for me it was the most indicative that something could spiral out of control.
Parents are deeply flawed like the rest of us, and some of them will fuck up, some of them will be
angry, some of them will be harsh, and some of them will make the wrong decisions occasionally
at the expense of the wellbeing of those around them. There are no mandated parenting classes,
even though you could make the argument there should be, it's fairly straightforward for many
adults to have a kid if they wish, but what's not straightforward is actually raising them.
Most people can recall a difficult stage of their childhood, and how they may have also
posed a challenge to the rest of their family, what matters is how the more mature parties
navigate that, and at what point they're willing to say that they need to change something about
themselves to help you. Bad parenting can come from a place of ignorance, other times arrogance,
other times the refusal to be a better person, something that is essential when dealing with
people who are wired to act impulsively. Within reason, most of the time you'd recommend that
a parent gets some professional help with how they handle children who are in a difficult
stage of their life, and doesn't fall down that slope of actually exacerbating the problem,
making them act out even more. However, being introduced to Ruby Frankie by the 8 Passengers
video about what she hadn't told us, while many were rightfully struck by the severity of her
punishment against her oldest son, I was strangely unnerved about the language she used concerning
her youngest, and how he processed the news that he would not have access to technology
over the coming months.
We had the expectation that the kids would not be on the iPads.
We said the kids would not be on the iPads.
Now in this video, he was noticeably evasive in confronting his mother over the matter,
very possibly because he was embarrassed about being discovered breaching the house rules,
yet Ruby begins to use very strange language regarding his ability to be humble and sit with
her. The fact that he's not willing to sit with me and be humble and talk is a big,
is a big demonstration to me that he has some distorted views and that he is in a lot of shame.
Both my friend and I who were listening noted the same motivation, that this was someone who
has actually been to therapy, but hasn't been properly changed by it. Jonah Hill was using
therapy speak to control his girlfriend Sarah, his now ex-girlfriend, and it's important that
we go over this misuse of therapy language which is kind of a thing these days.
Throughout 2023, there has been a rise in criticism surrounding notions of therapy speak
and over-therapy. In both of these cases, they are exemplified by people who have gone to therapy
to address some of their issues, but haven't necessarily ameliorated them, more so finding
new ways to justify them. This reared its head during the Jonah Hill situation this year,
where many felt that he had behaved possessively and masqueraded it under the pretense of setting
boundaries. It's not really my place to hypothesise how this happens with every individual,
but I think the greatest issue is when a person goes into therapy to not necessarily change,
but to reinforce the perspective that their own ideas or themselves are misunderstood.
We know that Ruby id experienced criticism pre-2020 for her parenting techniques, and
perhaps she was feeling insecure about this, but instead of seeking out a reputable professional,
she found connections, which we know by the 2020 upload was an organisation she was becoming
closer with. Bad parenting can come from a multitude of sources, but if there is an element
of reasonable doubt, there is the hope that maybe with some actual help they can address these
problems and improve themselves. The problem with Ruby was that she'd move past that stage
of confronting her problems, but instead opting to be an even harsher parent on the basis of the
advice she received, and using therapy speak to defend those actions. This was not just troubling
for her judgement, but for those around her too. This is dangerous in the sense that it can cause
people to psychologically validate abusive dynamics, which is bad enough between two people,
but between a parent and their child is extremely treacherous. It gives the adult no space for
self-reflection, no room for change, no opportunity to avert disaster, because she can just turn around
and say that if the child doesn't respond well to her disciplinary measures then it's their problem,
which as ludicrous as it sounds is exactly how Ruby thought. For outsiders, it might be very
apparent how flawed this perspective is, but for a family, those who may have looked up to her and
trusted her, this was psychologically soul-destroying behaviour that could very easily
gaslight a young person into believing that what they were suffering through was their own faults.
So victim is a word that many of us use to acknowledge when a person is using their choices
to not be responsible for themselves. What happens when a youngster in a difficult place doesn't
respond well to these methods like they didn't? There was no set end for Ruby's methods because
she's spoken to the professionals in her mind, and they've told her that she's right, and if
people don't respond to it then they just haven't got the message yet. If she had ended up going to
a different therapist then this situation may have had a very different outcome, but as said,
when you go to a therapist, you need to want to be better, and I don't think Ruby ever wanted that.
As we know now, Ruby has pled guilty to four counts of child abuse, with two of the counts
being dropped as part of the plea deal. Whether she will be instrumental in the case against
Jodie is yet to be seen, but the message during this plea was unambiguous. This was a woman taken
advantage of by a counsellor in a position of power and whose weaknesses were exploited to
adopt increasingly radical and dangerous views. That Ruby Franky was just a devoted mother on
the quest for continuous improvement who had been led astray. However, I think many would find this
hard to believe with the evidence available. Allow me to explain. Ruby had always been an
advocate of what she described as tough love. This method was something that she clearly felt
an affinity to, and in her mind worked effectively. However, this was the 21st century, and as an
individual posting content onto a modern platform, she was always bound to receive some pushback,
and although she garnered the most attention in 2020, she had clearly experienced criticism
before then, particularly regarding the treatment of their older son, who had been experiencing
some behaviour issues. I think Ruby was always somewhat aware that her techniques were unpopular
for their time, which is often why she stated that such conversations would occur off camera.
This would often provide an impression that there was more bliss in the family household than there
actually was. This didn't mean that she wasn't prone to opening herself up to criticism,
and when you document your family and what is happening, particularly when you have an upload
schedule to commit to, you will be drawn into these discussions, and your audience will inevitably
be invested. An example of this was when she and Kevin had to stay at a hotel, while announcing
that her older son had been sent to the Anasazi wilderness camp to set him straight. Regardless
of how good the establishment may be, there were always going to be people who would take issue
given the controversy of wilderness therapy as a whole. It was also apparent that it just wasn't
working on an individual basis for that son. Now when addressing results that may not line up with
the preconceived notions of parenting that you're familiar with, you can either begin a period of
self-reflection that may or may not lead to character growth, or you can double down on
your approach and decide that it's everyone else who is in the wrong. Parenting is a matter that
many people take pride in, and Ruby was certainly a proud mother, though maybe not in the sense that
statement may typically assume. She was very committed to her styles and the results that
she believed it yielded, however she was also a very committed proponent of authority, but a
lot of the authority that she looked towards did not align with her outlook. Most psychologists
and therapists would say that her techniques were certainly far from optimal in addressing
misbehaviour, and could easily aggravate a person who is acting out. This is not something that she
would have wanted to hear, and as a person who positioned herself as a voice of authority on
parenting matters, she couldn't ever see herself as undermining her image. All the same she needed
a way to respond and justify their behaviour that had more backing than just her personal
inclinations. By her own admission, Ruby was not cash-strapped as her channel accumulated
hundreds of millions of views each year. She was a person who had a lot of options if she wanted to
change her parenting style. I'm sure there were many top-end psychologists who would have told
her in short terms what the best way to navigate the challenges that she had to inevitably confront
were, but Ruby already had her solution to everything. She wasn't looking for advice,
she was looking for affirmation. This is how she found the connections classroom.
On the surface, it would be hard to look at Hildebrandt's writing and understand the direct
relationship between escaping distortion and Ruby's insecurity over her parenting for an
organisation initially set up to help individuals overcome addiction. The parenting course,
although full of the usual cultish buzzwords we've become used to, still seems to teach
principles that you'd feel are quite inoffensive at their core. However, when you take a closer
look at the syllabus, you realise that actually, the parenting really mentions nothing about what
the parents do, and you realise that what appealed to Ruby was not the fact that she could fix
herself, it was the fact that she thought she could fix her kids.
I'm not going to pay $220 for the connections parenting classes,
but the summary really tells you most of what you need to know. That children, like adults,
are in this constant state of distortion, and that your job as a parent is to lead them out of it.
How do you do that? Well, you have to show them the way forward, but ultimately they are steps
you cannot make for them. Probably the most illuminating quote in the course summary reads,
the motivation to self-care must come from each individual. Nobody can do it for you,
and you cannot do it for your children. They must learn, and it's our responsibility to teach them
how to care for themselves. This seems to ideologically line up to the mother who wouldn't
take lunch to her six-year-old when she forgot to make it. Beyond that, though, there is this very
interesting combination of ideas in how connections and Hildebrandt view parenting. It's not really a
parent's job to care for their children, but it's also a parent's job to teach a child to care for
themselves. How do you teach someone that way without caring, without providing some form of
actual support? Within connections, Ruby Franke found the ends to justify those means,
and as she came under stronger criticisms, she dug her heels in more. After all, now she could
respond to those people calling her out saying that she had talked to licensed professionals,
who advised that it was actually a completely just punishment to confiscate a bed for seven
months from their son who played pranks on their brother. From her perspective, it simultaneously
washed her hands of responsibility while proving her methods correct, but many outsiders saw it
for the farce and cop-out that it was, and voted with their viewership. This pushed Ruby further,
taking up more responsibility in the connections classroom, strengthening her bond with Jodie,
who not just adored her commitment to the cause, but also her subscriber count and the clout that
she pulled. It was true that Ruby Franke was drawn into a cult-like mentality, but only because she
felt the world around her needed to change, rather than herself. As an internet literate person with
access to review websites and media platforms that say more than I have, there were plenty of
signs that she could have picked up to tell her that this was a course that may not be the best
for those around her. The connections had torn families apart, but Ruby didn't care about that,
she cared about herself, and how she had to be right in her ways. If that isn't distortion,
then I don't know what is. Ruby Franke didn't want to be better, she wanted to be the best,
and yet that hubris led her to be one of the worst.
Jodie's latest victim was this eight channels lady. I knew in two seconds, I knew in two
seconds, that Jodie absolutely wanted that lady's platform to become more powerful, and then she
would lie to that lady, she would make that lady as mentally sick as a dog, then she would lie to
her like she was helping her, and then she would steal that lady's power. For more information
on Jodie and how dangerous she truly was, I recommend watching J Aubrey's video on the matter,
and I'll also link a few other illuminating pieces in the pinned comment as well.
Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, and expecting different results. Although
its origins aren't known for certain, it's often accredited to Albert Einstein, and although there's
obviously a nuance to it, I think he had a point. Following the arrest of Ruby Franke, one of her
sisters in law recalled a time where she had come round for dinner, and had proceeded to chastise
her for letting her own children have snacks after food, claiming that they were running a mock
in the kitchen. Ruby didn't just view her parenting as the right way, she viewed it as the only way,
and she viewed her platform as a way to spread that message, but like many hypothesised narcissists,
their usual channel isn't really a way to spread that message, it's more to create a whole new one
entirely. When going over the 8 Passengers YouTube channel, you'll find countless moments
of bliss and harmony within the family. The overarching theme was that this was a group of
people who were happy with each other's company, documented by a doting mother who just wanted to
capture those fleeting snapshots as a permanent time capsule for the collective memory, but there
was something deeper to the channel and how she approached it. One of the challenges regarding
watching family channels, is how they often present an ideated version of how a family
operates, particularly for those who either want to be parents, or are parents already,
and looking for guidance. There's a lot of selective footage, in a way that's what you'd
expect, not everything needs to be a part of a YouTube channel, particularly if you want to
reflect on those memories fondly. Nevertheless, a lot of people saw the image that the Franke's
projected onto their channel, and often asked Ruby how her children were so wonderful and obedient.
The secret was that most of the time, you don't talk about the times where that parental style
falls short, and from the evidence available, it did so on multiple occasions. An often overlooked
detail in the May 2020 upload, What We Haven't Told You, was Ruby talking about the instances
her oldest son had played a variety of pranks on his brother, and choosing to list an example
that literally happened on the day he came back from the Anasazi wilderness camp.
Those are not signs of a person who is responding well to your castigation, not to mention that
Anasazi was already the result of years of misbehaviour by their own accounts. Of course,
people wouldn't receive this impression if you watched 8 Passengers content most of the time,
because that's not what they showed, but the son clearly didn't appreciate this, and one of the
few details from the insider interview that I actually believe was that her son had encouraged
to upload the video in its current form. My personal belief is that I think he anticipated
the backlash it would receive, in the past he'd encourage his mother to talk about the discipline
he was subjected to, while she was often the more evasive. So although I can say that I think Ruby
was extremely hard headed in the best way to raise her children, she was also very aware of the
negative press that this would generate, but she just couldn't reconcile both without sacrificing
her pride or her reputation. So the natural outcome is she's just going to need to be hungry,
and hopefully nobody gives her food, and nobody steps in and gives her a lunch. Probably the most
illuminating example of this was her response to the withholding of sustenance from her daughter,
and the accompanying clip. In the insider interview, she attempts to reframe it as a
matter she was actually very sympathetic to, and would've helped if she could have,
and although there may be context around the clip that we're not aware of, there's also just
a callousness in the clip itself that could not be alternatively contextualised. She knew that
this was often frowned upon, and when the fire was put to her feet, she exhibited cowardice.
If she really was as committed to the regime as she said she was, why would she backtrack?
Because the YouTube channel was more important, how she was perceived was more important than how
she was, yet she was never wrong, she couldn't be wrong. There was this continuous narrative that
people just didn't get it, they didn't have an understanding, they weren't mature enough,
they didn't possess the full context, and although all these are viable responses in a case by case
scenario, here they felt more like rhetorical devices to keep Ruby and Kevin in the right.
There was always something that people didn't know that meant that the Frankies could not be
judged. Their evidence of good parenting was right in front of them, their content,
and their children, perhaps one in the same in their mind. Ruby Frankie used the YouTube
channel to create a reality where her disciplinary methods resulted in a happy family, with her
and her husband even boasting that when CPS came by their house, they remarked that they would
actually have to start watching their YouTube content to get some tips on parenting, a comment
so close to satire itself that it may well be true. Yet after the run-in with the internet,
they all stepped back from this narrative entirely, and often avoided any mention of
discipline at all. In turn, the YouTube channel became this medium to fabricate a family that
only really existed in Ruby's mind to present to the audience for their consumption, the one where
she holds them to account, they embrace their retribution, and then they grow up to be these
wonderful members of society, all thanks to her and her wonderful mothering techniques.
In this case, the 8 Passengers channel became a damaging platform for the family's wellbeing,
because what once was an illusion had now become a delusion. Ruby was using the platform to throw
up a smokescreen not just for her viewers, but for herself, but if you looked at the evidence,
everything was going perfectly fine. Yet this just made it less believable because they hadn't
committed to changing anything at all, and if nothing had changed about their methods,
how could they suddenly present this image that everything was hunky-dory now? The people on
YouTube did not buy it, and as the views fell, so did the validation. Like many people with
narcissistic tendencies, Ruby was steadfast but fragile, and still needed to hear that
everything was fine, boasting about her methods on podcasts with her new partner in crime.
I was really hoping that like, keeping them home from school and wiping the floorboards would like,
really bring pain. Like, oh my gosh, I really want to change this behaviour that I've been
exhibiting. And then it didn't, it didn't, like, it wasn't painful for them. They're like, oh yeah,
we get to stay home from school and clean floorboards. This is kind of fun. It's like, ah,
so, you know, they've had these visceral experiences, you know, and they haven't,
they haven't affected them. It's because they're so numb. The truth was that it wasn't fine,
but nobody could prove it, because Ruby was too proud to admit that she was losing control of
everything, and that she would rather go down with her methods than change her ways,
that she would rather commit to a cult that validates her perceptions than actually get
serious help. In her mind, her punishments were just the consequences rather than the cause,
and yet everyone had to live with them.
Probably the most indicative piece of evidence that showed her character was her own court
appearance, where she implied that such harsh abuse against one of her own children could be
justified by launching into a series of allegations regarding sexual misconduct. I
obviously cannot comment on the verity of such claims, but it encapsulated the perfect mix of
cowardice and callousness, the refusal to admit that she had failed as a parent alongside the
context that means she was right all along. To me, this defence was a symptom that Jodie
and Ruby were careening towards some sort of modern-day exorcism scenario, where they could
create this reality that they had to purge evil from this person rather than actually seeing the
evil in themselves that was driving them to do this. This was confirmed on the 90th of December
when details of Ruby's behaviour were revealed, of which I'm not going to verbally list out and
would recommend the faint of heart to turn away, but could be seen on the screen now,
it is as horrifying as one may conceptualise. The justification for these acts was that those
she did this to were possessed, sometimes to justify one act of evil you have to create a
greater one, and as a person who was hellbent on being right, no matter how awful Ruby was,
in her mind she was always fighting against something worse, but really she was just
fighting her own reflection. We could sit here and debate whether an adult will reflect on the
time their mum wouldn't bring them lunch, but as a pattern of behaviour it was toxic, and what Ruby
and Jodie did together will probably live with the effect of parties for the foreseeable future,
and that is a tragedy. The psychological justifications of such cruelty to those
vulnerable will likely take a long time to fully disentangle, to realise that actually this wasn't
their fault. Ruby Franky may not have entered parenthood with bad intentions, but her vanity
was corrupted by an online following and her failure to choose to actually put her family
first. To die on a hill that she had known for so long would eventually lead to one of the most
horrific outcomes, one whose legacy will remain long after she's forgotten by the internet.
The truth is that most people who end up doing pretty shitty things aren't born that way,
there are a lot of people out there who are just perpetuating a cycle that has been passed down
to them. Does it change the notion of accountability? Not necessarily, but it also
doesn't change the tragedy, that if they'd had a healthier upbringing they wouldn't have ended up
the way they were. People like Ruby risk maintaining the cycle, and if a child commits
something awful under the sort of duress that we know that Jodie and Ruby placed them under,
then that couple will also bear responsibility for those misdeeds as well. How are humans meant
to learn healthy relationships if all they've ever known is abuse? For a person who preached
responsibility, Ruby couldn't acknowledge any, that she ultimately had fallen far short.
I don't believe that she was always this way, but it's like driving a car towards an unfinished
bridge while everyone else is bailing out of it. Ruby smashed the accelerator.
Parenting isn't always an easy job, shout out to those who had very troubled childhoods, and
even early adulthoods as well. But parenting is a necessary job, sometimes the only constant you
have in your life is your family, they're integral to grounding a sense of self. I don't think there's
a one size fits all approach, and different solutions will work with different challenges,
but I do think navigating the exasperation of being a parent in those situations should never
manifest into resentment and vitriol, something which harsher systems can risk if not responded
well to. It's a cycle of punishment that will only beget harsher punishments. The Frankies went into
parenting with a perception of discipline that was more corporal and traditional, this is something
they agreed to and enforced together. This was also something they decided to partially document,
in the years after their channel was set up, they garnered a significant following of people
who admired their practices, capturing the good times, but showing parents, and aspiring parents
who may be a bit lost on handling troubled youngsters, a way forward. As the older sister,
her authority was affirmed as she grew to be the most influential channel in her family network,
and she gladly accepted the reigns as a reliable voice on parenting, yet all of this changed when
she decided to upload more information than people probably should have known.
Show that he was not able to manage himself sharing a bedroom with...
In the month after, Ruby partook in a campaign to defend her character against many who felt
that her authoritarian approach crossed a line, utilising unreasonable and disproportionate
punishment for what was at worst mild mischief. Judging from her language in responses and
interviews, she was winning the ideological battle in her mind, and that there were no
words that anyone else could say that could break that family. That may have well been true,
but as the eight passengers YouTube channel stagnated and began to lose subscribers,
there was a sign that people weren't completely happy with what the channel had presented. Ruby
and Kevin both seemed to lament this with great disdain, booing themselves as victims of cancel
culture over a year after the incident. It was clear that Ruby in particular still felt deeply
bitter about this. She was wronged online, and she needed to prove that she was right all along.
We are getting mentally fit the same way your body would get physically fit by running and
lifting weights and working with a personal trainer. We are getting ready to be your
mental fitness trainer. That's where connections came in. Headed by someone who believed we all
could have complete control over ourselves, Frankie's ideas surrounding parenting were
validated by a doctrine that showed you had to rescue your children from the distorted world
they were growing up in, that it wasn't her that was wrong, it was the world, it was the commentators,
it was her sisters, it was her oldest daughter, it was even her husband in the end. The Frankie's
went into parenting with a perception of discipline that was more corporal and traditional.
This is something they agreed to, but they emerged separate, a family broken apart by one person's
inability to change, at least for the better, a person who would rather be enabled than challenged.
Even then, with federal charges filed against her, sat in court, and facing down those her actions
had affected, it was still someone else's fault. For this time, it wasn't the viewers, it wasn't
the commenters, it wasn't the critics, it was the children, the children who made Ruby's child
possible in the first place, the children who viewers tuned in to watch, who likely didn't
receive a modicum of the millions that Ruby outwardly states she made. After being provided
by so much from her family, Ruby Frankie was ready to throw them under the school bus, an irony still
somewhat beyond comprehension, if there was a genuine human being who cared about anyone but
herself, they were buried very deep down. Ruby really was willing to lose everything for the
sake of being right, and she might well do, but nobody really wins, someone is losing a sister,
someone is losing a daughter, someone is losing a mother, but for many,
Ruby Frankie was already gone. So, what was left?
I think today is going to be one of those days I'm not a very good mom.
Regardless of the centres that Ruby receives in the following year, she will still likely live
another few decades to say the least, she will go on with her life, and hopefully not ruin any
others in the process. Everyone online will mostly move on, and her name will spark a sort of
reminiscence amongst internet culture enthusiasts. Nevertheless, even though her channels have been
deleted, the remnants of her philosophy, and the actions that philosophy led to, will live on.
Ironic that her channel originally created to compile fond family memories now only serves as
a highlight reel for Ruby's worst moments. It's hard to say whether this is a good thing or not,
some might say that YouTube served as important documentation for what will inevitably be used
to hold her accountable, but you could also say that she may have never reached that stage
if she hadn't made the decision to open the channel. I think one of the most harmful aspects
of a family channel is inevitably how it alters the family's trajectory in general,
particularly if the subjects of those videos aren't performative themselves.
8 Passengers was one of those channels, defined by the publication of intimate details with millions
watching. I don't think you can ever guarantee being entirely the same person when a camera
switched on, and having an on-camera and off-camera parent is not a healthy dynamic in my mind.
At least with acting, there is a clear distinction between what is real and what isn't. With this
sort of YouTube channel, how can a youngster tell which is the real parent and which isn't?
I totally ignored you today. Are you okay with that? Because you know I don't do it every day.
Do you think it's okay for mom to take care of herself for a day? Okay, thanks for being
thoughtful. Ruby Frankie was never a particularly good parent, it needs to be said,
reflecting on even the more pedestrian content she seems incredibly vain and full of herself
when it comes to the subject of raising children, and was never really open to alternative views
or methods that would probably have been much better for her family as a whole.
YouTube can't personality test people who decide to upload content, there has to be a degree of
personal responsibility to protect the freedoms of others, and although you wouldn't necessarily
say that YouTube makes a good person bad, the public attention it generates can definitely
corrupt an individual and exploit character flaws that make them more prone to behaving in
destructive ways. That's a pretty significant detail when dealing with channels that actively
feature vulnerable parties. With 8 Passengers, Ruby's vanity was fed by a viewership who admired
the couple's parenting, and thought they were seeing the results, perhaps even a way back for
them to the happy family that they desired. By 2019, the channel wasn't just a harmless memory
bank, it was a well-oiled commercial machine, but also a platform for Ruby to spread content
that in her mind was absolutely necessary for parents to see. This was her mission,
it regularly led to her uploading videos that in hindsight many felt were too invasive or revealing,
and they were, but this was her own personal crusade, it's how she gave her self-purpose.
She modelled the importance of her parenting on the view and sub-counts she acquired,
and for a while that validated her. However, like all Passengers perspectives, it wasn't a
criticism-free zone either, a lot of people raised issue with how she behaved in content and her
penal system, first surfacing after she sent her oldest son to Anasazi, but most famously emerging
when they spoke about her disciplinary system in a video. This was a double-edged sword as well,
because although people did the right thing and criticised it, with commentators being made aware
of something that could actually be scrutinised, it didn't aid the family relationship. This is not
the sort of thing that really should have been spoken about in a video uploaded to YouTube,
it's embarrassing for the son, but also not remotely useful for the mother. Really,
this is the sort of matter that should have been brought up in a private space where Ruby didn't
have to put on the front that YouTube required of her, because she wasn't going to listen to
people who didn't know those in her life from Adam. It's hard to say if there was anyone in
this world that Ruby would listen to who didn't agree with her, but there were definitely people
she wouldn't. However, just as YouTube was an ego-boost during the channel's viral era,
it's demise after this controversy would have put a significant dent in the ego of Frankie,
who in probably the most symptomatic turn of someone who felt their pride was under attack,
decided to create a platform entirely dedicated to defending her parenting practice and YouTube
channel under the cult backdrop, even replacing her family channel's Instagram with it. I can't
tell you how aware Ruby was of her own indoctrination, but it's occurrence was a
result of her not being able to stomach her own failure on a website that her self-worth as a
parent had become dangerously intertwined with, but her narcissism prevented her from taking
responsibility for.
Ruby- The power comes in the little things, and it's so fitting that I hit a million while I was
trying to squeeze in as many of those little things as I could.
It should go without saying, but a subscriber count or a view count is not a reflection of
your ability. Popularity and skill are not always correlated. In the case of Ruby Frankie,
her family generated popularity that she attributed to herself, but her subsequent
failure was something she could only blame on others. You can't point towards YouTube as being
responsible for that, but you do have to question how healthy that is for anyone, when the
consequences that mentality yields are only felt by those who don't have a say in it. It wasn't the
viewers, it wasn't the commenters, it wasn't the critics, it was the children, and just like she
blamed them in court, she likely blamed them at home as well. Ruby Frankie was a bad parent,
who only became worse over time and reminded some of us how fortunate we are, but she was also a
symptom of the morality of family content and the moral dubiousness that surrounds it. We may not
be able to ascertain the magnitude of the role her public status played in her eventual downward
spiral, but it's certainly a stark reminder that if you love the channel more than your children,
you probably shouldn't have either. Family channels. Needless to say,
they still haven't won me over quite yet. Thank you for watching.
Hey there guys, so that was the video, I hope you enjoyed it. Well, at least took something
away from it, maybe not the most enjoyable subject. I want to give a big thanks to the
editors, their names are up on the screen right now, and of course the wonderful people who've
helped me out post-editing, Kojak, fantastic work as always, Onuski on audio, and Starfo on
the thumbnails. Thank you again guys, your work is very much treasured and I really do appreciate it.
Also gotta give big thanks to the patrons, as always, $10 patrons up on screen right now,
and a special thanks to the $50 patrons, Hypercube, Esther Bedoya, and Sari Tish,
thank you again for your support, it really means a lot. Also wanna give a big thanks to the artists
whose art has been in this video. Like everyone here, all the credits are in the pinned comment,
and if you wanna go and check out their work, then I encourage you to. I don't think there's
too much else to say, other than I hope you guys have a good Christmas, or break, or none of those
things, maybe you're not about second breaks, it's fine by me, whatever works for you,
and I hope 2023 has been good to you, but if not, I hope the next one's a bit better. Until then,
I'm The Right Opinion, and I will see you, in the next one.
