I guess I'm now on my dev racism arc, because today we're talking about the smoke detector
chirp meme.
Have you ever been playing an online game, maybe on PC, more commonly on Xbox, and you're
talking to people in the game over voice?
Everything's fine, until you realize that one guy in the call?
You can hear his smoke alarm going off in the background?
I don't mean like a constant alarm, like he's got a fire going in his house or something.
I mean like that tiny loud annoying beep every 30 seconds, when the smoke alarm battery is
running low and it needs to be changed.
Like that.
And it just keeps beeping.
I don't know man, how the fuck can you not get annoyed with that?
How can you just sit there and play video games all day while that beep goes off every
30 seconds?
I would fucking lose it.
And yet, there's videos all over the internet right now, of people, yes predominantly black
people, just ignoring the low battery alarm on their smoke detectors.
I want to give you guys a brief history and basic overview of the Tint of Eve 4 spaceship.
It was used by Leia in the original Star Wars film, on the port side airlock hose.
Some of them appear to be slightly embarrassed, like for example this one woman, who's reading
off her old smutty fanfic writing from when she was 16.
Some of them appear to not notice at all, like this young rapper getting interviewed
in his house.
Some of them have done this on national TV, like this American track star who failed a
drug test and is now talking to the news about it.
Apparently this guy recorded his rap song in his house, because the smoke alarm chirp
made it into the cut.
Here's a black woman being interviewed by a black man and the man asks, how in the hell
do you live like this?
And she simply replies, what alarm?
I don't hear anything.
Like red flags?
That smoke detector that's beeping in the background.
There's a smoke detector.
It beeps every 30 seconds and it goes beep.
I don't hear anything beeping.
Did you just hear it again?
Because I don't hear anything.
Wait for it.
Told you guys, they don't hear it after a while.
There it was.
This whole phenomenon came to my attention when Herman Grimm was interviewed for being
given $2 million by New York state as reparations, as compensation for the fact that he failed
the national teacher's examination multiple times.
And they knew I wasn't taking them seriously, because I just wasn't taking them seriously.
You know, why don't you send me letters and tell me about lawsuit, because I know lawsuit
either go through or they won't go through.
You know, but it's when I finally got it in my head, they kept pushing and kept explaining
things piece by piece.
Yes, we're giving money to failures now.
Welcome to 2023.
Their logic is presumably the test was racially biased or some shit when there's no real evidence
to the contrary.
But in any case, throughout the entire interview, you can hear the telltale beep.
Of course, this became a meme real quick.
Lots of people making fun of the whole thing, poking fun at themselves.
This is actually a somewhat historical phenomenon.
You guys know about the radio show Love Line?
It started back in 1983.
People would call in and ask the host for advice about their love life.
As the show went on, the hosts began to notice a correlation between impoverished callers
and a smoke alarm chirp in the background.
You hear that?
She was even surprised the host noticed.
So, what's actually going on here, guys?
Well, a study from 2007 called Waking Effectiveness of Alarm for Adults Who Are Hard of Hearing
showed that your average high-pitched smoke alarm failed to wake 43% of their test participants.
So, it might be the case that some people just can't hear some frequencies.
I've heard the claim online that black people are genetically predisposed to not hear high-pitched
sounds, based on data showing that black people are more likely to die in house fires.
Their logic is, if they can't hear the smoke alarm going off, they're not going to get
out when there's a fire.
But that doesn't intuitively sound right to me.
Why the hell would that be a genetic adaptation?
Even if I were to go full race realist mode, it seems to be the case that the ability to
hear animals with higher-pitched sounds is something that would actually be useful if
your ancestors were adapted to living in Africa.
Okay, well, what if people lose their ability to hear higher-pitched sounds over time?
All the people in today's videos are at least in their early 20s.
And you know what?
That's actually true.
That's what was at the source of the Lavender Town controversy.
For those of you who don't know, Lavender Town is a location in the first generation
of Pokemon games.
It's home to the Pokemon Tower, a cemetery where dead Pokemon are put to rest in little
urns.
The whole town has a drab color scheme.
The characters who are there are predominantly older people who are rather dour.
The whole place feels like death, like it's haunted or it's creepy.
And the music for the town is also quite creepy, at least as creepy as you can expect from
a Game Boy game.
Have a listen.
Here's the interesting thing, though.
This game came out back in the mid-1990s, and adults who go back and play the game now
have reported that the music in Lavender Town feels off.
Like it doesn't sound like it should, as they remember it sounding.
And this is a widespread phenomenon, it's not just nostalgia goggles kicking in for
one old boomer.
Further investigation of the song actually discovered something very interesting.
The creators of Pokemon wanted Lavender Town to feel creepy, so they used a lot of discordant
notes and high-pitched background hums in the music track.
However, at certain parts of the music, the octave goes so high that teenage and adult
human ears can't actually hear it anymore.
Kids under 12 can, but the human ear commonly loses the ability to hear that frequency over
the course of puberty.
And so, your average adult listening to that part of the track actually can't hear some
of the notes.
However, they can feel it, if that makes sense.
Those people who can't hear the note commonly report mild headaches or blurred vision while
listening to the music, which spawned a whole rumor mill about Japanese kids playing Pokemon
back in the day and then being induced with extreme paranoia or committing suicide, leading
to the music being changed in subsequent releases.
This was all bullshit, but the urban legend persists to this day.
By the way, here's the section of the song in question.
If you can't hear the high-pitched whine in the back of the music, congratulations, your
ears are fully developed.
I still can, though, so I guess I really am a manchild.
At this point, I was thinking, maybe the people who can't hear smoke detector chirps.
It's the case that the chirps just so happen to be in that range that people lose the ability
to hear as they get older?
It's kind of a stretch, and also a serious design flaw in smoke detectors, but maybe
this explains it?
A 2008 study says that, yes, in a more general sense, adults do experience hearing loss as
they age.
But this actually completely destroyed my original idea, because white people suffer
hearing loss at a much higher rate than black people as they get older.
So yeah, it's not that black people can't hear the chirp.
They can hear it.
They just fucking ignore it.
In fact, you can even find videos where they explicitly say, yes, I am ignoring it.
Someone's got to change it, and it's not going to be me.
Like, what the fuck, guys?
And then they even complain when you bring it up, like, keep your nose out of my business.
Okay, let's actually get to the bottom of this, once and for all.
Here's another joke TikTok about the whole thing.
I said, motherfucker, what part about, do you not understand?
Is it the, or the, because everybody on Xbox live can hear how fucking broke you are through
your headset.
You asked for this.
It's been four weeks, three days, 12 hours, and nine minutes.
Get some double A batteries and get the fuck off the couch.
Wait, hey, hey, you son of a bitch, you're going to take, are you taking another battery?
Pretty funny, but it also gives us some insight.
The smoke detector says to the guy, everybody can hear how broke you are.
While some people are lying, are more than willing to chalk this up to race, the predominant
factor seems to be social class, as poor whites do this too.
There's just more poor blacks per capita than poor whites in America.
I can think of a couple of explanations for this behavior.
Some people are actually so fucking poor, they genuinely can't spare the couple of bucks
for a new battery.
Also, some people live in poorer neighborhoods where apartments are crowded together, walls
are thin, and they've simply learned to ignore annoying or intrusive noise to the point that
it's just been filtered out like any other type of white noise.
It's not that they can't hear it, it's that for decades they've categorized it as noise
to ignore rather than noise to deal with.
And like I said in my Portland video a couple days ago, poverty is just as much a mindset
as it is a material condition.
A poor person has developed habits that simply can't be shook out of by giving them a pile
of money.
A great example is us here.
I remember when this channel first started up, the mindset of all of us was, do everything
as cheap as possible.
We can't spend for a good microphone or whatever because we genuinely believed that whatever
little money we had from our day jobs was going to run out, that tomorrow's paycheck
was simply not guaranteed.
Why spend $200 on a quality starter mic if in a month we'll be destitute?
The poor mentality is the genuine belief that there's a decent chance of whatever money
flow you currently have coming in that's keeping your head just above water will be cut off,
so everything is done in the cheapest possible way.
Everything is slapdash and shoestring.
Long term just, quote, isn't a priority right now.
In fact, you can often tell by the terminology some of these people use that they have this
mindset.
You'll often hear something like, well at least I'm doing something when they're asked
about their bare minimum effort, or they'll say, I'm not going to be able to make it when
they're bailing on a prior commitment.
The tone and word choice implies that they feel like the situation is simply out of their
control, that their efforts just aren't good enough, and that they're used to them being
not good enough.
This mentality is often fostered by living in poverty, but getting out of poverty often
doesn't change it.
And yes, this trickles down back to the smoke alarm thing.
A great example of this, by the way, is how Joy Reed, of all fucking people, yes, MSNBC
host and Harvard graduate Joy Reed still can't be fucking arsed to change her batteries on
her smoke detector.
Mr. This is where woke comes to die.
Little mini Ron DeSantis, the little tiny governor of Florida, the tiny and I would
say probably the most functionally racist governor in America, Ron DeSantis.
Turns out he's super anti-immigration, super anti-woke, but his great great grandmother
Luigi Colucci came to the United States, not on the Nina, the Maria or the Santa Maria,
as he might have you believe, given his complete devotion to the founders and to the people
who colonized this country originally and their absolute and total moral goodness.
But actually, his folks came here in 1917.
So Luigi Colucci, his great great grandmother on his mother's side, came to the United States
in February of 1917, a couple of months before the signing of an immigration act, the 1917
Immigration Act, which barred undesirable immigrants.
What were undesirable immigrants back then?
This is why attitudes about debt are very different between poor people and not rich
people, let's say non-poor people.
For a poor person, debt is interest.
You've got to pay more money, which is more problems down the road.
A poor person's advice is never go into debt because they've seen other people go into
debt and get fucked by it.
And you know what, fair enough.
People can get fucked by debt.
It's no joke.
But another way to view debt is as investment.
And this is how I had to think of it.
I had to get out of that.
Why shouldn't I buy a new microphone mindset?
Consider it like this.
Let's say that you want to start up a business, but you don't have the money to buy the equipment
that you need.
So you get a shitty menial job for a year, you save up the cash, and then you launch
your business on the side.
OK, that's great.
In fact, that's what I did.
But alternatively, you could take out a loan and rather than waiting a year, launch your
business right now.
Yes, you'll be on the hook for interest, and that sucks.
But if your business is successful, you'll have launched it one year earlier.
Does the extra money that you make by launching one year earlier, one extra year's worth
of profits, outweigh the interest you had to pay in the loan?
Is there an opportunity cost for not launching?
Like if there's a trend you can ride right now to maximize profit that won't exist
one year later?
You can actually math this out.
And in a lot of cases, not going into debt because you're afraid of the interest ends
up costing you money long term.
Now that is a dangerous road to go down.
Lots of people hear that advice and think, so I can just go into debt and that's fine.
No, no, no.
Debt is a tool.
You need to use it in an intelligent way.
Using debt stupidly is just as dumb as not using it at all.
If you take on debt strategically, you also need to have a solid plan to get out of it.
This is what I mean when I say, and when frankly, a lot of motivational channels also say that
poverty is a mindset.
It's learned helplessness.
You internalize a series of behaviors designed to do the bare minimum because that is genuinely
all that you can do in some cases.
In some cases it isn't, but you just can't see it.
But in some cases, it genuinely is.
There is a middle ground between buying a new pair of shoes every week because you swim
in money and don't care about waste, and riding your old shoes for a decade so hard that you're
super gluing and stapling them back together constantly, when you're causing so many long
term problems to your health that will cost you way more than any savings you're getting
right now.
And this is why poor people don't change the batteries on their smoke alarms, causing everybody
the world over to hate them on Xbox Live voice chat and work Zoom meetings and COVID online
and schooling sessions.
Because in their mind, spending one dollar on a new battery is a high price to pay when
you could literally just live with it and keep the dollar.
For some of them, maybe they're so poor that one dollar actually does break the bank.
But I'm willing to bet that for a lot of them, they simply live in the moment, to the point
that they genuinely feel like tomorrow isn't guaranteed, so it's better to keep that dollar
now just in case.
I'm not shitting on this mentality because I've been poor, and I remember when it actually
was the case that next week's paycheck might not be enough to cover that extra one dollar.
But too many people hold on to this mentality even as they get ahead in life, and it poisons
their future success.
The smoke detector chirp meme is pretty funny, but it often belies a high time preference
mindset.
Also, it's fucking annoying.
I hate listening to you fucks with a goddamn ceiling bird going off.
I don't care how poor you are, change the fucking battery you broke ass ni-
