Hello everyone, you know what you're here for. It's TikTok Tuesday. Though for a select few of
you, it's not Tuesday, is it? It's probably earlier. That's because I've activated the
ability for certain people to watch the video early. If you hit that YouTube membership button,
you can check out my content. I don't know what exactly to guarantee here. I'm not going to
guarantee anything. It'll be early. It'll be before it comes out usually. How early? That
depends on how lazy I am. But for most of you, you're watching this on Tuesday. And so welcome
to TikTok Tuesday. Let's dive right into this nonsense. If you do nothing about what I'm about
to tell you, the way you use the internet will be forever changed in two days. Oh, let's see.
This is the Kids Online Safety Act or COSA for short. And here's why you should do everything
in your power to prevent this bill from getting passed. Why? If this bill passes the vote for it
on Thursday, the entire internet access of America will be placed under censorship. This bill gives
government officials the right to sue any company that exposes a minor to a controversial topic.
Now, what does that mean? Well, anything on race, gender, sexuality, politics, history, gun control,
your minors, information, anything, everything. And you know what these companies like TikTok,
like Instagram, like Facebook are going to do after this bill gets passed? What do they say?
Well, it's impossible to stop minors from seeing this content. We aren't going to allow it anymore.
You aren't going to be able to talk about these things anymore.
You look pretty young kid. Is this your first time? I don't know enough about this bill to
give you a reasonable dev take one way or the other. All I can say is if the government wants
the internet censored, they're just going to do it. That's just kind of how it's always been.
Something happened like almost like a decade ago now, I think maybe 12 or 13 years with the Channel
Awesome guys showing up at Congress to be like, hey, listen, your regulations will destroy our
business. There was the COPPA thing a few years back. There was the net neutrality conversation.
Every few years, some scare like this shows up. Now the internet has certainly gotten worse and
part of that probably can be chalked up to the government. So fair enough. But this kid is out
here saying, oh no, minors aren't going to be able to see things that minors shouldn't be seeing. Oh,
it's a travesty. Well, I mean, I don't necessarily think that this is the hill that I want to die on
when it comes to protecting internet free speech. I guess we'll have to see how it unfolds.
I don't know about you guys, but I might've seen this girl from somewhere before.
She seems awfully familiar, but I don't know.
Oh, we're comparing stats. Baby girl doesn't know that I am Tom Brady at this game.
Married at 18, divorced at 21, second marriage, married at 25, divorced at 28,
third engagement, engaged at 29, ended it at 30, but I kept the ring. I'm still keeping Tom Brady
on his toes. We should not be afraid to leave these men. We are not stuck with these people.
Marriage is not a sanctimonious thing. It is supposed to be something. It's a commitment
you make to someone, but if you feel like you're not getting anything from that commitment and
you're trying, you got to go, you got to go. It's not a commitment then is it?
I know it's difficult to fill out paperwork and to make appointments and to do all of these things,
but this is your fucking life. Do you want to be stuck with someone?
I'm glad I'm not stuck with you. Okay, that joke at the start of the video aside.
I don't know if I should be taking advice on relationships and marriage and monogamy
from a porn star who's had, as she says, three failed marriages. Perhaps you are not the person
who has the life experience that I can draw valuable information from, at least not in
terms of how to run a successful marriage. It's amazing the mindset of these people, right?
If you say something like marriage isn't the sanctimonious thing, well then it won't be.
The sanctity will be gone if you don't believe in it and how she's like,
well, yeah, it's a commitment, but well then it wasn't much of a commitment, right?
There are things in life that are for life as in they're one way doors. You go through them
and then you are on the other side and there's no going back. One of those things is growing up.
You can't go back and be a kid again. When you're an old man, you can't go back to middle age.
That's just how it is. And there are absolutely should be some choices that once you make,
you shouldn't be able to take them back. Now I'm not going to sit here and say that,
Oh, the, the abused wife should stay with the husband. Obviously not, but I hate this
mentality of marriage is simply like having a boyfriend or a girlfriend that lives with you.
Okay. All right. We've, we've now hit the end of the tech talk, NPC stream meme. Now we got
black guys out here. Role-playing as fucking plantation slaves. I think we've hit the end
of the meal. I think it's over now. Okay. Oh God, right at the start of the, I love big pharma shirt.
Here we fucking go. What country do you think this is? What the trans flag? What, what are
the trans flag look like that? Well, it is England. So I guess the trans flag,
all right. What could she say? Game of Thrones. Game of fucking Thrones.
That is the Welsh flag. Oh man. The vine sound effect at the end. That first one though,
that's the LGBT flag. Well, considering that they literally fly the pride flag instead of the union
Jack and a lot of places in the UK, I guess they're kind of becoming synonymous. I know
that's not the union Jack, but it's, it's the English flag, but you know what I mean though?
The English flag might as well be the pride flag at this point. Sorry. Sorry,
gang members because I celebrated pride. What the KFC fucking forgot my 40 chicken legs.
What is this AI shit? My teacher fucking failed me. So I shot her up.
My friends shot me to death. Oh my God. This is the gun sound effect. Every time I fucking forgot
my 30 chicken sandwiches. So I shot up. My stepfather killed my biological sister. My
family got killed by the cartel during vacation. Why are all the black ones related to guns?
I cheated on my husband with my son. My neighbor's dog raped my girlfriend. So I
shot it to death. I took a shit in a white only restroom. My boyfriend forcefully shoved a stick
up my asshole. My friends found out I was gay. So they killed my dogs. I came into a public
pool. Child support for 100 women. Hello? I eat three McDonald's big Macs a day. Recently. I
almost died due to a fatal heart attack. I was gay. So they disowned me. My pet monkey got me
pregnant. I celebrated pride month in the hood. Then 100 games. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. This is
clearly AI generated images and AI generated voices saying these ridiculous fucking stories,
but like are the stories themselves also AI generated? Some of them have to be like black
people shooting up KFCs over forgetting chicken legs. It's gotta be. I refuse to believe that
these can actually be real stories. This has to be all AI generated. Like chat GPT has gotta be
right in these things. I don't, I don't believe for a second. This is like an actual Reddit story
that's being read out here by the Microsoft Sam voices. I mean, it fucking could be, who knows?
But also one of them was an Indian woman saying that she got pregnant by a monkey. So probably
not. Dude. This one's actually not from Tik TOK. This is like an oldie from vine or Snapchat like
10 years ago. This is an oldie, but a goodie. We're going back to show you the shitty shorts
that suck ass. Following fat people, following fat people, old school trolling guys. This is
from like 2012 or something. You know, I'm a fat guy waddling around the supermarket. I wouldn't
mind if he did that. I wouldn't mind going viral for this. It's kind of funny. Jesus.
That brings me back. I wonder if you probably couldn't do that on the internet nowadays.
Oh God. One of my Twitter mutuals gave me this. Look at this.
Oh my God. Really?
What the fuck? Why? Just, just why? Listen, I got a lot of degenerate mutuals on Twitter. Okay.
Even my new Twitter account, by the way, follow the new account. I keep getting banned. Follow
the new account sleepy underscore Devo. There's so many weirdos on Twitter. And I mean, they're all
great, but I don't know what the fuck, like, why'd you post this video? Why do people in the,
in the video make it? What is, what is this shit? Okay. This one's the audio list. And I also got
a sense for it too. Cause like last week, there's a naked person in it. So what we're looking at is,
um, an overweight black woman again, walking down the freeway, naked, just strip naked with a gun.
And she's just firing at other passerby in the road, just pointing the gun at random
cars on the, on the freeway and just shooting at them. Like this person has to be having a
mental break or fucking something dude. Here's what their angle of it. Oh yeah. Fuck the car.
There's audio in this one. Holy shit. Yeah. She's shooting. Yeah. She's shooting at random cars,
dude. What the fuck? Holy shit, dude. Yeah. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God.
Oh yeah. She's just shooting it. Oh my God. Get the fuck out of there guys.
What the fuck? What the fuck? You have to hit her. I think she's ran out. Okay. Let's hope she ran
out. Holy shit, dude. Oh my God. Holy shit. Oh my God. Okay. There's like a holy Trinity of naked
black women doing weird things in public in terms of tech talk videos. Last week we saw one and this
week we saw one, the third one. I don't know if I want to show you cause it's the most grotesque of
them all. Um, also I have to censor it as well. Right. It's another, another black woman on the
freeway and she's bent over, uh, spreading her butt cheeks at passerby and she's pushing her
colon out of her asshole. All right. I saw some porn accounts retweet this and like she was like
flexing her gut muscles and she was like red socking. If you know what a red sock is and
porn terminology, she was red socking her colon just out of her asshole. And it was, and I was
like, Oh, why, why do people keep doing this? Why is everyone so fucked up, dude? What the fuck?
Maybe a Jonah Peretti was right about like the schizophrenia of late stage capitalism.
Everyone seems fucked up nowadays. All right. When I got time to do one more today and the
thumbnail for this one is three girls hanging around LA. So I guarantee you is going to be
brain rot. Let's go. How much do you think a guy should spend on an engagement ring? Oh,
fuck you. 10 times their salary. Oh my God. Has to be in like the six digits for sure.
How much do you think a guy should spend on an engagement ring? I'd say at least like a hundred
K. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Like none of these chicks are hot enough to demand that shit. These girls live
in fucking LA LA land, dude. I've said it once. I'll say it again. I am so happy to be dating
somebody who's actually cool. Holy fuck. All right guys, we've come to the end. I don't even know if
I've actually recorded enough to do a full video. It was going to be even over 10 minutes, but you
know what? Um, I suddenly have to go out. So this is it. I'm out of here. IRL beckons. I will see
you guys next time. Okay. Um, as always stream tonight, make sure you tune in. All right guys,
I'll see you next time. I love you.
