So, I like to look at the YouTube trending tab once every couple of days or so.
It's a good place to find some interesting content that you couldn't find otherwise through the recommended videos or other means.
But the trending tab is without a doubt a mixed bag of content.
There's usually a few videos that I enjoy, but most of the videos are really run-of-the-mill mainstream stuff like music videos, talk shows, celebrities, Trump.
Not really stuff that I would want to watch.
But generally harmless content.
But sometimes, I come across that video.
A video so insanely idiotic that you can't comprehend what could lead a group of human beings to think this way.
Videos like this.
AHHHH!
Oh.
Ah.
Oh, I'm having a little bit of trouble recording this audio on account of the crushing weight of my privilege on my shoulders.
Oh, wait. There's actually nothing there.
It feels like I'm baring. Nothing at all.
Nothing at all! Nothing at all!
The fuck does check your privilege even mean?
I understand that it's supposedly based on the idea of people showing reflexivity
for how people's situations can determine their social standing,
which is admittedly a fair concept.
I don't know, Buzzfeed, what exactly is my privilege?
It has a lot to do with how your identity benefits from a system that has been in place for a very, very long time.
Yeah. Winning the birth lottery.
Loser.
You know, if you actually think about it, this is a pretty shitty analogy.
Saying that a human being born into a prosperous life is the equivalent of winning a lottery
implies that every human has a random chance of having rich parents or whatever.
No, this is 100% biologically false.
Based on the fact that my specific genes are derived from a specific gene combination from my specific parents,
it is physically impossible for me to exist if I was born to any other combination of parents in the world.
Why are you implying that I had a chance not to be born into a middle-class American household?
By that logic, should I also chuck my privilege of not being born as a cow, or a bumblebee, or a fucking tree?
This is Koo-Allah!
Oh my god!
The spirit tree! For generations, it has guided-
You have to get us the fuck out of here! These people are backwards savages!
Anyway, the video then presents a spread of people so diverse that it would make PBS television seem bigoted by comparison.
Why does everything have to be about race and gender again? Think about this realistically.
Does a person's race or gender really matter when considering their quote-unquote privilege?
So, you're saying I should feel sorry for a guy like Michael Jordan who has millions upon millions of dollars
and is one of the most well-regarded and widely known, most successful NBA basketball players of all time?
You're saying I should feel sorry for him because he's black?
So, is Morgan Freeman less privileged than Jack Nicholson because Morgan Freeman is black?
What the fuck is this, Yu-Gi-Oh?
You've activated my race card! Since you're a Caucasian type, you gain plus 50 privilege points!
Donald Trump got like a thousand percent on this.
Ironically, a channel which tries to show how diverse and progressive it is
reveals a pretty implicitly racist message by insinuating that any non-white person needs to be pitied.
So anyway, the fucking United Nations takes Buzzfeed's racial shaming quiz.
And I'm looking at this totally scientific and non-clickbait quiz
and I noticed that most of these options are just indicating different plausible methods
through which a person could have been oppressed.
But I can't help but wonder to myself, what the fuck are some of these options?
I have never worked as a waiter, barista, bartender, or salesperson.
So, you're oppressed if you work as a waiter.
I must know your name.
My name?
Who doesn't know what your name is?
Wake me up!
Wake me up!
I have never had to worry about making rent.
So you're privileged if you make fiscally sensible decisions based on your economic outlook
and don't buy things that you can't afford?
I went to summer camp.
Could this be any more irrelevant? What's next?
I played with Legos as a kid? I had a Wii U?
Oh god, now those are the people you should fucking pity.
And of course there's a bunch of options if you've ever been called a derogatory term.
And I agree that these can be really offensive in the wrong context,
but what the fuck does this have to do with someone's privilege?
So, an ignorant dude called you a name you don't like.
Does it really impact you that much to say that you're now less privileged than someone else because of it?
Get away from the door!
There's also a couple of options based on if you've ever felt something.
As if someone's own subjective feelings are relevant to their social status.
Please allow The Rock to explain this to you people.
It doesn't matter how it makes you feel!
And of course there's always the totally rational options of
I am white and I am a man.
Because yeah, fuck white people and fuck men too.
You guys got it too easy.
Maybe you weren't so inflated by your massive privilege.
Your success has nothing to do with your economic standing or anything.
The only thing that matters is good ol' race and gender.
You wanna know who's a white male?
My father!
So, according to Buzzfeed he's been rich and educated his whole life because of his white male privilege, right?
Wrong!
Believe it or not, my dad was on welfare as a kid and he never got a college education.
But rather than wallowing in his own self-pity,
he made something of his life so that I wouldn't have to grow up in those same shitty conditions.
My mom grew up in communist China under fucking Mao.
And she came to America in search of a better life.
And I'm supposed to feel ashamed that my parents improved their lives to the point where I had a good childhood?
Fuck you!
You should never, ever, never,
be made to feel ashamed of who you are.
Number one because your identity is the only thing you really own.
And number two because it's based on factors completely out of your control.
And I get it, okay?
It's important to understand that there are people who are less fortunate than you in this world.
But you know what?
They're not you.
You're the only one who can take control of your life and become the best person you can possibly be.
And no amount of dumb, make-believe privilege is gonna change that.
And it's stupid click-baity BuzzFeed videos like this that get a zillion views on Facebook
and make tons of naive people say,
Oh, why bother improving myself?
I'm clearly so underprivileged.
Man, I hate how heterosexual white males are all super successful because they have so much privilege.
I feel a little sad.
It doesn't matter how it makes you feel!
Ahh! Ahh!
Wah! Wah!
You like that? Huh? You like that?
Wah!
Don't watch BuzzFeed, kids.
Ten million fucking subscribers, my ass.
That's a stupid decision.
That can only be made by a stupid idiot.
Fucking hate idiots, man.
What exactly is my privilege?
I think the word has just become a symbolic issue for powerful groups that feel like they're doing the right thing.
Well, that's retarded.
