Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and honestly, weight is not something I've touched on that often,
despite it being a pretty common topic in discussion all over the internet, because
in case it hasn't been apparent, the whole concern surrounding obesity has been one of
the problems arising over the last few decades. With a shift in culture made by many people,
it appears that access to consumption and sedentary lifestyle has created what many
view as an epidemic, particularly in countries like the US where obesity has ballooned. There
are many reasons for why this is considered to have happened, and there are many hypotheses,
but at the end of the day, what we can confirm is that obesity exists, and with the existence
of fat people comes the existence of fat YouTubers. Obese, overweight YouTubers are nothing
particularly new. You're dealing with a platform that is based online, many people
on the platform aren't the most active, and some people might even find appeal within
their great weight. However, from this transpired a new genre, this mainly revolved around weight
loss. The reasons should be fairly obvious, we as viewers typically look for some element
of ourselves in the creator, whether that's something we currently have, or whether that's
something we aspire to be. Now, when you have a weight loss YouTuber, this is someone that
we should follow their journey with, we find inspiration in their progress, maybe you're
an overweight person yourself, but at the same time you're an introvert or an agoraphobe,
and you don't want to show your body at a Weight Watchers meeting. Maybe those people
online can give some advice on how to lose weight from the realms off the screen. Although
it may not be sufficient to make you lose weight on its own, they may provide that inspiration,
may provide you with that extra motivation, and then you can maybe document your journey
online too, and inspire other people to come along with you. The problem is that this vision
doesn't always happen, and sometimes people themselves aren't strong enough to create
that arc through their own volition, and thus the story changes very significantly, and
because they're documenting all of it on YouTube, suddenly this augments into something much
uglier and we can see a bigger, scarier picture. This is where we reach today's creator, the
creator known as Amblin Reed. It was a late evening, and I had worked on a video only
to make the decision that actually, although I wasn't a fan of the creator's content, there
wasn't enough to follow through on it, so I decided to watch a few videos. I knew one
of my fellow creators known as Danaki had released a couple of uploads on these YouTubers
who were rather notorious for the handling of their weight on the platform, and so in
my crisis I decided to sit down and watch them, and although he was a tad too insulting
for my rather polite demeanour, he touched on some very important points that I definitely
feel could be expanded on in a right opinion video. His content definitely does a great
job at individually calling out the YouTubers in question, but what is there beneath the
surface?
Let's talk about the YouTuber of the day. This is Amblin Reed. She is a 28-year-old
YouTuber from the United States of America. She recently became a target for a lot of
YouTubers for a multitude of reasons. Typically, the cycle consists of her doing something,
people reacting, people noting her rather counterproductive efforts to lose weight,
people noting various other negative traits such as her apparent compulsion to lie and
deceive her audience, and alleged manipulation of certain situations. Hell, there is a whole
channel dedicated to exposing Amblin. That is some spicy commitment, considering that
many of these videos receive more views than Amber's videos themselves.
Amblin appears to be a dubious character for more reasons than just her weight, and although
I do consider many of them valid criticisms and would definitely implore people to look
into them, that will typically be a secondary narrative of this video, because although
I will definitely touch on that, there's a lot of detail to these stories that I think
you can only really see from the testimonies, and I don't plan on addressing all of those,
although if you are interested, I'll definitely reference and link some of the more controversial
incidents sooner or later on in the video, because there is a lot to cover.
One term that I saw thrown around a lot was the word lolcow. This is a strange word, and
one that I have only encountered rather recently, but rather often relating to this specific
case. I thought it might be a derogatory term relating to her size, but in fact, it's
a catch-all phrase that explains an individual whose behaviour is being mocked and yet is
completely oblivious to it, and they continue to behave in this way, but I'm not sure
that's completely the case. In the past few months, Amblin's channel has grown significantly,
and this has essentially snowballed, which has brought her the attention of many commentators
who have decided to call her out, and yet in spite of this, she has persisted, paying
little attention, or just doing the classic YouTuber blocking out the haters technique.
However, none of these antics are particularly new, and anyone who's been along for the
ride will be aware of that. However, how long has it really been going on for?
Today's video will discuss the rise of Amblin Reed, and why her appeal is rather different
than many others, and explain what this means for both her, and many of her peers. From
what I've seen, a lot of the videos so far is that they do a great job at presenting
these various incidents that, in a way, don't seem too connected, but I'd argue there
is a connection that we can put together, so join me in the right opinion as we take
a dive into the very twisted reality of Amblin Reed. Let's go.
Amblin Reed opened her channel on YouTube on the 17th of September 2011. However, she
didn't start posting until two years later, the 17th of November 2013. This first video
was an interesting one, because it showed Amblin without a cause, exactly.
I think making these YouTube videos, it might make me accountable. I just think it would
really help me. I watch so many people who make videos, and they're so inspirational.
Maybe I could be an inspiration for somebody. I don't know. I'm not really doing this
for other people, and more so doing it for myself, but if I can help somebody along the
way, then that's even better.
When we open our YouTube channels, it's fairly typical that we don't know how to
provide an introduction, and yet in this video, in many ways, you could see how things might
take shape in a positive direction. Weight loss creators, in many ways, are very polished,
well-produced individuals with a clear plan, and it sells in a way. You throw in some inspirational
music, a riling speech, and you might end up with a Fousey-esque sort of video, which
even though isn't my cup of tea, it is a lot of people's, especially the internet
casuals.
To understand where I'm at, you have to understand where I started from. A couple
of years ago, I was in the best shape of my life. Mentally, physically, and spiritually.
Never mind, we've already got that. The thing is, that in spite of all this, I can
see the appeal of the more insecure individual, putting their story up on websites for the
world to see, and I think that it's important that people like that are represented. That's
the most real you're gonna get. And that's the thing, what you see right here is a different
person, the whole mentality, how she thinks of herself. There is no real agenda here,
no real plot right now, it's just a person documenting their life. That is classic YouTube.
In fact, although I wouldn't necessarily say that her videos are exactly the epitome
of a vlog, she brands herself as a vlogging channel, and they're characterised by that
sort of journey, but never having too much of a purpose, just having a little arc inside
the video.
And this is the thing, although it's very niche and not exactly something that masses
of audiences are gonna see in YouTube trending because it isn't done up all nicely, I can
see how this content would be important for some people, and judging by a couple of the
comments, it clearly was. One of the biggest problems is that people often feel like they're
alone in their experiences, and therefore it's important that people who do have the
courage to speak about them maybe should, although of course it's their own discretion.
And although Anne Boleyn's channel was inherently bleak in its tone, when you talk about your
quote past, it comes with the implication that it's in the past, and there is this notion
of being able to move forward. Now I'm going to discuss why eventually Anne Boleyn's decision
of her channel direction would soon show these videos in a problematic light, but honestly,
videos like An Emotional Look Into My Past back then without the turn in her content
would've been powerful videos for some people at the time.
So this video is going to be about my childhood and what led me up to where I am now, and
I hope you stick around to watch it.
While she was doing this, she'd do like this weekly weigh in where she would keep her subscribers
up to date with exactly how her weight was heading. Now it seems that typically when
she started a channel, it fluctuated around the 360s, pounds that is, which for any of
you metric lads is around 160kg. Sometimes these weigh ins went well, other times they
didn't.
But the only person I can really blame it on is me. I put the food on the fork and put
it in my mouth. It's that simple. It is that simple completely.
And with her earlier channel days, her response seemed genuine, and it seemed genuine in a
way that it didn't have to gain anything from its audience. There wasn't any overwhelming
success and when she did put on weight, she held her hands up and said that she could
do better. She'd talk about the time when she'd lose weight, 89 pounds to be exact,
to give that hope and motivation.
None of it seemed like the content that people are observing today. It seems completely different.
Her diet was very back and forth, but a lot of the time, the food she did present was
alright if we can date the start of the channel at around 2013. By April 2014, her weight
was pretty similar.
I make this observation, I say it's important, because I think it's necessary to understand
the context and present to you the dilemma. It seems apparent to me that unless she is
one of the most calculated creators in the history of YouTube, she didn't start the
channel with the intent of amassing the weight she has now. In fact, honestly, very little
change in weight is one of the very common outcomes for many people trying to lose weight.
The content was not dramatic, the content was not created with the antagonistic intent
that we'll witness later. That means something has happened in her life that has changed
her mentality towards this career path. And listen, she's lousy at keeping to goals,
and clearly incompetent at points, without a doubt, and the cycle that people talk about
is still here, but she seems to believe what she says even if it's just in the moment.
And that's the difference a lot of people seem to identify with her earlier content
just looking at the comment sections.
So thus far, I hope I've made the point with regards to this individual. If you feel like
you need to go watch more of her channel and arrange those videos from oldest to newest,
and hopefully you'll see the perspective that I'm presenting right now. With this
in mind, I want to go forward and see if we can put a date on any change in her behaviour.
So my journey continued, October 2014.
And I'm down. I weighed in at 362.0. So I'm down 4.8 pounds.
February 2015.
February 9, 2015. My starting weight is 388.8.
May 2015.
I weighed in today at 405.2. It's bittersweet. I wish I was at my lowest weight still. Can't
keep holding on to that.
And here we have it. This is the start of Amblin's slippery slope into weight oblivion.
When I look at YouTubers, I find it very interesting to see if they've just snatched, or if it
was a gradual disintegration of their persona. And to question what the causation of that
was, as we've seen here, it's quite apparent that at the start of these videos, there was
some semblance of aim or goal, and by the end, it's fallen apart, as observed by multiple
commentators.
This is certainly a process that has elapsed over time. However, the time where this was
initiated was 2015, and this was a bad year for Amblin in general. However, what I noticed
is that although she may be still rather softly spoken, a lot of her rhetoric doesn't feel
as genuine anymore. For example, she's still using the 89 pound story a lot, but it now
feels like a deflection rather than self-assurance.
Although it's important to keep in mind one's achievements to remind them of their
capability, the repetition that Amblin creates constantly seems like a self-justification
mechanism to try and hold on to something that she's clearly having trouble retaining.
Do I believe the story? Well, that's something that we'll reach soon, but the problem is,
believe it or not, it's not relevant, and in fact promotes an unhealthy mindset that
masquerades the problem in previous accomplishments. Equally, this is where you get to see a rise
in that cycle that we've observed from many other commentators.
And listen, it's fairly normal for someone to try a diet, then give up because it's not
working out for them. Amblin is definitely towards the extreme end of the bell curve
for failed diets, but she genuinely may be that weak-willed to follow through. But at
the same time, the sheer number of times this happens makes you start to doubt the legitimacy.
There's a reason for that though, and it's not because she fails the diets, but it's
always because she records and publicises the taking on and the subsequent failure of
the diets in exactly the same way.
The problem is that Amblin doesn't seem to listen
to her own advice, and the shift that we're observing is one that has come from the lack
of change in a way. And I've always said this, one of the greatest ways to generate
views is conflict. Conflict arises constantly, and people have a natural interest. Oh my,
who broke up? Who cheated on who? But with Amblin, the problem was not just the fact
that these conflicts never changed, but her reaction never changed, to the point where
you'd experience déjà vu. These striking similarities, for example, between her breakup
videos were noticed by many audiences.
And in a way, you'd expect some similarity in the reaction, after all it's the same
person and the same life event. But as an audience member, if you are genuinely like
what I'd hope an ideal viewer to be, a person rooting for an individual's success in their
goals yet critical where necessary, this is going to be exceptionally uncomfortable for
you, because as creators we are expected to evolve and move forward, make it personal.
The problem was that Amblin's channel began to feel less and less about specific struggles
and more like a soap opera where rhetoric and emotional response is valued over actual
evolution and actual working towards goals, and personal connection with that viewer in
light of that. And everyone knows the success of manufactured content, and with the repetition
and similarity, people began to doubt the honesty of Amblin's content. And as I was
watching, I did too. You're having this cycle of conflict that generates views, you make
a video talking about how it's going to change, this in theory is meant to gain the sympathy
of the viewer, it's a moment of respect, you're trying to combat the challenges of your weight,
and suddenly you do a video and oh no you've relapsed, and suddenly you've put on another
twenty pounds, and it happens again and again and again, it's a downward spiral. On top
of this, something that many people haven't spoken about is the fact that videos about
gaining weight do numbers, partly because there is this very seedy audience who find
that content attractive, you'll see them occasionally in the comments, but a lot of
the time I'm sure they don't want to make their presence known. The amount of weight
gain content on some websites is concerning. As reasonable human beings, we all have a
line we draw for what we deem as a septal justification for a situation occurring. Weight
gain can happen, it's happened to me, it'll probably happen to me again, it's difficult
sometimes completely monitoring your diet, if you can do that, fair play to you, but
sometimes people just can't. The thing is, the ambulance shower relies on her audience
having sympathy for her situation, and although we can be reasonable sometimes and listen
to people talk about their struggles, when someone says oh I can't stop eating, let me
just consume some ben and jerry's, oh woe is me, we become suspicious of that person's
actual drive to change their lifestyle. And yes, of course it's important to document
your weaknesses, but at the same time you have to know how to frame them, and the titles
were becoming more clickbait and it no longer felt like a weight loss channel but more
like a channel where the weight becomes part of the gimmick. And that's okay if you want
to do that, but you have to understand that all these channels are a journey, and if Anne
Boleyn by some miracle lost the weight that she actually claimed she would, the journey
would end, and she'd lose the viewers. I mean, people are there for the weight, and
if the weight is gone, so is the appeal. Weight loss channels are not known for their longevity,
some large youtubers have lost weight but that's different, they established themselves
before, you're gonna have a much harder time significantly establishing yourself on
the idea of losing weight alone, so by not losing it but yet continuously committing
to it, she maintains the limbo of viewer interest. The whole storyline represents a dangerous
precedent, the content seems much more self-indulgent than reflective, and here's the thing, it's
okay to show weakness, it's okay to be human in your videos, but at the same time you can't
glorify those flaws like they're fucking clickbait. And although she never explicitly
stated that, she had created content who was implicitly affirming a lifestyle that
was counterproductive to the notion of weight loss, and you can see that in her titles,
you can see that in her clickbait, you can see that in her presentation, her attitude
is changing, and it was only going to get worse for her. Which is where I introduce
you to the year that ruined Anne Boleyn Reid.
As said, when Anne Boleyn started up her channel, she had a handful of anecdotes that she would
throw around here and there, ones about her family, ones about her relationships, ones
about her childhood, and how it shaped who she is today, and at the time, they seemed
genuine, they didn't seem too dishonest in their presentation, she didn't appear to have
too much of a motivation to lie about these circumstances. However, as time went on and
people started becoming disinterested in these same stories she would continuously espouse,
she decided to do two things. Firstly, she made her own stories. This was done by generating
melodrama throughout her vlogs, but also she retold stories that seemed less likely and
more dishonest, and just involved downright lying to justify what might be considered
For example, she claims that she's bipolar, or was bipolar, or probably is bipolar. It
seems like she's not quite sure. Or what about that time that she was diagnosed with binge
eating disorder back in 2007?
When it comes to scrambled eggs, I'm gonna be honest, they sometimes make me feel nauseous,
and it's because I have an allergy to them.
How do you like your eggs?
This escalated to a point where she made a video addressing the multiple lies, some of
which were fairly harmless, others not so much.
So if you guys remember my aunt situation, this was a while ago though. This was probably,
I don't know, it was months ago. Months, to be honest. When I uploaded a video about
how my aunt doesn't talk to me anymore because I'm fat. I was vulnerable and I was upset
and I really felt like blaming my weight on everything was just like the easiest way
to go. And if she's watching this, I am so sorry and I really just, I wish I could change
who I am as a person. Because I really want my aunt back.
My weight, I wouldn't say I've lied to you guys per se about it, but I definitely haven't
been like very into like telling you guys my weight. I'm fluctuating a lot. Okay, so
something else I've lied about is the job I had in Florida. I told you guys that I was
a PCA worker at assisted living facility full time and I wasn't. I was a PCA worker at assisted
living facility, but I was not full time. I did not want to live off of destiny. And
when I was living in Florida at the beginning, I did not make enough money on YouTube. I
lied about that. I did not make enough money on YouTube to support us. Something else I've
lied about is my blood pressure. On several occasions, I have said I don't have diabetes.
I don't have high blood pressure. I don't have high cholesterol. I don't have this or
whatever. All of that is true, besides the blood pressure. I don't have high blood pressure,
but I have borderline high blood pressure.
The problem was that these lines were escalating further and further, and when you're a person
with only so much to you like Anne Blinn Reid, you're going to have a limited scope in your
ability to captivate the audiences. So what can you do apart from exacerbate already existent
drama? And this was already hurting people such as that relationship with her aunt, whether
those tears were real or not, you get the feeling that either way someone's losing out
on a possibly beneficial relationship if it existed. And at the end of the day, I feel
that Anne Blinn is probably needing that more than anyone else in this situation. And first
of all, I just want to say that's the sad thing about these lines. Anne Blinn thinks
she can put on a brave face, shed a few tears and use that to gain audience sympathy. But
all she's doing is undoing any flavor of genuineness her old content once had with the drama that
followed the year after. You not only threw any audience bond into contention, but all
those people who might have once said, wow, that's so relatable. I feel that way too.
And now questioning themselves because you've turned out to be rather disreputable in your
behavior. This is the thing. I wanted to show a more sympathetic side of Anne Blinn Reid
so that we can now contrast that with what she has become. In her old video, she was
more restrained and arguably less emotive. And that actually worked because when you're
not forcing anything, it doesn't feel like you're trying to push any emotion or deceive
your audience. One thing I noticed is that Anne Blinn actually became much more disingenuous
because her character became much more extroverted, much more expressive, and it felt like she
was constantly trying to sell her audience a message, an agenda, and these regularly
conflicted.
YouTube rewards gluttony, clickbait, and trainwrecks, and you can probably tell that this is what
she cares about now, given the amount of ads she puts on, it's borderline parody. And
I'll save that point for the end, because her lies escalated in the summer of 2016 in
a very interesting move where she decided to try and extend or revive that deep relationship
which she had done in the past by talking about her past. But she decided that she was
going to lay claim to the story about an abusive partner.
Now experiences that have happened in our lives can be very difficult to talk about,
mainly because of the emotional trauma that we may have experienced due to it. However,
if you speak about a person who may no longer be there, or may not be aware that you're
speaking about them, or may not have the platform to defend themselves, it is also very easy
for your claims to go unchallenged, and therefore much of the judgement comes down to perception.
I know that I can't necessarily prove many of the things that I've spoken about that
happened to me in my childhood, and therefore it comes down to personal credibility.
And in some ways this seems like a smart idea on Anne Blinn's part, because someone of
her calibre at this point seems immoral enough to purposely talk about these subjects without
fear of repercussions, because if you deny it, you're denying her traumatic experience.
How dare you? How dare you do that? You see, it seems like a safe move on her part, but
it wasn't.
Her favourite spot was my stomach. She would punch me really hard in my stomach. She punched
me around right here a lot. She would punch me on my arms, and she would continuously
do it until I agreed to make love to her, or have sex, whatever you want to consider
it.
No, in fact her ex-partner Casey, who was identifying as a female during the original
relationship as Cassidy, released a video documenting his experiences with Amblin, refuting
her claims and arguing that he was the victim of the abuse.
I've gotten hit before. I went to school with bruises up and down my arms. Bruises.
My friends asked me, what's wrong? What happened to you? Eventually they figured it out. So
every time I would come to school upset, in tears, bruised, on my arms, hands, cuts, scars,
amber again.
Much of this comes down to one word against another, so in many ways Amblin had many opportunities
to respond to his claims. Maybe she'd argue, maybe she'd bring some evidence forward,
but no, she just removed her original video and kept quiet.
However there is a re-upload which can quite clearly show how manipulative she is if our
judgement of these events is correct. She hooks the audience in with that anecdote of
her parents, and how intimate this was to her, and then leads into this elaborate story
about her experience.
The one thing that she did do was this very strange poetry reading, which I suppose was
meant to be some kind of cryptic response, but that's the best she can do. She's
trying to be in a position of vagueness so that the person can't respond.
Rain and petals eavesdrop, I used the wrong word. Rain and petals eavesdrop, I used the
wrong word. Rain and petals eavesdrop, I used the wrong word. My mental hygiene has been
rotten and stirred.
Not quite Tennyson, is it? And that's another thing I wanted to note. Amblin seems to use
these tropes like poetry and literature that are typically seen as channeling one's feelings
into a higher emotive plane to circumvent criticism and try and add depth to her character.
Using art to convey false feelings is extremely manipulative because we typically look to
the implicit messages of art to indirectly convey the character of a person that they
may not express directly. It's like an outlet, so that we may look back and one day say,
oh what a troubled mind. But Amblin takes advantage of that and she tries to convey
sentiments that aren't really true, and now she's trying to portray experiences that
aren't really true. Fortunately, people saw through it.
And this is the thing, if this was true, this is the most vulnerable and open you can get,
and let me explain why that's important. If I am late to some appointments, some people
might not trust me when I commit to arriving at a certain time, but they might still trust
me if I decide to talk about more personal matters because they will assume that you
have a degree of respect for the sensitivity of those subjects and will not take advantage
of them for personal gain. This is exactly what Amblin has done, and thus she has sacrificed
all of her credibility. You cannot trust her when she tries to open up about more personal
content in the future, and it brings into question everything she's ever spoken about.
What if this content that once bonded people was just a fraud all along? I don't know
if it was all a fraud because I don't know if she had the same goal at the start of her
channel, but I'm sure that's what it's descended to now, and it's genuinely sad
that the few people that she may have given hope to at one point have probably seen that
desolated by a fame-driven appeal to a populace who are watching a train wreck.
2016 was also the year that introduced her to Mukbang. By now she'd already started
doing food reviews, which clearly wasn't a good decision, but Mukbang was really the
straw that broke the camel's back, and I think that's what annoyed a lot of people.
The simple fact is that no one who is actively trying to lose weight can simultaneously create
a fantastic brand of eating large amounts of food in one sitting, unless it's sesame
seeds. The only way you could do that is if you were exercising an equal amount of time
to burn off the calories, which Amblin was clearly not doing, but it gave her some of
the best views in her career, so who cared, and it made her put on weight, and then she
could bring attention to her weight which also generated views, and you create this
cycle that runs again, and again, and again. But this channel shouldn't be about views,
it's about Amblin, and there are so many problems to observe here.
I can't speak for everyone here, but I've often found my behaviour a somewhat conscious
response to the environment around me. When I have found myself in situations where my
reputation might be viewed badly by those in my circle, I have an option to work hard
to realign that view of me, or I could fall into fulfilling what they view of me and not
bother what they think. I've often worked hard to take the former option because firstly
because I'm a paranoid person who does enjoy being on good terms with those around me,
and secondly because I think it's a better thing to do, it's a more positive impact.
Being self-conscious isn't a blessing in some ways, it causes a lot of stress in social
situations, but at the same time being self-aware is important, because you not just look after
yourself, but you look after the message that you might be portraying to your audience.
I feel that in this situation, Amblin has eventually found herself in so much drama
and found it so profitable that she has completely disregarded on her. That has made her more
audacious, outgoing, and perhaps even confident, but it also makes her more fake, more toxic,
and more destructive. When she half-heartedly tries to create a bond with any viewers that
might actually be there for her personality, which I'm highly doubtful of, she's found
it much easier to fall into the worst perception that people have of her rather than actively
challenging it. As her personality has changed, so has her lifestyle, and she put on more
and more weight, while supposedly lamenting it. In my opinion, although they don't receive
much airtime in developing their character, she has surrounded herself with people who
don't challenge that mentality and may actually affirm it.
Studies show that you're much more likely to conform to those around you in person than
if they're impersonal, like over the web, or over the phone. In the original video,
she's clearly much more conscious about what people think, but now she's clearly
comfortable in her real-life situation, and that's all she sees herself as having to
answer to now. There's a load of pointing fingers about who's caused who to gain weight
and so on, and I don't know who is doing what specifically, I don't know what goes
on behind the scenes exactly other than it involves food. What I do know is that it's
happening, and regardless of the excuses that Amblin tries to spew, she has put on a significant
amount of weight, weight that when we look at her old content, she didn't put on, and
she didn't put it on for a while. This was content that regardless of whether you believe
it was legitimate or not, showed that Amblin doesn't have the world's slowest metabolism
and can't do anything at all to prevent her weight gain. In the last couple years,
the amount of hate she's been receiving has steadily increased, probably due to people
calling out that cycle. And yet, I think by going through that cycle, she has just found
herself falling further and further into it, and she has responded to this by doing these
reading hate comments. This successfully alienates herself from the audience and the genuine
criticism that she might be receiving. Whether people's tone is right or not does not discount
the genuine problems here. She attributes the criticism to the fact that she is fat.
And not the fact that she has continuously failed to sort herself out, despite the fact
that she's acknowledged this many times before so much that people don't believe that she
is taking her own criticism seriously.
There are so many videos documenting these constant contradictions, that one can be found
on the Binge Monsters channel, I'll leave it in the pinned comment. And I think how
the thought of just firstly her lack of care in these actions, and then the thought that
she recorded, edited and uploaded it, with the thought that this is a good message to
be sending, it doesn't feel real. It feels like she's taking advantage, and then the
next day she'll express regret, which will just seem as insincere. Her attitude just
screams to me, someone who doesn't care anymore. Whatever there was in the past just isn't
there, and I think that's the most dishonest factor that comes into this, is the fact that
she still wants to care, and now all she does is cater to people who want to watch the disaster
unfold and count up those pounds, 400 pounds, 500 pounds, approaching 600 pounds, which
would be around 270 kilograms.
I think Anne Boleyn came onto YouTube for the weight loss, I mean in her old video she
said she wanted to do this because she wanted an audience to hold her accountable, but the
problem is that when that audience decided to hold it into account, regardless of whether
they may have been hostile or not, she clearly didn't handle it well, and YouTube became
about a different goal, she realised that she could foster that hostility, and garner
more views. She shifted the responsibility of her diet onto the audience response, and
since has continued to gain weight, at a rate that has not been noted before on her channel,
continuously committing to change but failing, and now whenever she has those solemn speeches
where she promises to do better, it feels like a political ruse rather than actually
any genuine commitment, even if in the early days her commitments were futile, it felt
like she believed them at the time. Does she really believe them now? I hope she does,
but if she does change, it will not be with the mindset that she currently has, which
is a self-destructive one, if she really does care about getting her weight down, then she
has to change, if she doesn't want to lose weight, well there's nothing I can say to
her. With regards to that on principle, it's not what I'd recommend, and you're putting
an awful lot of stress onto an already struggling healthcare system, but at the same time, you
need to stop promoting this arc, this cycle, to possibly vulnerable people that your mentality
is justifiable to someone who might want to lose weight, even though you apparently want
to lose weight. To a majority of the audience, it might seem obvious that this is not the
way that someone should live, but there will always be people who are questioning their
own responsibility, and although it's definitely possible that some people are weaker than
others, because your situation is not like any other Amberlynn, you have an audience
that is now watching a person, and counting up their weight until something terrible happens,
and you're placing 8 mid-roll ads, and you're probably making a decent amount of money from
that, other people don't have that, so don't try and frame your mentality from a moral
standpoint because most other people who might be in a similar weight position don't have
all these motivations that have become so obvious in your recent content, they do not
have that safety net. I mean, come on, look at those mid-rolls. And the list of stuff
she does goes on and on and on, and it's not worth documenting them all right now because
at the end of the day, they can be explained by the mentality we've discussed. More lying,
animal maltreatment, some kind of pyramid scheme. She apparently created a fake account
to defend herself from criticism in a Facebook and apparently Discord group too. It's genuinely
frustrating because whether she was genuine in her first videos or not, it's clear they
meant something to people, and now it's just come to here, and I wish it hadn't. Do you
know how many puns I can make now? But you see, I'm a man of refrain, because I accept
that life is not easy, and when we deal with serious problems in our lives, we might let
go of some of the things that we are meant to take care of, but at the same time, it's
important that we acknowledge the consequences our actions might have, and I think that's
what bothers people. You're a public figure. There is this mentality that people are gonna
hate on you just because you're fat, and sure, a few people are like that, but at the
same time, being overweight does promote an insecurity in many people, and I think you
understand that insecurity too. Your old videos definitely seem that way. Other YouTube related
factors that you might be experiencing may override that now, but that's not the case
for anyone else that you're sending these messages to. You are the exception, not the
rule. In our first ever video, Anne Boleyn says she's doing this for herself.
I'm not really doing this for other people, I'm more so doing it for myself.
It's clear what that means to her now. This is the problem. Anne Boleyn cannot stop the
cycle of failure, and food, and consumption, or else she will lose her subscribers regardless
of their motivation to stay, and she'll continue to push herself further and further until
something terrible happens, and she loses that audience that she gained in the first
place, and all she'll be left with is a lot of weight, and the security is gone, and
all that drama, all that deception that you took part in that hurt people, the clearly
affected people, would be for nothing. You're on thin ice as it is. People don't stick
around for the credibility because they know you have none of that. You've destroyed
that for the sake of clickbait and views, and talking about people who you thought couldn't
defend themselves. Many people will just see how far you can push yourself, and I sure
as hell hope you turn us around, for everyone's sake, because I don't see many positive
outcomes from this situation as it is. To the audience, having idols for weight loss
is important, it's sometimes hard, and I really do deeply empathise with that struggle,
but Anne Boleyn Reid is not an idol, and the fact that she might be quote trying is not
really a defence against the very serious criticism she is facing down, because it's
clear there is a level of consciousness to what she's doing. I just want people to get
better.
So yeah, there's the video. Passionate, passionate, passionate, I hope the passion came across.
I would love to give a big shoutout to the editors, they have done a fantastic job, stellar
stellar job my friends. Make sure you follow them, check out their videos, some of them
are very tanned to people who are definitely going places, and one day they'll look back
and they'll say I edited for that idiot once. Also, big shoutout to my Patreons, they're
up on the screen now, and special shoutout to my $50 Patreons, Connor, great chap, and
some hullabaloo, whose name should be correctly spelt this time, I apologise sincerely for
my terrible error first time round. Also, one more $50 Patreon evening steal, who has
only recently signed up, thank you very much, all you $50 Patreons are beautiful people,
much love. And also to my $100 Patreons, Ryan and Brandon, who have blessed me with their
generosity.
Thank you.
