At this point, I've done two videos on r slash anti-work, the subreddit that began
as catharsis for wages who really just wanted to stick it to their boss, but was rapidly
subverted and became all about overt communism.
The most recent video was centered on the now former admin of the sub, since he had
quite a few skeletons in his closet.
But the first video was all about how there actually wasn't anything anti-capitalist
about the content of r slash anti-work.
It was, in fact, capitalism working as intended.
Just as an example of what I mean, check out this recent post.
It's a free market.
I get to decide who buys my product, my product being my labor.
My labor goes to the highest bidder.
Want my labor?
Outbid the next guy.
Millennials aren't job hopping.
You were either too poor or too cheap to pay for their labor.
This is actually a completely reasonable statement.
The comments are talking about how this is sticking it to the man, or doing praxis or
whatever.
But this is actually how it should be.
For example, when conservatives talk about limiting immigration in order to reduce the
supply of labor, forcing employers into bidding wars over the labor pool, this is explicitly
what they're talking about.
This isn't some leftist subversion of capitalism.
This is actually what conservatives want.
That's the entirety of r slash anti-work's quality posts.
The ones that are not openly about socialist theory.
People mistaking properly engaging in a market for anti-capitalism.
r slash anti-work blew up during an event called the Great Resignation.
After the economic effects of COVID lockdowns began to really make themselves felt, your
average person realized a few key things.
One, COVID benefits paid way more than having an entry-level job.
Two, despite lockdowns massively slowing down immigration and the resulting labor shortage,
jobs still weren't offering any more benefits or pay to compete.
Three, the combination of one and two heavily contribute to the inflation crisis.
The question was then asked by a lot of normies.
Why work at all?
If your job sucks and you're not getting paid what you're worth, and your boss refuses
to renegotiate with you, and Biden's got the money printers revved up to maximum, what
the hell is the incentive to keep your job?
I mean we all know at the macro level the long-term incentive is that you can't mindlessly
endlessly print your way of an economic crisis, which is something that we just might have
to learn for ourselves first hand.
But that doesn't motivate people to make choices when short-term economically rational
options are staring them in the face.
Plus over the course of lockdowns people got used to working from home and once jobs started
calling workers back into the office everybody began to question the practice.
I can see both sides of this one frankly.
On the one hand going into work sucks, especially if your co-workers suck or the dress code
sucks, or the location sucks.
If you got to put on a suit and tie to go into a cubicle and do the same office work
you can do at home, only you're less productive and you're stuck there for eight hours without
any privacy and having to interact with people that you don't like, working out of your
house sounds pretty good.
Who would want to go back?
Not me.
But on the other hand, the automization of the most basic functions of life really kicked
into high gear during COVID.
You need housewares or electronics or even clothing?
Buy it from Amazon.
Need groceries?
Instacart it.
Want to order food?
Use Grubhub.
All while you work from home.
It's a neat paradise out there right now.
You never have to leave your house again.
And while that's comfy for a little while, it's got to be psychologically damaging
to do it long term, to just never go outside or engage with the community ever again.
It's out of all of this that we got quiet quitting.
The term quiet quitting is older than this current series of events, but was first thrust
into the modern limelight when this TikTok video was posted on r slash anti work and
subsequently went viral.
I recently learned about this term called quiet quitting, where you're not outright
quitting your job, but you're quitting the idea of going above and beyond.
You're still performing your duties, but you're no longer subscribing to the hustle
culture mentality that work has to be your life.
The reality is it's not and your worth as a person is not defined by your labor.
This has actually been around for over 50 years, but under a different name work to
rule, meaning literally work to the rules of your contract or workplace and not one
bit more.
The idea is some employers don't understand or value the little extra bits of unpaid labor
they get from their employees who do it simply out of convenience.
Like if you check your work email after hours, or if you punch out and then go quickly for
you to finish up a job before going home, or if you do a quick little thing during your
break.
And if an entire workforce adheres to their rights under contract strictly, not giving
up even one little drop of unpaid labor, the resulting slowdown of productivity at the
company is enough to make management notice while simultaneously breaking no rules or
laws.
To refer back to Reddit again, it's basically just r slash malicious compliance.
And people are eating this shit up, like Zoomers have found something amazing and new.
Oh my god guys, what if we just did the bare minimum in our jobs in order to not get fired,
and then used our extra time and energy on ourselves?
Yeah, people have been doing that since before you were even born.
However, a lot of the tech talks on the topic seem to not really understand the basics,
like this one.
Hey Bob, for the next month or two, I'm gonna need you to come in an hour or two early and
stay a couple hours behind, a little short staffed and all hands on deck.
Oh, sure thing.
Are you gonna double my pay for the extra hours I'm working?
Bob, we pay you a $40,000 a year salary.
Of course we're not gonna give you overtime.
Think of it as a learning experience and giving the company an extra helping hand.
Okay, does this learning experience pay my bills?
Or better yet, does it pick up my kids from daycare?
No, but there is a performance review next month.
What?
So that I can get a 5% pay bump versus 3%?
Yeah, I'm all set.
I'm gonna quiet quit.
I'm gonna quiet what?
Quiet quitting.
I'm gonna come in during my normal working hours next week and do my job.
If you need me to do more, you can pay me more.
Otherwise, I'm all set, thanks.
Asking what's my overtime pay is a reasonable question if you're paid by the hour.
Generally speaking, the upside of an hourly position is that your time is measured strictly
and paid for strictly.
You go overtime, you get overtime.
The trade-off is that you generally lack flexibility in your shifts.
You work when they need you.
But a salaried position isn't paid by the hour, it's paid by the job.
The downside to this system is that there's no overtime.
You put in as many hours as it takes to get the job done.
But the upside is that, generally, hours are far more flexible.
If you need to leave early to bring your kid to the doctors or go on a family trip or whatever,
that's fine.
Just get your work done early or call in a favor from a coworker and the time off is
no problem.
That's the balance.
Hourly positions with overtime but little flexibility.
Salaried positions with no overtime but lots of flexibility.
Historically, hourly positions are more likely to be blue collar and unionized, while salaried
positions are more likely to be white collar and middle management.
The reason for this divide is because, generally, hourly positions at the bottom of the hierarchy
are more physically demanding, more at risk due to the lower amount of education required,
and also most likely to be exploited by management, while the salaried positions at the top provide
more connections in the industry, more opportunities for advancement, and more job security.
The quiet quitters on TikTok are treating a salaried position like it's an hourly one.
And hey, man, that's fine.
You do you.
Like, listen to this chick.
Here's my take on the whole quiet quitting conversation that's going on right now.
Quiet quitting is doing the bare minimum at work and not going 110% above and beyond expectations.
And it's being defined as leaving work on time, not checking your emails outside of
work hours, and not subscribing to hustle culture, which, isn't that what a job should
be already?
It's one of those narratives that paints the employee as the villain.
When the symptoms of quiet quitting, like being disengaged from work, not being motivated,
being disconnected from the values and the missions of the company, are mostly things
that the company needs to solve and address, bottom line is that people just want to detach
their identities from their working life.
It's got to be a two-way street from the employer as well, because employees want to
feel supported in their role and in their life.
This is all reasonable to me.
I'm not a Marxist here.
I don't believe in a lasting, permanent connection between people that grants you
a stake in their behavior due to simple economic interactions.
But I promise you, if you behave like this in a salaried job, when it comes time for
somebody to get promoted, you'll be the one passed up for advancement, in favor of
somebody else who didn't quiet quit.
In an hourly position, especially if it's unionized, promotions come solely by seniority.
If you've got the most hours, that means you're the next in line for the promotion.
That system has its own problems, because there's no guarantee that the person with
the most hours is the most qualified.
They might just be the last hanger on.
For example, the current manager at my last wagey job, the one that I quit to do YouTube
full time, is only the manager because everybody else recognized the job as transitory and
used it as a stepping stone to build some quick cash and then get out.
She's a meth addict who was the least capable of all of us, and her promotions serve as
a confirmant, because people who are actually capable end up moving on instead of moving
up.
But in a salaried position, if you're putting in the bare minimum while your coworker is
going above and beyond, you're not getting the promotion.
It's as simple as that.
Now, if you're okay with that, if you don't want promotions, if you want to just stay
where you are and not advance in your career, then quiet quitting is exactly what you should
do.
If they want you to do more than what you were hired to do, they should pay you.
If they're not going to pay you, you shouldn't do it.
I guess what these people are missing is, they actually are paying you.
They're paying you in promotions, networking, opportunities, all of which do lead to more
money down the road.
But it's completely reasonable not to want those things too.
I wouldn't want to get paid in Wendy's gift cards, even though it's still money
I could spend at Wendy's.
If they're not compensating you in your preferred currency, dollars over career advancement
in this case, then that pay is a lot less valuable to you.
Of course, a lot of the discourse around this topic isn't exactly intelligent.
Okay, let's see.
Goal for today.
500 calls.
We're doing 50.
We're doing 50.
She did not say that.
She did not.
I'm dying.
I'm happy to help.
Have a great day.
Okay.
Bye.
Jesus Christ, if I work with this lady, I would love it if she would actually quit.
Also, she swings a bit too far in the other direction, you know?
It's Maple Muffin Monday, everyone.
Let's go to the break room.
We watched last week's episode of The Bachelorette.
Yeah, good drama, right?
Quiet quitting is doing your job, not not doing it while on the clock.
That's something you should actually be disciplined for.
But there's always one nugget of truth inside even the most annoying of TikTok videos.
She mentions the phrase acting your wage.
Hey, Veronica, you have till end of day to finish all this extra work.
Respectfully, Susan, it's 2022, we're acting our wage, so don't give me extra work.
Okay?
Thank you.
Thank you.
This idea of acting your age, a saying that I'm sure we all heard growing up, acting your
wage is basically the same thing as quiet quitting and working to rule.
It's the idea that you do what you're paid for.
And fair enough.
But we can also flip this on its head.
If you want a higher wage, you got to act like it too.
This idea is best seen as something like commission work, where the more you do, the more you
get paid.
And that job, whether it's high pay or low pay, you're always acting your wage.
On the weekly sip a little while ago, I read an article describing Ontario's provincial
government enshrining a right to disconnect.
What this basically means is that your employer cannot punish you for not doing anything work
related on your off hours.
We're talking small stuff like answering emails, unless you are being paid to be on call.
As I've mentioned in both this video and a dozen others, Marx's critique of liberalism
stems from the liberal's right of disconnection.
You must be on call at all times, even if we don't pay you.
Sounds like it's an exploitative capitalist wet dream.
I'm sure it is, but it's not strictly a capitalist thing.
We saw, for example, during the early stages of COVID in China, doctors and nurses were
forced to work under the threat of state retaliation every waking hour of every day
because the society, the people, the collective had a right to their labor.
Ontario's law came from conservatives, and progressives here haven't spoken a word about
it.
Socialists only view the quiet quitting stuff, the acting your wage stuff, as a win because
they're not in power.
If they were, it wouldn't be tolerated.
Because if you don't labor, you're stealing from the workers, comrade.
This is the main reason why the individualist perspective is the solution to all of this.
When I work on my YouTube channel, yes, it's YouTube who pays me.
And yes, they benefit from my work, but I don't do it for them.
I don't really care about them as a company, especially after the copyright bullshit I
had to deal with recently.
I do it for me.
When I work harder, I'm the one who benefits.
YouTube benefits too, but I don't really care.
I care about me.
The quiet quitting mentality applies if you will literally get nothing for going above
and beyond.
No overtime pay, no career advancement, nothing.
At that point, the only thing left to get is the pride of knowing that you went above
and beyond and that your name is attached to the excellence.
That's good, sure, but I wouldn't blame people for not doing a thing if that's the
only reward.
However, if there actually is a reward for going above and beyond and you decide to quiet
quit, that's your choice, but you're kind of a loser.
I mean, at least you're getting out of the way of people who actually want to move forward
with things.
That's a plus.
But you're purposely gimping your career.
Again, if you don't value your career and want to spend time with your friends or whatever,
that's your choice.
But 30 years down the line, when the other guy has blown up and you're still at the
bottom of the totem pole, you have only yourself to blame.
But at the very least, within a liberal system, you have that choice.
You have the choice to be mediocre if that's what you really want.
Every socialist society points guns at the workers and demands that they work towards
the socialist utopia because if the working class collectively owns their labor, then
the collective owns your labor.
You don't own it in an individualistic, exclusive way.
There's no quiet quitting allowed when others have the right to your labor.
At the end of the day, this quiet quitting thing is example 596,872 of socialists not
understanding how capitalism works, performing capitalism as it was intended, and failing
to realize that if they lived in their system of choice, they would be shot for doing this
very thing.
