So I noticed that quite a few people took, uh, took objection to my video yesterday.
And I mean, that's fine. We don't always have to agree on everything, right?
The point of yesterday's video was that it doesn't really matter how many people are out there being idiots.
Yeah, it's bad, and yeah, they shouldn't do it.
And yeah, if what they're doing is illegal or even immoral, they should be held accountable for that.
But that, to me, the greater problem is government overreach.
The greater problem is the unwarranted restriction of freedoms.
But I do understand the opposing point of view, you know?
This idea that this virus is going to kill a whole bunch of the boomers,
and therefore anybody who loves their parents or loves their grandparents is going to want to stay inside.
Well, yeah, but that's voluntary, isn't it?
I mean, if you live with grandma and you have to go outside for some reason,
well, that should actually be a pretty good motivator for you to be responsible while you're out there.
I'm not saying don't wear masks. I'm not saying don't wear gloves.
I'm not saying don't practice social distancing.
I'm not saying don't do all of those things that responsible individuals should do.
What I'm saying is that it's not up to the government to do that for you.
And in fact, you can make a blanket statement that quarantine itself can actually be seen as unethical,
at least from some points of view.
Consider Typhoid Mary. Was it ethical for the government to quarantine her?
Typhoid Mary was somebody who could spread typhoid fever around, but didn't actually have the symptoms of it herself.
She was an asymptomatic carrier.
And in fact, she was a carrier of this disease from the time that she got it up until the end of her life.
She worked as a cook. And for a while, at least, she didn't know she was capable of spreading the disease.
The government put her in quarantine for three years.
And after those three years were up, she was ordered not to work as a cook again.
But it turns out that she just didn't believe the diagnosis, went back to work as a cook,
caused another pandemic of typhoid fever, and then was put into quarantine for the rest of her life.
You have to ask yourself, did she do anything wrong?
I don't mean, did she cause suffering? She obviously did.
But did she consciously do anything wrong?
Before the first quarantine, the answer was obviously no. She didn't know.
She didn't know what she was spreading. She didn't know what was going on.
And to be honest, to a working class woman, completely uneducated, living at the turn of the century,
this idea that you could spread disease to everyone around you while not actually suffering from the disease yourself,
that would seem quite unbelievable to someone like her.
I can actually understand why, at least in that situation, she wouldn't believe that diagnosis.
We would obviously believe it today because we're all more educated, but she didn't have that privilege.
But in a more general sense, in terms of natural rights, did she do anything wrong?
Sure, she was ignorant, but she didn't go around purposefully spreading typhoid fever.
I mean, maybe she did deep in her heart, like, who knows, right?
But as far as we can tell, she just didn't understand what was going on.
And if there's no intent, and if the person reasonably believes that they're not the problem,
and that person simply exists in public, is there any guilt?
Or maybe we can formulate it like this.
If there is some quality that a person has that is endemic to them, that is, it's simply part of them,
and they can't remove it or change it, and their simply existing in public causes massive problems for other people,
who do you blame for that?
If you blame the individual for that, then you start to go down a whole bunch of terrible roads.
You can definitely have an individual of a minority race, and then have it be their fault that they exist,
because the majority doesn't like them, and they walk down the street or something.
This is obviously not the same situation as someone who asymptomatically carries a virus, I know that.
But if we're going to start blaming people for things that they do not actually do,
and simply happen around them because they exist outside, there is definitely a slippery slope there.
Of course, at the same time, even though I might excuse Typhoid Mary back in her day,
I wouldn't excuse her now, because nowadays we do have education.
And people generally do know about germ theory in a way that they didn't 120 years ago.
You know, when it turned out that Rand Paul had an asymptomatic variant of coronavirus,
he was smart enough and educated enough to self-isolate.
But I also do think that it's important to note that he did it himself.
It was the right thing to do, but the government didn't order him to do it.
There are going to be some people who listen to this video and, for some wild reason,
think that I'm just being pro-spreader or something. That's definitely not the case that I'm making here.
The case that I'm making is that forcibly quarantining someone always infringes on their individual rights.
And yes, that just might be required sometimes.
Like in the case of Typhoid Mary, where people were getting sick and dying all around her constantly no matter where she went.
But the state cannot simply use that power whenever it likes.
It has to be only the most serious of cases.
And frankly, I don't think coronavirus is the most serious of cases.
The Asian flu of 1958 killed an estimated 116,000 Americans,
back when the US only had around 150 million people in it.
But the country didn't shut down.
Civil liberties were not suspended.
2009's swine flu, otherwise colloquially known at the time as H1N1,
killed over half a million people worldwide, infected nearly one and a half billion.
And yet, we didn't close things down.
Not only that, the pandemic was not pinned on Obama, in the same way that the media seems to be trying to pin this one on Trump.
Why they're not pinning it on China, I'll never understand.
Your average flu season infects around one billion people a year.
And again, you might get a half a million deaths a year from it.
We don't strip people of their civil rights and close down the entire world for four months a year.
I'm not saying that coronavirus isn't serious. It is.
I'm not saying that any of the things that we're currently doing aren't helping.
They are.
I'm not even making a purely economic argument, although that's definitely part of it.
I think if we keep ourselves locked up for more than a few more months,
there will be a massive worldwide depression that will kill more people than the virus ever will.
But I'm not even making that argument this time.
What I'm saying is, how many governments have actually ever given up the emergency powers they've seized during a crisis?
Was the Patriot Act repealed after Al Qaeda was routed in Afghanistan?
Did the NSA, with the help of big tech, ever actually stop collecting your data?
Or listening in on your phone conversations or reading your private messages?
I'll definitely have a video coming up about what these authoritarians are doing on the ground.
We can take a look at it in greater detail then.
But the point is, is that it's not worth it.
Like I said in my last video, I could catch this virus and die from it.
And on my deathbed, I would stand by it.
That it is not worth throwing away our civil liberties over this.
There's also a practical argument, too.
For some reason, there's a lot of doomerism going around because of this whole reinfection thing.
People are getting reinfected.
The honest truth is, the reinfection thing is probably just really bad testing methodology from earlier in the outbreak.
People who thought they were sick weren't actually sick, but the tests showed that they were.
And then they ended up catching it later.
I do think that at the very least, getting sick provides you with partial immunity.
Maybe not full inoculation, but definitely partial immunity.
And here's why.
We've seen, generally, a slowdown in the acceleration of cases worldwide.
We're not talking about China's numbers, because China's numbers are very obviously made up at this point.
There's no way that in the past month they only got like 3,000 new cases.
There's no way.
They have millions over there, and they're just not telling us.
But in places where numbers are more likely to be reliable, we've seen this slowdown in acceleration.
And you could say, maybe that's because of all the various treatments that we've discovered.
Or maybe it's because of the social distancing, or everyone staying inside.
Yeah, maybe.
But also you have areas where the country didn't actually lock things down all that strictly.
And we're still seeing a decrease in the acceleration of new cases.
What that says to me is that there's probably some kind of asymptomatic variant going around between people that's going relatively undetected.
No one's really knowing that they have it.
No one's really knowing that they're spreading it.
And that it's conferring at least some partial resistance.
Because then those resistant people can't actually get any more serious cases that would then cause them to have serious symptoms, go to the hospital, get tested, get officially confirmed.
And places that have no lockdown and little to no social distancing are still experiencing a slowdown in the acceleration of cases.
Either the official numbers are just completely made up, which is possible.
Or there is this asymptomatic variant that is slowly inoculating the world's population.
And frankly, if that's the case, if nature really is handling this thing on its own, then social distancing can actually hinder that.
If you have an asymptomatic variant and you're not spreading it to everyone around you, well then they're not getting the benefit of it.
I'm also not saying that we should never have locked things down in the first place, because we obviously should have.
But the lockdown was for a specific reason.
Yeah, they call it flattening the curve, but here's what it actually is.
It was to do a few things.
One, ramp up local production capacity such that they can start making their own masks and ventilators and other things and not have to rely on China to deliver it to them, because they're not delivering them right now.
And we've done that.
Western companies are in fact jumping into the fight and making all the stuff that we need.
It's almost like a World War II era thing where everyone's kind of pulling together to do what needs to be done.
Two, the time was to be used to develop an effective treatment.
It seems like hydroxychloroquine is that effective treatment.
It's not a vaccine or anything, you can't take it before you get it.
And please don't go drinking the aquarium cleaner or whatever it was.
But it does seem to be an effective drug that you can take while you have it.
And vaccines are being developed.
There are some universities here in Canada working on vaccines.
I know France is working on a vaccine.
This stuff will come.
And this time was to be used to get those efforts started, which we've done.
In other words, a worldwide quarantine was needed to basically buy us enough time to research the virus, develop treatments, and manufacture what we need to actually fight it.
And for the most part, we've done that now.
I'm not saying don't stay in.
If you want to stay in, stay in.
I'm not saying don't be more careful than normal when you go out.
If you want to, go ahead.
I'm saying at this point, the state should stop restricting people from leaving their houses.
It is an overreach of government authority.
It is a power grab.
Human rights don't stop being human rights just because there's a pandemic on.
Anyway, that's just my point of view.
Again, I'm not some kind of secret super spreader or something.
I'm not denying that this virus exists.
I'm not denying that it may in fact be serious.
And it will certainly kill people, and no one wants that to happen.
What I'm saying is, at this point, I think the greater threat is the authoritarians and the government who view this as an opportunity to consolidate power.
Anyway, thank you for listening to me ramble a little bit.
I am enjoying the fact that whenever I do a video that is literally just my thoughts and not like analysis of news or with articles or something,
but just me working something out in my head, that you guys still like listening to it.
So thank you very much for all your support.
I'll see you in the next video.
I love you.
