So, the rightoids have found a country song with political lyrics to coalesce around.
No, no, not that one. That was from a previous news cycle. I'm talking about rich men north
of Richmond. The song is a redneck working class American creed, and every leftoid who
listens to it has a very turbulent reaction. The first half of it is something that any
socialist can get behind. Whenever I've watched a crumbtuber react to the song,
they're actually initially into it, but all of their faces sour when they hear the second half.
This is the wrong type of populism for your average socialist. Yeah, some of them are still
trying to claim this song as the soul of the proletariat or whatever, but most of them have
moved on to decry it as a right-wing astroturf job. What's really telling is that they vehemently
object to the Epstein's Island reference, even though there's a fair bit of evidence regarding
Epstein's behaviors on that island. It's always going to be funny to me that socialists believe
the world is secretly controlled by the 1% who use their capital to circumvent laws and destroy
nations, that modern democracy is a sham meant to post hoc justify the ruling class's existence.
All of that populist brain rot shit. But the minute a Nazi walks in and asks about the genetics
of the people involved, suddenly now it's a dangerous conspiracy theory. They're all fucking
retarded. Anyway, the legacy media is all over this guy, talking about how the far-right loves
him and how his anti-government rhetoric is dangerous and everything else. Here's the thing,
the people writing these articles are the same people demanding their student loans be forgiven.
Meanwhile, you think guys like this even have a student loan? This is something I pointed out in
my Bidenomics video. If you print money and give it to the middle class, the resulting inflation is
an informal tax of that value on anybody who didn't receive the printed money. The rich might
not care, but the poor certainly do. If forgiving the middle class's student loans causes inflation,
and it might, then it's the poor people who suffer as the spending power of whatever savings
they might have, plummets. Here's the thing about viral phenomenon. This applies to positive trends,
like a song taking off, but it also applies to negative trends, like a consumer boycott.
Generally, when things go viral online, it's more common that it begins in a leftist circle
than a rightist one. This is self-evident to me. The internet is a younger technology used
overwhelmingly by young people. Young people are more likely to be leftists and more likely to have
the free time to spend online engaging in viral events. But when something goes viral out of a
rightist circle, it's almost immediately attacked as not truly being viral, instead as being
astroturfed by the elites or something. For example, look at the mainstream response of
the Bud Light boycott. Bud Light's audience was predominantly right-wingers. Bud Light
pisses right-wingers off. Right-wingers stop drinking it. It's a pretty simple story to
understand. But the leftist narrative surrounding that event is that it's not a true consumer
boycott. It's not actually people rising up and voting with their wallet and having their voice
heard. It's that rightoids are mindless sheep directed by Matt Walsh or Tucker Carlson or
whoever else. It's not a true viral event. It's astroturfed by rightist talking heads.
Hey, when I talked about it last, I didn't say it was fake or anything. I just thought it was dumb.
But leftoids cannot tolerate the idea of a mass action movement from a decentralized group of
lowly plebs that isn't in service of leftist politics. This explains their reaction to Bud
Light. It explains their reaction to the Canadian trucker protests. It explains their reaction to
the various farmer protests. They cannot accept the idea of ground roots working-class action
that goes against their ideas. The reason for this is because even as socialists talk about
advocating for the working class, they actually hate the working class. They find them intolerable.
It's that Stone Toss comic where the communist refuses to shake the dirty hands of the working
class man. The American working class living in the countryside, working with their hands or with
large machinery, is from a different culture and holds different values than the American communist
who lives in a pod in a large city and contributes little of actual material value to society.
I've spoken about these people so many times in my channel. The ivory tower intellectuals,
the champagne socialists, the mindless progressives who believe that shaming other people is an
argument, the government officials who work to dismantle the lives of the very same people who
feed them in the pursuit of their utopia, knowing that they will have more than enough influence to
survive the famine they're creating. We've all seen the posts of middle-class, middle-aged white
women who forced their Mexican maids to vote Democrat or fire them. We've all seen the Reddit
addicts and the Twitterati talk about how classism is good because the working class is bigoted,
conservative, stoic, and likes edgy jokes. And we've all seen angry Prague's scream racial slurs
at non-white Republican voters. I've also done several videos on why seemingly normal things
are now being labeled as far-right, from working out, to going to farmers markets, to having
children. The left wears its tolerance like a mask. It's not truly a part of them. What
actually matters is loyalty to their politics. When the minority disagrees with the progressive
politically, they become just as vicious as any KKK member. What's happening in all of these
examples is the same thing as what's happening with the current left-wing disdain for rich men
north of Richmond, as well as try that in a small town, and the Bud Light boycott, and all the rest
of it. The first level of understanding is that these are instances of rightist cultural victory,
and the left doesn't want the right to win. In their minds, it's left good, right bad. Therefore,
every left cultural victory is the good guys winning, and every right cultural victory is
the bad guys winning. The second level is a Gramscian understanding of what's at play,
that when a cultural event kicks off that captures the hearts and minds of the masses,
if it embodies socialist politics, it can be used to inch us closer to revolution. If it embodies
non-socialist politics, it serves to entrench the capitalist status quo. Therefore, the working
class person who likes stuff like this is stifling the development of their own class consciousness.
The third level is that right-wing populism is actually a lot like left-wing populism,
so much so that people routinely cross over between them. Like I said, socialists talk
about the ruling class of society who apparently oppress everybody, while shrieking Nazi whenever
somebody who's not on the left tries to articulate the exact same idea. It's not enough that you
notice that there's problems with the current system. You need to articulate that problem
exactly as they do, and adopt their solutions, because every notion of political reform and
revolution is highly dangerous, destabilizing, trust-eroding, except theirs are totally cool.
But here's what's at the very bottom of it. Check out this Reddit post.
Okay, this sounds really bad, right? Well, after I explain it in detail,
it's going to sound a lot worse. So buckle up.
But Marx was wrong. Religion has always been a justification for action in and of itself.
The Christian Crusades, Islamic expansion, history is littered with examples of people
making decisions for religious reasons, where the religion did not serve to simply post hoc
justify some economic motive, but was in fact the primary motive. Feudal societies with agricultural
based modes of production have no economic incentive to venture into distant lands and
convert the people there, but nonetheless our history is full of this happening.
But this Reddit post is written through that false lens, the materialist mode of analysis.
The bad beliefs he's talking about, he thinks exist due to the material conditions of what he
calls the reactionary poor people. In other words, the culture, the practices, the beliefs of American
rednecks only exists due to their poverty, their geographic location, and the fact that they're
overwhelmingly either unemployed or blue collar workers at a business they don't own. If their
economic, employment, and geographic circumstances could be changed, the problematic redneck culture
would cease to exist, according to this guy. His solution is to force them to own a part
of the means of production. This is the whole worker co-op thing. Modern day socialists are
often market socialists, either as their ideal mode of politics or as a stepping stone towards
communism. Market socialism posits that all businesses should be worker cooperatives,
meaning owned in equal parts by all who work there. In other words, today if a shop owner
hires four employees to work in his shop, that's one owner and four workers. In a market socialist
system, the five people at the shop would all own an equal 20% of the business, regardless of
who initially founded it. Yes, that's a bad idea, and no I can't get into why right now. That video
is somewhere on my list. But this redditor's view is that working the means of production that you
don't own is one factor that leads to the development of these problematic redneck cultures.
And so, of course, the solution is to force workers to partially own the means of production
that they work. Let me give you an example of what this guy is proposing. Let's say that you
were working at a grocery store. You don't really like the job but need the money right now. You
don't want to stay there long term, it's just something transitional, something to get you by
for now because you have other plans coming down the pipe. Maybe you're moving in six months or
going to school or whatever. Your game plan is to keep your head down, punch in, punch out,
and maintain your life outside of work. The job is the least important thing going on right now.
This redditor would come along and say, okay, I don't like your culture and your way of life,
so I'm going to force you to co-own part of the grocery store company. Now all of you workers will
be co-managing the entire business. I theorize that this will radically change your culture and
way of life to be more progressive and more like me. Now, I don't think that'll ever fucking work.
In fact, if the job were actually transitory for you, as most part-time retail or food service jobs
are, I feel like it would make you hate it even more than you already do. As there's no more of
that keep your head down, punch in, punch out, move on shit, now part of your job is being actively
involved in workplace politics. It's a dumb idea, but it stems from the theory that material
conditions generate the culture that this guy hates, that smashing the culture is good, and so
forcing new material conditions upon the blue-collar, redneck working class is also good.
There's a book called The Theory of the Leisure Class by Thorstein Veblen. He's Norwegian,
by the way, with a name like that. He was a critic of capitalism, but he wasn't a socialist or a
fascist, despite what the name of that book might make you think. His idea was that the leisure
class showed off its status by engaging in leisure or by taking up employment in jobs of leisure,
while the working class are the people who did productive work. In his view, productive work
meant any labor that actually created something, whether that was food or clothing or buildings,
any sort of stuff that can be built and used by people. Leisure work was work that didn't
produce anything materially useful like that. So working in the church or being an actor or
playing a sport professionally or being a soldier, leisure work doesn't mean that the work is easy.
It's often quite hard. It simply refers to work that doesn't generate economic production.
Veblen theorized that because it's often hard to deduce somebody's social status at a glance,
especially in countries without a formal aristocratic class like the United States,
status symbols are used to signal class. If you could afford to work leisure work or better yet
own leisure works products, you were high class. Yeah, this seems obvious to us now in 2023. A
Bugatti is a status symbol. We get it. But Veblen wrote this in 1899. He was the first to codify the
idea. The upper class wears delicate restrictive clothing like suits or gowns because they can
afford to. It's not comfortable or durable, but that's okay. They can just buy more if they have
to. The upper class engages in time consuming expensive sports because they can afford to.
A sport like golf or fox hunting or whatever produces no actual economic utility. Only people
with wealth have the time to learn something with no practical use. Having a wife who doesn't work,
having servants, these are also signs of affluence. These are all things that poor people
can't do. So doing them signals your status and therefore rich people do them whether they like
them or not. It's also why poor people who have a couple of steps ahead of the rest of the poor
often try to chase the signals without actually gaining wealth. There's a biological basis for
this too. The biologist Amos Sahavi proposed in a study that some animals evolved to display for
potential mates specifically because these displays are costly to maintain. The obvious
example is the peacock's tail. You'd think something like this would make it very easy
for the peacock to be spotted by a predator. Therefore, only a healthy fit bird is capable
of growing such a tail while still evading predators. Many animal mating rituals involve
the pointless expenditure of energy and resources, likely to signal to potential
mates that they have excess to spare for them and their offspring. This probably also applies
to humans as well, why men feel like they have to show off for women they're interested in.
I also can't help but wonder if this tendency also partially contributes to the upper class'
copious use of drugs and alcohol, like they're subconsciously trying to signal that they're so
fit they can inject battery acid into their veins and keep on going or something like that.
Of course, there's also limits to Veblen's theory. Do I play video games as a status
symbol to hold myself above people who can't afford video games, or do I just like to do it?
Do the consumers with rooms full of Funko Pops or whatever spend all that money as a status symbol,
or do they genuinely like those properties? Do I listen to my chiptune and electroswing music
to show off obscure bands like a hipster, or do I do it because I like the music?
I can see how the absurdity of Sam Smith-esque runway model outfits fits into Veblen's idea,
but I cannot for the life of me envision anybody who would actually enjoy wearing that sort of
thing. At some point, genuine enjoyment has to play a part in consumption. It can't all be
social signaling. My view of Veblen's theory is that the 21st century has brought with it a new
set of leisure status symbols. Now we have leisure political beliefs. It's very easy to soy out on
Twitter about how human lives are always more important than property and therefore you're
not allowed any kind of home defense when it's not their house being broken into. Or Vash or Hassan
speaking from their gated communities about the upcoming revolution that they themselves will
never partake in or suffer the effects of should it happen. Do you think your average blue collar
redneck knows what the fuck heteronormative means, or cultural appropriation, or cisgender,
or intersectionality? The smarter among them will probably intuit it out, but most of them just
don't have the education to get it. Progressivism has become a status symbol, the leisure political
beliefs you can expose to signal that you belong to the upper class. A poor kid who takes on a ton
of student debt to get an arts degree that allows them to spout the latest progressive talking points
with at least some familiarity is the equivalent of the ghetto guy who has child support to pay
and is about to get evicted but nonetheless spends the last of his cash on a big screen TV and a nice
ride he can't afford. These are lower class people trying to signal that they are on a higher class
than they actually are. The truly affluent will support causes like open borders or antifa riots
or the decriminalization of hard drugs or ethical non-monogamy because it advances their social
standing while not actually costing them anything because they don't have to live with the real world
material effects of these policies. They're never going to live in an area with a bunch of legal
immigrants. Their neighborhood is never going to get burned down by a BLM march. The few times this
actually happens, by the way, you can see their attitude take a full 180 real fucking quick.
They don't have to walk by hordes of zombie-like homeless people with needles sticking out of their
arms. They don't gotta juggle five different kids by five different fathers because they were told
they can have it all as a strong modern empowered woman. Even when the upper class does engage in
things like drug use or orgies or whatever, they have better healthcare and better education to
manage its effects. Degeneracy has become a status symbol because engaging in it will destroy the
lives of the plebs while the upper class has the resources to hold it together. The reason this
happened, that we shifted from luxury goods to luxury beliefs as status symbols, is because
liberal capitalism is so kick-ass that we solved a lot of our material problems. Things like big TVs
or computers or nice clothes, they're actually way more affordable now than they were decades ago.
When I was a kid, that one guy who had the big TV in town, he was the rich family. Those things
were on your five figures. Now everyone's got like a 50-incher or some shit. You can pick up
for a few hundred dollars. So nowadays, it's beliefs that are the status symbol. If you can
advocate for policy that appears to be moral by progressive standards but live isolated from its
material effects, you are signaling your upper class status. And as these beliefs become
normalized at the top, they trickle down to the bottom, becoming the dominant culture. But the
people at the bottom can't afford to weather their negative effects. Virtue signaling is therefore
class signaling. Going all the way back to that Reddit post, you can now understand what's going
on here. This guy is openly admitting that he wants the culture and economy to change to be
in line with his morality. He knows this will destroy the working class and he views this as
a good thing because the culture and morality of the working class is something he considers evil.
This is a way for him to signal not only his virtue but his class status within his tribe.
History is filled with examples of the upper class hating the lower class. Progressivism is just a
new example in a long line of examples. And now we finally emerge back at our friend singing about
the rich men north of Richmond. It was never about class struggle or class solidarity for
the socialists. If it was, they would have forgiven him his minor trespasses of not fully
understanding the relationship between the bourgeois and the proletariat from a socialist
perspective and instead relying on his intuition that something about his world is wrong on account
of him being uneducated. Hating him is simply a way for them to signal their virtue, their class,
their in-group status to other socialists. Anyway, to wrap up his tale, the Prague's
docks a singer of the song. They revealed he's not actually a farmer working class hero, guys. He
works sales at a construction company and owns one hundred thousand dollars of land. So the whole
thing's a lie. He responded on Facebook pointing out that he dropped out of high school to get a
job. He's worked in multiple plants and paper mills in North Carolina until he injured himself
and he then transitioned to a desk job in construction. He still owes sixty thousand
dollars in the land that he lives on in his camper. So yeah, the left hates this guy. But
meanwhile, the extreme right also decided to hate him, too, because he gave this interview.
For a long time, conservatives have been trying to ditch that racist label,
saying that they're cool with everyone as long as they behave in a decent manner
and don't force themselves in anyone else. This is the mainstream American right mindset,
the libertarian leave-me-alone ethic. Rather than the left's insistence on keeping cultures
separate through denouncing cultural appropriation or demanding that non-white people get special
treatment for their cultural practices, this guy believes that anybody can come to America and be
American as long as they adhere to American values, which is what he's referring to with
the phrase melting pot. I know that's not exactly what melting pot means in a sociological sense,
but you can tell by the context that's what he's saying. Again, he's not educated. But there are
actually radical rightoids right now abandoning him for this, saying that he's sold out or he's
a fed because he's not overtly racist or something. Anyway, this cycle will happen
any time something goes viral on the right. The left will denounce it because they're supposed
to be the arbiters of popular culture. They will view it as a step backwards because their politics
aren't being privileged. And they will say this regardless of the consequences of their own
beliefs because they don't need to be worried about those consequences. The people who made
it go viral in the first place, the blue collar workers, the rednecks, the lower class, it's their
job to pay the tab on the progressive beliefs of the upper class as a part of the grand
society-wide struggle session against them.
