I had intended for my video on the Release the Memo hashtag to be a one and done sort
of thing, at least until the memo actually dropped.
But there have since been multiple developments, to the point that I think the situation warrants
a second look.
The mainstream media's eventual response to Release the Memo, after they'd realized
that simply ignoring it and scrubbing it off Twitter's trending page was not nearly enough,
was to call everybody interested in the memo's release a bunch of Russian bot accounts and
not actual people.
And despite this assertion, that no actual human is interested in the contents of the
Nancy Pelosi said on a live interview with the Democratic Party's propaganda arm, otherwise
known as CNN, that the entire story is fake anyway.
We can't trust you guys.
Let us read it.
Let us figure it out.
You can redact the names.
You can make it safe enough for us to look at it because they say the same thing about
you.
That the Russia investigation, there's no collusion.
You guys are pushing the ball to political advantage to stymie the president.
And they talk about this memo like it should have been in the Raiders of the Lost Ark.
This thing that this is the holy grail of the truth about what was happening during
the campaign.
And it points the finger at the Democrats and the FBI.
Well, let me just say this.
We're not going to become them, the Republicans, because they are totally irresponsible in
this regard.
We're talking about the intelligence community.
We're not talking about some issue that we're having a fight about.
We're talking about our national security.
As I said, when I've been on that committee, I had been on that committee a long time and
serve as leader and involved in those issues.
This is not to be politicized.
This is about fact.
It's about evidence, about data.
It's not about making up a false memo based on a false premise that the chairman hasn't
even read.
And then to put it out there.
So it's not about...
I give you that he hasn't, if he hasn't read it, that's a problem.
We'll take, we'll take that out with this.
How can you decide if you haven't read it, that it should be revealed to the American
people?
Fair point.
But we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it.
What I'm saying is this.
Are you saying without revealing anything that's confidential, classified, obviously.
I can't do that.
I get it.
Are you saying that if the American people see this memo and they read it and they think
about it, that they could not reasonably conclude that there was any problem with what happened
during the election?
Of course not.
Well then why are they so anxious to release it?
Because it's not even true.
It's not even true.
They have made up a memo that isn't even true.
If it's all fake, Nancy, why the obstruction?
And more importantly, if it's all fake, why do you claim that revealing it will reveal
classified information?
If the classified information is fake too, who cares?
Either the memo's contents are fake and then it doesn't matter or the memo's contents
are real and therefore sensitive.
You can't have it both ways.
In fact, I think we should be telling a lot of people that phrase, you can't have it
both ways.
Hey New York Times, you've written a handful of articles that discuss, both directly and
indirectly, how dangerous it would be to America's national security if its intelligence sources
were compromised by releasing the Nunes memo.
At the same time though, do you remember when you published the name of a covert CIA official
back in July of 2017?
You can't have it both ways.
Hey Representative Adam Schiff, you wrote your own memo too, on the same subject as
Nunes?
Well that's great.
How about we release both memos and let the public decide which one is the more accurate
version of the truth?
Wait, you only want yours released and not the Nunes memo?
You can't have it both ways.
Hey Diane Feinstein, remember when your party heavily pushed the narrative that released
the memo was made up of Russian bots and influencers?
Remember when you and Schiff got together to ask Twitter and Facebook to look into the
matter?
What was the response that you got from them?
Oh yeah, Twitter and Facebook basically admitted that the hashtag genuinely went viral.
Well do you guys remember that second letter you sent, demanding that Twitter and Facebook
dig up results that were politically convenient for your point of view?
Well which is it guys?
Do you want the truth or do you want Russian collusion?
You can't have it both ways.
And considering that the Democrats were the party of advocating for peace with the Russians
right up until Trump's election, I find your sudden concern really, really hard to
believe.
However, the Democrats do actually have one possible good point.
This whole release the memo thing might be one giant nothingburger, constructed by the
Republicans in order to distract from the government shutdown, and that's actually
a plausible explanation.
But we're only going to know that if and when the memo is released.
If this version of events is true, it would actually benefit the Democrats if the memo
were made public.
But considering the democratic resistance to the memo's release, I think this theory
is probably full of hot air.
Nonetheless, the government shutdown can't be ignored.
The shutdown began at midnight EST on Saturday, January 20th, 2018, and ended two days later
on Monday, January 22nd.
The shutdown began after a failure to pass legislation to fund government operations
and agencies.
This stemmed from disputes over the extension of status of persons affected by the Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals immigration policy, otherwise known as DACA, and therefore
whether those covered under the program should face deportation.
There was also a dispute over whether funding should be allocated towards building a Mexico-United
States border wall, a keystone policy during Donald Trump's presidential campaign.
Well shit, that sounds like a big deal.
I know that in parliamentary systems, failure to pass a budget automatically triggers a
dissolution of parliament and election for all the seats therein.
Maybe you Americans should adopt something similar.
The prospect of every congressman losing their jobs might make government shutdowns a last
resort instead of simply another political pressure point.
In any case, what's this DACA immigration policy that's got everybody up in arms?
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals was an American immigration policy that allowed
some individuals who entered the country as minors and had either entered or remained
in the country illegally to receive a renewable two-year period of deferred action from deportation
and to be eligible for a work permit.
As of 2017, approximately 800,000 individuals were enrolled in the program created by DACA.
The policy was established by the Obama administration in June 2012 and was rescinded by the Trump
administration in September 2017.
The policy was established by executive action rather than legislation.
However, participating individuals were sometimes referred to as DREAMers after the DREAM Act,
a bipartisan bill first proposed in 2001 that was the first of a number of subsequent bills
in the U.S. House and Senate attempting to provide a pathway to citizenship or other
legal status for certain undocumented residents who immigrated illegally as children and
subsequently completed some college or military service.
So let me see if I have this straight.
Illegal immigrants bring their kids to the United States with them.
None of them are legal immigrants but the kids, being kids, are not at fault.
Their parents are.
Because the kids aren't at fault themselves, DACA proponents wanted to give them a free pass.
After all, they only broke immigration law because their parents forced them to.
Some of these kids have grown up in the USA and are entirely culturally American, if not
legally, with no connection to their home country.
And like I said before, these kids are called DREAMers after the DREAM Act.
But what is that DREAM Act?
The DREAM Act, acronym for Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act, is an
American legislative proposal for a multi-phase process for qualifying alien minors in the
United States that would first grant conditional residency and, upon meeting further qualifications,
permanent residency.
The bill was first introduced in the Senate on August 1st, 2001, and has since been reintroduced
several times but has failed to pass.
Oh, so they're called DREAMers based on an act that failed to pass into law.
It's not like this path to citizenship was once legalized and then later revoked, unfairly
pulling the rug out from people who had already started working down the path.
It was never legal at all.
And why is there such a commotion about DREAMers in the first place?
Well, it turns out there's actually a decent argument for allowing DREAMers to stay.
DREAMers have no connection to the country they're actually citizens of.
They generally can't speak the language or participate in the culture.
They're fully Americanized and have participated in American life for as long as they can remember.
They didn't mean to illegally immigrate, their parents forced them to do it.
Surely, if any illegal immigrants deserved a fast track to citizenship, it would be these
people, right?
Maybe so.
With the point of view of the DREAMers, it seems like the only right thing to do.
But let's look at it from the point of view of the government.
The US government has a real, tangible interest in preventing illegal immigration as well
as a real, tangible interest in prioritizing legal immigration as the preferred, and only,
way for non-citizens to become citizens.
I don't think anybody would seriously dispute this premise, with the exception of the most
radical anarcho-communists and Moviebob.
And neither of them are worth serious consideration.
So if the US government were to grant blanket amnesty to all DREAMers because they were
children at the time of their illegal immigration and therefore not to blame, and are, in every
other way, adult Americans, that would still require the deportation or incarceration of
the parents of DREAMers, because those people are responsible, they weren't children when
they crossed the border, and they did knowingly break the law.
The parents of DREAMers are just straight up illegal immigrants, they're not DREAMers
themselves.
There's no hazy middle ground here, they failed to work through the legal immigration
proceedings, or the legal refugee proceedings, or the legal proceedings for work or school
permits.
They simply broke immigration law.
Secondly, in bringing their children with them, the children that would later grow up
to be the DREAMers, they broke child trafficking laws as well.
Even if the DREAMers get the free pass they want, their parents are still criminals and
need to answer for their crimes.
Thirdly, illegal immigration is not a victimless crime.
Even if we discount the drug or gang related violence that some illegal immigrants bring
with them, even peaceful illegal immigrants have a negative effect on the job market.
When a nation takes in an influx of cheap labour, the working class's wages are driven
down, as companies can afford to hire people who will do the same job for the cheapest
wage.
When the pool of workers is smaller, wages inflate, as companies compete to attract what
they need from a smaller available selection.
It's all about supply and demand.
Oh, you don't believe me?
Well how about we read this paper on the subject?
Illegal immigration, the impact on wages and employment of black workers.
The willingness of policy makers to tolerate the presence of illegal immigrants in the
nation's labour force exposes a seemly side of the nation's collective consciousness.
Illegal immigrants, who themselves are often exploited even though they may not think so,
are allowed to cause harm in the form of unemployment and depressed wages to the most vulnerable
workers in the American workforce.
The continued reluctance by our national government to get illegal immigrants out of the labour
force, and to keep them out, by enforcing the existing sanctions at the worksite against
employers of illegal immigrants, is itself a massive violation of the civil rights of
all low skilled workers in the United States, and of low skilled black workers in particular.
Illegal immigrants have no right to work in the United States.
In fact, they have no right to even be in the country.
Enforcing our nation's labour laws, including the protection of the legal labour force from
the presence of illegal immigrant workers, is the civil rights issue of this generation
of American workers.
It is time, therefore, to make our immigration laws credible.
The way to do this is to adhere to the findings of the US Commission on Immigration Reform,
chaired by the late Barbara Jordan, who boldly stated what should be the goal of public policy.
The credibility of immigration policy can be measured by a simple yardstick.
People who should get in do get in, people who should not get in are kept out, and people
who are judged a portable are required to leave.
No one would benefit more by the adherence to that standard than would low skilled black
American workers and their families.
I don't know guys, it's almost like the best way to harm the 1% in America and help
poor black workers in the process is to remove illegal labour from the picture.
It's almost like all the white middle class democrats who demand programs like DACA want
to offer up token efforts in the face of their own white guilt, all the while not caring
what actually happens to their fellow black citizens, who they don't have to interact
with or answer to.
But most importantly of all, it would send future illegal immigrants a message.
Send your babies to the USA.
Even if you get caught, your child will be forgiven and granted a frontline pass to citizenship,
bypassing all those other plebs who are working through the legal process, as long as you
manage to raise them for long enough in the USA that they become sufficiently American.
Granting Dreamers blanket amnesty would only incentivize future illegal immigrants to bypass
legal immigration structures, if they thought that breaking the law would be good for their
children.
And if this sounds like just conjecture, I'd like to remind you that this has happened
before.
In 1986, the Immigration Reform and Control Act was passed.
Part of the act provided an easy path to citizenship for illegal immigrants that had arrived in
the United States before 1982.
This was agreed to as a compromise.
America's illegal immigrant population could no longer be ignored, and the solution was
to provide an easy path to citizenship for those already in the USA in exchange for stricter
enforcement of the law towards future illegal immigrants.
Critics of this compromise believe that the IRCA's implementation would embolden future
illegal immigrants in their attempts to hop the border, because it would be taken as proof
that the USA, if pushed enough, would rather grant amnesty to illegal immigrants rather
than deport them.
And judging by the massively inflated population of Dreamers we're now dealing with thirty
years later, I'd say that this criticism was probably correct.
But let's rewind this whole thing back to the government shutdown.
Trump rescinds the DACA policy, which allowed Dreamers, the undocumented children of illegal
immigrants, to stay in the USA indefinitely.
And the Democratic Party decided that their best response to this was to filibuster the
federal budget bill in the Senate, shutting the government down.
Let me repeat that.
Because people in the USA illegally lost their ability to remain in the USA illegally, because
the US government exercised the sovereign right of any nation on earth, the right to
determine which foreigners have the privilege of entering or staying within the country,
the Democrats shut down the government.
One more time.
The Democrats shut down the government because illegal immigrants were going to start getting
deported again.
I don't even know where to start on this, you guys.
I remember when the Democratic Party advocated for reasonable things.
Gay marriage, for example.
It was obvious to anybody with a brain that Republicans were on the wrong side of the
gay marriage issue.
Their arguments against gay marriage were based on morals and traditions, while the
Democratic arguments revolved entirely around human rights.
And it's ultimately a good thing that Republicans lost that fight.
Or how about the universal healthcare debate?
The Republican opposition to universal healthcare is honestly petty and self-serving.
It's ridiculous to think that America, the greatest nation on the planet, apparently,
cannot adequately tackle the problem of universal healthcare when Canada, the UK, and others
have managed to do it just fine.
However, where the Democrats go wrong on universal healthcare is that it's not a human right.
It's a privilege.
It's a privilege that rich nations can afford to their citizens.
But do you know when exactly rich nations cannot afford this privilege to their citizens?
When the nation is inundated with illegal immigrants that don't pay taxes for the
majority of their lives, earn a fast track to citizenship, and then overburden the healthcare
system.
And this is fundamentally what Democrats have done.
In shutting down the government and all of its related services, over DACA, the Democrats
are sending a message to the American electorate.
Illegal immigrants matter more to us than you, the legal citizens.
We care more about the dreamers than the people who voted us in.
I can only assume that the Democrats realized exactly how ridiculous the situation made
them look, because the shutdown lasted for a weekend, with government returning to business
as usual on Monday.
The matter's been put off until February 8th, so it's really only a matter of days
until we get to see whether or not the Democrats want to tarnish their reputation even further.
So yeah, this idea that the Release the Memo hashtag, and the furor over the contents of
the Nunes memo itself, is just a giant fabrication to distract from the government shutdown,
and the colossal failure of the Republicans to pass a budget with their House and Senate
majorities, just rings hollow to me.
Upon closer inspection, the government shutdown appears to simply be the latest in a year-long
string of regressive left temper tantrums and meltdowns.
A year-long campaign of Democratic self-destruction.
With any luck, the Nunes memo will be released soon, and hopefully the Schiff memo alongside
it.
And in my opinion, that's just going to be the icing on the cake.
And wouldn't you know it, while I was editing this video, the memo released.
I guess I'll get to work on an analysis.
I'll see you guys then.
Let me just say this with all due respect.
You really don't know what you're talking about right now.
