Ah yes, my white privilege.
People are recounting the outrageous things they've gotten away with because of hashtag
my white privilege.
Oh are they?
This was a trending moment a few days ago, and the moment contains a few testimonials
from white people convinced that their situation is due to their white privilege.
Like Anne here, I got caught stealing multiple times as a teenager, and they never called
the cops.
They just let me go with a warning, every single time.
Or Adrienne, called the police when I lost the key to my bike lock.
Eight firefighters showed up, didn't ask for any ID, proof that the bike was mine,
or proof that I lived at that address, and cut the u-lock off without question.
Or Audrey, police raided my house looking for my black boyfriend, just found me in my
weed, tried to get me to put it on him.
I got drug court and no record.
He'd still be in prison.
Or how about Charlotte?
Every six months, over the last ten years living here in DC, I get cop cars that pull
up to me while I'm walking around at night, to remind me that it's an unsafe neighborhood,
it's not, and to ask if I need a ride.
Do you notice what all of these people have in common?
They're white, sure, but they're also women.
And in fact, the majority of the officially chosen tweets for this Twitter moment contain
anecdotes about women experiencing white privilege, when it really seems a bit more like female
privilege to me.
Do you think if a man were caught shoplifting, he'd be let go with a warning the way that
Anne was?
Probably not.
Do you think police pull up to men walking around at night, and ask if they need a ride
home like they did to Charlotte?
Again, probably not.
It would seem to me that not everything is about race all the time.
Of course, there were more people shitposting on the hashtag than there were serious posters.
But no matter how popular they got, none of them made it into the moments list.
By the way, shout out to my friend Dragonfat Deposits for this one.
My white privilege is knowing who my father is.
My white privilege is being conceived within marriage.
My white privilege is actually finishing high school.
Damn, I guess it was too spicy for the official page.
But even as the majority of the Twitterverse shat all over this ridiculous trend of a hashtag,
journalists took it seriously, as they always do.
Every trending hashtag now reflects a shift in the zeitgeist, a new dopamine hit, another
opportunity to virtue signal to the entire world, white people are acknowledging their
privilege on Twitter, but for what purpose?
For no purpose, Slate.
Most people didn't take the hashtag seriously, and those that did, did so only to look better
to their peers.
That's it.
It's not the beginning of a social movement or some shit.
Their activism is not real.
But let's actually talk about the concept of privilege for a little bit.
The intersectional feminists believed in strict dichotomies, and it's no wonder why.
It goes along with the postmodernist framework of all human interaction being power struggles,
and all hierarchies being entirely corrupt.
To them, things are quite cut and dry.
Men are on top, women are on the bottom.
White people are on top, black people are on the bottom.
Straights are on top, gays on the bottom, cis on top, trans on bottom.
It's very simple, very clear-cut, and it makes it very easy to publicly declare what
type of privilege you benefit from, and what type of oppression is holding you back.
The only problem is, it's not true.
Not completely, anyway.
For example, I think you can make a very strong argument that trans people face problems that
cis people don't, ranging from cultural acceptance to self-acceptance to unique health issues.
I don't think that's a controversial statement.
But that does not mean that in every single situation, no matter what, a cis person has
it better than a trans person.
Nor does it justify some kind of top-down scheme enforced by state power to level that
particular playing field, beyond securing the human rights of the trans people, obviously.
But when you get to race, white and black, it's not so clear-cut.
Nobody's going to deny that, for example, America still has some problems regarding
black people.
But are you really going to claim that white privilege is universal?
What about in China?
What about in South Africa?
Even if white privilege is a thing in the States, there are certainly locations where
you'd be significantly more at risk as a white person than a black one.
And then, when you get to men and women, the whole idea just falls apart, doesn't it?
The concept of male privilege has been ridiculous for a while now.
For example, it wasn't a privilege that men could go and work while women had to stay
at home.
It was a necessity.
Someone within the family unit had to go out into the world, contend with it, and bring
back what was required to survive.
And it wasn't a good time doing so.
The world's a rough place.
Rather than the social justice concept of the privilege-oppression dichotomy, it's
probably more accurate that each group has specific privileges unique to them, and that
these privileges overlap and weave together in order to eventually create the individual,
with their individual benefits and problems.
For example, take the statement, women generally aren't treated as seriously as men.
In my opinion, the statement's probably true.
And in a workplace situation, where a woman's idea or criticism may be taken less seriously,
that would be a form of oppression.
However, in a situation where a woman has committed a crime or crossed the line somehow,
like say all of those hashtag my white privilege examples, and gotten off without punishment,
it would seem to me that in that case, not being treated seriously would be a privilege,
not an oppression.
A female privilege, in fact.
This is why I think it's a set of privileges, not just privilege.
Male privilege and female privilege.
White privilege and black privilege.
And millions of other privileges, existing simultaneously, overlapping, contradicting
each other, shifting in and out of play as your environment changes.
Everyone has them.
Everyone benefits from them.
This also means that everyone's a victim, too.
Yes, even the fucking white males.
However, progressives don't like the idea of privileges.
They want their dichotomy.
They want privilege and oppression.
They want their overly simplified oppressor detection system.
That's why to them, female privilege is just benevolent sexism, or male oppression is just
toxic masculinity.
Anything systemic that benefits an oppressed class has to be repurposed to reinforce the
victimhood status of the victim classes.
Even if this means that individual members of those victim classes become even more victimized.
Here's an example of what I mean.
Look at David Lemmy's outrageous comments regarding Western relief efforts in Africa.
The world does not need any more white saviors.
As I've said before, this just perpetuates tired and unhelpful stereotypes.
Let's instead promote voices from across the continent of Africa and have serious debate.
David Lemmy is a Labour MP in the UK, who seems to have made quite the career off of
being black in politics.
However, if other, more victimized black people than him become more empowered over time,
people like David Lemmy will find themselves out of a job.
So what does he do?
Claim that Western aid to Africa is just the product of the white savior.
Keep Africans victimized.
Keep David Lemmy employed.
There's a good re-election slogan you fat fuck.
I bet a dozen African school children could live off your body for a month, you disgusting
milk sop.
It seems like I've gone off on a tangent.
My point is, when hashtags like my white privilege come up, it's almost always the
case that the contents within aren't solely about white privilege, and anybody who talks
solely about white privilege, or male privilege, or even female or black privilege for that
matter, they've all got blinders on.
They're missing the big picture, generally purposely because they've got some skin in
the cultural game.
What the intersectional feminists have yet to figure out is that when you fractionate
people by group alignment enough, you eventually arrive at a group of one, the individual,
which is why the supremacy of the individual over the supremacy of any fractionated group
is always going to be a more liberating solution to any of these problems.
While I was recording this video, another forcibly trending hashtag popped up.
This one's Equal Pay Day.
Wait, isn't Equal Pay Day in October?
Yeah, the whole point of Equal Pay Day is to supposedly highlight the day that a woman
stops getting paid for the year's work, as a way to illustrate the gap.
Why is it happening on April 2nd?
Whatever.
It goes into the same trash bin as my white privilege.
Everybody go grab Shu An-head, tell her to hammer on that button of hers, because the
gender pay gap doesn't account for all the variables, and more people are recognizing
that fact as time goes on.
At the beginning of this video, I pointed out the postmodernist view that all human
interaction being a power struggle.
You need to remember this fact when interacting with social justice warriors during these
idiotic trending hashtags.
They only bring up white privilege, or male privilege, or whatever the fuck, when it suits
their narrative.
Things like benevolent sexism or white supremacy backfiring against the oppressor exist only
to reinforce their narrative, to cover up obvious gaps in their ideology.
Think about it.
If they view everything as a power struggle, then every move they make is a power play.
Is it an instance where a woman's oppressed?
It's sexism, but more importantly, it's an opportunity to consolidate a little more power.
Is it an instance where a man is oppressed?
It's the patriarchy backfiring against men, but more importantly, consolidate more power.
That's all this nonsense is.
Power moves by people who are convinced that everything is about power.
At the same time, for everything to be just power plays underneath all the wrapping paper,
there has to be some understanding that a series of privileges, rather than strict privilege
and oppressed dichotomies, is the proper way to conceptualize the situation.
Really, think about it.
The oppressed class claims it's oppressed as a way to leverage a sort of victim privilege,
as strange as that sounds.
A power game is, by definition, two groups with differing privileges clashing their privileges
together in order to see who comes out on top.
If you can leverage victim privilege, then claiming you're oppressed is a tactic in the fight.
In other words, even as social justice warriors talk about the privilege-oppression dichotomy,
they act as if it's actually a battle between two privileged groups.
Maybe this is a bit hard to follow, I don't know if I'm explaining it quite right.
But I think this tweet can illustrate what I mean better than I ever could.
Y'all can have my white privilege.
This a racist-ass country, but I wouldn't want to be anything but black.
Y'all will never have that privilege.
Shout out to all my black kings and queens out there.
If there's nothing but oppression in being black, why would you exclaim that, even if
you could change your race, you'd refuse to?
Why would you say that y'all will never have the privilege of being black, if there's no
privilege in it?
I know some trans people who would say if they could snap their fingers and be cis and
save themselves all the trauma, they'd do so.
I know a lot of gay people who would say the same thing.
It appears as if, at least insofar as this person is concerned, black people wouldn't
make that trade.
And I'm pretty sure women wouldn't either.
So you tell me, intersectionalists.
Is it a dichotomy of the privileged and oppressed, or is it a power struggle?
Because in the end, it can't be both.
We white Americans need to do a better job of listening when African Americans talk about
the seen and unseen barriers you face every day.
We need to recognize our privilege and practice humility.
