Welcome to the final episode everyone. No Lilith today, unfortunately. She got called in to work. She's not here. I kind of envy her. She doesn't have to watch The Last of Us.
What does she really call in to work? Like, we have to ask ourselves.
It's not Rings of Power.
Yeah, it's not that bad. As you said last time, Arch, this was The Good Show.
Yes, this is as good as modern entertainment is likely to get.
You see how he's trying to twist you, Arch. He's trying to say, oh, it's The Good Show. But he's leaving out the context.
Compared to Velma or She-Hulk.
Lilith still appears on my channel in the TUBcast and we'll get her in for something else down the road, I'm sure.
She's spared the finale. And, okay, it's really strange that the finale is episode 9.
You know what I mean? I've seen seasons be 8 episodes, 10 episodes, 12 episodes, not 9 episodes.
Yeah, it's kind of a weird spot to end it.
Considering this feels like it needs more.
Yes.
Like, 12 episodes would help.
Yeah, if this show had 3 more episodes, they could have done their 2 flashback bits just fine and filled out the rest of the actual content of the show and everyone would have been happy.
But this show feels like it wasted too much time and now it's rushing to the end.
That's true.
Also, Arch, I was reading the comments on your channel since, for those of you who only watch my channel, Arch and Kibz go do a podcast about this after we do the React video.
I was reading comments on your channel, Arch, and some people were saying that all the big YouTube channels that cover this sort of thing, like Nerdronic and guys like that, they all gave this show up 2 or 3 episodes in.
I'm made of sterner stuff than soft, genteel persons like this.
That's true. We've endured lots of really bad shows.
Joking aside, this isn't that bad. It's bland. Sure, it's mediocre. Yeah, it's not that interesting.
But this ain't no Obi-Wan Kenobi. This doesn't hurt. There's no Wellma where I watch the episodes and I'm in pain.
It's just a long series of insults.
It hurts. It physically hurts to be there. It's like, oh, I think I want to die.
Well, those other channels that they did watch all of Kenobi and they did they did watch Velma, they did watch whatever it was. Right.
But also a lot of them skipped Andor. Andor too was just very mediocre. Yeah.
So I think I think they're there. Those guys are just focusing on the the really bad shows because they know like so.
But it's not necessarily so bad. It's good. It's more like so bad. It's content. Meanwhile, The Last of Us isn't so bad as content.
It's just it's just kind of there, you know, doing it primarily for the clicks.
And I mean, we're all doing it for the clicks. But once you've started a series.
Yeah, you got to finish. You got to finish. I actually completely agree with you on that.
If I if I wasn't like that, I probably would have given this one up, too, because it's not it's just not that interesting.
It's not it's not even like it's not bad on a technical level. It's it's it's woke, but it's not ridiculously so.
It's not it hasn't spun off into absurdity yet. It's just kind of there, you know.
Just meh. We're going to start it right now. Let's go for the finale.
This is new, I think. TV show. You are not going to take another fucking deviation right now.
Surely. Yeah, this doesn't look familiar at all.
You don't remember a pregnant woman running through a forest. Nope.
It's like here's another filler episode. You know, it seems like a bad idea to get pregnant in the apocalypse.
It does. Yeah. You might want to keep it down.
I know that's going to be a goddamn impossible. Yeah.
You know, childbirth, it's a three on the pain scale, not like stubbing your toe or anything.
Oh, for God's sake. That's Ellie's night.
Now, is this Ellie's mother or something? Is the reason why she's immune because the zombie bit mommy just as she was being popped out?
If so, this is completely new and this is made up bullshit.
Yep. Because the implication was it was just like a random genetic defect or not defect, you know, mutation that made her immune.
Oh, that just kind of sort of happened, I guess. She got lucky. I didn't even notice.
That was quick and easy. Wow. Childbirth really is a two out of 10 on the pain scale.
Oh, and she has been. Oh, God, no, please don't tell me this is some gay record.
Yep, it is because now that will be fed into the baby via the little umbilical cord.
Oh, my God. And she used the same knife that she just stabbed the clicker with or whatever.
That's a brain dead move. Oh, to be fair, what else did you have? She was going to chew it off.
I mean, let's wipe it off on the fabric, you know, maybe. Well, maybe.
So you now have like a day or two to find someone to take this baby, because if you don't get that baby somewhere else.
You're going to eat it. Also, how on God is good greed? This is the one of them.
OK, let's hear it for a second. Oh, no, that is a retcon.
It's a retcon. Wow.
Pause there for a second. I just want to. OK, hold on.
All right. What's up, Arch? I just wanted to see if that zombie was even ever near her thighs to bite her.
Yep, because this is something this show does constantly. Like people are suddenly they look down and they're like,
Oh, my God, I'm wounded. When the zombie was never even close to it. There's never a scene where it's like,
yeah, because they do the jump cuts and it's like, look, we cut so much. Oh, I can't believe it got so fast.
It's like, yeah, you're so you're so bad at visual storytelling, you don't even show it.
Well, it kind of bent off in the general direction of her thigh for a second.
Not anywhere close enough to bite her on the thigh, but at least they kind of pretended.
They put the vague effort forward. Yes, there was an effort made better than the previous one.
All right. That was five minutes of the crucial super densely packed last episode wasted on a retcon origin story.
Great. Good. That does nothing to the actual story whatsoever, because this information is literally not important.
Good job. Utterly irrelevant. Let's go.
Just to retcon a few things here. It's like you've already convinced me that she has these powers.
I frankly don't care or need to know where she got them from. Well, it doesn't matter.
It's not the point of the story. It's a waste of time. I just hate it.
The show uses time so poorly. I guess they're just relying on the fact that we've got two seasons, I guess.
Yep. Oh, that's right. They're going to just drag it out. Well, the second season is the second game, though.
What? Really? They've already confirmed that. Yeah. That's horrific.
Yeah. They've already confirmed. I do not want to watch the second season, Dev. They've already confirmed the second season is the second game.
And I looked it up in terms of the game's storyline.
After the cannibal cultists, they have the final confrontation with the fireflies and then they go back to Tommy's commune for the finale.
So we're at the end of the game already. Yeah, I know we're I know this is like the end.
But it was like I was like wondering, like, OK, they got on the season, but they I thought they said they weren't going to do that because, you know, nobody would like that.
Then I forget that Neil Druckmann is the executive producer.
Yes. Oh, it all makes sense because he hates women. And the girl who wrote this, he hates his guts.
So he needs to completely destroy everything she made. I keep forgetting that. Listen, I keep forgetting that.
Cibs, you can't make Neil Druckmann sound that based.
Neil Druckmann hates women. I don't know if I'm willing to give him that W, Kyle.
Sorry, but like the reason why he's doing what he's doing is because he hates the writer of the show so much or the game.
Oh, God, no. So this is going to be them who is going to find the baby and they're going to kill the mother just this before she bites her thigh.
This is so stupid. This retcon is so dumb. It makes no sense.
That's the Firefly leader, right? This never happens. This is all new.
This is made up bullshit. Help me.
Like this, this is not necessarily a TV show.
It's the unnecessary desire to tether everything together.
Star Wars had this problem, too, where it's like every every little side character in the background of every stupid shot is like some important thing.
So everything has to be connected because that's just shitty writing.
So is the story going to be that that the Firefly guys took Ellie and gave her to Fedra and then took her back?
But only randomly because she she ran away with her girlfriend that one night.
Oh, but her mother was a Firefly, I guess. I guess this is all new.
That's why they took her in. And that's why they put her to give her to Fedra of all people.
She needs to be fed.
And I'm basically a mushroom. Yeah.
I got it before I was bit.
Before. You liar.
I don't want you to give her this.
Don't just put it. The baby is going to actually hit the spring and just knife itself.
All you know, it's just a very valuable is that we've known each other.
Do they get is that the original voice actors right there?
Oh, yeah, Kelly.
This wreck on stupid crap right now.
Yeah, it sounds like Ellie.
OK, I appreciate the idea of wanting to get the characters in as a little bit of a tribute to patrol homage thing.
But the reckoning is pointless. Why don't you just make the prize the original rules?
Well, she's obviously. Yeah. Yeah. Well, actually, this was originally going to be a movie.
I looked up on the Internet. This is going to be a movie based better.
Please, please, please.
This is going to be a movie.
And the reason that it's the project switched was because a bunch of the actresses they wanted for Ellie all age out of the role,
they were trying to make it. Cover her ears.
She's a baby.
Now, look, the fireflies are based in good now.
Ten minutes of wasted time with the climax.
So you know, Druckmann can justify his retcons.
That was stupid and a waste of our time. This is the last time you guys will see that forehead.
I'll think, fuck, it's so big. Yeah, her performance grew on me.
But her forehead didn't. No, it grew on it.
Where else would you hear me?
No, what I found this in there.
B for Roni, Chef Boyardee.
That transition looked like what was going on was she was thinking back to the time she was one day old.
Have you ever played this? Getting close.
And again, we've completely skipped the nursing him back to health thing.
That never happened. It's just, God, that was supposed to be a bonding event.
It's spring now.
It would have been a good character growing moment for Ellie, too.
It would show all the things she'd learned from Joel.
But no, she'd stabbed him in the stomach twice with them penicillin, and then he killed the town.
Wait, even after they bonded, Joel wasn't like this chummy with her.
It's almost like he's sucking up to her.
That'd be great. He's thanking her for saving his bacon, I guess.
I'm sure Neil Druckmann had some words to say.
It's tainted. It's basically a pedo show now. I'm sad.
They both seem off now.
Their character interactions feel wrong.
Come on, I'll give you a boost.
I'm sorry, Joel. I'm distracted by memories of my mother, who I totally remember.
That's what this flashback is about. I'm going to talk about my mom.
Yeah, fine.
Just you kind of seem extra quiet today, so...
Oh, I'm sorry.
Extra quiet? Oh, yes, because she's usually so very demure.
Yeah, she's very chatty, actually.
Show.
I guess the show forgot her character for a bit there.
I think they forgot a lot of things the more they get into this.
Whoa.
Damn it, Ellie!
Okay, I guess she got retarded, too.
I'm glad you see this!
Ellie!
Up here!
Ellie!
Come on!
Jesus.
What is wrong with the writing? Holy shit.
Ellie!
This is a post-apocalyptic situation.
You're running through a building you've never been in, all excited around corners and rooms you've never seen before.
Just out of curiosity, this isn't reminiscent of the game, is it?
No.
Yeah, I have a sneaking suspicion this is them running out of game and trying to right-throw themselves.
No, I think this scene was unique, though, wasn't it?
Yes, the zoo animals. Okay.
Yeah, they skipped the actual entry into the city. They made that all different, but then there's the zoo animals part.
I will.
Yeah, I do remember this thing. The giraffe. I don't know why I said thing.
What are you doing?
It's all right.
Come here, hurry up. Come on.
The writer wanted to reference Jurassic Park, okay? The brachiosaur scene.
Na na na na na.
Na na na. Yeah.
John Williams makes good music.
Now, the way into the city was through, like, a flooded bypass tunnel that had a bunch of clickers in it.
But they just skipped all the exits.
Yeah, it's video gaming.
Yeah.
That might be fun to watch.
Wouldn't want that.
We need to see a birthing scene that didn't matter.
All right, almost 20 minutes of this final super important episode finale.
Yeah.
The only things that have happened is a retcon and a giraffe being fed.
Also, Kibs, listen, I've seen your thumbnails on your channel. I know that pregnancy is your fetish, buddy.
That's true.
That's false. That was a meme.
That wasn't a meme. I know the person. He liked it.
What?
He requested it. I know the guy who drew it.
So?
Is it everything you hoped for?
What?
Yeah, I requested it because it's a meme.
See? Your narrative falls apart. That's all it is.
Don't worry, Kyle. I don't judge you for having a preggo fetish.
The fuck?
Look, I don't know exactly where this hospital is.
Yeah, we'll find it.
Sure. It's just...
Maybe there's nothing bad out there, but so far there's always been something bad out there.
We're still here, though.
I know.
But remarkably few zombies.
It can't be for nothing.
It will be, though. That's the plot twist.
This is what we in the biz refer to as the establishing death flag scene.
After we're done, we'll totally go and do cool things.
You'll not have a golf club hit your head, Joel. What?
What golf club? Nothing.
So, there's a YouTube channel called Fee that did a short little video describing why Tommy's city, Jacksonville I think it was, was not actually communism.
And it's more like how the Amish lived.
Yeah. It was a good video.
It was a good video, yeah. But basically, it lacks the coercive elements because everyone voluntarily comes together.
And people can leave whenever they want.
But that's what true communism is.
That's true. That isn't communism.
So the show lied. The show's been trying to make things into communism.
That is the communist's view of communism.
Except they don't let you leave and they kill your entire family.
Well, what's funny though is that in the game they didn't call it communism.
It was just a collectively owned city because you had to because it was the apocalypse.
Because they needed to survive.
But this is the current year and there's politics to be had.
Yeah, narratives to be said.
Wow, it's Chaz.
Oh my god, I forgot what that was.
That's a blast from the past.
Yep.
I think that's new too.
They keep making stuff up, don't they?
I wasn't scared either. I was ready.
Yeah, this is all new.
So I decided to put a gun to the side of my head and shoot upwards.
Okay. Joe, you're a tard.
I think they're breaking his character in front of us.
Yeah, they're undermining him because he needs to be weaker.
I still don't know why.
They've broken him in body because of his panic attack, now they break him in spirit because he gave up.
I don't know why you're telling me all this.
Yep.
I reckon you do.
I don't think Sarah was brought up again between these two after that one scene.
That's why that one scene in the bedroom was so important.
Yep, because this devalues it too.
The Last of Us confirms Joel's attempt at suicide, so it was not mentioned explicitly in the game as far as I can see.
Also, I don't care if you flinch, if you've got a gun to your head, you can flinch as much as you want.
That 800 meters per second bullet ain't gonna fucking care, bruh.
I flinched a little, but the bullet caught up.
In fact, the flinching was because of the bullet.
So, I know we were talking through it, but he just said that Ellie is basically the replacement Sarah, and obviously Ellie is the replacement Sarah, but he never said it in the game.
Shitty puns.
Is this something you don't say?
They expect you to think for yourself.
No, the game had a better writer.
Uh-huh.
That's topical.
That's one. Moon rocks taste better than Earth rocks. Why?
Because they're meteor...
Oh, that's terrible. That's a...
That's a zero out of ten.
These are pretty good, by the way.
Yeah, but that other scene was, like, peeing on me.
Some man.
That was a three out of ten.
Uh-oh.
Yep, I know. I've been watching them do that.
Help me!
Wow. That was the dumbest way this could have happened.
Remember, he needs to fail. He cannot be successful or competent. He cannot be the one who brings her there in the end.
Well, if this next part is like the game, he's about to be extremely competent.
We'll see about that.
But according to the retcon, he murdered some innocent people.
You got here pretty hard.
Oh, there she is.
Five men. His only job was to protect him. He has still almost got killed.
How'd she do it?
It was all her.
She felt like hell to get here.
She's being prepped for surgery.
But you said she wasn't hurt.
Our doctor...
He thinks that the cordyceps anelli has grown with her since birth.
Why is she in surgery?
It produces a kind of chemical messenger. It makes normal cordyceps think that she's cordyceps. It's why she's immune.
He's going to remove it from her, multiply the cells in the lab...
That's stupid.
Because if that was the case, the zombies wouldn't attack her either.
Yep.
He thinks it could be a cure, Joel.
This is bullshit.
Well, it sounds like an inoculation, not a cure, but still.
Cordyceps grows inside the brain.
It does.
And if you kill the only person that has this...
There is no one else.
We didn't tell her. We can cause her any fear. There won't be any pain.
No, you take me to her. You take me to her right now!
It's for the greater good, Joel.
You don't understand.
I do.
I was there when she was born, Joel.
No, you fucking weren't. God damn it.
I was the black woman hero. You weren't, Joel.
They're trying to make her seem not monstrous when she was pretty monstrous in the end.
Yep, because she's black and they have to do that to make him look bad because he's a white man.
I know.
In the original story, you could find a log where they had done this on several other immune people before, and it didn't work, and they were just grasping at straws.
It fails every time, because it doesn't do anything.
Yeah, but Marlene was basically just like, no, it's going to work this time. We have to do it again.
Yep, that's why the last was part two, basically. They tried to paint it the other way, like, no, no, it would have worked. This time it's different.
He tries anything.
Last time wasn't really communism, guys.
Also, he's not even getting paid.
No, she's going to hit the desk.
Isn't that another retcon? Because I thought he got two options in the game.
Yeah.
To get paid or to leave.
Oh, she's crying because she's the real victim.
Marlene is a villain, by the way.
I think in the game, basically, they had killed the others, and they didn't get enough data to recreate it, but they were almost there, and they just needed Ellie's brain to finally finish the vaccine.
Well, that's what they claimed. They probably said that about the last children they killed, too.
Thirty minutes. We are almost out of time in this episode, and nothing has happened.
Oh, wow, Jesus.
They've wasted so much time.
They're going to have to rush through this fucking rescue awfully quick, or just end it on a...
Ugh, not just stop it on a cliffhanger. That would be the worst thing.
You know, I'm pretty sure she heard those gunshots.
Yep.
Help her!
Joel's a monster.
Ammo.
They were innocent people, what do you see?
They just wanted to kill children for fun.
Well, the way it was set up in the game is basically like, at this point, Joel's destroyed multiple cities in defense of Ellie, and now he's going to destroy the cure in defense of Ellie.
Also, I want to point out, he grabbed a magazine from what appeared to be an AR-15 or M-16. I bet you he's going to reload that M-14 with that.
Yep, they're going out of their way to make him look super fucked up and evil.
Well, that's actually pretty close to the... Yeah, there it is, Archie.
Yep, yep, he's... beautiful.
God dammit.
So, that's actually kind of the point of the game, though, Kip, is that by the end of the game, Joel was just doing blatantly immoral things in defense of Ellie. So that tracks.
He'll kill them.
Oh great, another M-16 AR-15 to reload my M-14 with, yeah. They both start with M, don't they?
This is... they've somehow managed to make the sequence super lame with the music.
It's like...
He's so evil, guys.
The thing is, right now they're just telling...
Right now they're just telling...
It's like, this should not be a sad violin music. This should be a fucking rock moment.
He is killing the bad people. These are not the heroes of this story.
Yeah, we've already established that the fireflies aren't good.
The show fucks up its final act, wonderful.
Run out of M-14 mags from the M-16 after he was a pistol in the boss fight.
It's hitting all the beats of this sequence in the game, but it's messed with the story too much to make it feel the same.
Because the point was that, like, you might actually be convinced that the fireflies have a shot.
Marlene's pretty delusional, and she's not a great person, but they're trying, you know?
They tried too hard to make Marlene likeable in this, to make this work.
Because it had to be like an evil versus evil scenario.
Not to mention, they haven't even talked anything about a cure now, or they're closed or anything.
They've just said, oh, we're going to cut up in our head because, you know, we figure this might work.
Like, we have a theory that the cordycept might be living in her head.
We've got a theory that it might cause her to be immune. Okay.
I won't let you take her.
Yep, that was a pretty bad move, doc.
Cover her arm. Fast.
Turn around.
Now remember, just because they're nurses doesn't mean they're innocent. Bang bang.
Actually, I think he did kill them in the game.
Like, Joel just single-handedly whipped up the fireflies. He killed all of them. There were no more left.
Pen to the doctor because he's the hero.
Nope. Ask the doctors.
Well, I think they panned to the doctor because the doctor was a friend of Abby in the second game, which is, like, this event is why Abby goes after him for revenge.
It's Abby's father.
You're going to do something different with Abby. One of the nurses is going to be her or something.
Oh, okay.
I mean, you should have shot them too. There's no reason why they couldn't grab a gun and go after you, and you'd be pretty helpless carrying Ellie around.
Yeah, considering these people were willing to murder children, you can't really trust them.
So, that entire grand show down there lasted for about four minutes.
And it was super lame.
I don't know, I don't have it yet.
Can't keep herself from a boss fight.
I think she'd want to do what's right.
What's right?
I'm sure she's the hero now.
You've killed everyone.
The doctor's fucking gone.
No, you can't. Like, your brain surgeon is dead surgeon.
No.
Bang.
Bang.
What? No, shoot her.
This is going to be more to the game, because she doesn't know what happened.
The doctors, they couldn't make any of it work.
She puts down her gun so that she can be extra reasonable, and there comes the shot.
They've stopped looking for a cure.
Wow, he got his hand out real quick.
Okay, that was not how he was holding that gun, but okay.
No.
Because he would have held that hid underneath her robe and then fired it through the robe.
Oh, we've got to make her look even more villainous.
Yeah, because she's wounded.
Put my gun down, how could you do this?
Pedro, no care.
Pedro, put your gun down.
Sure.
He's justified.
Wow, they botched that whole sequence.
That was pretty bad.
So much was done wrong.
The look of it was correct, completely, but everything was done wrong.
Because now Ellie can learn the horrible secret.
Oh, Joel killed all those people.
Oh, there was totally a cure.
Oh, Joel, why are you Joel, bad person, Joel?
Yeah, I mean, the final shot of the game is Ellie asking Joel, did you actually kill everyone?
And Joel says no, and then the game ends.
I want to point out a slight plot hole here introduced by the whole retcon at the beginning.
Black Chick knows why Ellie's immune now.
We can manage that.
She knows that her mother was bitten while pregnant.
So all they would have to do is literally get pregnant women and infect them with the cordyceps and voila.
Yep.
They have the cure.
They could make as many babies as they wanted to with this.
Yeah, like if you wanted to be really brutal about it, you could just infect every single woman who gets pregnant.
And then you have a generation of people who are probably the right one.
They're pretty fucked up.
Like, OK, yeah, there would be some work to be done here, like on the timing, et cetera.
But this is absolutely something they could do.
Like they have the way to at the very least make more people that they can dissect for a proper cure.
So they have the means to do this.
They don't need Ellie.
And I'm not saying that you're not girly.
Yeah, that's true.
Absolutely.
They've had this.
How old is Ellie?
Fourteen.
They've had this knowledge for fourteen years.
Hold on a second.
They didn't know that she was immune, I guess, before she got bitten.
Yeah, I guess, yeah.
I think you would have made her laugh.
But still, they have this knowledge.
It's not like Blackjack forgot about how she was born.
They could have just been like, oh, Ellie is immune.
We could recreate this somewhere else in a different Firefly base.
Yeah, hold on, why is she immune?
Oh, that's right, her mother said that she totally cut the cord before she was bit.
Come.
Dot's not connecting your beep, beep, beep.
She just forgot, I guess.
That's okay.
They just sort of forgot about that whole armada.
Yeah, it wasn't a very traumatizing event or anything.
Killing her best friend for life.
Promising to take care of her daughter.
Oh, this is the...
When I got bit in the mall, I wasn't on my own.
It was actually my lesbian friend.
Here we go.
Swear to me that everything you said about the Fireflies is true.
I swear.
Okay.
And end.
Oh, God.
Well, that was a waste of my fucking time.
I mean, so they had the sets, again, looking just like the game.
The very well-known moments and lines.
The shots were blocked the same way.
The lines were the same. They were delivered the same.
Even though it's by different actors, they delivered the lines the same way.
But they messed up so much of the underpinning of the story that it just completely fell apart.
It just lost all meaning.
It just means nothing.
All the sacrifice, all the things that Joel did have been devalued or changed to fit the sequel.
So that they can continue to milk this setting.
Even though it was just like a one-shot story to begin with.
Because everything has to be a franchise.
We've got to keep milking it.
Can't just leave it be.
The original purpose of the game basically was, as you play through, you notice that Joel does more and more violent and...
violent, immoral things in the service of keeping Ellie safe.
And then by the end, he's completely willing to just kill all of the Fireflies and completely destroy their movement.
Even though the game makes it clear that it's not 100%, but there's a decent chance that this might work.
And that Ellie... The show didn't make this clear.
The game makes it clear that Ellie wants to do it, even if it kills her.
The game makes it very clear that she's willing to die, but Joel's not willing to let her go.
So Joel kills them all, he lies to her about it, and that sets up the conflict of the second game.
At least part of the conflict of the second game between Joel and Ellie.
But the point is to watch Joel not go crazy, but turn evil as he tries to defend this girl.
And they've undermined that entire plot.
They've undermined it consistently throughout the whole season.
I don't know. I just... This show... Bad.
Yeah, it went from... Before we were saying, this is a mediocre show.
Yeah, in the beginning it was like, half-decent.
And then like, this ending was just like, oh man.
Before we started this recording today, we talked about bad shows and how they just leave an awful taste in your mouth.
This show has reached that point too, where it's like, yeah, it just feels like Halo, feels like the rest of them.
Feels just like a complete disservice to the entire setting and story.
Yeah, if you knew what The Last of Us Part 1 was supposed to be about, the first game,
once you get to this point, once you get to the finale of this season, it's all come apart.
And it is just as bad as those bad shows, because they ruined everything in the end.
I guess it wasn't actually the good show after all, Arch.
We were deceived, Arch did it.
For me, this was never particularly interesting. It's a zombie show without the zombies. I'm like, okay.
I wanted to see the zombies. I don't care about these stupid humans and their fucking lives, frankly.
And the two humans I did care about barely got any fucking screen time.
And in the end, when they're supposed to be the grand finale for the two humans I did kind of care about,
they spent, let me check here, they spent 13 minutes of the 43 minute episode waffling about
until Joel goes all fucking postal for less than four minutes, two minutes action sequence.
And then that's it. The thing is done. It's over. We're on to second season now.
And I hated the Fireflies too, because that scene, I was sitting there and I was debating,
should I say it? Should I be like, oh, she puts down the gun and he shoots her?
But I'm like, nah, nah, that would be too fucking stupid.
That would be too goddamn cringe and dumb. And there we are.
Because suddenly the Fireflies are the good guys and they're not the good guys.
Listen to what they're saying. They have no idea if this will work.
They have a wild theory that the mushroom in her head is totally protecting her from the other mushrooms,
even though the other mushrooms attack her on sight.
They have no evidence of this. They haven't drawn her blood.
They haven't tested her biology. They haven't done lab tests on this or anything.
They're like, well, her mushroom in her head, like make chemicals that scares the other mushrooms.
So we're just going to pop her open like a pumpkin and see what happens.
And if she dies, well, she dies.
That is not a good thing to do. And then she's like, we could save them all, Joel.
But her dad like, no, Joel is in the writing because Joel has something to protect.
They have a ludicrous fucking theory. They have no basis for believing any of this shit.
Yep. They've just been chopping up kids with little to no results.
And again, because they added in that retcon, we now know that they know why she's immune.
Yep. Yep. So they had no reason to have her.
It was far more complicated to get her to do that than to literally capture some women, forcibly impregnate them, then infect them, and then kill them, and then basically take the babies at the right time.
Their whole organization, they put two and two together here and be like, okay, Ellie, so we've got a goddamn hospital here. We've got electricity.
We can run some tests on you. You can analyze your blood. Probably maybe even do like head scans or something. I don't know how much shit they have.
But she should be the baseline test patient so that they can recreate whatever is happening in her.
Busting her head open first over, well, we do kind of think her mushroom special.
Yeah. Yeah. That's also not how any of this shit works ever.
Like just chopping somebody up instantly on the board is like, okay, you take the one person you have that is immune to this thing. You just killed them.
And you figured out nothing. And you've done that before. You admitted that you've done that before and it failed before.
And then you've not only done it once, but you've done it multiple times. Here's the rare opportunity presented yet again with like the eight other times with another person who so happens to be immune.
Maybe we should try a different tactic. No, put on a table, chop them up. Oh, good. They died again. Like nothing happened.
At least in the games, they had done this several times before. They'd built up a database. They had a reasonable indication that what they were doing were correct.
Because, you know, that's that's trial and error. You do it, you test a thing and it didn't work. Okay, try again. Like they had a basis here.
That entire thing is like, well, you know, probably we chop up children and like nothing happens, but we just keep doing it.
It's also bad. And again, the way they should. This is Hollywood 101, where they're beating you over the head, like sympathize to these people.
God damn you filthy viewer. You're stupid enough to be affected by a sad violin, right?
Look at Joel's executing the poor fat guy who just wanted to kill a child. I just want to kill a kid.
We've done it like several times before. I'm totally a good guy, too.
Marlene's like, yeah, we've killed children. You know, we're going to keep doing it until we find a cure. It's like, OK.
I don't really buy it. I don't really buy it. Like it's too forced. It's too it's too much like they're trying to get you to sympathize with these characters that are clearly wrong.
Every bit of shred of evidence they've suggested has already proven to me that it doesn't work.
If you've killed multiple people to try to figure out how this, you know, cure thing works or inoculation and it's failed every single time.
You can't convince me that just keep chopping up more people is going to magically a failure is going to turn from, you know, to a success.
It's like trying to change, you know, something that physically can't be changed. It's not the right it's not the right method.
So, Arch, are you going to I mean, The Last of Us is on Steam. You can play the you can play it now and see how good the actual game was.
Hold on. Yeah. Thank you for suggesting that I hurt myself. Very nice of you. Very friendly.
One thing is, Dev, is The Last of Us remake going to follow the retcons to try to facilitate, too?
Oh, it probably will. You know what? Because they had to like change a few things to make part two and they're going to like retcon once they do the remake of part one.
Yep. Because that's a remake. They're not actually just going to give you The Last of Us on PC.
They're going to give you The Last of Us part one, which means that the thing is when The Last of Us came out and I own the original Last of Us copy.
This doesn't say part one on it. No, it says The Last of Us.
It's a one time video game with a one time story. It's a one shot product. That's it.
It's not a trilogy. It's not anything. It's just a pretend little thing. And it's like, nope, they got to milk it. They got to make it Last of Us part two.
Well, here's the thing. Yeah, The Last of Us came out in the PS3 and then on the PS4 it came out, it got remastered.
So it was still the same game. And then you had, now it's being rereleased, remade as Last of Us part one to make it fit with the new lore.
You know what, they've ruined the whole thing. It's all fucking, you know what, here. I'm just going to message Lilith real quick.
Hey, Lilith, you're actually in luck that you couldn't make it tonight. This was awful. Lucky her. Lucky her.
Yeah. I think, for each reference Dev, I think I've been called into work, even though I'm not employed anywhere.
But, you know, I must go.
Hey, I came back in real quick. I just thought of something.
Yeah, nothing. This whole fucking recording doesn't matter. I'm going to lock Dev out of here. Damn!
I just thought of something big. All right?
Okay, better be fucking big.
Sorry. I'm sorry. I just, I had to share this.
All right, fair enough.
The whole Ellie's mother was bit while pregnant thing. It doesn't just ruin this episode. It doesn't just ruin Marlene's motivation. It ruins the entire trip.
Because think about it, like Marlene...
Oh my God, Dev, come here. I'm going to strangle you. We've already established this.
Think back to the first episode though, okay? Marlene's bleeding out of her side and she's like, this is our only hope, dude.
Joel, I don't trust you, but you gotta, you gotta take Ellie. What do you mean? What do you mean? The whole show is meaningless.
Yes. Correct.
Oh my God.
I thought we were already on the same page.
I was talking with Naomi about it and I realized, oh my God, this is more than just this episode. It's everything.
Yeah.
The whole show has been ruined.
All I think I've just realized is Dev never listens to me when I talk.
I'm sorry.
I think that's because I told you that and you agreed with me.
All right. I'm sorry guys. Have fun, okay?
Okay. I'll fucking never forgive. I'll never forgive this.
