I was gonna do the next Indefensible tonight, but I don't think I really have the heart to do it right now.
For those of you who don't know, Nintendo's fourth president, Satoru Iwata, passed away today.
And, like so many big names at Nintendo, he wasn't just a president or just a CEO.
He connected with a lot of gamers everywhere.
I mean, just looking over what he's done before he became CEO, he did Balloon Fight,
he worked on Kirby with Sakurai, he helped with Earthbound.
You know, these are formative games, not just popular Nintendo titles.
They're part of gaming history.
Up until Iwata, Nintendo was basically a family-run company.
Its first three presidents were all from the Yamauchi family.
And when Iwata was given the mantle in 2002, it was because Nintendo needed somebody
who was not just a good president, but also a good game developer and a good gamer.
He would later go on to prove this by spearheading the Nintendo DS,
which was by far Nintendo's most popular handheld,
and he also pushed development on the Wii, which became one of Nintendo's most popular consoles.
Both of these systems that he helped design were very unique amongst Nintendo's normal offerings,
in that they really expanded on what it meant to play a game.
The Nintendo DS basically popularized touchscreen gaming,
and the Wii, for better or worse, brought motion control to the forefront.
And I know there's a lot of shovelware on the Wii, there's a lot of games that really aren't that good,
but at the same time, when the Wii worked, it really worked.
And both the DS and the Wii have some of Nintendo's best games on them.
Iwata was also special not just as a businessman, but also as a personality.
He understood the importance of reaching out and connecting with the audience,
in a way that his predecessors didn't.
Miyamoto always, you know, flirted with the fan base.
And of course, Reggie became a meme.
But with the Nintendo Directs, Iwata reached out in a way that...
I think no CEO, in gaming or otherwise, has ever before or since.
Iwata wasn't present at 2014's E3,
and it was publicly stated because of medical-related reasons.
And part of me is now wondering that...
maybe the reason there was all that fun and cool puppet stuff at this year's E3
was because Iwata didn't want us to see him in the state he was.
And I don't think that's a prideful gesture,
I think that's the kind of person that Iwata ultimately was.
I mean, he's the guy who took a massive pay cut when the Wii U failed.
That is unheard of in the realm of modern CEOs,
for someone to take that much responsibility
to actually say,
the buck stops here and mean it.
I think ultimately what Iwata desired
was for the spotlight to be on Nintendo's offerings at E3,
rather than on his health.
And for that, he should be commended.
I think it's also very telling,
as a testament to the kind of guy that he was,
that the last thing Iwata did publicly before his death
was apologize for Nintendo's E3 showing.
He knew that pretty much everybody was disappointed,
and he was sorry.
I just hope that he didn't go,
thinking that we had all given up on what he considered to be one of his greatest works.
I think it goes without saying that everybody is going to miss him.
Thanks for playing, Iwata.
Thanks for watching!
