Here's a common way that remainers frame Brexit.
Like a parent of a wayward young adult, who's determined to hurt themselves by their behaviour.
I watch Broken Hearted.
The really sad thing about Brexit is that over the next 10-15 years, we will slowly
realize what we have lost, and why we joined in the first place.
Like your parents telling you your school day is the best years of your life, and you
don't believe them until it's too late.
Brexit really does spell the end of the UK.
So sad.
Like hearing divorcing parents tell kids we'll be friends.
Umm...
Everyone marching at London Pride?
Are you... are you fucking a chicken down there?
To the remainers, the UK is an uppity child, a hormonal teenager, while the EU is the wise,
benevolent father.
The UK's desire for freedom from the EU is rash, misinformed, immature, and can only
lead to disaster.
A specific type of disaster that only the experience of the EU, and the remainers advocating
for it, can foresee.
And maybe that's the case.
When or if Brexit happens, everyone agrees that the UK will take an economic hit.
And the pragmatic argument of staying in the EU to avoid a short to middle term depression
is a reasonable one.
Just like not all Brexiteers are racists, not all remainers are card-carrying progressives.
A lot of them just want to avoid a very obvious economic pitfall.
But the primary argument for Brexit, at least as far as I can tell, is the desire of the
citizens of the UK to reclaim the sovereignty of their own country.
It's so that the UK is ruled by their own parliament, in London.
And so that parliament is the highest legal authority in the land, and not subordinate
to an even greater power structure within the EU.
The EU is notoriously undemocratic.
The only body of the EU directly elected by the citizens is the European Parliament.
And unlike an actual parliamentary democracy, the European Parliament does not have the
right of initiative, the right to put forward legislation for a vote.
The European Parliament can only approve or reject if legislation handed to them from
the European Commission.
Compare this to the Canadian system, where the House of Commons has the right of initiative,
but the Senate does not.
Or the American one, where both Congress and the Senate have the right, but both houses
must approve any bill regardless of where it starts.
In both examples, at least one body has both the right of initiative, and is directly democratically
elected by the population.
This is not the case with the EU.
Most Brexiteers recognize this situation as unacceptable for a free country, and want
to return the sovereign power to their own parliament.
Their position is primarily focused on the right of self-determination, not secondary
issues like immigration or economics.
Often times, when you engage your remainer online, their default position will be that
Brexiteers are simply angry racists.
When you bring up the issue of sovereignty, they almost always go silent, because they
know there's no real argument against the right of self-determination.
The progressive go-to on self-determination for the past 50 years was that more methods
of living were valid beyond the narrow interpretation provided by religious traditionalism, and
that people had the right to live in an unorthodox or unpopular manner.
The smartest among them know to simply clam up when people choose to exercise their rights
to, say, leave the EU.
But that's not always how it goes down.
In a minority of cases, when presented with a sovereignty argument, the remainer will
reply in the manner that I began this video with.
The UK's desire for freedom over security is childish, and the patient parent that is
the EU will be saddened, but will allow their wayward son to destroy themselves.
And a significant portion of the British electorate are complicit in this infantilization of their
character.
The idea that the British, as a people, are perpetual children that need tending to by
their European parents, has taken root quite strongly ever since those same children voted
to leave the EU.
I mean, there's a lot of contradictions here.
The British are simultaneously the greatest colonial tyrants the world has ever seen,
as well as a baby race requiring a firm European hand.
Or that the prevailing metaphor for the situation is Britain represented by the rashness of
youth when it was overwhelmingly older people who voted to leave.
But forget about that stuff, it doesn't matter.
This idea that the citizens need constant guiding by a nanny state is overwhelmingly
the most prevailing position within both the government and the media.
Hate incidents that do not break any laws but are considered to be wrongful uses of
free speech are met with a friendly visit from the police.
Lawful speech ranging from peaceful protests to comedy to rational critique of sensitive
topics are all stifled under the guise of safety.
Violent or sexual content, something legal that any adult should be allowed to partake
in, is slowly becoming banned.
The entire British Isles is becoming childproofed, with caps on the power outlets and cushioned
corners on the coffee tables.
And this care-for-me mentality has filtered into the UK's parliament, which is one big
reason why they don't want to deliver Brexit.
Doing so means they'll actually be in charge of running the place.
What they do will have serious impact with serious consequences, and require serious
responsibility from them in order to do their jobs.
They won't simply be the EU's rubber stamp, they'll be the ultimate authority, and frankly
the British MPs right now don't want the pressure.
That's why they're all having a collective breakdown at the prospect.
Expending so much energy betraying the people that voted them in is finally getting to them,
I guess.
The prodigal son metaphor is one that remainers like to use, when framing the EU as a benevolent
authority and the UK as a bratty kid.
I wish the UK would just acknowledge that Brexit is just a bad idea, and stop this disaster
from happening.
I think the EU is waiting with open arms, ready to welcome the UK back like the prodigal
son.
The prodigal son, for those of you who don't know, is a bible story.
A wealthy father has two sons.
The younger son asks for his inheritance early, receives it, and promptly goes out and wastes
it all frivolously.
He experiences destitution and hardship, and returns home, hat in hand, expecting to be
a servant of the family.
Instead, his father welcomes him home, telling his angered older son that the younger one
has finally learned humility.
The lesson is obvious, God forgives those who sin and repent.
The problem with using the story for a real world scenario like Brexit, though, is that
the EU is not God.
In real life, all children eventually leave the nest.
If the argument is that the UK's desire for freedom from the EU is fundamentally childish,
that would imply that the UK is destined to eventually leave the EU, if not now, then
a little bit later, when the UK is a bit more mature and the EU is a bit closer to death.
And frankly, the EU is close enough, isn't it?
But okay, Remainers, if we're going to use the bible to describe the situation, let's
use the bible.
Let's talk about the Tower of Babel.
You know, where humans got too proud of their accomplishments, built a giant tower to try
and reach heaven, and God decided to teach them a lesson by destroying the tower and
forcing all the people to speak different languages.
I'm an atheist.
I don't care about the religious implications of the Babel story.
For someone like me, the meaning is quite clear.
The biggest threat to humanity, with the exception of the chaotic nature of reality, is the tendency
for human social structures to become too large, too slow, and too blind.
And when that happens, they are inevitably doomed to disintegration and collapse.
This is, for example, why libertarians prefer smaller government, because they understand
that an excessively large government has a tendency to overreach, overconsume, and eventually
implode under the weight of their own bureaucracy.
We can see this in the EU, a large, unwieldy superstate, enduring a financial crisis due
to its rapid expansion into Eastern Europe.
Its disintegration and collapse has begun in the form of Brexit, where its constituent
parts are slowly deciding that the grand European project is too much trouble in its worth,
and are all looking to go their own ways, like humanity after the destruction of Babel.
People who use terminology like crashing out of the EU to refer to a hard Brexit know this
implicitly.
They know that even the simple act of leaving the EU will cause catastrophic damage to the
cause.
That's why, before the referendum, the common position was that the UK has an obligation
to not destroy the EU by leaving it.
Of course, to some degree, the modern world, with its modern problems, requires more complex
solutions than ever before, and you'd be hard-pressed to find a simplistic government
that can pull off a complex solution.
But the answer isn't to build a Tower of Babel, an ever-increasing, all-consuming European
nightmare state, lacking democratic representation, and aspiring to be an empire.
The solution is, as far as I can tell, an attitude of humility and leadership.
Think of it this way.
Jordan Peterson's now-iconic meme of Clean Your Room has caught on.
Because before you announced your grand plans to create the utopia through top-down management
of the entire planet, you should probably be capable of keeping your living space in
order first.
Keeping yourself clean is infinitely easier than keeping the world clean, and often enough
the type of person that desires radical action to implement the latter can't even do the
former.
For example, the EU is on the verge of collapse.
Is it no surprise that the president, Jean-Claude Juncker, has an alcohol problem?
Or that European Parliament advocate for a federalized Europe, Guy Verhofstadt, tries
in vain to look 30 years younger than he is, while demanding that the EU member states
give the EU more sovereign power?
The fundamental problem is that the EU is dysfunctional, but it works just well enough
that the clowns in power think they understand it, when they don't.
And they believe that their limited understanding allows them to manipulate the system to induce
grand social change, when all it really creates is grand social disaster.
Of course, social systems require adjustment in order to properly function, and on some
level those social systems are required.
But in that adjustment, humility comes into play, because the EU has shown us that simply
marching in like you own the place more often than not leads to ruin.
In politics, humility manifests as a desire to improve things, yes, but also as an understanding
that being careful means sticking with what you know and starting out small, hence clean
your room.
Or in the case of Juncker and Verhofstadt, clean up your axe.
This is why there is an insistence to infantilize Britain due to the British desire to leave
the EU.
Europe views itself as the competent, wizened adult, even though it's really, really not.
So child is the only role that the UK can be cast in.
But unlike the prodigal son, the EU and the UK are not father and child.
No maturity on the part of the EU is necessary for the two partners to break up.
In fact, a breakup is probably a better metaphor, isn't it?
Think about it.
You've got two partners.
And yeah, the UK is the woman in the relationship.
The EU makes way more money, and the breakup is going to be tough on the UK.
She'll have to leave his house and live in a dumpy apartment for a while.
But she's no slouch either.
She can land on her feet.
And she's got many reasons to leave, too.
Abuse?
Gaslighting?
Treating her like a child and not a partner, perhaps?
If you ever needed more proof that the EU was a bad boyfriend after all, look at his
clingy desperate behavior after she told him that they were through.
Come on, don't tell me these clowns don't look like they were nice guys back in college.
A culture of safety has resulted in a class of British adults who, rather than deal with
their own affairs, appeal to an ever-greater authority, from parent, to boss, to state,
to super-state.
And the EU, with all of its flaws and cracks, has gladly taken up the mantle of ultimate
eternal authority.
It hardly deserves such a position.
For Brexit to be opposed, for the legitimate criticisms of the European project to be ignored,
the infantilization of Britain is necessary, both internally and externally, because the
only way for the EU to survive is to say to the British, quiet, the adults are talking.
