So, it turns out that Lilith is late because she's making a meatloaf.
Yes.
I mean, I don't really blame Lilith.
I mean, that's infinitely more interesting than a TV show, so.
Meatloaf sounds tasty.
Thank you.
I'm glad you understand.
Meatloaf is great.
It takes priority.
I thought it would be done earlier, but I guess the slab of meat I was working with
today was bigger than the one I was working with last time, so.
I gotta be honest.
I've actually cooked a meatloaf before.
Oh, it's super easy.
Oh, yeah?
You just cut it up, season it a bunch, put it on a metal plate, and put it in nothing.
Do you stuff it with veggies?
Do you put like- No.
No?
When I make homemade burgers, what I'll do is I'll stuff the meat with garlic, with onions,
and with chopped kale.
Oh, you can do that.
You can do that, definitely.
Lots of people like to rub garlic into it.
If I had garlic, I would have done that, but I didn't, so I just used garlic salt today.
Right, right.
What you should be doing is you should be baking in egg and cheese.
Oh.
I've heard a lot about putting eggs in instead of breadcrumbs to find their meat together.
I did add a little bit of cheese on mine.
Yeah.
Yeah, the egg is an interesting solution to bread, or alternative.
So what do you do with the egg?
Basically, when you have the- you take the meatloaf first, and instead of making it into
the loaf, you have all the ground meat out in a long platter kind of thing.
Uh-huh.
Then you take the egg, you beat it up a little bit so it's nice and yellow and consistent
up, kind of like you're making omelet, and then you just pour that on the center, and
then you roll the meatloaf over it, and then you pack it in on both sides, so it's kind
of in the center of the meatloaf, and then you roast as usual.
Nice.
Okay.
Now this, you do need to cut into it to make sure that it's cooked on the inside, because
if it isn't cooked through, you're going to have raw egg inside of your meat, and that's
a problem.
Yeah.
Yeah, but like Sunnyside D.
But it is actually quite delicious, and it's- if you cool it down, it's eatable, it's almost
just like spread.
You slice off a thin piece, put it on bread, and eat.
So we're back together again to watch The Last of Us.
You know, when we were watching The Rings of Power, even though it was really, really
bad, it was kind of like a momentous occasion, you know, because Lord of the Rings is a much
bigger property than The Last of Us, and Rings of Power was a much bigger shitshow than this
show was turning out to be.
I don't know how I feel about watching a good show on my channel, or at least like a passing
show on my channel, you know?
Yeah, better stop then, because we're just development.
That's what we'll do.
I have to hate watch.
It could be better, because that's the thing, this is a passing show, but it's no Spartacus,
it's no Rome.
It's no the first few seasons of Game of Thrones, you know?
Game of Thrones, sub-tier to Rome.
And man, you know what, speaking of just passable shows, I watched season 3 episode 1 of Picard,
and I was surprised that it was mediocre, because Picard has been the worst show I've
ever seen in my fucking life for two seasons, and it's bumped up massively to just being
normal bad.
I tried to get into the Trek of the Stars, and I did so by trying to watch Picard.
So I'm like, yeah, I'll get in on the ground floor of this, let's see what everybody's
talking about.
I watched the first episode, and I was like, well, time's wrong again.
This is shit.
You start, hold on, your first episode of Star Trek-
That's probably not the best place to start.
Your first episode of Star Trek was the worst show of all time?
Actually, to be fair, my first proper Star Trek that I watched was STD, which I kind
of enjoyed, because it was just a stupid action show.
Oh, god damn it.
Go back and watch the good stuff, go back and watch TNG and DS9.
He doesn't like it.
He did try to give DS9 a swing, which I'll give him credit for that, but sadly it didn't
stick with him, which breaks my heart.
So when I started dating Naomi, Naomi's a Zoomer, she's younger than me, so I'm a millennial,
and she hadn't ever seen anything about Star Trek before.
Age gap.
That makes you a pedophile.
I'm gonna get cancelled for the age gap, yeah.
I'm gonna get cancelled by all the TikTok Zoomers.
So I sat down with her and I'm like, listen, Naomi, we're watching every single piece of
Star Trek in order of release, and we went through the whole thing.
We went through, we did the original series from 1967 or whatever, we did the animated
series, we did the movies, we did TNG, DS9, Voyager, we did all of it.
And she became a Star Trek hyper fan just in time to be let down by all the new Trek.
It's tragic, but that's actually kind of where I'm at with that, too, because I didn't
find-
Well, what's her favorite character?
Her favorite character?
Yeah.
Oh, Jesus.
That's gonna be a hard one, too.
Actually, I don't know what her favorite character would be.
Naomi, what is your favorite Star Trek character of all time?
Of all time?
Yeah.
I can't pick just one.
Come on, pick one.
Yeah, see?
That's a hard question.
Yeah, I knew it would be.
One of the entire franchise.
Oof.
I don't know.
Odo's pretty close.
I mean-
Odo?
Yeah.
I like Odo.
I could pick.
I can't pick one.
Can you pick one for each show?
Like, original series?
Original series is Spock.
Yes, of course.
And then TNG is...
Was obviously Picard.
But he was ruined by Picard.
Yeah.
Well, you know what?
We're not talking about Picard.
We're talking about the character of Picard in TNG where he was good.
Okay?
Well, to be fair, Picard also ruined Data.
So you can't even fall back on that.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
So...
Odo and DS9, obviously.
DS9 was...
Yeah.
Odo for DS9.
Voyager?
Then Voyager...
Probably Seven of Nine, realistically.
Is that just because she's not-
No.
I like her character arc.
Oh, yeah.
She has lots of arcs going all over her body, I know.
I can tell based on your face that's what you were thinking of, too.
No, it wasn't.
All right.
You know me.
You're abandoned.
Dev.
Yes?
It's EMH.
The EMH Doctor is the best character in Voyager.
Not Seven of Nine.
You have to break up with him.
The EMH is actually an interesting character.
Yeah, the Doctor.
He's a great actor, and he's an opera singer, too, if I remember right.
There's one final thing I must confirm.
Okay.
What's up?
Naomi.
Dev.
Okay.
Your Enterprise character was T'Pol, right?
Oh, fuck.
The Enterprise.
Yeah, it's because of the curves.
I know.
Thank you.
All right.
Enterprise doesn't count.
It's been a long time.
I hate that intro.
I think we've sexually shamed Naomi enough for liking hot TV women.
Should we watch the zombie show now?
I mean, I guess we can.
I think it's time.
I think it's time.
We can commence.
Oh, I put mushrooms sometimes in my burgers, too.
Just chop them up like little tiny mushroom chops.
Little pieces and put them in the burgers.
Yeah.
Give me a gun.
Oh, shit.
I gotta turn on subtitles.
Give me a gun.
Whoops.
Henry, no!
By a black person.
Leading cause of death in America.
Wow.
Black person.
His arch celebrates.
That is very arch.
Ah.
Home.
Actually, it's a bit too flat to be home.
You always realized they're not doing the four seasons thing that Last of Us did.
Do you remember that, Lilith and Kibs?
Oh, yeah.
They went through the seasons.
Yeah.
They divided the game into quarters based on the season.
Motherfucker.
That's impressive.
Oh, this is going to be nine episodes, right?
Miniseries?
Nine or ten?
Oh, God.
Wow.
You've, uh, you've lived through the apocalypse well, honey.
Not bad.
You must be a very good hunter.
Who the hell are you?
There's someone passing through.
Take the gun out.
Two fingers only.
Put it out of reach.
Why did you shoot him?
The gun's all the way over there.
He didn't hurt me, by the way.
He's got a girl with him.
Can I con-jow?
No.
Henry.
What did I just say?
Joel, come on.
There's like a thousand.
Who's this little psycho?
Never mind her.
I need you to tell us where we are.
You got a map?
Why you lost?
You must have missed all the street signs in the enormous fucking forest.
Holy.
I like how they're just laughing at her.
Exactly where?
And your answer better be the same as your wife's.
Did you tell them the truth?
Yeah.
Are you telling me the truth?
Yeah.
What about the fireflies?
We get those in the summer.
Not the bugs.
The people.
There are firefly people?
Oh my god.
You got any advice on the best way to...
What are the best characters so far?
Gooey.
So having had a bunch of experience with like native people living on reservations in Canada,
they are exactly like this.
Don't give a fuck.
Just relax and chillin' out.
Put that back.
I don't know anything.
You're stealing a rabbit.
Joel?
Joel?
Joel, are you okay?
Joel?
Shut up.
Holy shit.
Are you dying?
I'm okay.
I'm okay.
I'm okay.
I'm fine.
No, no.
But are you?
Because just to remind you that you're dead.
I'm fucked.
I'm fine.
Okay.
It's just the cold air.
Oh, I saw you.
I think this is new.
I don't recall Joel having an old man sickness.
Yeah, I've been hearing something that they hinted at in the beginning episode.
That's new information, or made up information, whatever you want to call it.
If they're smart, they'll kill his ass via natural causes instead of the way he went
in that other game.
The unceremonious death by fucking golf club.
Uh huh.
Fuck.
And then they try to get you to sympathize with the character that killed him.
Yep.
Mm-hmm.
That didn't work out so well.
Don't be like that very much.
Close the dark.
No, nobody did.
There's some caves along the river.
We'll set up camp there, cross in the morning.
Yeah, it's a better way for him to go.
Just keep moving.
One could be so lucky.
That rabbit is so fucking fake, by the way.
Oh yeah.
Yep.
That's too big to be like a...
Well the eyes of a woman.
That size isn't necessarily wrong.
What gives it away is that thing is still flopping.
It's been dead for hours, it should be stiff as a board.
Can I have some?
No.
What, just to warm up?
Unscientific fact, alcohol does not actually make you warmer.
Nope, it just makes you numb.
Cough, cough, cough.
Yep.
So gross.
You know, I'm a grown man at this point.
I still don't like the taste of hard liquor.
I don't think anybody does.
It's fucking awful.
I would raise sheep.
They're quiet.
Do what they're told.
Actually, no.
Not in the slightest.
They're snarky as fuck.
They haven't been around sheeps, they're not quiet.
Nor do they do what they're told.
They're disobedient little shits.
What about you, where are you gonna go?
He's gonna be a sheep fucker.
Look at all that meat left on that poor rabbit.
Yeah, it's just grilling there.
They couldn't have been very hungry, I guess.
Yeah.
They've been doing pretty well with the journey, I guess.
No fetish in the morning.
What can I say, man?
I'm a natural.
What amazes me is that's a grown woman and that rifle still looks like it'll bowl her
over if she fired it.
Yeah.
She looks like a grown woman the same way that Greta Thunberg now looks like a grown woman.
Like, I know she's 18.
Yeah, well, she's 18, but she's tiny as fuck, you know?
And her parents specifically dress and groom her to look like a fucking 10-year-old.
When you say groom in the context of Greta Thunberg, it just sounds bad.
Well, I mean it in both contexts in this case.
Oh, no.
Fine.
Ah, yes, fire your gun and then wait for about five seconds.
Then walk out of cover.
That's pretty smart.
I'm sure anyone watching would have given up after the first three.
Actually, Arch, it's not just her parents.
Did you see that there were some...
I think they were rhinoids because they were coming at it from an anti-environmentalist perspective,
but they were talking about how now that Greta Thunberg is 18, she's certain OnlyFans.
I'm like, Jesus, guys. Calm the fuck down with that.
What?
I'm assuming how she's been raised for quite enough time, I think.
I just imagine a chick that has been repressed that hard by her parents and controlled that hard for this long.
Oh, there's going to be some behaviour there.
Oh, like going off to a party at university or something?
You don't know how to whistle?
Does it sound like I know how to whistle?
No.
Seriously, though, how the fuck do you do that?
Tyler.
Whatever.
You should teach me how to hunt.
Oh.
That's such a wise answer.
Tyler is genuinely actually pretty good at their interactions.
Yeah, they're getting there for sure.
Damn.
Correct.
You know Will Livingston.
Yeah, but who is?
So that made electricity?
Yeah. Don't ask me. I don't have a clue.
I mean, theoretically, it still should. A hydroelectric dam doesn't require a lot of maintenance, but...
Oh, no.
Oh, look, another group of outlaws with a female leader.
How about you shut the fuck up?
OK. Easy.
They do say women are the future.
They're apparently correct.
Last chance for a bullet.
But you've earned the fact that he will smell it and he will rip you up.
Oh, shit.
Now her.
Oh.
That's lucky.
What's her name?
There's the leader. Like barge called...
Oh, dang.
Oh, obviously.
I guess the smart thing is to build your new town somewhere else, since all the old ones are too infected.
Oh, yeah. Away from civilization.
Rather than doing QZs, like Fedra did.
Yeah, then you scatter fake powder snow on it, which is just white sand.
And voila! Home.
I hate how all of these shows are... shows snow. I hate video game snow.
Nobody gets snow right.
Yeah.
You know, my front yard currently has like ten feet of snow in it.
You gotta learn how to do snow, guys.
I came here to save you.
Are these the good guys?
Oh, they've got electricity. That's nice.
Oh, they took the look of this place from the second game.
There's more if you need it.
Unfortunately.
Thank you, ma'am.
Yes, this is the second game settlement where they settle down.
Oh.
Kevs, did you recognize?
Was that the Jewish lady?
That looks like her girlfriend in the second game.
Ah, cringe.
I hate this show now.
They're bringing in like second season stuff or something.
I hope they never get a second season.
Maria is family, actually.
Oh, shit. Congrats.
Joel, say congrats.
Congrats.
House of Worship. Multifaith.
School. Laundry.
O Bank works as the J on that we've muted.
You draw power from a dam.
Got that working a couple of years ago.
Nice.
And they're sheeps.
Oh, boys.
Of course.
The commune.
They're democratically elected.
Hunting.
It's The Last of Us Part Two.
Greenhouses, livestock.
All shared.
Nope.
Communes.
It is a commune.
Communism.
Yes.
Oh.
It ain't like that.
It is that.
Literally.
This is a commune.
We're communists.
Oh, OK.
No way.
That's our newest one.
Couple months old.
You want a pet?
Oh, there you go.
All you need for communism to succeed is the death of 99% of the population.
99% of humanity and collapse of civilization.
A small, vacated, armed commune.
Not to mention, you know, a rider to shoehorn everything to work.
This actually makes sense because this is how the Zapatistas run things in Mexico.
They live in one of the poorest, most dysfunctional, most undeveloped places in the entire world, even including Africa.
And the only way they, like, basically the social organization that communism brought them actually advanced them.
But only because they had literally nothing.
And some organization, even bad organization, is better than nothing.
You on the other hand.
Yep.
Literally, when the world is a zombie apocalypse, communism might be a valley sculpture.
So how's Tess?
Dead.
She's fine.
So you know where they might be?
These fireflies?
They got a base down at the University of Eastern Colorado.
It's a week's ride south.
I continue to be impressed by the fact that they still have alcohol after the last, like, 20-odd years.
I'm not sure how much they'd be drinking it.
Maybe they're making some now.
I could make moonshine.
Yeah, you could just make some.
That doesn't look like much.
I'm not sure.
Is Joel gonna be bitter about it?
Yep. That's what it is.
Is that a cool Christmas thing going on?
How nice.
You really shouldn't be doing that.
Resist the urge to lick the pole, Joel.
Joel, get stuck there, and this'll turn into the comedy.
Yep.
Remember, kids, do not touch metal in winter with exposed palms or tongues. Bad idea.
Uh, he's seeing her.
It's hair product, by the way. She probably was able to maintain that.
Yeah.
They're also manufacturing that, too.
If ancient Egyptians can make hair product, then why can't you make it in a post office?
Hmm.
Because modern day people don't know how to grow fucking carrots, much less make horse products.
Yeah, there we go. Horse products.
Wait, I'm across the street.
Oh, are they gonna start the romance early?
Uh, cringe.
Oh.
Gross.
20 year old period cup. Jesus. There's no way it still works. It'd be crinkling.
Also, sadly, it's not one of those anti-rape ones.
Oh, with the hooks?
Teeth inside.
Hello?
Wait, is everyone's door just open in the commune?
Of course. It's real communism, Kev.
Kibs? Dev? I don't even know who you are anymore.
Don't fucking mistake me for Dev, you son of a bitch.
Wait, look at the house.
It's pristine.
No, I think it's the same house as...
Yeah, this is... most of this is Last of Us Part 2 stuff.
Well, no, no, no. It's the same house as Bill's house. They just changed the furniture.
No. No.
I think so.
Dev, you're fucking high, Dev.
This is where the, um, the dining room was.
No, it wasn't.
It wouldn't do that.
Dev, you're high.
Dev, sit.
I think it is.
Like, they have all this budget for all these locations, and you think they would have to reuse the house.
I was an assistant district attorney out of Omaha, Nebraska.
I put bad guys in jail.
Oh, cool, I guess.
Oh, how about Harris?
Hahaha.
Hahaha.
So that conversation is...
It was different, but it was close enough to what they did in the game.
This is the most fucking abundant post-apocalypse I think I've ever seen.
Haha, yep.
No, it's communism. You know, it's golden.
Yeah, okay.
I think within the lore, it's explained in some places that have more warning than others.
She's in...
Tongues, actually.
Haha, yeah.
Because I was too slow and too fucking deaf to hear him coming.
I was so afraid.
You think I can still handle things, but I'm not who I was.
I'm weak.
Lately, there are these moments where the fear comes up out of nowhere, and my heart feels like it stopped.
Yeah, this is all new. He didn't have this in, like, panic attacks. He didn't have these in the original game.
You know, you just slaughtered people wholesale.
Sudden onset pussy-itis.
Haha, unfortunate, but yes.
A common affliction in this day and age among straight men.
I've lost something.
I'm failing in my sleep.
It's all I do.
It's all I've ever done.
I remember Joel being, like, a defeatist.
He had his moments, for sure.
Just a few minutes ago, the show told us that you can't trust anybody.
Because the only people you can betray are the people you trust.
I wonder what's gonna happen next.
No locks.
Nowhere. They've been outlawed.
Oh man, look at that old-school Mac!
In communism, you must trust your neighbor.
What exactly did you hear?
I have to leave her. You have to take her.
You know, I stood up for you today because I thought...
I made this decision for your own good.
You'll be way better off with Tommy.
He knows the area better than I do.
Do you give a shit about me or not?
Then what are you so afraid of?
I'm not her, you know.
Maria told me about Sarah and...
No.
Don't say another word.
I'm sorry about your daughter, Joel.
But I have lost people too.
You have no idea what loss is.
Everybody I have cared for has either died or left me.
Everybody fucking except for you!
So don't tell me that I'd be safe with somebody else,
because the truth is, I would just be more scared.
You're right.
You're right.
You're not my daughter.
And I sure as hell ain't your dad.
Now come down.
We're going our separate ways.
Melodrama.
Well...
And the most fucking formulaic one as well.
I don't like you. I don't like you either.
Save it later.
So here's the thing.
They changed something drastic in that scene.
That was line for line.
The same scene in the show, which I can appreciate.
But in the game, that was the first moment of weakness that Joel ever showed.
Was in that conversation with Ellie.
And it was supposed to be an important moment.
But he's already shown weakness.
He's shown a lot of it.
Yes, this whole episode has been him showing weakness,
and it kind of dulled the impact of that scene quite a bit.
I play as Devil's advocate.
I think them showing him weakness prior to that was so that line wouldn't come across as jarring to the viewer.
We're out of nowhere.
You think?
I'm guessing that's the reason why they did that.
I remember in the game, it comes across as Joel's first moment of,
Oh, he actually does care about this girl.
And it's not just all about Tess.
And then he immediately squashes that down.
And you can see what's going on with Joel when he does it.
But in this, that whole scene with Tommy I think ruined that sentiment.
Maybe.
I do appreciate that they did it line for line and shot for shot again,
but I guess you can't get everything right, eh?
I came here to steal one of these horses and go.
Well, it gave you one.
I know.
Anyway, that was 30 minutes ago, and I guess you deserve a choice.
I still think you'd be better off with Tommy.
Let's go.
Okay, well, at least they skipped the pointless drama in the middle
before they decided to get back together again, I guess.
Can I borrow that?
Yeah, because Maria took mine, you know.
I already said yes, Joel.
Couldn't you just give him his gun back?
You have some ammo?
Well, I guess five rounds is it.
That's it.
Four.
Three.
Two.
You're flinching.
The target's too small.
I made it bigger than I should have.
Eject the cartridge.
I would assume they have more ammo than that.
I'm not flinching.
The rifle just sucks.
Okay, give it.
So, I know that they filmed a chunk of the show on the Canadian prairies in the spring.
So, I think this is actually happening during Canadian spring.
You gonna shoot this thing or get it pregnant?
It isn't gonna work.
It doesn't aim right.
You dick.
Now, he would have missed too because he shook the fuck out of that thing
like he's scared of the recoil.
There's enough snow like in the far background of these shots
that I think this is actually...
This is like March or April in Canada.
Okay.
That's right.
Houses, stores, that kind of thing.
You had the communists and the anarcho-capitalists.
And that's all you had in America, apparently.
According to him, yeah.
He just wanted to grill.
We were cool.
Everybody loved contractors.
Nice.
Dude, people fucking hate contractors.
Fuck.
Well, I mean, get a good one.
You hire a contractor 50-50 shot whether or not the job's gonna be done right.
Or on time.
Good contractor is much like good consultant.
Pretty good.
Or working communism.
Fuck.
Yeah, this shot has to be like Alberta or something.
Basically.
But violent.
God, it's so flat it makes my cell hurt.
True.
But if you're driving down the Trans-Canada,
you can go like 200 miles an hour and not hit anything.
What, you mean to tell me the entire Canada is trans?
Oh, God.
God damn it.
Reminds me of Denmark.
The worst place on Earth.
Denmark?
It too is ungodly flat.
Oh, wow.
So I have to assume that like
they modeled the university in the game after a real university
because that's the university.
It could be CGI.
Yeah, that's true.
Looks a bit CGI.
Because I know that the university they used was, I think,
was some historical university in...
Looks exactly like the game, too.
That's pretty incredible.
To be fair, that's what I did my first time at university.
I wasted like $50,000 on the university.
$50,000 in fucking bullshit.
The only thing I got out of it was a bunch of wasted money,
a World of Warcraft habit,
and I became a fucking communist for a few years.
An actual communist this time, Arch.
Not the fake one you always call me.
And then you never stopped.
Fair enough.
Are those monkeys?
Must be from the old labs.
First time seeing a monkey.
Return the monkey.
Ah, yes. Canada.
It's a remarkably friendly place for monkeys.
Yeah, time to the tree, man.
Or at least the bike rack.
I do recall reading about one kid who went to university on a horse every day
and he actually did tie his horse to the bike rack.
So this campus actually isn't the post-apocalypse.
It's just after Milo Yiannopoulos gave a speech.
Makes me feel old just to hear that reference.
Listen, if there's infected up there,
the best thing to do is to shout and stand in the light.
So at least you have an advantage if they come down.
Yeah, but there's not enough time left in the episode to get into any action,
so they're gonna have to just find some random dude who stayed behind.
So they can kill him in the next episode.
Oh wow, you're right. This episode, like, flew by.
Yep, it's almost over.
Ah, sort of a person.
That was the fake-out.
Well, at least it ain't clickers.
Oh no, it's a band of Negan's.
Yeah, put that away.
Probably not gonna be here.
Listen, he's old and weak, that's why he just snapped that grown man's neck
like it was a piece of fucking crinkle bar.
Look, he does that, like, 50 times in a game, okay?
Oh no.
Okay, when did that happen?
Don't pull it out.
You idiot!
I thought that was foolish.
Like, you can still ride back to the town.
You know, Ellie, this would be a perfect opportunity to just shoot him.
Or just, you know, do that.
And now he's leaking.
Remember, children,
if something is keeping your blood inside of you, don't remove it.
What the fuck is up with that horse's leg?
What the fuck is up with that horse's leg?
It's kinda bent, eh?
No, the other leg. The other leg is dead straight.
Yeah.
Well, it's almost like that's his tail.
Which is giving it a little bit of optical illusion.
Yeah, I'm starting to wonder, like, what?
Yep, I saw that too, and I was like, is this a bugged-out video game or something?
So, there we go.
Well, there you go.
Joel's gonna die.
I mean, he won't be saved by some random passerby.
Doesn't matter, he's gonna get golf-clubbed anyways. Nothing matters.
Nihilist, Kibbs.
It's all over.
It's all over.
So, everything about this episode was game-accurate.
Except, one, they made the town look more like its Last of Us 2 incarnation than Last of Us 1.
Two, they added the woman who's presumably going to become Ellie's girlfriend later, looked just like her.
And three, that extra scene with Joel and Tommy having that heart-to-heart where he talks about having panic attacks.
And I think that was probably the scene that, you know, ruined the episode for me, I would say.
Because it ruined the impact of the Joel and Ellie conversation.
I think that's an accurate assessment.
It changes the chemistry between Joel and Ellie a lot this episode.
And it changes the focus too, which I think is, I think long-term, I think that's detriment.
I know, Lilith, you were devil's advocating the other side. Is that how you actually feel?
I don't know if it necessarily destroys the dynamic, personally.
I think for the viewers, it probably builds it up a bit so it doesn't come across as jarring, that Joel feels like has those PTSD moments, I guess.
The thing is, I think jarring was the point of that.
The character who has been a cliff, a rock up until this point, suddenly shows a point of humanity and weakness.
If he's suddenly bawling over and having bitch fates in the middle of nowhere, that kind of undermines the character.
It's not out of nowhere. In the context of the story, it's just a few moments before the scene was-
A few moments of being a bitch before he actually has emotions.
Again, that's the thing. His character is supposed to be that of the rock, the tough guy.
And having that break down for even a moment is a big deal.
But if it breaks down like five times in the same episode, it's no longer a big deal.
Well, it's also that at this point in the game, the facade of this just being a job has been consistently maintained the whole time.
And this is the moment where it breaks just for a second. Here, Arch, you haven't seen the scene, I'm gonna share it with you.
It's a two minute scene, it's not a big deal. Just so you know what's going on, okay?
Did you say no?
Do you even realize what your life means? Huh? Running off like that, putting yourself at risk? It's pretty goddamn stupid.
Well, I guess we're both disappointed with each other then.
What do you want from me?
Admit that you wanted to get rid of me the whole time.
Tommy knows this area better than-
Oh fuck!
Well, I'm sorry. I trust him better than I trust myself.
Stop with the bullshit! What are you so afraid of? That I'm gonna end up like Sam? I can't get infected! I can take care of myself!
How many close calls have we had?
Well, we seem to be doing alright so far.
And now you'll be doing even better with Tommy!
I'm not her, you know.
What?
Maria told me about Sarah and-
Ellie!
And-
You are treading on some mighty thin ice here.
I'm sorry about your daughter, Joel. But I have lost people too.
You have no idea what loss is.
Everyone I have cared for has either died or left me.
Everyone except for you!
So don't tell me that I would be safer with someone else because the truth is I would just be more scared.
You're right.
You're not my daughter.
And I sure as hell ain't your dad.
And we are going our separate ways.
Get it together! We're not alone.
Oh yeah, also a fight scene happens right after because it's a video game, right?
But the point of the scene is rather than relying on Joel's insecurity about his own abilities and his aging and his panic attacks and all of this,
he maintains the facade that it is just about the job and about who is going to do the job better right up until Ellie mentions his daughter.
And that's the one moment where we realize that it's actually not about that at all.
And I think that this moment is undermined when you have that big talk between the two brothers in the previous scene.
I can see your perspective. The impact seems to be a little bit softened because of that scene.
And considering that this is I think probably the fan's favorite scene of the entire game is this moment,
I think it's kind of a big deal, at least if you're like a die-hard Last of Us fan, to see it ruined a bit.
Just because they wanted to, I don't know, do a very special episode about mental health with Joel. I don't fucking know.
I feel like you're getting old. Joel feels like he's getting old.
It's very obvious in the television show they are currently doing their best to make sure that Joel is not, well, tough.
They are undermining his tough guy character because up until this point he's been a tough guy.
And he's been competent and he's done well for himself and he's kept Ellie safe.
Now he has panic attacks. He needs to lean over and touch grass occasionally.
He's worried about his age and he can't do anything and then he gets stabbed in the gut by a baseball bat somehow.
I already watched that fight scene. He did not have an opportunity to stab them there.
Now it's just posted.
I knew it. I knew that's what I think. I was like, I just don't see it.
Yeah, no, he did not have an opportunity to get a stab in on him there.
That was one of those shock value, like he got stabbed scenes.
The fight was way too goddamn short. There was only one moment in which he could potentially have done it, but his grip was all wrong.
He was holding onto the jagged end. There's no way he stabbed it in that deep.
How did it happen in the game?
Oh, you know what it is? No, he didn't get stabbed. He fell off of a railing in the university and got impaled on something.
There's an extended scene where you're fighting with blurry vision and you're stuck to the ground while Ellie has to pry you up and you're shooting guys that are running at you.
Yeah, that's right. That's what this was. And that's why he had to pull it out because he was stuck to the ground. He just had to get up.
But, I mean, all the other moments were pretty much identical. All the other beats were pretty much the same.
Things seemed okay in the show. And you know what? They still tugged at all the right heart strings. I'm sure Twitter is blowing up about it.
They probably love it over there. But if you're a purist, I don't think you'll like this episode.
That's my final take on it. If any of you guys want to add a little bit more.
That's true, sir.
I'm kind of on the same page as you, honestly, when it comes to the episode.
Alright. Take care, everybody.
Little's like, I gotta go eat some fucking meatloaf. I'm done.
Food time.
