What a bunch of bellends.
Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time and today we talk about the internet.
The internet is a great realm of many varying degrees of interest and insanity.
We are blessed by the fact that websites are at the control of their owners and that we
the user have access to them of equal variance.
It is an important owner user relationship that helps cater to the direct link which
is infallible at the point of service.
I'm a big guy on control, I believe greatly in personal autonomy, so although I have my
criticisms of the internet, I consider the general freedom it fit a great asset, sometimes
too free but most of the time positive.
You'll notice that I put emphasis on the autonomy for many domain owners and for me that's a
great thing.
It allows people to have control over their content and another positive trait is that
everyone has an even playing field.
If you're starting up a website you'll be on the same level as any of the largest corporations
which means that your success will be based a lot more on merit rather than your privilege
so to say.
Yeah, rich companies will always have the advantage but I've said this many times before,
although I'm not myself for direct equality, I am for equal opportunity.
In my ideal world, a small start-up company would have the capacity to become a larger
company so I'm generally in favour of anything that facilitates it and against things that
hinder it.
So let's talk about net neutrality.
It's an anti-discriminatory regulation which means that internet providers can't necessarily
censor what people use and give preference to certain websites over speed and access.
Now the salty cable companies, who are basically vampires and will extract money wherever
they can sniff it, want to change it as the current scenario doesn't enable them to exploit
people and websites as much as they normally feel like they should be able to.
I mean to put it lightly, they're not acting out of selfless benefit for society, they
want to get rid of net neutrality.
Now the problem is this will make it far too easy for companies to tier faster internet
for domains who can pay for it and also create paywalls for certain websites for users.
Which is great for the larger corporations but as someone in favour of the aforementioned
values it makes me sternly against it.
Now I know what some people would say, this is just them freeing up the market for less
red tape and more competition.
The problem is in the US there is no competition between cable companies, in fact they've all
agreed not to compete.
Competition is a necessary essence for markets like that to work and if they're not going
to behave and just jointly try to exploit people with their new found powers, they're
as good as a monopoly and they have to have some restrictions and for me that's the ultimate
deal breaker.
The reason why there is so much organised exploitation is to the point where I wouldn't
even trust them with a tenner, let alone even more internet power.
But let's get an example here, let's say you have car insurance and this car insurance
is too expensive.
The positive aspect is that you can change to cheaper car insurance.
That car insurance may have different perks or different coverage but at the end of the
day you have a choice, for many people with cable companies that choice isn't enabled
currently and as someone who hates rules, they are necessary to stop a few greedy individuals
from getting out of hand.
Maybe it would be more warranted if as a citizen there were different companies offering
different packages, maybe if you only wanted to watch YouTube for example, then you would
be able to get a package simply offering preference to that website.
But the issue is that is not how it has worked and we cannot trust them to let it work like
that in the future.
Once again, history has attested to that.
As shown, there have been multiple problems in the past with these companies not being
trustworthy enough to allow the consumer to choose.
And that's a sad thing, I actually don't have a problem with the idea on principle
but unfortunately principles are one thing that corporations don't have and if I can't
trust them to do good with whatever powers deregulation would grant them, then I can't
grant them it.
All these suggestions of cordoning off faster broadband websites who pay more is a perfect
example of how this could be very easily misused.
They are just greedy bastards and that's a shame because I like to find positives in
the case for deregulation but most importantly I don't see a case where removing net neutrality
would be good.
For users and aspiring entrepreneurs alike, there is a large enough gap between the richest
and poorest in society already.
This is just the richest wanting more and yes, I understand, we all want to make money
but I try not to make it off pushing others down and the current laws are important to
maintain that.
If you haven't already, I'll leave a link below if you feel inclined to make your voice
hurt.
Otherwise, I'm The Right Opinion and I'll see you in the next one.
