What if I told you there was a game out there with a community of over 800,000 players?
What if I told you this game was available for both iOS and Android and is completely free-to-play?
What if I told you that this isn't an ad for a dumb phone game with microtransactions?
April Fools again, suckers!
No company would dare run a product placement on this channel.
However, if there are any delightfully devilish companies out there who'd be interested in sponsoring me,
I'd be very surprised.
But anyway, the game I'm talking about actually is a real game.
It's a game that can run on almost any platform.
PC, Mac, console, TV.
All you really need to play this game is an internet connection and a YouTube account.
This is a game that has been played continuously for over seven years straight now.
This is a game that wasn't even designed to be a game.
And even though hundreds of thousands of players continue to enjoy it,
this is a game that might not be around for much longer.
This is the story of Neutral Response.
YouTube has always been a place where you can find clips of TV shows.
It's hard to imagine YouTube without a bunch of random bozos
uploading entire scenes and compilations from Family Guy or The Simpsons and then getting millions of views.
This type of content has always been a sore issue for YouTube.
And much of the copyright system on the website today has been constructed specifically to prevent people from uploading clips of TV shows.
Because of this, it's no surprise that most of these clips don't stick around for long on YouTube.
But miraculously, some of these clips managed to beat the odds and slip through the cracks.
One of these videos that has stood the test of time is this five-second joke from an episode of Futurama.
This video was uploaded in April 2009 by a user called Leetag.
Now, who is Leetag?
Nobody knows, and nobody really cares either.
Judging by his favorites, he's into video games, Star Wars, and Dragon Ball.
A pretty typical internet user, if you ask me.
He's a guy who you'd glance at in any YouTube comment section and not give a single thought.
So why does this matter?
Well, I believe it's a pure testament to how some of the greatest things on YouTube can come from the most unexpected places.
I just find it a huge cosmic coincidence that this one ordinary YouTuber
who contributed only six videos of random clips from TV shows during his entire existence on the website,
this totally unsuspecting individual just happened to accidentally create one of the most interesting attractions on all of YouTube.
So if you're not familiar with the Neutral Response video, you're probably wondering what makes it so special.
It certainly didn't start out that way.
For almost a year, Neutral Response was just an average YouTube video,
perhaps seeing some use as the occasional forum weapon, but otherwise a completely forgettable video.
The story of Neutral Response really began on April 1st, 2010,
a day when YouTube launched one of the most drastic layout changes in the history of the site.
I always remembered this specific day because at the time, I hated the new layout and I thought it was just a bad April Fool's joke.
But unfortunately for me, this new layout was here to stay.
It changed up a bunch of stuff, but all you need to know for today's video is that this was the update
where YouTube replaced the classic star rating system with the modern like system.
Now, in retrospect, I actually prefer the current system over the star system.
I only used to rate videos five or one stars anyway, and I'm pretty sure most people did the same thing.
Replacing the stars with likes and dislikes made everything a lot more streamlined.
Although I wish they would display video ratings under the thumbnails like they used to.
That was the one thing they did better under the star system.
I mean, come on, YouTube. Porn websites figured this out years ago.
Don't you want to stop clickbait?
Ah, who am I kidding? YouTube would go out of business if they didn't have clickbait.
But anyway, YouTube's new rating system went through a few different designs until 2011
when it settled on the now iconic diametrically opposed ratings bar, also known as the green lightsaber.
And at about the same time YouTube implemented this change,
something very interesting began to happen in the ratings of neutral response.
It started off like any other video, 300 likes, 6 dislikes, a good ratio no doubt, maybe even a great one.
But then, a few months later, the dislikes had grown by just a bit.
What is this sudden incursion?
Well, it started with just a few comments promoting a simple objective.
Balance the likes and dislikes so that the video is truly neutral.
But this was just a handful of people suggesting a silly joke.
And there was no way that this idea could possibly catch on.
I have no strong feelings one way or the other.
...back out to Allen, his rebuttal, bang!
Tie game with five seconds remaining!
Always with you and cannot be done.
No, try not.
Do or do not.
There is no try.
So a bunch of random strangers who had virtually no means of communication
were given the mere suggestion of a task and they accomplished it in less than three months.
But if that wasn't impressive enough, the YouTube community maintained the ratings balance for more than half a decade.
They maintained the balance even as the video views passed 1 million, 2 million, 4 million.
As the likes rose to the hundreds of thousands, there were almost always an equal number of dislikes to match.
The balance persisted from the green lightsaber, to the gray lightsaber, to the blue lightsaber.
And perhaps YouTube changing the ratings bar to more neutral colors made this video even more legendary.
It became one of the most spectacular attractions on all of YouTube.
And while others have tried to emulate it, it's pretty tough to beat the original.
You see, neutral response isn't just a YouTube video.
It's a game.
It's a carefully constructed meta joke that has been preserved by generations of YouTubers.
Just imagine all the circumstances, all the stars that had to align to create this one simple joke.
A joke told not by a single creator, but by hundreds of thousands of collaborators.
Some of whom had no intention of contributing anything.
Helping to accidentally create one of the most stunningly unique social experiments on the entire internet.
And with that being said, it's kind of a shame that this video might not be so special for much longer.
In August 2017, YouTube rolled out yet another layout change.
They made it optional at first, but YouTube did what they always do with these changes and made it mandatory after several months.
One of the changes on the new layout was rounding off video ratings to only three digits.
On the desktop version, it's still possible to hover your cursor over the now minuscule ratings bar to see the exact number, but nobody knows that.
And because of this new update, it's never been more difficult to maintain the balance on neutral response.
It's yet another reason why I cannot stand minimalism.
But hey, at least they added dark mode.
That's pretty neat, I guess.
Perhaps it's somewhat fitting that a layout change would threaten to end the brilliance of neutral response,
since it was a layout change that started the movement in the first place.
But then again, why does it matter?
At the end of the day, the ratings bar on neutral response is just a gimmick.
A clever little gag that went a little bit farther than what most people originally envisioned.
Because all it is is a dumb joke, right?
Well, I don't exactly see it that way.
When most people think of YouTube, they think of a place where selfish and vapid people come together to argue and waste time.
Most YouTubers these days are haughty, egomaniacs that never shut up about themselves.
Everyone's stuck in a rat race to snag their 15 minutes of fame,
and it seems like you can't mention anything on this site without sparking a gladiatorial battle in the comment section.
At times, it seems impossible to get people on YouTube to agree on anything.
But this video flies in the face of all of that.
This video represents one of the most ambitious cooperative efforts in the history of the site.
There's just something so beautifully serene about it.
A tiny nugget of balance and harmony in a sea of chaos and dysfunction.
It speaks something truly profound about the nature of man and the human spirit.
And to think people just did it as complete anonymous strangers without any direct instruction or communication.
It really makes you wonder how something like this could even exist.
But it's real. It's as real as any other video on this website.
You could go visit this video right now.
And if you do, you can pay your respects to one of the greatest natural wonders on all of YouTube.
And if you find yourself in this situation, make sure to do your civic duty and restore the balance.
Thanks for watching!
