Just so we're clear, I pirate stuff sometimes. And honestly, you'd be hard pressed to find
somebody that hasn't downloaded a movie, game, or bit of software at least once in their lives.
I'm one of the millions of people who haven't paid a cent for any of Game of Thrones.
And somebody from HBO has been quoted saying that Game of Thrones is the most pirated show
in the world, and that's better than an Emmy. During the days of Napster MP3 downloads,
the prevailing idea among out-of-touch corporate suits was that every download was a lost sale.
This mentality led to Metallica killing Napster in court.
But clearly common thought has evolved since then, if HBO's attitude is to be believed.
People now recognize that, while it's obviously better if people pay for the content they consume,
piracy is what gives properties the push to enter the zeitgeist.
Game of Thrones may be the most pirated TV show in history, but it's also the most popular TV show in
history. And that popularity stemmed from so many people watching it and talking about it and
sharing it with their friends, even though some of them just couldn't afford it.
I usually argue against the idea of paying somebody an exposure,
but when millions of people do it simultaneously, yeah, it can be worth something.
There will always be a percentage of people who pirate stuff,
because they can't afford it or they just don't care.
And although there's certainly efforts to stamp out piracy, the smarter publishers are
silently turning a blind eye to all but the most egregious offenses, because they understand that
the underground community nourishes their brand culturally, if not financially.
But a good company with a quality product and honest business practices can generally
keep the percentage of people who pirate its products at a minimum.
A good example of this would be Sony from the launch of the PS4 up until the past 6 months or so,
or Nintendo since the launch of the Switch.
The behavior of these companies during those time periods,
along with quality goods and services, helped cement a lasting brand loyalty.
Compare this with a company like Blizzard. For example, in order to chat in the Overwatch
League live chat room during the games, you have to link up your Battle.net account with
your Twitch account. Once they're linked, Blizzard can keep an eye on your account
for what they consider to be toxic behavior in Twitch channels other than their own.
And if you're caught, you're banned. Blizzard has also decided to ban people
from Battle.net if they can trace toxic YouTube comments back to their accounts.
By the way, these bans? If you've got games on Battle.net that you've purchased, kiss them goodbye.
Just so we're clear here, if you buy a legitimate copy of Overwatch on Battle.net,
and then say something that Blizzard can deem hateful or offensive by their estimation
on other platforms, you lose the copy of the game you bought.
The same thing is happening with Sony, by the way.
I did say earlier that up until the past six months or so, Sony's been pretty good.
Well, nowadays, if you violate Sony's hate speech policy,
you will lose your entire library of games on the PlayStation 4.
It doesn't matter that you bought them, or that you consider them your property,
they just get taken away because fuck you. That, combined with Sony's recent censorship of
games that contain sexual content, and by sexual I mean anime girls in bikinis at the beach,
yeah, nobody likes Sony too much right now. But this isn't just a video game issue.
When Netflix was the top dog in the streaming world, everybody just got a Netflix account.
And when Netflix started producing exclusive content, it was a welcome surprise.
But then competitors like Crave or Amazon TV or Hulu started showing up,
and they all started producing exclusive content as well.
You would be hard-pressed to find somebody that isn't at least mildly interested in one
exclusive show on each of these services, and you'd be equally hard-pressed to find
somebody willing to pay monthly fees for like 10 different streaming accounts
just to watch the exclusives. So guess what happened?
Piracy is on the rise again. My generation left cable TV behind for a reason.
We're not going to pay the same amount or more our parents did each month in the form
of subscribing to a handful of redundant services simply for one or two exclusives.
Most people will simply pay for the service they use the most, and pirate the rest.
At best, they'll buy one month of a service, binge-watch all the exclusive content on it,
and then immediately cancel.
Think about it. Game of Thrones is exclusive to HBO.
House of Cards is exclusive to Netflix. Jack Ryan is exclusive to Amazon TV.
Handmaid's Tale is on Hulu. Star Trek Discovery is on CBS All Access.
Disney has decided to remove all of its stuff from competitors in order to start up a Disney
exclusive service. Apple's starting something up too.
YouTube Premium's got its own shows. Nobody's going to pay for all this.
They'll pick the one they're using the most and pirate the rest.
There's a legitimate conundrum here, and it's one that the libertarian and free-market
capitalist types just don't have the tools to solve.
A completely free market with no regulation will begin in a state of fierce competition,
naturally gravitate towards monopoly. And once a strong monopoly has been achieved,
the owner of the monopoly will use its resources and influence to raise the cost of entry to the
industry so high that no competitor could ever hope to topple them.
And then they'll begin to massively abuse their customer base because hey,
where else are you going to go for the product or service? They've got the monopoly.
If the companies involved are not honest, both market states are toxic to consumers.
Like I just said, a monopoly run by a dishonest company will exploit its consumers knowing they
have no escape. But a competitive market filled with dishonest companies will either run a cartel
like internet providers do, preventing infrastructure growth in the process,
or their competition will come in the form of exclusivity enforced by
offering services rather than offering ownership.
Here's what I mean. I use Adobe Premiere Pro 5.5 to edit my videos.
Adobe Premiere Pro 6 has been out for a while, and I absolutely refuse to upgrade.
Why? Because the sixth edition line of all of Adobe's software,
called Creative Suite 6, isn't actually purchasable. With CS 5.5, you buy the software
and you own it. It's yours. But you can't buy CS 6. CS 6 is offered as a monthly subscription.
You never buy the rights to own a copy of the software. You never have ownership of what you've
bought. You buy the right to use their software for a month, with a monthly fee. They're not
offering ownership, they're offering a service. That's why Sony can get away with taking all your
PS4 games, if you're banned for saying naughty words. You've never really bought the games.
You've bought the right to play them, a right that Sony can revoke at any time.
You don't actually own anything. Imagine you went to IKEA and picked up a table,
only you don't actually own the table. You own the right to borrow the table from IKEA to put
it in your kitchen and to eat off of it. But IKEA can come and take it back from you at any time,
should you do something they don't like. That sounds insane, but things are actually trending
that way. For example, the right to repair battle revolves around whether or not people should have
the right to repair or modify smartphones after they buy them. The terms of service that Apple,
Samsung, and others employ strictly outlines that by buying their phones, you don't have the right
to do certain things with them, lest you void their warranty. This goes against both American
and Canadian law, stating that warranties can only be voided through tampering if the company
provides free repairs. But so far, those laws have not been enforced. And new legislation designed to
allow people to tamper with their property as they see fit has been consistently lobbied against by,
you guessed it, Apple and Samsung. This is the first step on the road to devices as a service,
a phenomenon where you don't actually own that phone, tablet, or computer. You simply rent it
from the company for a monthly fee. You don't own that application, movie, or game. You just get
access to it for a monthly fee. And those who think this is a good thing offer up a convincing
argument. When something goes wrong, it's not your fault to fix it, as long as you haven't tampered
with the device, of course. For small companies renting software and hardware, they don't need
IT departments to constantly manage their infrastructure. Replacement is inexpensive,
perhaps even free. And although those are perks that ownership can't provide,
this is just a technological variant of the same old argument of freedom versus security.
Do you want the freedom to own your own stuff, with the responsibility to fix it placed on your
shoulders? Or do you want a company to own everything that you use, but you're off the hook
when things go south? Personally, I'll choose freedom every time, and I do it because I don't
know where this is going to stop. What if Microsoft or Google decide to take ownership
of the novel that you write, because you write it on Word or Google Docs? What if companies use
sensitive data in ways that you wouldn't want used, but you have no ownership over it so you
can't stop it? Oh wait, this stuff is already starting to happen. So on the one hand, you have
the brutalization of the monopoly, where a shitty corporation destroys all legitimate competition
and then turns the screws on its consumers. On the other hand, you have a gaggle of competing
companies who, in an attempt to get ahead, employ all manners of awful business practices. I know,
I'm sounding like a socialist here. But you can be a capitalist and still see that this is a huge
problem. Property rights are the great equalizer. Companies own what they produce, and people own
what they buy. But companies have realized that if they stop selling what they produce,
and simply rent it out, then the people have no rights because they're not buying any property
at all. There's two solutions, as far as I can see. One is to support companies that have good
business practices. Steam is still pretty good, and the marketplace has rewarded them well.
Epic's been throwing that Chinese money around in an effort to dethrone Steam from the top spot,
and considering that the Epic store is implementing almost every single shitty
business practice I've talked about today, that's all the more reason to reject them.
The consumer boycott is powerful. Vote with your wallet. But the second solution comes into play
when the consumer boycott isn't working. Pirate fucking everything. And I do not say that lightly.
I know how much damage rampant piracy can do to an industry. I know it breaks good,
reasonable laws. I know it can fuck over people who are trying to make an honest living. If you
can support a good company offering a fair price, do it. But piracy will always be an option,
and it always should be an option, because we absolutely cannot let this whole
everything-as-a-service garbage slip by unopposed. If companies, especially monopolies,
will not play fair, if they continue to stand between the people and property rights,
then we have a duty to bleed them dry. Hey Adobe, I pirated CS6,
and it's still not as good as 5.5. You're a fucking joke.
