Real quick before we begin, did you know my community has a Minecraft server?
In the next week or so I'm going to be opening the first challenge map,
so if that sort of thing interests you, get on in there,
the IP address is in the description of the video.
In the last video, I talked about the study that Jonathan Haidt worked on,
ideological differences in the expanse of the moral circle,
and how we were going to put aside the obvious implications of it for another time.
Well, today is the other time.
As a quick recap, the study showed that, on average, left-leaning people care more
about large-scale ideas and entities beyond their immediate scope,
while right-leaning people care more about those individuals around them.
And this difference doesn't manifest in such a way that left-leaning people have more total
consideration than right-leaning people, and therefore can afford to spread it around to
wider areas of concern, while not sacrificing those close to them.
As shown by that awfully damning heatmap,
when leftoids and rightoids both have the same amount of moral units to spread around,
rightoids are likely to prioritize their family and friends over more esoteric targets like
plants, trees, amoeba, and space rocks, while with leftoids it's the inverse.
Yes, your average leftist cares more about amoeba than their families and friends.
That just sounds sociopathic to me.
That heatmap is Figure 5.
Figure 1 shows that right-leaning people prefer friends, then family, then others,
while left-leaning people prefer others, then friends, then family.
Figure 2 shows that right-leaning people prefer nationalism over universalism,
and left-leaning people the opposite.
Figure 3 shows that left-leaning people identify first with humanity, then community, then country,
while right-leaning people identify first with country, then community, then humanity.
Figure 4 shows that the most extreme of leftists prefer non-human entities to human ones,
and everybody else, even non-extreme but still solidly left leftists, prefer humans,
though the gap gets wider the more right you go.
If we were to boil down a general rule out of these bits of information,
it would be that progressives prefer universalized, high-minded concepts,
and they allocate their moral consideration accordingly,
towards large, encompassing classes of things,
while conservatives prefer localized, grounded concepts,
and they also allocate their moral consideration accordingly, towards individuals,
but not just random individuals, but those individuals that they're close to.
All that being said, it still remains to be seen which of these approaches is correct.
I'd guess that the answer is, it depends.
Is it possible that the leftist view is too ivory tower,
too disconnected from reality and the people living within it,
and the rightists are grounded and practical and more connected to others?
Absolutely.
Is it also possible that the leftist view is necessary when tackling large-scale complex
problems, while the rightists are too lost in the forest to see the trees?
Again, absolutely.
If you're living in a local community of trusted family members and friends,
and allocating your moral consideration accordingly,
then the localist view might be correct,
and the universalist would likely come in the form of some city slicker
who doesn't know a lick about you or your community,
flying in to mess things up out of ignorance,
thinking his ways work everywhere.
At the same time, if you're the leader of a government,
and you need to muddle your way through to the correct path while still representing
vast swaths of people who may not agree with each other let alone you,
while still getting the job done on a project that is simply too big to go it alone?
In this case, the more universalist view might be correct,
and the localist would likely be the small-minded country bumpkin
who only cares about his concerns and wants to see them fulfilled,
even if it's at the cost of somebody else somewhere else,
because their perspective doesn't allow them to see that cost,
or even care about it.
The point is, I'm not passing judgement on which position is correct here,
except when it comes to valuing space rocks over humans,
fuck you commies.
And yet, despite all of this,
how often do you see leftists try to appeal to the community in their rhetoric?
The black community?
The BIPOC community?
The trans community?
The LGBTQ plus community?
All of their rhetoric centers around the community,
because they want to appear to be localists against the oppressive,
tyrannical globalist corpos.
It's the internationalists who have no stake in anything,
flying in to rape and extract,
versus the local community of tight-knit leftists who are fighting the good fight.
The problem is, this view doesn't map onto reality.
There is no trans community, or gay community.
There are trans and gay individuals, but they are more different than similar.
They don't all live in the same area,
nor do they advocate for the same politics,
nor do they have the same concerns.
It's a superficial construction,
not based on the voluntary association of the people involved,
but rather based on one single immutable data point in their personality.
In other words, just because you're gay or trans,
doesn't mean you are like every other gay or trans person.
It doesn't mean that you exist in a community.
Compare that with the conservative definition of community,
which is a lot more clear cut.
Their family, their friends, their neighbors.
Deep, consensual interpersonal ties,
of a group of people who all live in the same area.
This is a community,
and rightists often have this while leftists don't.
Even in those instances where there is an identifiable physical community,
like a neighborhood where predominantly black people live,
unless there's some sense of belonging, of togetherness, of community,
then there's not a community there.
And for sure, some black neighborhoods in the states have this,
and a lot of others do not.
Asian and Latino neighborhoods are far more likely to,
which is why it makes a lot more sense to call them communities.
Progressives wield the community in order to gain a lot of leverage.
If you want to cancel somebody but there's no concrete allegations,
well, he's insulting the community,
even if we can't find an individual who's actually bothered.
If you want to force through some bit of policy,
whether that's legislation or terms of service or whatever,
well, it's good for the community,
even if you can't find any actual benefit.
And the thing is, they're not able to stop themselves.
The entirety of the left at this point sits atop a foundation of socialism.
Even if we're talking about some idiot rad femme who only cares about women's issues,
or some intersectional progressive who doesn't actually care about Marx,
if you dig deeply enough,
the progressive lens eventually discovers working class versus the rich
as a vector of oppression,
and their logic inevitably leads them to socialism's class war.
And because it's all some variant of socialism,
it's always going to be collectivist, not individualist.
The only real moral weight socialist rhetoric has is in its appeal to the collective,
the community, communal ownership, communal living, communal thinking.
So progressives can never actually appeal to gay individuals or trans individuals.
They can only craft non-existent communities and appeal to those.
We've got to coin a phrase,
Dev's Law or something,
because I've gone back to Marx's On the Jewish Question too many times in this channel.
If you need to understand why Marxism explicitly rejects the liberal right to free association,
which is the foundation of why they force people into these fake communities,
then you have to read this essay.
In it, Marx complains that the liberal conception of rights leaves man an isolated monad,
turned inward toward his own property, his own endeavors, and his own troubles,
while freedom is found through our connections to others.
And while Marx is correct, freedom can be found through our connections to others.
That's only if such a connection is voluntary.
The Marxist criticism of liberal rights is that they don't allow people to be connected together.
But we don't need a right for that.
If you want to do that, we'll do it.
The natural end result of Marx's complaint is that in the Marxist conception of rights,
one person will be allowed to force a connection with another due to his right to be connected.
Again, socialists don't understand consent.
As these people appeal to this mythical community,
they reject what actually being a part of community is.
That's why they want to abolish the family,
or they believe that everybody has terrible relationships with their family just because
they do, or why they're known for treating other human beings like such utter garbage
for the most trivial of reasons, or why they're so afraid that coronavirus
lockdowns have turned people they know wholesome.
Hold on, you guys keep talking about the community,
and now that women are becoming more community-oriented, it's suddenly a big problem?
Even worse, now that the power of appealing to the community has been recognized,
we've started to see new revisions of that idea crop up.
Have you happened to notice appeals to the international community or the global community
in the name of all sorts of causes?
The fundamental problem with all of this is that this just isn't what a community is.
It doesn't need to be mono-ethnic or monoracial or monoreligious, though that can obviously help,
but your community is the people around you that you voluntarily choose to associate with.
And as the study at the beginning of this video showed,
leftists do not value their communities while rightists do.
No matter how many mucho texto comics they write about how as queer POCs,
they need to rediscover a new anti-capitalist, anti-imperialist definition of family ties
and blah blah blah, and they're literally just talking about having friends.
However, while it's true that leftists don't value community, they also don't really need to.
They only need to appeal to it.
As long as they can identify themselves as the voice of the community,
that's the wedge in the door to introduce unwanted bureaucracy.
Now the trans community is not simply random trans people who are disconnected,
but somebody who speaks for it, and that somebody now runs an organization,
and that organization now lobbies politicians, collects donations, and silences critics,
even among those very trans people it should be representing.
The first thing I think is that we actually do have an ideological frame.
Myself and Alicia in particular are trained organizers.
We are trained Marxists.
We are super versed on sort of ideological theories,
and I think that what we really try to do is build a movement
that could be utilized by many, many black folk.
If you can label it, then you can centralize it.
And if you can centralize it, then you can gatekeep and subvert it.
The only way to fight back against this is to force them to keep things particular.
Don't let anyone get away with broad sweeping allegations or demands.
Don't consent to give your voice to their efforts.
Don't talk about things on their terms or agree to their terminology.
And always make sure to laugh at them so that they'll expose themselves as the tyrants they are.
These people don't care about any community.
They are anathema to the very concept of it.
And if they're coming for a community that you're a part of,
then you have an obligation to defend it.
Alright guys, that about does it for me.
You are correct in assuming that there's no Weekly Sip this week,
and instead you're getting this video.
I'm trying really hard to get back into the content creation saddle.
I don't like going weeks without making videos anymore,
so I'm just going to focus on this for a bit.
As always, please consider checking out the evening Twitch streams at twitch.tv slash gameboomers.
Hop into the Minecraft server if that tickles your fancy.
And I will see you next time.
I love you.
