This video is a treat for me more than anything else, after coming off the heels of the last one.
This is a Let's Player Drama video, guys. So if that kind of nonsense ain't your cup of tea,
click off now. Otherwise, let's go down this wild rabbit hole.
Intro
If you've been watching me for a while, you know exactly how I feel about old YouTubers
and Game Grumps and Egoraptor. We don't gotta rehash that again, so here's some quick context.
When JonTron and Egoraptor realized they needed an editor for Game Grumps, Jon suggested his
high school friend Barry. After Jon left the channel, Barry stayed on, though he also eventually
left. He was replaced by Kevin, who had applied for the editor job like a normal job, rather than
simply being somebody's friend from before. Kevin eventually moved on to pursue an editing career in
Hollywood, stating publicly that he was always more interested in the editing part of the job,
rather than the Let's Play part of the job. Kevin was replaced by Matt and Ryan of Supermega.
At this point, Supermega wasn't really a big channel. Their initial growth came off the back
of the Game Grumps Association. It was a pretty good deal for them. Egoraptor let them record
the Supermega episodes in the Game Grumps office and using Game Grumps equipment and game library,
as well as giving them a ton of cross-promotion. Once Supermega became popular in its own right,
Matt and Ryan quit the Game Grumps editor job and branched off to do their own thing.
These two guys are cut from the same cloth as everybody else in this sphere. Edgy as fuck back
during the mid-2010s, which made them appealing and helped them grow, but in 2023 they're hyper
progressive, shitting all over anybody who still likes edgy jokes and pulling up the ladder behind
them. A classic case of trolls remorse. For example, back during the 2020 Summer of Love,
while Egoraptor was waffling over whether or not he should talk about Black Lives Matter
with his platform because, well, he is a gaming channel, not a political one, while his fans
strung him up for it because everything is political, Supermega immediately jumped right
in to chant BLM along with everyone else. Anyway, we're here to talk about, specifically,
the Supermega sex pest allegation. Now, I've had my butt burn on topics
like this before. I was wrong about the ProJared thing a few years back. He ended up being
innocent. I was riding the hype train. It's always a bit cathartic to see a former edgy
boy turned progressive get hit with allegations, but he was ultimately innocent. I was wrong to
talk about it the way that I did. I even apologized to him, though I don't think he even knows who I
am. But the point is, after the ProJared story, I made the decision to not cover shit like this
until the hype died down. And, well, it's been a couple weeks. The hype has died down. I know
I don't cover stories fast enough, but I like catching everything in one pass if possible.
Also, real quick, I'm not going to go into super autistic detail responding to every single claim
made in the various videos and streams today. There's hours of stuff to sift through. I'm
just going to give you the overview of what went down. If you want somebody listening to and
reacting to every single sentence of this drama, Chedlogic is your guy. He's spent like 12 hours
on this shit. Okay, enough nonsense. Let's get going. There's an e-girl with a channel named
Lex Updog, who posted a two hour long video titled My Experience with Don Derr and Super
Mega. Jesus Christ, these allegations are getting longer and longer every single time, aren't they?
Remember back when Angry Joe got slapped with a sex pest allegation? Back then, these were like
twitlongers that took maybe 10 minutes to read throughout the most. Now we're sitting here
watching feature length films about the drama of young California progressives. And it's got that
Zoomer editing too. Like watch this bit.
Look at how jittery it is. She's clearly cutting everything down rather than,
you know, doing one solid take. Except that crying. Got to leave that in.
Okay, okay. Let's listen to the allegation.
Like attempting to physically force me to give him oral. And the only reason why it didn't work
was because I like physically like pushed him away multiple times. When you're in a long
distance relationship with someone, you have to get to know someone. Like I feel like I'm a pretty
direct person. And aside from what the situation has like turned me into, I guess, but I feel like
when this happened, I was like, especially this particular situation, I was like,
no, I don't want to. I don't want to do this. And he kept telling me like, just do it. And
like multiple times while he was trying to force my head down. And he's like way bigger than me.
I don't know. It was, I was really freaked out after that. So eventually he let me go. But I
just kind of shut down and just went with like whatever else he wanted that night. And like for
the rest of the trip, I didn't know what to do in that situation. So it sounds like Lex had an
online only relationship for several years with Don who's a German and the artist for the super
mega channel. They finally met up in real life at Matt's house as she was also friends with Matt and
Ryan, the super mega duo, and he was in America. Their first night together, she's claiming he
tried to force her to do oral. She's kind of ambiguous on whether or not he successfully
forced her to do it, but he was rough and did something that she didn't like and that sexual
assault. Okay. Understood. Before we get in too deep to the schizo ramble, here's what I think
the wider context and timeline is since this video is all over the place. Super mega is in LA. Lex
is in Nashville. Don's in Germany trying to come to the States full time to work for super mega.
In November of 2021, Don and Lex are both visiting the super mega house. And that's when the alleged
sexual assault took place. Despite this, they continue to associate and remain in a relationship
until May of 2022. At that point, the super mega guys, Matt and Ryan, along with Lex and Don attend
creator clash in Tampa, where they share an Airbnb. It's during this trip that Lex ends the
relationship with Don. Let's hear about Don's description of that night's events, because after
this went viral, he wrote up his side of their relationship on Twitter. I want to start this off
by apologizing to Lex for any trauma she may feel regarding our past relationship and to anyone just
finding out about this who feels they were being lied to or kept in the dark. In regards to what
happened during November 2021, this is my side as to what happened. Lex and I were invited over by
Matt to stay over at his place for a week. We had been intimate since day one, but on the third
night, I asked her for oral. She at first said no because she had a cold sore. Later, I asked her
again and she said yes, but to be careful not to be too rough. During the act, I had pushed down on
her head, after which she recoiled and told me I was being too rough. I then profusely apologized
and we ended up watching TV and going to bed after. I just kind of shut down and just went with
like whatever else he wanted that night. Things were normal for the rest of the week until the
trip was over and we went back home. During this time, I was under no impression that
anything traumatizing had occurred. However, I realize now this is extremely upsetting for her.
So to me, so far, calling this sexual assault isn't accurate. He clearly went too far,
but he stopped when she objected. He apologized and they were both good.
Anybody who's been in a relationship knows this is kind of common, where one person accidentally
does something the other person doesn't like. There's no intention to hurt anybody there.
They just stop and deal with it like adults. This is normal behavior. Awkward sexual experiences
aren't assault. They don't need to be policed or brought to light in public. They're simply a part
of having sex. Lex goes over what Dawn acted like after she informed him, making light of his
reaction, calling it performative. The way I told him was basically, I was basically like,
hey, do you remember November when we first hung out? And he was like, yeah. I basically
asked him questions that necessitated him saying yes or no to because I wanted it to be easy for
me and I wanted it to be easy for him because I didn't want it to take too long. I didn't think
it needed to for me to tell him the way I was going to tell him. So I said, um, you remember
the first night, um, when you were like pushing my head down and I was telling you no, yes,
he says basically, um, he like didn't dispute anything that I said. He was just saying yes.
And I was like, you know, that's sexual assault, right? Like you can't do that to people. Like
that wasn't cool that you did that to me. I I've been like, really like messed up that you did
that. I like have to like get better from this. This is something that I'm like having to recover
from because it's making me not well, like basically explained to him all, but like a baby
that sexual assault is bad. And that, that what he did was that, and that you can't do it because
all it takes, like all it would have taken is for me to have been like, no, I don't want to.
And for him to stop, but he didn't nonetheless. So I say all this and he says, so does that mean
you're breaking up with me? And I was like, what? Yeah. To me, it was like, yeah, no. And that out
of everything I said was both the shortest response I had to say, or like the shortest thing
I had to say to him. And the most devastating he we're on the sidewalk, like we're walking
and I'm like, yeah, yeah, no, I don't want to, no, I don't want to be with you. And he stops
directly under the streetlight and does this for like a minute in front of me. I don't know.
It felt super formative. Now remember all of these people are super progressive, super woke,
including Don. Imagine it from his point of view, if he genuinely believed in progressive values,
he's being told that his girlfriend is dumping him and that he unknowingly committed sexual assault
on her. This is how a person with those values would react. This is realistic to me. It's funny
that Lex assumes that Don's reaction is performative when even her miming it is more
convincing than any of her own reactions in her video. Let's go back to Don's statement.
Our relationship seemed to have not changed. We were talking on Discord almost daily and planning
future trips together. However, a couple of months later, we met during Creator Clash.
During the trip, me and Lex stayed together in an Airbnb and I noticed that she was growing
very distant towards me. I asked her about why she was distant and if everything was okay,
but I was not given a straight answer. On the final day, she finally told me why she was so
troubled. She told me I was too rough with her last time and it reminded her of her ex's behavior.
I tried to apologize and we talked a little bit after, but after the conversation had ended,
she had broken up with me and I left the Airbnb to stay with other friends.
At this time, I had contacted Matt and told him it had just gone down. Matt had offered to fly
me to LA to stay at his place to figure things out. At his house, I explained to him and Ryan
what had happened and the details about the November trip and what she had told me after
Creator Clash. After that, I stayed over at his place for the next couple of weeks. Later,
Matt told me that he had made some arrangements for his friends to sleep over at his place,
moving me to stay at their office. A couple of days at the office had passed when Matt called
me and said that Lex was on her way to the office. I was given no prior notice that she
was going to be there or moving to LA. It was at this time I decided to leave and stay with
other friends in the area. After a week, I had flown back to Germany. I was then contacted by
Supermega that they were not going to be using my art anymore. After that, they cut contact with me
and I have not heard from them since. Following this, I decided to send Lex another apology via
Discord, but I got no reply from her. At this time, I accepted that I was not going to hear
back from Lex or Supermega for the foreseeable future. See, this story sounds like Matt is
helping out his friend, putting Don up at the Supermega house until he has gone back to Germany.
But after Lex shows up in LA, suddenly he's cut off. To me, it sounds like Lex probably convinced
Supermega to cut Don loose, and once he was out of the States, they probably figured it was time
to sever ties. Lex all but confirms as much in her video. So there was a chunk of time,
I want to say around a week after I got there, that I just didn't do that much.
That and like mentally recovering from Creator Clash. And as that span of time occurred,
every time I'd look on my phone, I'd notice things were going on in LA. Like, why is Don in LA? I
thought he was going back to Germany. Turns out, Matt invited Don to stay with him after Creator
Clash, after he was done staying in Florida and I think maybe somewhere else. It occurs to me
that I'm going to need to talk to more people about the Don thing, what happened with him,
to give context to why I don't want to see him. Well, would you look at that,
Lex is bedridden back at home due to the trials and tribulations of her drama filled life. She
checks her phone and sees that Don went to LA to hang out with Supermega and she's thinking,
shit, I got to get to LA and talk to those guys. So they know not to hang out with him anymore.
This is unironically despicable behavior. As I said before, Supermega is run by progressives
and watched by progressives. So if I had to guess, there was some ruthless utilitarian
calculus involved here in the optics of keeping on an artist who is being accused of sexual assault,
regardless of the truth of the claims. This is the only claim with possible teeth in Lex's entire
two hour video, that initial sexual assault claim from the November 2021 visit to the Supermega
house. Every other thing she brings up just isn't relevant. It's like she has a vendetta against
Supermega and is using Don's behavior as a way to take them down. So she ropes in every single
other complaint she has and tries to make them look worse by attaching them to the sexual assault.
Here's some examples. Don wanted to stay in the States to keep working on Supermega. Everyone was
friends and they were all cool. So they suggested that he marry Lex to get a green card as an
option. Lex reacted in her video as if this was them selling her off or something.
to come live in the US. And it had been going on for a bit now. And that day, Don had been asking,
he had been talking about it with me. He had been asking Supermega about filing papers to get a
green card. And Matt, at least I know Matt, I'm sure Brian too, Supermega in general, had no
interest in doing that for him. But they never, up until this point, never told him no straight out.
Never was like, yeah, we're not doing that. They would just give reasons why it was really hard or
really expensive to do that. So once again, he asked Matt and him and I were walking up the
stairs to Matt's living room and Matt responded something along the lines of like, why don't you
guys just get married? To which Don seemed like reciprocal to the idea. Like this ain't the Middle
East lady. You can just say no. Lex leaked some discord messages from 2022 months after the
alleged forced blowjob. And Don is here saying I love you very much. And she's replying with I love
you too. This is completely normal relationship stuff. And Lex is trying to spin it like it's
evidence of him manipulating her. The story's unreal, man. Lex mentions that she was on the
Supermega podcast with Don where she was acting uncomfortable with his presence and then says,
go look it up if you want to see it yourself. If you've watched that or listened to that podcast,
there's a part in it where Don starts telling a story, context to do with me or something. There
was a sentence where he starts to say something from having known him on and off for like four
years. I knew that he was going to say something about us dating. And even though I had wanted that
before this trip in November of 2021, I'd asked him multiple times like, do you want to be public
about this? Because we had been before. So I just didn't think of it as a big deal. And he
didn't want to, would still draw me art, but only send it to me. So I got a really bad feeling when
he started to bring it up. Mind you, I hadn't processed what he had done yet at all, really,
besides the fact that I knew he did what I told him not to do. And it made me not feel good. So
if I knew he was about to announce or like not announce or like casually mentioned that we were
dating in a podcast, wouldn't I want him to mention that? Like, like, of course I would,
right? But instead I interrupt him. I, I interrupted him and I made him stop. And I,
I told him like, I just made a joke or something. I think I said like, I'm going to kill you.
If you are somebody that likes their podcast or have watched it before, give a shit,
you can go find it. There's a part where Don just stops talking. And with this context,
if you listen back to it, I think it makes sense. I remember being so anxious. I feel like I was
having like a mini panic attack or something. I did go look it up only to discover that the
podcast had been deleted from the super mega channel. Don't worry though. The internet
never forgets. Both of you guys have been staying with me at my, at my house for the,
for the last week or so, you know, why, why should we tell everyone?
Because I'm going to kill him. Is there a secret? Keep in mind guys, this conversation is after the
sexual assault. Does this sound like she's traumatized and doesn't want him to be there?
Not to me. In fact, despite her earlier claim that he was being distant and manipulative,
it sounds like he wants the relationship to be public and she's the one cutting him off.
I don't know why an OnlyFans model might want to keep her relationship a secret though. That's
just beyond my understanding. Lex talks about a sexual experience she had when she was underage
with a 21 year old man, which doesn't excuse it. It sounds like she won at the time and how that
experience massively traumatized her. 10 years ago this year, I had actually called someone out
before. I did it a bit over a year after it happened because I also didn't process it,
but it was also with an ex-boyfriend. I was 17 and he was 21 and I also told him no the whole
time and he still kept going. So it felt like I was like reliving something I'd gone through before.
Lex draws parallels between the 21 year old's behavior and Don's. Although she never actually
outlines how Don's behavior is abusive, beyond that one awkward experience that Don apologized
for, she still ultimately calls him an abuser in her video. Lex talks about somebody in their
friend circle named Layton who apparently was doing something with Game Grumps in their merch.
I didn't feel comfortable so I called Layton first. I didn't know him nearly as long at all,
but I feel like he had gone through or has gone through enough that him and I both talked about
that I know he would relate when I told him or like understand and like believe me when I told
him. I don't know, I don't really care. It's entirely irrelevant. She probably brought him
up because he believed her story unquestioningly. Lex also talks about how after getting to the
Super Mega House in LA and Don is finally cast out of the friend group, she begins living there with
her friend Rev. They're both trying to get on their feet and find a place to live in LA and Matt and
Ryan are graciously putting them up until they can get their own apartment. Lex is ambiguous about how
long they stayed at the Super Mega House, but it seems to be quite a while as eventually the guys
simply offer to pay the first couple months rent on a new place just to get her out of there. But
listen to how she recontextualizes that gift. Matt offered to pay for me to live somewhere,
like down payment plus several months, which if you're in LA, if you know anything about the
housing market in LA is an exorbitant amount of money. Jim's asleep next to us, just me and him
in his living room and he says this. Most freaked out I think I've ever been by him, aside from the
phone call obviously. I immediately said no. At this point, I didn't fully distrust him. I just
had a gut feeling that no one gives you that amount of money for no reason without something
to gain from it. It felt like a bribe. That's at least like, I don't know, the way he was saying it,
that's at least like 10k. And like regardless of how much it means to him or not, I didn't want it.
I felt like weirded out that he did that. He was saying this so I could live alone in LA. Like
specifically apartment money for me to live alone. It was very weird. I turned him down and you know
we ended whatever conversation we were having and I went to sleep. That's right. Rather than taking
this as a clear sign she needs to move on, she considers it bribe money for covering up the
dawn sexual assault and views it as the super mega crew pushing her to be isolated in LA.
The rest of the video documents Lex's travels with Rev to Nevada to Washington State to
North California, all the while living for free at the super mega house for months,
and Matt and Ryan trying to politely push them into finding their own place to live.
Lex characterizes these excursions simultaneously as vacations and work trips because she would
shoot a few OnlyFans pics on the road, something that she complained she couldn't do at the super
mega house because it's a studio for let's plays not your e-thought stuff.
One of the things was that I noticed when we were gone is that we stopped to getting asked
as many questions. It was mostly just about where we were so they could know when we would be gone
or when we'd be back to be gone fast, right? So and when we were out I would take pictures
and those pictures ended up surprisingly popping off and making me the money I was making last
summer because I couldn't at the super mega plex do regular work. Like I can't set up a photo
photo set station for myself and like take photos and clothes that I wouldn't feel comfortable
wearing around the guys at the office for example. So me getting like a desk or making a workspace
just wasn't an option and I didn't know that until after I got there.
So she's driving around the west half of America going on trips, seeing her friends,
blowing money left and right, tons of frivolous spending by her own admission.
Me and Rav at this point had been going to meet realtors however many other days but we were
one we didn't have like most of our stuff to actually move in and two we were Ubering
everywhere so a lot of the money that could have went to actually securing a place to stay went to
getting an Uber to getting Ubers like hundreds of dollars in Ubers just living in LA.
Her stuff is apparently getting constantly stolen.
Um the day after this conversation takes place we get robbed. I have no photos of that because I
as soon as I woke up and saw the car was empty of stuff I just screamed as loud as possible called
the cops no reason they could not help and then just cried a bunch and then made a post about it
which apparently was laughed at um by the guys at the office. That day that I got robbed and I
post about it no one that I knew in LA messaged me. Her extremely expensive car is constantly
breaking down. Didn't even include in those fingers buying the car. I think we spent two
days on that trying to find the car and then buying it which I could have spent more time on
it because I ended up getting a car that needed a four thousand dollar repair when I got back to LA
so I suffered because of having to rush from knowing I was going to be asked instead of them
just either giving me a date to leave by or asking me like can you is do you know when you
can be gone by instead they would just say you guys on a vacation again and if she's so broke
so hard done by why did she buy a fucking jeep if you just need to be getting around LA why not buy
a little city car jeeps are expensive basically Lex seems to have tons of money and rather than
moving forward with trying to get on her own two feet in LA she's living at the super mega house
for free leeching off of her friends and living the high life when matt and ryan become a bit more
insistent that lex moved the fuck out of their office here's how she frames that situation when
we get back in town there's a group chat where essentially me rav matt and ryan are all going
back and forth and it's basically matt and ryan telling us all the things we did wrong that made
them not want us there anymore after both we got kind of kicked out like nicely kicked out and
robbed and not contacted by them after their next correspondence is like telling us we were dirty
we were dirty the people that would spend hours cleaning up the office from when guys would order
every single day often don't throw it away they had a person come by but it's only once a month so
you can imagine the mess that gets made between the time and it was getting blamed on us we're
still not even at the point where super mega is involved in the drama yet guys dawn's their
channel artist he's already been given the boot you think that would be the end of the drama as
far as super mega is concerned but here is how lex tries to rope them in it's just we're trying
to get our lives together and we've been nothing but generous to y'all during this time i think
the idea that there are grievances time and time again with our friendship when we've been helping
you whenever we can is confusing it's not a good feeling and overwhelming especially since this
year has been nothing but drama since the jump literally nothing to do with me at all or rav
i don't care no one's saying that to me no one's saying i know you've dealt with a lot like like
they're they're saying they're only bringing it up it's like we've dealt with you like rav was
even rav just was like congrats about the bad thing that is good now and when it gets brought
up for us it's about like we've been helping you time and time again and there's still grievances
time and time again it's only been one grievance it was always the same grievance it was the same
thing that no one listened to me for and when i tried to talk about it no one wants to talk about
it and now it's a problem and i'm homeless sitting in this creepy weird uh sex trafficking room
getting told that like we're annoying basically that like we have too many grievances i got
assaulted man could you guys just like care like why'd you switch up what happened to keeping them
accountable ryan like this year's been nothing but drama since the jump for you i don't think
they relate to anything bad that we've been through i don't have to see don anymore what he
did to me i don't have to think about when but when someone is treating me actively different
all the time in front of me my only friends in la that i was my only plan of like staying somewhere
my only like safe place didn't want to help me said they did nothing but helped me and then
gaslit me about it and made me homeless because like sure maybe saying made me homeless was like
is like maybe extreme but one how else would you say that two we could have talked literally all
we had to do was do this we tried doing it even after and they still didn't want to so how do you
get someone to talk to you when they refuse to you just can't you heard that right lex is pinning
everything on super mega because the initial assault that awkward sexual encounter with
don that apparently was tantamount to super rape that happened at matt's house during a party what
the fuck man what do you expect them to do they already fired him and now that they want you to
stop partying and spending all your money while living rent-free in their studio and they're
getting tired with the whole oh i lost my phone all my laptop got stolen stuff and they want you
gone you're blaming them and saying they're not taking the dawn assault story seriously enough
in fact the end of this tale is that lex had to move back home because she couldn't make it and
she blames that on matt and ryan i had so much stuff i couldn't fit it all in one trip to go
so i had to drop off some of it at a storage unit we moved to uh airbnb in hollywood in september
and september was the last month i stayed in la until i was finally able to get back home you know
what matt did before crater clash this year he texted me how's tennessee as if he's not the reason
i'm there and when i didn't respond he took me off his instagram close friends did not follow
me he just like didn't want me to see the stuff he really has to say that's right the reason lex's
big move to la failed is because the people she was mooching off of finally kicked her out okay
here's that tiny nugget in here that got super mega's audience to turn on them it's when lex
claims that matt's response to her alleged sexual assault at the hands of dawn was to say that he
didn't want this drama to destroy super mega when someone says like hey your friend assaulted me
that friend happens to be a co-worker can we like can i not see him and you say this job is my
magnum opus multiple times there's like you just like don't care about people you just like care
about yourself like you're like you just don't see people as like real things anymore and definitely
is like how i felt to him if true that's obviously pretty shitty to say that he's more worried about
these allegations tanking his channel than he is about the allegation that one of his friends
sexually assaulted another one of his friends and then lex alleges a second sexual assault
by a different guy and okay so my reference of jim is that this is a silly guy so when he like
sits down on the couch next to me and then lays down and stretches out i'm like he's just being
silly so i tell him the whole story i tell him everything that happened you know up until then
i'm pretty sure i even said about that um don was there at the office and all that and just
because he was he came to me asking why i looked upset a lot so of course that's all that's all
the reasons when he heard my story he was like man i'm so sorry and then proceed to like start
flirting with me like right after i and like this is when i realized because i was doing most of
talking that after i was done with the story and he started talking like he started saying flirty
things and like he started putting me in a headlock that i was like oh he's drunk and like
pretty much right after i realized that he started kissing me um if you've ever seen a picture of jim
he's a really tall guy i it was not even in my brain to be like get this guy off of me or like
not get this guy off me yes i didn't want to kiss him because to me this guy i am not that close
friends with like we are just from the same place and like i thought he wanted to like get to know
me better listens to my sexual assault story and then makes out with me like at this rate i'm just
kind of stun locked i had no idea what he's doing i don't know if there's even any other people in
the place i think there was two other people i think matt and rav were still there so he like
gets up at some point after like putting me in a choke hold a few more times and kissing he only
kissed me a couple times but he put me in a choke hold for a while and it was very uncomfortable
he like gets up and then goes to the office and he's like come here i don't even remember
thinking anything i was literally just like confused and he because when he said that he was
in the office but he was in the closet and when i came over to him because i was just fucking i was
like why the my in my head i'm thinking why is this guy just went to the office closet like the
office where like everybody has their computers and there's like a coat closet and you just go
in there and stand in the doorway and give me a kiss again like i didn't even have like a
reaction i just didn't know what the fuck that was and then after that i was like do you like
me or something because i genuinely just so like it came out of nowhere like i said i just told him
about being assaulted and he does this and his answer is i think you're cute is so fucking weird
okay okay he's drunk you didn't realize it he's putting the moves on you he kisses you you don't
want it i got it the issue is when he moves from the living room to the back room and then beckons
you over you know what he's thinking after the kiss you're not retarded if you weren't into it
why did you go over there with him at some point you can't blame other people for your actions
saying shit like my self-esteem was so poor i just do whatever the men around me want doesn't make it
their fault it is your responsibility to assert your own boundaries and manage your own weaknesses
like listen to her wording here he had essentially used me for nudes i had a not
safe for work patreon and he used to sub to it when we weren't dating anymore and so i kept like
a boundary with him over it because i was mad at him not necessarily mad at him but i you know he
was my ex i didn't want to talk to him and gradually he like pushed that boundary over
he like unsubbed from my patreon at one point when we were talking normally enough and he like
would message me and ask me if it would be okay if i would send him like the files from the patreon
and i would be like you mean like the old ones that you're subbed to and he was like no like new
ones or like all of them i didn't want to but my boundaries were so poor i said yeah anyway like
at this point we talked enough that i thought he liked me so i was trying not to assume poorly of
him uh because i just genuinely didn't think he would do that and then he did so he was like
letting me leak my own nudes to him he was letting me leak my own nudes to him like he has
control over whether or not you allow this no you did this he asked you you complied it might have
been shitty of him to ask that doesn't mean that he's at fault for your compliance lex ultimately
blames this on some new quasi-therapeutic bullshit called flight or fawn you know how there's fight
flight or fawn i think i did fawn i'm looking this up i don't want to fuck this up fawn people
pleaser lack of identity no boundaries overwhelmed codependent yep flight or fight we all know well
enough it refers to two psychological knee-jerk responses to a threat you run away or you fight
back well modern therapy speak has led to flight or fawn taking its place where people like lex
knee-jerk to either running away or cuddling up to their abusers in an attempt to minimize the
abuse there's probably some psychological basis for this but i'm willing to bet this became a
thing solely because some middle-aged hipster therapist wanted a way to tell her neurotic
sexually dysfunctional female clients that they're not at fault for any bad decisions they make in
their lives these people are not mature enough to engage in sexual activity i know they're legally
mature enough and physically sure but mentally lex seems to be about 12 years old you don't
innocently walk into a side room with a drunk guy after making out without any expectation
of what's going to happen next unless you're either extremely dishonest or extremely immature
every time she talks about an event it's never her fault a man must have mind fucked her and if she
agreed to do it it wasn't really her the tragedies of life just keep coming at her from all directions
like they do for all of us and you can't expect her to stop vacationing and stop mooching when her
dog died and her car breaks down or her phone gets stolen she genuinely sounds like a child i know
that victims of legitimate sexual assault or rape or abuse or whatever can often make bad decisions
in the moment that if they weren't emotionally compromised they wouldn't make but we're talking
about months and months and years of interactions where she just keeps coming back keeps doing the
same stuff and it doesn't square up with me that's not proof but my gut tells me this is all trumped
up i don't buy the whole oh it takes time to process the trauma thing in this case not with
that awkward dawn experience anyway i mean it is entirely possible that lex is just massively fucked
up from that sexual experience with a 21 year old when she was a teenager it's also entirely
possible she is throwing everything possible at the wall in order to tie super mega to the
awkward sexual experience she had with don that she has retroactively defined as a sexual assault
despite continuing the relationship with him for months as a way to cancel super mega as revenge
for her big career leap of moving to la failing because they wouldn't let her mooch off of them
anymore and kicked her free-loading ass out of the super mega house frankly it's probably both
everything in lex's video feels like a vindictive ex-girlfriend bringing up all the things that her
former boyfriend did that she didn't like and now that they've broken up it's time to air all the
dirty laundry and she's doing it under the cover of an assault or abuse allegation feels very jonah
hill all over again you know in lex's entire video the only thing that matters is did don actually
commit the assault everything else is just window dressing anyway yeah lex's attempt to make it to
the big city finally ends with her after returning from a seattle trip with rev staying at a hostel
in santa monica that she describes as sex trafficker giga rape central which she blames
super mega for as they won't let her stay with them anymore so after we go to seattle get robbed
in portland the stuff we get robbed of laptop ipad work clothes makeup toiletries i'm a model and an
artist those are all the things that i need to make money in the world so at that point priority
number one was no longer finding a place to live but rebuying those things so i can make the money
to get a place to live at this point we just had drove back into town and we had nowhere to stay
trying to save all of our money to rebuy our stuff asap so since i have a jeep we just sleep in the
car i go to santa monica malibu area in between there and just go park by the ocean um because
it's free the first place we stayed outside of the plex was like some rinky dink hotel in
pasadena it was like obviously like used for sex trafficking like it was a giant master bedroom
with a hot tub and and it had a corded phone with the cable cut she eventually has to go back to
nashville and she blames the power dynamics of super mega being a large youtube channel and
white males and all the rest of it as to why her career didn't take off and she couldn't hack it
in la the way these guys like do group chats is they all go in the office together and say and
like play football and like make a plan and like who's doing good cop bad cop ass shit very
manipulative but how else do you think they would have had jim message me with matt in there they
all work together why does matt need to be in there except for a power dynamic like they know
what they're doing here's the final spin that she pulls in the story i've been holding on to this
weight for over a year for no reason what loyalty do these people have to me that i need to be like
i need to protect them what did they do for me they let me stay at their place and then made me
feel weird about it after they were like hey your assaulter's gonna be here when i got there like
i don't know they make and then they word stuff like i have to feel like i owe them something
i don't owe them anything they weren't charging you rent they said i could stay there you know
if he didn't like me there he could have done a lot of different things he could just opened his
mouth and talked to me that's what adults do contrary to popular belief adults communicate
and uh are mature and don't just leave everything to text and their employees and act like that's
normal and gaslight people about it and gaslight people about like being upset about your reaction
to assault that's right dawn's a rapist super mega fired him not for her sake but to cover it up and
save their own skin and lex is the victim because she can no longer stay with them free of charge
but before she finishes up lex drops this fucking bombshell i don't think they relate to anything
bad that we've been through and the one thing they could which was rav's uh partner attempting to
like take themselves was daniel their friend daniel matt's like at least twice in front of me
separate times we'll hang out with him has called daniel a coward so no they don't care about
suicide they don't give a shit about suicide they only give a shit about themselves and who
they can make jokes of that are under them that they can get away with for those of you who don't
know daniel was the irl friend of matt and ryan the three of them were pals before youtube before
super mega they ran the youtube channel syndigo from 2012 until 2015 creating some really funny
videos the channel ended when daniel killed himself in 2015 unlike super mega which got
big due to the game grumps connection syndigo blew up because the three of them genuinely worked
well together and they consistently made good viral content it's not an exaggeration to say
that matt and ryan may never have recovered their careers after the loss of daniel without the
exposure of game grumps after daniel's suicide matt and ryan stopped updating the syndigo channel
after posting a video discussing what happened in a tribute to daniel and then went on to reboot
their youtube careers with the super mega channel i've seen long-time viewers of matt and ryan
remark that their humor on super mega is nowhere near as good as their humor on syndigo i'm
presuming partially because daniel was an integral component of their dynamic and partially because
daniel's suicide radically changed matt and ryan's personalities for lex to bring daniel up and make
the claim that matt actually didn't give a shit about him that is the ultimate low blow that is
the moment that it's confirmed she truly is a heartless bitch way earlier in the video in one
of lex's side stories i mentioned a guy named latin and his weird dealings with game grumps merch
well you know how a canceling event goes right when lex's story went viral everybody who ever
had a beef with super mega came out of the woodwork to pile on and one of them was latin
this living broccoli patch of a zoomer all right let's see what he's got to say i found super mega
in college i was three weeks older than matt i was so inspired by the stupid shit that these boys were
doing and i felt like i don't know like i was inspired my entire career got started in 2017
by h3 h3 and that all i've ever wanted to do is youtube make making content making clothing making
like drawing like producing videos doing content has been the only thing i've ever wanted to do
and super mega was the first channel that i fully interacted with in person that like
wanted to put me in things dude why are you fucking crying right off the bat you just started
the stream what the fuck man are you this week look at his chat room it's full of simps i had
to pull this from chud's video because latin's taking his vod down look at all the mouth
breathers they're just here to enjoy the spectacle of somebody getting ruined over drama that's it
as for latin himself it sounds like he really idolized super mega he really wanted to be a
youtuber himself and he considered working for them to be a real opportunity which is apparently
why he's crying so much latin's story is just as meandering as lex's where he relitigates every
single thing that ever went wrong in his life presumably as a way to garner sympathy from
the audience and make him seem less responsible for his actions a lot of it is gay kid bullied
in high school for being gay kind of stuff and fair enough that can be pretty rough but here's
the actual meat of his allegation also by the way you guys when matt and ryan fired me um they
offered me two months severance in exchange for a contract to never talk about them
and because i'm an artist and i live in la and i need fucking money i signed the goddamn contract
and it was like all right there i go like i just you guys now know in perpetuity that i can't say
it's the golden like it's it's called a non-disparagement it means that if you can't
say anything nice about them you can't say anything at all and i am so fucking terrified
that these guys are gonna sue me because i can't afford to legally represent myself and that's why
and that's why i've been so fucking scared to talk about these guys holy shit dude are you
actually admitting on stream that you're breaking your fucking nda with super mega they handed latin
a big sack of money with the understanding that he would not do exactly what he's doing right now
which makes him deleting his fucking stream make a lot more sense this guy's a super dumbass brother
like i'm trying to like pay rent like i'm not trying to like get in a fucking lawsuit i don't
want drama i don't want the drama well then what are you doing here bro latin makes the claim that
super mega made a joke about his lithium use on their podcast which is pretty fucking dumb to do
about your employee's mental illness on air yeah i hadn't really made my mental health a fucking
bang publicly and then i'm streaming one day and then matt uh it was someone in my chat just was
like hey matt said on the podcast that he's gonna take away your uh your fucking lithium i have
uh bipolar 2 or like something like that one's a lot and i played it off on stream you know but
like afterwards like it was fucking weird yep fair enough that's a weird joke to make especially if
latin's medical issues aren't public he's got a point there latin's next claim revolves around
him thinking that everyone at the workplace hates him anytime i would come into the office five days
a week uh pretty much here's how the operation would work if i come into a room where everybody's
in they're laughing they're joking if i join the conversation if i sit in and i listen
i'm fine but if i start talking and i actually involve myself either the group circles in closer
so i'm not in the actual physical circle um someone will talk over me until i shut up
someone will say a joke like you're gay uh or you know stuff like that uh because it's funny
because it's funny um but people would i would get downplayed or ignored or talked over or just
i was given this like petty treatment and then i'm sitting there thinking these guys clearly
fucking hate me because they're doing this to me every day and then i ask them if we're why
they hate me and if they have issues and they're like we're good with our issues we just need to
communicate more but yet they keep fucking doing this shit to me they kept literally these people
in front of me would like imagine like the people who you think are your best friends
now imagine all of them in front of you making plans to hang out with each other after work
all the fucking time and not at inviting you and it's not like i felt entitled like i had to be
involved but it literally felt like petty shit that they were making plans in front of me because
they know they all knew that they were my only friends at the time like around like my other
friends also do content and they're very very busy with their jobs so those guys i saw the most
so they would be making plans to go do shit after work in front of me and then not ask me if i
wanted to go and then i it happened so much that i truly feel like it was it was on purpose this
is just work drama and friend group drama at this point nobody's obligated to like you off the clock
are you still mentally back in high school dude you're acting like it well hold on he
did say he has anxiety and bpd and bipolar maybe he actually is i was telling these fuckers
constantly about my bp1 my bipolar 1 and bpd and my paranoia and how i literally feel like every
person in my fucking life hates me all the time but then latin recontextualizes a huge chunk of
lex's story from the previous part listen to this like lex and rav are the people that like
when you're hanging out with them they're always the ones contributing all the wheat they're the
ones that are ordering uber eats and then they pass you their phone and you're like no i'm not
really hungry i don't want to get anything like i can't afford it right now and then they're like
instantly they they look at you like you're fucking stupid for assuming that you have to pay
them back like they would just be like no like we're boys i got you yeah dude that's why they
didn't have the cash to stay in la they were blowing it all on weed and uber eats they're
literally the taylor the rens millennial $22 avocado toast can't afford a house meme
man the fucking gall to say that you're poor and you're homeless and it's other people's fault that
your big adventure of moving to la failed and you had to move back home when you're spending
all your money on takeout and weed latin then pulls the same dick punch move that lex did
bringing up daniel's suicide however he recontextualizes it to be about his own suicide
attempts they would make jokes about daniel like they would make jokes for like like i'm someone
where like i've attempted suicide i am a very depressed person because of my bipolar
i make jokes about killing myself all the time that is a true fact but i make jokes about myself
or things like that i'm not making jokes to hurt people or making jokes about people that have
hurt themselves but matt and ryan make jokes about daniel like like they make jokes about daniel
that's right latin makes it all about him and how uncomfortable them talking about daniel's
suicide made him i'm sorry bro you're just not mentally stable enough to be an internet
personality as simple as that regardless of the veracity of any of your claims or any good reasons
you have for being fucked up or whatever if you are so weak that you just crumple like this at
the slightest bit of pushback get off the camera dog part of that suicide conversation revolved
around how there was some kid who tried to kill himself and super mega had the opportunity to send
him some free merch sign it you know do a good deed the problem is this kid wasn't even a fan
of super mega his family knew that he loved youtube comedy but they couldn't confirm if he
was a fan of super mega that they just didn't know but they knew he liked youtube comedy
i i got the merch ordered for the kid without talking to the boys first but i come to them
they're both sitting in their desks um in this office and uh there were four desks
everyone had like matt and ryan are on opposite sides of the room and then across from that
you have my desk and justin's desk um and uh justin was there that day uh he was in the room
with us and so i thought nothing of the story like i didn't think it was gonna be a big deal
like i i asked matt and ryan to sign this book and i start telling them the story and they
instantly just like go the fuck off on these stupid fucking jokes being like like they they
had to go why are we doing this he's not a fan like how do we know he's a fan like it and i was
like it doesn't matter just give him the fucking book no it absolutely matters it's one thing if
some fan is suicidal and they love your shit and your videos help them get through the day and you
send them a goodie bag that's a good deed but if you're just sending your junk to random suicidal
kids that's not helping out the community that's shamelessly promoting yourself off of their
suicide attempt also this is just a personal theory that i have there's no proof of it but
latin mentions offhandedly that the kid in question is somebody that his mom knows back
in his hometown my mom instantly like you know she's like yes i can get latin to get some merch
get him a book like we have to help him was he just trying to score some free shit for somebody
using his connections it's possible but again there's no proof it just feels likely to me
personally next up are latin's complaints about workplace shenanigans i get hired i join the team
officially and then i'm walking down the hallway towards the kitchen and matt yells from the office
in the back room that he's going that he will that he might as well show me his dick and balls
because i'm gonna see it anyways so he goes hey latin and i turn around and sure like i didn't
you know what i mean like it's i just think it's a bit but i turn around but the dude's
dick and balls are out these guys in front of me decide and um our cinematographer tucker um
they decide that they want to compare their assholes to each other so one one at a time
matt and ryan decide to just pull their their pants down um right next to me while i just have
to be sitting there on camera uh and show they're they're literally like faces in each other's
assholes matt jackson like go out we get extra drunk we're having the time of our life like
yeah we're just in this bar we're getting blasted and then at one point i go to the bathroom
and i go into the stall and i close the door and i'm peeing and the next thing that i know
is that matt's now entered my stall that i'm in that i closed the door and his camera is like
put out in front so he's like front facing he's he's filming just my dick and balls he's filming
me pee okay you know what fair enough he's got a point your boss shouldn't be pulling out his
dick and balls and showing them to you at the office or showing his asshole to other guys in
the recording room or recording employees taking a piss at some point your youtube channel gets big
enough that it's not just heterosexual life partners fucking around anymore it's real
employment you can't be doing that shit layton then takes the opportunity to go into matt cheating
on his girlfriend which is shitty but it's got nothing to do with layton or the workplace nonsense
then last summer uh i was the only person that didn't know that matt was cheating on his
girlfriend that i was a i was close with like matt's matt's girlfriend was such a good person
to me and i i loved her i still do um but i didn't know that matt was cheating on his girlfriend with
a new girl that had just joined our friend group that his girlfriend was scared of and felt like
was uh an issue um all at this exact same time while matt's having his his little secret
relationship that i didn't know about there was a night that uh me matt and jim drank so much
and at the end of the night uh this this girl comes over and matt and her just like laying
on the floor really really close and it's like it felt like middle school flirting and it was icky
but like i wasn't seeing anything that was like to me that consisted as cheating but it wasn't
enough for me to feel like i could go to his ex and tell her at the time well his current
girlfriend at the time i couldn't text her and be like hey matt's doing something um plus i didn't
want to risk my fucking job you know he goes into being raped while he was underage yeah again
really bad but nothing to do with super mega i was raped by a youtuber he got me really fucking high
and then he raped me and he told me that i was his boyfriend now and that we were you know we
loved each other and that's what we would do now and the next morning his friends told me his
friends found out his friends told me i was so young and that they i didn't know what just
happened to me and i didn't believe them because i thought i was mature for my age because he
treated me like an adult and i was like no we're fine he then goes into another employee named
jim and how he gets all this special treatment but look at how he describes that jim could just
like be like oh no my friend had a bad morning so i i had to take him to lunch and take him out all
day and and i i just had to go baby my my little friend and then matt and ryan would just like be
like yeah sure yeah dude when jim has a friend that needs special care latin makes fun of him
for being childish but when latin or lex or any of their associates need special care they're
crying and screaming about how super mega doesn't care about them how dare you latin then goes into
the circumstances of him getting fired but oddly enough he doesn't actually go into why he got
fired matt and ryan were like hey dude we have to talk to you like when i when you get if you guys
remember when i drove to vegas i knew that whole drive that matt and ryan were gonna fire me on
monday monday comes around they tell me that they still have some things to talk about between the
two of them so they're gonna talk to me on tuesday tuesday comes they're not at the office again
and i'm really paranoid i'm terrified that i'm gonna lose my job and i'm gonna lose my insurance
and the insurance is all i needed super mega for obviously i need the money to pay my bills
but i need my medication and they on that second day like i ended up texting the two of them and
i asked them i was like can you guys just please like confirm to me if i have a job still or not
because like i need to start processing if i need to leave california uh and they they were like
sorry dude our hands are tied for your benefit they kept saying that they said it was for my
benefit so uh later that week it's basically i think it's like maybe wednesday then is the next
day they tell me to come in and uh i get there and i walk in the door and i just knew i was
about to lose my job so uh i was in and out in under i would say 20 minutes um they told me that
i was done uh i tried to explain to them some issues that i have with them but they instantly
shut me down and tried to explain to me that it's my fault um so i realized again that i was
ignorant for trying to explain to them why why they were wrong so i just let them talk
uh and then matt and ryan tell me that i have to sign a non-disparagement contract
if i want severance they basically bragged to me that they didn't have to give me severance
but they felt like they were so good to me like they like matt and ryan felt like they were
blessing a poor person by handing them money and they were but it was it's two months severance
like if like that's genuinely nothing like i'm sorry like like yeah like it's money obviously
but two months severance is so fucked up and it wasn't even like they told me we're gonna also
try to see if we can extend medical benefits or anything they just didn't care they're like all
right here's here's two months rent uh and uh you can never fucking talk about us so yeah latin
signed the nda he knew he couldn't do what he's doing now and decided to do it anyway no sympathy
for this retard anyway latin skimmed over a big part of why he got fired he set up a super mega
irl event without scheduling it and informing people properly and as a result a bunch of fans
were left on the hook when matt and ryan didn't know to show up he went into how ryan misgenders
his trans partner in private ryan mcgee openly misgenders a trans person in his life that he
cares very much about behind their back i can't tell you how many times i would hear ryan mcgee
say i'm gonna go home to my boyfriend or i'm gonna go fuck this guy matt would make the jokes too
this this partner is such a sweet person i didn't know them well i don't think they
ever liked me um so we just weren't ever close but it broke my fucking heart because i would
see this person and i knew they didn't know that the person that they like literally their fucking
partner is misgendering them all the fucking time and it sorry it literally like it makes me so
fucking mad to see just blatant transphobia come from those fuckers and then they turn around and
are like we are so accepting of things oh guess what that was actually fake latin had to walk it
back on twitter he then brings up ryan sexting fans and like at this point latin stream devolves
into character assassination i believe that super mega is a toxic business that represents
nothing good nothing positive and the foundation that that channel was built on is is fucking
wise he says nothing of relevance from here on out he's just rambling and repeating points and
occasionally crying and shilling his upcoming show i have a show that i'm working on that
i'm going to release soon called only bricks where i interview only fans models in weird situations
and i let them pick a fun lego set and i want to give these people who get so much hate online
because dumbass n-cells say they're hot girls that have no personality or they just say that
they're people that just rely on their looks i think that's such a dumb idea and i want to
give these people the opportunity to truly prove who they are and basically doing anything he can
to pad out the stream so the donations keep rolling in wait is there an ad
i'm sorry everyone i wish i could turn that off but really do i don't want to try to seem like
i'm trying to monetize anything you can literally shut off twitch ads in the dashboard dude the only
legitimate parts of latin story is that matt and ryan are still behaving like super mega is a frat
house full of their friends rather than them both being 30 years old running a real business it
sounds like there was some weird sexual harassment shit at the super mega house not exploitative or
pleasurable or anything like that just prank shit that went too far and is not appropriate in a
business setting they clearly need to grow up these aren't high school friends they're employees
but everything else latin talks about is irrelevant he's simply dragging everything
out for the camera in order to garner sympathy earn some money and get his next project off the
ground eventually matt and ryan from super mega responded to everything on the super mega channel
they each did their own vlog and have basically peaced out from the internet since in ryan's vlog
he immediately sells dawn up the river but does so by appealing to lex's victimhood on the night of
may 25th lex reached out to me through text they wanted to talk about something i said okay she
called i answered and she began to confide in me about a sexual assault that she experienced
by our mutual friend don who was our channel artist at the time i took these allegations
seriously and expressed my support for lex and i asked her permission to talk to don about the
sexual assault directly unfortunately my words ended up ringing hollow as matt and i continuously
tiptoed around the subject we didn't expect this from don um nobody uh expects their friend to do
something this serious to another friend even though lex's whole thing was entirely about
how super mega apparently fucked up her life by kicking her out and only a little bit about don
at the start ryan completely sides with lex because he's a progressive and believe all women
he throws don under the bus and then he throws himself under the bus we selfishly waited until
we felt comfortable to have this discussion with don instead of having the victims back immediately
there's no excusing the lack of tack that was used to handle this um lex should have felt safe and i
am sorry to lex for making them feel like they weren't hurt at that time i was spineless could
have been handled so much better and should have been handled so much better especially since
lex was the one who trusted us with her story and her trauma there's no excusing the way matt
and i handled that situation if we were to do it right we would have from the get-go fired
down immediately going so far as to imply that he's quitting super mega i have obviously been
irresponsible with the platform i was given so as it stands i don't deserve one since this is my
final video this next topic is really the only thing i care to defend myself on this entire vlog
comes across as like i said at the start a calculated utilitarian move in order to save
super mega from the wrath of their young progressive audience ryan then goes after
latent for daring to utter daniel's name in a stream to address these allegations head on about
me making fun of the suicide of my best friend i just want to state that it's just untrue the
person making these claims never knew daniel they definitely were not a part of the group that
experienced the trauma of losing him and i think honestly it is disrespectful to bring him up
as a weapon i felt like he was just brought into the situation for drama's sake to try to
hurt me or matt or hurt our image i have done enough shit to tarnish my image but i will not
stand by and let someone talk lies about the way i talked or treated my trauma in regards to daniel
the sole focus of all of this should have been about the support that lex needed you know how
it is right kneel for the woman take down the gay guy normal stuff in progville the truth is even if
we assume lex's sexual assault claim is true latin is clearly just dog piling it happens every single
time a big canceling attempt goes down people see their chance and jump on it madison's doing it
right now at alliance tech tips something i'll likely cover in a future video there's one last
thing to check out before we move over to matt's video which is about five times as long as ryan's
i had inappropriate communications with fans while in a long-term committed relationship while
technically these actions are between two consenting adults it truly is pathetic and
there's no excuse for it it's clear that instead of being responsible with the super mega brand i
abused my position and my power for selfish self-indulgence listen if you're a cute girl
i will 100 exploit my tiny youtube stardom to get into your pants you can absolutely get ahead
with me by sending me your nudes i will totally abuse my position i don't give a fuck okay let's
move on to matt's video he immediately tells the breakup story from his point of view where lex
dumped don and then he flew don out to la to be a good friend so on may 19 2022 after returning home
from creator clash i got a call from don uh in which he was crying saying that him and lex had
just broken up he told me he was essentially stuck in florida because he's from germany and he had no
money and didn't know what to do and at this time i didn't know any specifics of what had happened
with the breakup he mentioned to me that they had been distant and then ended up just breaking up
that was the extent of my knowledge on the split at the time feeling bad for don i uh offered to
get him a one-way plane ticket to la to come crash at my place until he could find a way to get back
to germany he took me up on the offer and on may 23rd he flew out to la when don arrived he cried
to me about how heartbroken he was and the whole time i was none the wiser on what had actually
taken place between him and lex and if i had known i would not have invited him out to la to stay
with me i would not have housed him i don't remember exactly but i think rav was the one who
told me initially uh on my balcony one night and he told me that don had sexually assaulted lex
this was something that i did not expect from don and uh truth be told i had a bit of a hard time
accepting it i soon asked don about this um and what he told me was he chalked it up to basically
a misunderstanding in the bedroom at this time i did not grasp how serious the situation was
and obviously he did not either listen to that dude matt is acting like it's a failing that he
didn't immediately believe lex without proof and he had questions on whether or not his friend was
capable of committing sexual assault when that's a completely normal impulse matt takes the same
stance that ryan does even though lex is trying to destroy super mega he's supporting her against
don matt even admits that he did bring up his business in the context of the don sexual assault
allegations and says that he shouldn't have done that i told lex that ryan and i fully supported
her that we believed her 100 and that we would be there for her to be honest i was terrified
of misstepping in this situation due to its sensitive nature and how close it was to home
i was not sure how to navigate it this was all new territory to me and i asked her a really stupid
question because of that i asked lex what she wanted me and ryan to do about the situation
which was an absolutely dumb ass thing to ask i meant it from a place of we want to help and we
will do whatever it is you want us to do to make the situation better i now see that obviously came
across as me putting the responsibility of the situation back on the victim and i feel terrible
about that my intention was to be helpful and i went about it very poorly in lex's statement
she said that i brought up technicalities over don's employment as well as me saying something
along the lines of how much it would suck for super mega if this got out and that super mega
was my magnum opus and i didn't want anything to ruin that over the course of the phone call we did
discuss don's role with super mega and while i don't recall making any of those specific comments
i do know i brought up our business and how don's actions might affect that that was completely
wrong of me to do i never should have brought up anything as trivial as that while lex was telling
me something very difficult i was kind of freaking out and i was thinking out loud it should not have
even been on my mind uh and that was selfish of me what i should have done was just listened
and offered support and not questioned anything yeah that is shit of him but look at this double
standard lex wants every irrational action explained by trauma or fight or flan or
whatever the fuck but matt makes one knee-jerk misstep and he should be destroyed yeah he
shouldn't have done it but isn't lex's entire story built on the idea that people do irrational
things in the heat of the moment and we should excuse them for it matt buddy just claim you
were sexually assaulted it apparently explains everything away the first half of matt's video
is just him recontextualizing all the various stories that lex gave about her interactions
with dom to paint dom as the villain and lex as the victim and he and ryan are so sorry about
their part in all of it then at the halfway point he says this i also want to address a very large
chunk of lex's video that was focused on her and rav's time living at our office aka the super
mega plex did that not sound a little passive aggressive to you like you can't come out and
shit on lex but he's like yeah bitch we all know you spent most of your video not even talking
about dom matt knows that the smear is in and he has to reply to it without throwing lex into the
bus since she's a victimized woman but also while still presenting his own case he does this by
wording it like there is miscommunication on all sides we're all just so busy etc etc when she was
saying it was clearly meant to live or there was a secret meaning behind these messages or something
then matt provides new receipts things that lex didn't show in her two-hour video where lex painted
their relationship post moving out of the super mega house and back to nashville as being very
bitter and that she was left homeless and stuck in hostels or whatever they were actually texting
back and forth and being very friendly all the way through the end of 2022 months after apparently
lex said she had stopped running with them i thought that after i apologized to her last july
things had smoothed out and i think you could see why i would think that uh but that communication
ceased around the time that we fired latin who is a close friend of hers and now it all comes
together doesn't it lex is just fine with everyone and everything until her friend latin gets fired
from super mega for his incompetence and only then did these allegations start coming out it seems to
me like lex and latin put together this quasi manifesto shitting on super mega and front-loaded
it with lex's reinterpretation of a relationship with don as sexual assault in order to make the
whole story easier to swallow in the whole whirlwind of lex trying to make everything stick
she brought up how matt fucked some porn star not only did he cheat on his girlfriend and broke up
with her and then she found out after because jim was living with the new girl uh while she's still
friends with jim like they're both friends with jim he also takes a break with the new girlfriend
he's with to uh basically solicit a sex worker girl um that he was into to come live in la and
move from like across the us before he decided that he wanted to go back to the girlfriend
that he was just with so if i were him i would probably be reevaluating my life as well the porn
star in question morgan or morgue pie on social media also came out with her own dumb fuck
allegations about how matt fucked her and ghosted her and how she expected a relationship and how
awful he is they're not really worth going over because she's just stupid the charge here is we
had sex and he didn't call me back which man in an age of tinder and hookups that doesn't really
land anymore let alone with somebody who does fucking porn in any case matt simply admitted it
he said it was a hookup between his real relationships and then provided texts showing
that this was the case and morgan knew it in august 2022 when i was single and in between
relationships i sexted with her for one night and ultimately slept with her for two nights in
september when she was visiting los angeles during our hookups i explicitly stated to morgan that
this was a hookup and that i had just gotten out of a relationship and i was not looking for
anything and this is something she acknowledged i actually brought this up uh more than once
after she left la to go back home i could tell that she had caught some feelings and i did not
want to lead her on so i began to kind of distance myself shortly after i also ended up working
through a rough patch and started dating my current girlfriend and i talked to morgan even
less after this we stopped communication i didn't feel like it was appropriate to you know be
talking to someone who the relationship i had was primarily sexual uh while i had a girlfriend we
pretty much lost all contact uh after i started dating my current girlfriend and i figured that
that was normal and that's kind of just what is the typical life cycle of a hookup i was very
surprised to hear what morgan had to say on stream considering last month in june we had
a very pleasant conversation uh where we tied up any loose ends and smoothed everything out
and i'm going to share that conversation morgan reached out to me on june 8th and said hey matt
hope you're doing well i said hey i've been doing okay been really busy and stressed but i'm pushing
through have you been she said oh man me too supremely stressed but i'm coming to la this
month and i'll be doing so much cool shit so i'm excited glad to hear you're pushing through
i said i'm just kind of exhausted with tor coming up and stuff but i'll be okay i've been doing
therapy a lot which has been super helpful and glad to hear you're doing cool shit she replies
with oh i'm so happy to hear therapy has been helping i've had mixed results with that great
when it actually works out she replies with yeah man i'm excited but yeah just thought i'd check
up on you because even though things got a little weird i'll always care about you dude hope you
have a great tour too i respond with i appreciate it and i'm sorry things got a little weird i'm not
very good at navigating stuff and when i got in a relationship shortly after i wasn't sure how
to not be awkward about it i care about you too and i don't feel weird at all about things or
about you she said yeah i kind of know what happened lol people talk but cool man i'm glad
things aren't weird i said same glad it's not weird i feel a lot better now lol she said me too
i hate loose ends and i said same they bother me so much lol and for clarity i never felt bad or
negative about you i just didn't know how to not be awkward after a hookup i'm not really a hookup
person especially since i'm in a relationship now sorry for my awkwardness glad we're all good
morgan replies with yeah i felt a bit sour about it tbh because i'm not really a hookup person
either loki caught me with some feels and i felt pretty used afterwards but shit happens and that's
on me so i don't harbor any ill will towards you i mean i didn't expect a relationship or anything
but yeah lol i responded with i feel ya and i'm sorry for acting in any way that made you feel
used that was never my intention and i'm just kind of awkward with this stuff i could tell
a little that you were catching feels and i didn't want to lead you on and hurt you
morgan said i really appreciate that i'm just a big baby and when i open myself up like that
to someone it's because i'm really into them contrary to what my profession may lead you to
think but i'm glad we could talk about this i appreciate you talking about this with me even
though you aren't obligated to at all i said of course i'm really glad we're talking about it too
because i didn't like feeling awkward or having a loose end and she said yeah same w i respond with
a cool sunglasses smiley face and that was the last time we talked so why did morgan jump on
this bandwagon well maybe because she was one of the first people involved in latin's new show
morgue pie is someone that i met and didn't need to like me you know like didn't have to
but especially after all this crazy shit she still was so sweet to me and like wanted to record with
me and like she liked the idea of my show and so i recorded this insane fucking episode
of only bricks with morgan and we didn't even get like fucking three percent done everything here
seems to revolve around latin lex and morgan are his friends helping him out with their femoid
tears but it really just seems like this is latin's campaign to ruin super mega and matt says as much
a former employee of super mega named latin stallard has made some very serious accusations
against me and ryan i did not plan on nor did i want to make a segment of this video based around
this but after everything latin has said about us publicly i feel that i have no choice but to
respond and give my side of the story and show receipts we fired latin from working at super mega
in march 2023 and since then he has led a vindictive campaign to cancel us to deplatform
us to ruin our image basically we were not happy with his performance he had been causing problems
uh with his mood swings and outbursts at the office as well as a general performance that
we didn't like we made the difficult decision to let him go even latin's claims that the workplace
was full of homophobic jokes that he just hated and felt alienated due to ends up being not true
as matt shows off many texts of latin being totally cool with it i find it a little ironic
that he complained about this considering for example in december we were recording a podcast
when he came in unannounced and showed us his cock and balls in late 20s uh chuck hey latin
hey whoa do you see his balls latin you want to come take a seat do you see his balls
okay hold on i don't think it's appropriate for the podcast matt then shows screenshots from a
dedicated super mega hate discord where they plan to help latin cancel super mega by using any
scandal they can get their hands on we just need a piece of gossip it's big enough that their sponsor
will want to drop super mega well what if he tried to spin something like they covered by
sexual assault would that do the deed and it worked at least initially super mega went into
a subscriber death spiral their community subret was an open revolt everyone was disavowing them
and latin's own bitterness finally won the day at least initially this is a way for latin and
lex and morgan to try and bolster their careers by destroying larger creators they used to associate
with it's that simple dude and it all works because in 2023 you can be as shitty of a person
you want and simply say trauma and it's all excused believe all women guys don't be a rape
apologist by asking questions rav was also trying to figure out what had gone down and at this point
i don't think any of us still were taking it as seriously as we should have been and that is
something that i sincerely regret because we did not take it as seriously right from the jump as
we should have instead we asked questions and tried to do some detective work and get to the
bottom of it no no matt no doing detective work is supporting the rape the worst part is that
don's career is completely in tatters i think he's innocent he's been completely ruined by this this
was clearly a group of people who want to direct super mega and they decided to destroy don in the
process because he was an easy tool to use after all don's a fat guy who would ever believe that
somebody as hot as lex would ever consent to dating him lex's current boyfriend is also a
fat socialist soy boy she just seems to have a type what happened with super mega listen nick
made a video about it but all you need to know is that they're bad go to their subreddit there's
plenty of information google super mega subreddit and go there now look at anything look at the
first post it's been trending all weekend it's funny how fast everyone turned on super mega
yeah and i think that goes to show right it's kind of self-fulfilling in a sense you know it
kind of makes both lex's and latin's claim they don't want drama and they just want to tell their
stories and empower other victims ring really fucking hollow when they're gloating at the
super mega subscriber count going below 1 million said socialist soy boy runs a small time crumbtuber
channel putting out the worst leftist garbage content imaginable in between tweeting about
how he totally met the super mega guys and they totally use slurs constantly even though matt
confirmed he doesn't really know this guy shortly after one of latin's best friends who is lex's
boyfriend uh tried to instigate drama on twitter by lying and saying that he has heard us say the
n-word multiple times in reality we've only met this individual a handful of times and it's mostly
been at social events and always accompanied by lex so to think that we would just casually be
dropping the n-word with a hard r in front of not only someone who's a stranger but also a woman of
color yeah that makes a lot of sense this entire group of people are just leeches they've only
temporarily bound themselves together in order to take down super mega in fact latin shit talked
lex behind her back when she was squatting at the super mega house when these texts came out
i wonder if lex felt like a fucking retard burning all of her credibility to prop this little shit up
in any case latin wasn't doing anything in the name of accountability he just wanted to hurt
super mega i just hope you all believe that like this is not a push for me to try to get clout
i'm fucking terrified right now i don't buy that he's terrified for one second this is latin's
ticket to internet fame being the guy who got super mega cancelled and then plugging his new
show of course it was his plan all along morgan's part of latin's plan was ultimately insignificant
she simply served to be another source of matt looking bad after all matt and morgan were on good
terms right up until she started talking to latin following when i had that text conversation with
morgan and june where we smooth things over morgan began hanging out with our ex-employee
latin more and i have not heard from her since that conversation until i saw her stream lex's
story however was the core of their plans her claim was the catalyst for everything not because
she was actually a victim of dawn i don't buy that for a second they simply pre-faced the whole
canceling event with the dawn story to make it seem more legitimate lex's actual grievance is
she feels slighted because her next big career move was moving out to la making connections in
the creator space and trying to get something going that way that failed because she mooched
off super mega for months and everyone got tired of her being around as time went on and weeks
turned into months of them staying at the office we were unsure of their plans and how motivated
they were to actually find a place to move into there's simply no reason to believe this failed
me too attempt of dawn in my opinion dawn's the victim his careers and tatters he's lost all of
his connections there's no proof of anything and it's all real believable because lex is a pretty
woman and don is an unattractive guy the post me too era that we're currently living in in 2023
is fucking disgusting furthermore because lex self-id's as a she they non-binary trans person
she's not a woman and therefore under the laws of me too i am no longer obligated to believe her
see you later bitch anything and everything was on the table no matter what your race
or your identity or your your no matter what like you could be made fun of by those guys
someone who had been with latin and a group of his friends uh told us that he had been flaunting
that if things ever went south with us he could just easily cancel us he not only propagated
a lot of the jokes that he claimed to be offended by but he participated in the jokes he even
encouraged them we always wanted latin to feel comfortable even when we were making jokes we
never wanted him to feel targeted with any jokes his tone changed completely uh the moment he was
fired i felt so fucking weak i don't know i'm a i'm a big boy or whatever but like when i got when
i was like oh i'm non-binary i just woke up and i was like i'm bored i i'm she they now and uh
and i'm sure that works and then you got a ton more friends you got the crowds you got the eyes
on you everybody's like wow that's so cool yeah it felt like a lie to me
