Okay, quick disclaimer. This is a real spicy video
Maybe I just won't turn on monetization for this one
So if you feel like supporting me hit up the SFO patreon hit up the SFO subscribe star
Press the YouTube memberships button
Maybe toss your prime sub on my twitch channel because I feel like I'm not getting paid for this one
In the past on this channel when I've run out of time to do other types of videos
I've occasionally reviewed really weird subreddits on reddit. Reddit is a cesspit. I know we all know it
Naomi still insists on scrolling it every night in bed
I know I covered anti work because that was a that was a whole thing where the contents of the sub itself was
Ridiculous where a bunch of people were just like not wanting to work
But also there was that weird story about how one of the moderators of anti work along with being a communist
Also ended up being a molester who could have seen that coming and also beyond that there's that one hipster sub where people never
Serve food on their plates think I covered that too man blast from the past and today
I just have only have a few minutes. So we're gonna look at another sub dude. Just like tik-tok Tuesday
Should I make like a subreddit day? Oh, how about sub it at Saturdays? Oh
That could be a new series guys. Just just kill me now. We are looking at our slash men camp
Men camp guys men camp a journey into hippo crazy in the post
You're about to make replace terms such as cis white hetero male with holocaust victim related terminology
And if the result sounds it could have be right out of mine camp
You should probably reconsider your social justice blogging habits
So basically this is a sub about hypocrisy and let's see what we have
I looked at a few of these already when a fan had directed me here
Let's just take a quick look at them here progressive rhetoric
This is from Mary Daly a radical feminist philosopher if life is to survive on this planet
There must be a decontamination of the earth
I think this will be accompanied by an evolutionary process that will result in a drastic reduction of the population of Jews
People are afraid to say that kind of stuff anymore now this this person's a feminist price that males are men there
Yeah males. Okay. I just realized if I keep reading these that I'm gonna sound like hyper anti-semitic
Listen guys, these aren't these aren't my quotes
All right, don't you dare clip me when Mary Daly here says that people are afraid to say that kind of stuff anymore
I mean there seems to be a reason for that calling for the extermination of a group kind of fell out of style
Non-jewish people are cleaner. Oh, oh Jesus. I'm noticing that it is more common for non-jew and non-semitic people to take
Loneliness more seriously. I'm semitic
My mother is Aryan and I grew up with outside clothes inside clothes baths before bed
Outside shoes looked at the door and switched for inside shoes die-hard hand-washing
No pets in the kitchen a lot of Jews and semites. I've known I found it weird or excessive or not a big deal
I wonder what group they're talking about at this point. There's maybe like Americans, you know, I could talk about Americans
I kind of make sense. I know Americans sometimes will like wear shoes on inside. It's kind of weird
We don't do that in Canada. Here's the original source. Oh, it's non-white and non-western people
Okay, so this is like this is like a third world or shitting on the first world. Okay, I got it
A lot of whites and Westerns I've known has have found it weird or excessive. Oh, this is from a Japanese sub
Okay. Yeah, they're very strict about like no shoes inside, you know fair enough
So are we here in Canada, but like they're even more strict about it and having you know
Baths before bed all the time. We tend to shower in the morning, you know, not all of them are bad
But ninety nine point nine nine percent are fuck. I hate
Don't make me say this and of course it is fuck I hate white people wait a minute this dude
This dude looks like he could be white like maybe he's maybe he's Arabic, but I think he's white
This is just one of those like self-hating whites
Also this emo ass video Jesus. But yeah, imagine saying us about any other race. You would be strung the fuck up by the Prague's
Jews who hate Aryans hate them because of Jewish hegemony. Oh
Oh
My lord
Aryans who hate Jews also hate them because of Jewish
Aryans who hate Jews want to break free from Jewish oppression Jews who hate areas want to be free to oppress them
You can't win. Can you?
Either way, this one's a gender one though
Many hate women hate them because of misogyny women who hate men also hate them because of misogyny
When you hate men want to break free from male oppression many hate women want to be free to oppress them
This positions the conversation such that all men always oppress all women
The only reason a man would want to be free is to be an oppressor while women want to be free from oppression
They can't conceive of the fact that women want to oppress as well and they do because they're humans men who hate women
Only do so because of misogyny but women who hate men
Well, they're a victim probably of male violence or something
And so it's the misogyny that makes them hate them the entire framing of the conversation is such that men are the source of evil
They are the fountain from which evil Springs women are simply corrupted by it and otherwise they would be innocent now
Of course once you start applying this idea to other groups
the whole thing falls apart as the alternative interpretation points out imagine if you said that
Jewishness was the source of all evil and that non-jews were corrupted by Jews to be evil while Jews were in
Inherently evil it would be ridiculous. It's a ridiculous statement all undermen all
undermention
All
Undermention are gone. Usually this is conceived as the result of a plague less often the cause is violence
occasionally the undermention don't die and the races are just segregated in different geographical reasons or
Undermention miraculously vanished with explanation left to themselves
The Aryans create a better society without inequality or war all goods are shared
All children are safe. The economy is sustainable and the earth is cherished without inferior biology standing in their way
Utopia builds itself. This is actually what the Nazis believed like word for word
This was their thousand-year Reich view of the future
And of course, this is actually a feminist separatist thing
All the men are gone
Usually this is conceived as the result of a plague less often the causes violence
Occasionally the men don't die and the sexes are just segregated in different geographical regions or men miraculously vanish without explanation left to themselves
The women create a better society without inequality or war all the goods are shared. All children are safe
The economy is sustainable and the earth is cherished without male biology standing in the way Utopia builds itself if this were the case
You would definitely have seen over the course of human history
matriarchies out competing
Patriarchies, of course, their answer is gonna be something like real matriarchies never been tried
But it has been tried this idea that human history has only been a patriarchy is is nonsense
Various social structures have sprung up that are matriarchal
The issue is they tend to get out competed and then either absorbed or destroyed by
Patriarchies around them if they were competitive they would still exist
Which leads to a very strange point because if you were to apply those to say racial struggles the way that the Nazis actually do
It makes sense that the various races that exist they exist because they out competed their competition if there actually were an
inferior race of people it seems to be the case that they would have died out without the Nazis trying to you know
Push it along a whole bunch New Year's resolutions cultivate Aryan friendships and band together to kill
Oh my fucking god. This video is gonna probably like single-handedly end my channel what I agree to do this
Jesus Emily McCombs
She's a Huffington Post editor the fact that the political camp that hates bigotry above all else
They'll support mass murderers before they support bigots that they carve out a space where they can be bigoted towards
Specific groups of people because they are the groups that they hate the kill all Jews movement
The kill all Jews movement has never actually meant kill all Jews as a hyperbole and a response to anti-aryanism
I recommend researching the movement and what it's actually about
But I personally almost never see people saying that the only time I see
Aryan say that is when Jews are blatantly anti-aryan and hateful. But again, it doesn't actually mean they want to kill all
Oh my god, of course. This is about kill all men
Misogyny women aren't saying that I think there was a thing got floating around in feminist spaces like ten years ago or something
We saw on the internet where they were saying things like the reaction to feminism shows why we need feminism
It's like no what if you're actually acting terribly and people are reacting the way that they should do your terrible behavior
You won't let us take over and control everything. You won't let us just exterminate you
Well that proves that we have to it's like what the fuck basically
They actually believe themselves to be superior and they're being unfairly held down
And so all of their hyperbole all of their oppression their desire for violence
This is just a restoration of what is to them the natural order do something with your life. That will make a mediocre Jew
What are we talking about late night TV show hosts now, of course the original shirt said a mediocre white man
If you actually wear this shirt outside
It's the equivalent of like wearing a feminist armband or something if I saw a person like this walking around in real life
I would just like I would be disgusted. All right, I would just avoid them
I'd be like what the fuck Jesus Christ dude a new study just dropped Jews Aryans and optimal
While both Jews and Aryans can and do use violence against each other
Jews violence against Aryans is far more common less justified and more destructive than Aryans violence against you. Oh
My god. Oh my god, please please YouTube
Have mercy the distribution of violence between the races then is suboptimal
society we better off as a whole if more Aryans are willing to engage in justified violence against Jews and
Fewer Jews are willing to engage in unjustified violence against Aryans to that end
Aryans justified violence against Jews should be encouraged protected and publicized. Oh my fuck
I know they're always talking about men and women here, right?
So they're saying that women's justified violence against men
it should be encouraged protected and publicized even if encouraging an increase in women's
Justified violence against men may sometimes result in unjustified or disproportionate violence in individual situations
The overall effects of the redistribution of violence will be preferable to the current asymmetry
So these people are saying that we should normalize women being violent against men
Even if it's unjustified sometimes because overall men are more violent against women and we need to equalize it man
I'm already dismayed at just the state of humanity
Racism sexism bigotry these things are never actually stamped out the way that progressives believe they were they've simply
Crafted what they believe to be a moral outlet for them
They have simply defined a new out group for them to shit on and oppress as much fun as it is talking about hypocrisy
There is probably a more real conversation you can have here. For example any sort of intrinsic
differences between let's say black men and white men as two distinct classes
It's going to be very small compared to the intrinsic differences between males and females
I don't even know how much of this stuff is, you know directly based on race directly based on genetics
What I do know is that a lot of the differences between males and females are based in biology and that seems to be not
The case when it comes to different races or different ethnicities of people
So you could actually make the argument that when these messages that we've gone over today talk about the differences between
Men and women assuming that they're talking about males and females here. We're not gonna bring some trans stuff into it right now
Let's just say males and females that might actually be a reasonable statement in a way that talking about say blacks and whites or
Aryans and Jews or whatever the fuck that's not a reasonable statement because
Race and sex are not the same thing. However, that is a position that a leftist can't really take up because they've already completely expelled
Biological essentialism from their vocabulary now, they're not gonna care about the hypocrisy. Trust me. This entire video is showing off their hypocrisy
They're not gonna care but and I'll have a future video that will really go into detail regarding essentialism
But basically the radical left has gotten rid of essentialism
So the argument that you're gay because you're born this way if you actually talk to people on the left right now
They completely abandon that logic because they're full-on blank slate theory
This is the same reason why they go for the full self ID justification when it comes to trans stuff
They do not believe that your biology has anything to do with who you are
Is that would mean genetics which would mean eugenics and therefore you're a racist Nazi piece of shit
So everything can be socially constructed
We can change whatever we want of ourselves and it's all a matter of simply
Liberating the mind from the prison that is our body and if you know the biological
Reality of who we are gets in the way then that is evil and bigoted
So while it turns out that dipping our toes into our slash men camp was kind of funny
There is an argument against the point of this sub there does exist
Significant biological differences between males and females so you can't simply compare rhetoric talking about males and females
To rhetoric talking about races or ethnicities
But the left can't even access that logic because they've already expelled essentialism from their thinking
So the only thing that they can do is yell and scream that it's racist or bigoted or hateful or whatever which frankly
I don't care about anymore because they're racist and hateful and bigoted. Anyway, that's that for today
I hope my channel doesn't get fucking nuked but it was a fun time. I will see you guys later. I love you
Sleep
Keeps you up
I'm just mindlessly scrolling on reddit
Like I my brain just like slowly turns itself off because like I don't actually have to think
Kind of like that one time when I came to bed and you were like I was awake and I was like you are fucking
awake
