Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and today we need to take a meme and go behind it.
Wow, I'm so excited, no fuck you, Pyro and M both already did that joke, today's topic
is not going to make you enthusiastic or happy, or anything like Kyle or behind the meme seems
to attempt to or attempted to convey through his videos, no today we're dealing with topics
that aren't inherently happy, so I'm sorry to anyone who came to my channel looking for
a happy smiley person, my life is misery, soon yours will be too.
Because today we're dealing with the tragic tale of behind the meme, and issues surrounding
semantics regarding that, and boy do we have a lot to discuss, because I'm going to be
talking about a lot of concepts, some of them a bit more philosophical even, because I think
it encompasses an interesting element of content creation, and we'll get to that in a bit,
the first behind the meme, who is he to all those who may not be aware of his infamy.
So essentially behind the meme is a meme channel set up by creator Kyle Bryce, don't worry
his name is public, but he brands it as having the intention of educating those who are unfamiliar
with memes, providing the audience with a relatively light explanation of the origin
of the meme and applications of it.
To take a quick example, Harambe, Harambe is a deceased gorilla who eventually became
a meme after the meme connoisseurs decided it would be, and in this instance behind the
meme explains how Harambe has came to be, you know, whole enclosure incident, satirisation
of people's reaction, and so on.
These videos rapidly picked up steam, with views coming in from the first upload.
This wasn't Kyle's first channel, so he knew how to make his video semi-competent, he quickly
upgraded and realised the business opportunity, it was all going right, video after video
was a hit with the audience, and he was flying high with a group of people who had his back.
Yet fast forward less than 2 and a half years later, and it's almost like we've stepped
into a different dimension, the happy colourful behind the meme is gone, and in its place
is a shell, a shell that is the draw of multiple controversies over the span of just over a year.
Well, after a spell where his videos were performing abysmally with views and ratings
alike, he took a break.
Now we'll delve into the details of why this flatlined in a bit, stay patient my friends,
however with every break came the return, and behind the meme came back to a fanfare
of broken brass, however the video he posted, what happened to behind the meme, seemed to
represent a perspective of hope, one in which he had been dragged down by so much, but now
he was in a better place, ready not to fumble this situation.
But I have done a tremendous amount of growing over the last few months while away from this
channel, growing that has only been able to happen thanks to the luxuries YouTube has
afforded me.
This personal development wouldn't have happened had I not taken a bit of time to myself to
attempt to discover who I am and what happiness means to me.
He had almost 800,000 subscribers, most of us will never receive that opportunity, he
was a new man, ready to take on the world.
But then he posted his 5 part series, which were dark in their presentation and disturbing
in their context, with mental breakdowns, vague foreshadowing language, a far cry from
his initially rather innocent child friendly content of his meme synopsis videos.
This understandably had people concerned, eventually at the end of this 5 part series,
a fellow to say he was staged.
This has understandably caused a whirlwind of reactions within the community, ranging
from sympathy to criticism.
What we're going to do today is break it all down, because honestly, it is an absolute
clusterfuck and it's hard to work out who's right, who's wrong, and if anyone is right
to be honest.
Today I have a lot of questions that many people have, why did this happen, why did
the innocent meme reviewer end up in what must be some sort of delusional state of mind,
what were the causes of this, were these causes justified, how could such a cheerful person
so intent on spreading knowledge turn into one of the most twisted characters online?
I also want to precursor with the usual statement, that although it's important to be sympathetic
to anyone's mental conditions as they may influence their behaviour, it equally doesn't
alleviate actions, as a public figure, they ensure responsibility that is enabled by their
fan base.
I will be criticising the actions on an observational basis, what I see, and what I think, I don't
think I have too much to add, but there's a lot to discuss, so we might as well get
into it.
Do you ever wonder the meaning of today's popular memes?
Do you wonder about the history of some of the classics?
Do you sometimes feel left out when you see others using a term you've never heard before?
Don't worry, we have you covered.
In his Draw My Life video, Kyle, which is what I'll call him when addressing him personally,
noted that he was drawn to make a meme review channel during the Harambe craze, where people
were wondering what the meme was about exactly, something that crossed all of our minds undoubtedly
during the discovery of memes.
I think this is an interesting element, his channel was born out of something innate,
a curiosity that was found in many other people, which is arguably why it rose so quickly,
because his videos almost encompassed a growing curiosity.
Now if we are to pull up the Google trend mechanism, we can see that if we date behind
the memes channel inception at around August 2016, as a trend, memes were about to reach
their peak.
Now trends themselves encompass information very interestingly, because for me, a trend
like anything has phases.
Now there may be a scientific theory behind this, but let me just formulate my own hypothesis
to simplify it.
We have a phase of ignorance where we don't know anything about the topic, the discovery
phase where we're exposed to the topic, and then we have the rejection or assimilation
phase, where we either choose not to pursue such culture, or we throw ourselves in there.
What may follow afterwards, which isn't really documented here, is the forgetting phase,
which is where people begin to withdraw from such a topic.
Now memes is such a general culture that it's unlikely to die soon, however the specific
memes do have that.
These are all important factors to consider, because at the time that behind the memes
started up, we can see that the trend search for memes was heading in an upward projection.
If we were to apply my theory, an upward trend can only occur if more people are in the discovery
phase.
Now the discovery phase is marked by the transition from ignorance to knowledge, and people being
interested, but not really knowing where to start.
Now at that stage, many people need entry level understandings of memes, and I know
I'm talking about it like it's a fine art, but there is a craft to it, and these things
often exist on tiers, even when they're particularly subtle, so we're witnessing an influx of
people into this culture, and that's partly why behind the meme works so well, it was
aided by the fact that he started his channel during one of the most fertile periods for
these memes, and honestly, I watched the Harambe video, and although the production values
were fairly cheap, as videos in general go, it didn't seem bad, it was a fairly easy
video to open with, he was dealing with something that he knew people felt, and as channels
go that aid the discovery phase, it was tonally consistent in its presentation, it was simple,
it was straightforward, it had a demographic, and it knew its demographic like the back
of its hand, bright colours, a high energy voice, which we'll discuss more later, he
knew exactly who he was appealing to, the sort of people who wanted an explanation in
the most reduced fashion, we're not necessarily interested in dissecting the intricacies.
The other thing that we noticed by looking at Google Trends is that even though its gradient
was going upwards, it was already a strongly established genre, with a committed fanbase,
now memes differ in their size and longevity on the platform, and there are some memes
that still have relevance today in our conversations, some memes that outlast the rest, I want you
to hold this thought. Going back to the discovery phase, typically the memes that we discover
are the most popular rather than the most modern, now it's true that a modern meme
may be popular at the same time, but there will always be ones that are more iconic,
this is important as what behind the meme tended to do was go back to a lot of popular
old memes that may have existed before Harambe and cover them while the landscape was a tad
dry, whether it was Dat Boi, a meme from May 2016 a few months before, or even ones that
were a few years before, like Doge, which I'm not gonna call Doge, I think that's
frankly disgraceful, thank you, pronounce it Doge, don't put pineapples on pizza, two
simple principles, and I don't wanna hear it again Mr Bryce. Anyhow, Doge came from
2013 and he was covering it, this was a smart business move on his behalf, he knew which
topics to choose to keep the fans coming back for more, and how to draw in people who had
just discovered the wondrous concept of the meme. As mentioned earlier, behind the meme
was as inoffensive as the channels came, in fact Kyle seemed a fairly harmless person
just trying to provide an insight on the source of a meme, and this was an inherently positive
facet for a channel like his, he was completely out of the drama, how could someone like behind
the meme end up in drama? He also distanced himself from any other form of commentary
and didn't think to comment on such affairs. Now I will explain why this eventually came
back to hurt him, but being an independent creator allowed him to just hustle away on
his own, spreading memes to people who were probably drifting too with regards to content.
Behind the meme almost branded himself as a semi-commercial channel, many people compared
Kyle to a WatchMojo, as epitomised by that energetic commercial voice, and this is definitely
not an unwarranted comparison, but he did attempt to build a closer brand with his viewers,
whereas WatchMojo kind of accepted that most of their viewers are gonna be in and out,
he did attempt to build a stronger bond, often trying to integrate a few more jokes, even
though they were a bit shit, and side comments that would establish his character, almost
trying to mimic Matthew Santoro, another creator who tried to integrate fairly generic ideas
with his own persona. Admittedly he didn't quite do it as well, lacking facecam just
kind of mutes the delivery on such expressive comments, but I can understand what he was
going for, and for a while it definitely worked for some people, his first video on Harambe
was just a basic explanation, with every video he tried to extend it and make it a bit longer
and taking the moments to add those extra bits of banter.
Fast food, America's favourite pastime, next to apple pie, baseball, and watching
porn, you better clear your search history before your mom comes into the room.
We have this channel that had this huge backlog of timeless memes, and a consistent style
and presentation and clear theme, it was an algorithms dream, so it jumped from strength
to strength, while at the same time you had this guy at the helm, although not overflowing
with personality, quirky enough, he could bring an audience back, and he had tapped
in trends that were on the rise, all of these things carried him forward, and by being a
very placid fellow, it seemed impossible that anyone would want to hate him for what
he was doing, I mean, it was completely harmless, was it not?
The content may have been simple, but who cares, it was helping people discover memes,
how could anyone ever stop someone when all they're doing is entertaining others?
Well let's talk about culture, MOTHERFUCKERS, right, so how on earth could someone like
behind the meme ever attract hate, he's wholesome, friendly, and completely harmless, or is he?
Now he hasn't touched any kids, hasn't made any racist tweets, and he certainly hasn't
sold any unreasonably priced Christmas calendars, so what the hell happened?
One word, commentary, you see, in commentary, we're a bunch of judgemental bastards, that's
not always a bad thing, but oh my god was behind the meme the epitome behind the notion
that no channel is beyond the concept of criticism, and that you can't just masquerade yourself
with a friendly persona to escape it, but how did people root out criticism out of something
so perceptively objective?
Well to do that we have to understand culture, without fundamental concepts of value, everything
is subjective, and as abstracts they still are to an extent, however once culture embeds
ideas with them, they can obtain relative levels of success, to take an example is maths,
or math as you american twats call it.
Maths make sense because we have assigned clear values to numbers, we have rationalised
them through culture, and this is important.
Now I'm not saying that culture is just this completely social construct, it may come from
evolutionary traits, but the point is that from these basic fundamental premises yield
many different cultures, and each of them are based in different ideas that set up what
is viewed as acceptable and what isn't, and that's typically a good thing, however this
competition does create something more objective, and that's how successful a culture is, with
regards to its premises, how well the people are doing in it, relative to not just themselves
but to other cultures.
In Emplemon's video you can see how clearly he contrasts the culture of what he calls
outsiders, people who are well educated in the notion of the meme, with normies, the
people who aren't.
The normies are, and have always been, the majority, the mainstream, the hump of the
bell curve.
The outsiders include anyone who rejects mainstream media in favour of content which matches their
more niche and unconventional tastes.
In the 80s, the outsiders were mocked and outcast by the normies, only able to seek
safety in the odd comic book store or sci-fi convention.
Now based on this, quote outsider culture as a generality probably has its aims.
These aims are subjective to the normies, however these are the aims that unite people
into this culture, and this is the one thing that behind the meme didn't understand, that
there was a culture, and that to many people his videos contradicted that culture.
To the casual observer, it was just a guy talking about memes, to someone like Emplemon
it was an assault on everything that he stood for as a proud memer, and he had to send a
message to everyone who didn't understand what he felt, so he made that video.
So I just want to take these last few minutes to tie up some loose ends.
First of all I want to say that I do not hate behind the meme, I just hate this idea that
what he's doing is perfectly okay, and that we have some sort of obligation to make sure
that no normie gets left behind, no, he has to understand that there are negative consequences
to what he's doing.
This represents what I'd brand meme patriotism, which sounds kinda bizarre, but let me explain,
there's a culture that many people believe is the best way to go, it creates the best
memes, creates the best banter in a majority of their opinions, and people are happy with
it.
And then you have someone like behind the meme coming in and executing the ideas in
a different way that contradicts how people view it, and it's an affront to them, but
most of all it's an affront to the culture in general, and those memers who have always
been ostracised from the normie world now have the same normie world turning up and
trying to co-opt their sacred memes, which is what is part of their identity.
Basically it's meme cultural appropriation, can't believe I just said that, and I'm definitely
exaggerating there, but you get what I'm saying, and because these people entered this
culture and were counter-productive to these values, people felt that their memes were
being affected.
Emblemen's concern was that the quality of these memes was being degraded, and their
lifespan decreased, now I don't think behind the meme as an individual was front and centre
to that idea, and honestly the thought that this guy could somehow ruin the length and
trend of memes seems a bit far-fetched, particularly given how memes had a variability, but I can
see when applying these standards that behind the meme does run counter-intuitively to those
cultural fundamentals.
Emblemen's video arguably did over dramatise the implications, but as a comprehensive criticism
of content it served its purpose fairly well, and that's what commentary is, it was the
same with Jinx, same with Lele Pons, on the surface they never did anything obscenely
awful, but make content that by our standards was bad, but when you look deeper people feel
that content like that, behind the meme included, has implications on how culture is viewed,
how people engage with it themselves, and how that conflicts with their views, and how
that affects their enjoyment.
The commentary community is a savage bunch, and if there's a set of creators who make
what many commentators view as subpar content, and they don't receive criticism, which there
are a few, it's only because those creators have ties to the community, and half the commentators
are also cowardly hypocrites who don't want to upset ties to the creators who they may
be associated with, but don't tell them I said that.
Anyhow, my point is, don't ever believe that the community merely goes after the criminals,
behind the meme is a prime example of that, they went against what had been established
culture and they were torn apart for that.
On top of this, it didn't help that behind the meme's content was as safe and commercial
as it could be, something that meme content is antithetic to, so suddenly the idea that
he used stock photos became an insult, and so many other elements, it's not offensive,
but it's unoriginal, uninspired, generic cookie cutter content, which would make someone who's
ingrained in the culture feel insulted by.
These people who are discovering memes are gonna be introduced to this guy, as some sort
of quote teacher as he likes to brand himself, it's like fraud to some of his harshest critics,
he's selling himself as a connoisseur, but the truth is far from that pitch.
So instead of really having this person who made wholesome, harmless content, people felt
suddenly their meme culture was under attack from people like behind the meme who were
simplifying and misrepresenting their work, commercialising it and essentially normifying
it.
And as many of these people on the website found themselves there because they were alienated
by the same mainstream culture, it was like a kick in the face, it's sentimentally based
argumentation, but I understand it, so what would be a content critique was turned into
an actual movement against a creator for what he represents, the selling out of memes.
And boy, does that open a whole new can of worms for Mr Bryce here.
Now as said, behind the meme so desperately tried to avoid involving himself in anything
drama related, so when the drama did finally transpire, he had no clue how to react properly.
M Lemon's video was extremely influential, but he wasn't the first prominent creator
to cover him.
As the Fantano host of the now defunct That Is The Plan, another meme review channel,
made a video satirising behind the meme, touching on its commercialism and lack of
originality and personality.
It was pretty funny, and exactly the sort of bait that only an insecure fool would fall
for.
However, behind the meme is an insecure fool, and trying to respond, placing him in a position
that was completely out of his comfort zone.
Now this already compromised two core elements of him and left him savagely exposed.
As mentioned earlier, he had always tried to create a more personal connection with
his audience, now when combining this with his content, although his personality was
definitely contrived, it was passable, it kinda came with the territory.
When you're stepping out of your comfort zone and responding to someone in a way where
you're not just providing information like your other content, and you're actually
trying to express legitimate argumentative points, you can't just do it in a happy,
jolly tone, especially when trying to convey other emotions, it sounds unhealthy.
So why on earth did he respond like this?
It's the classic problem of being a stranger to criticism for so long.
When we all receive harsh criticism for the first time round, it feels huge, it takes
a massive toll on us, like everything, it just knocks us back, and whenever we face
it down, everything in the moment just seems bigger than it actually is.
We feel it's coming for our reputation and our standing, and we feel the need to defend
ourselves.
With that said, responding to a satire is pretty far-fetched, and through this, Carl
exhibited extensive insecurity in the content that he was making, possibly validating the
criticisms being levelled at him by Fantano.
When you watch a serious Matthew Santoro vid, it's not done with the tone,
Welcome back guys, Matthew Santoro, and today we have to talk about domestic abuse, which
makes me very sad.
The videos are a completely different tone, and they allow Santoro to open up a new side
to the audience, which more successfully builds a relationship than any transfer of persona.
That's what Bryce needed to do, and instead we got this.
In all seriousness, this video was all in good fun, I just had to respond to Anthony's
video because he randomly decided to attack me and my viewers, and I didn't like that.
Jesus Christ, and once M. Lemon and videos that followed from other creators showed up
how fragile his persona was, it put him on borrowed time.
The problem was, he hit a characteristic contradiction.
His tone was too much like a WatchMojo host, as mentioned earlier, and you can't create
a deeper persona for that.
In fact, watching the videos, although he did attempt to deepen his character in ways
we'll address soon, one of the very awkward changes was he progressively upped his persona
to 11.
If we go from one of his first videos...
Hello internet, and welcome to Behind The Meme, where we take a look at the meaning
and the origin of your favourite memes.
Today we have a look at Dodge.
To this...
Hello internet, and welcome to Behind The Meme.
Today we have a look at Gru's plan.
The only change is the increasingly insipid tone.
He seems to have wrongly attributed his quirky persona to the success of the channel, and
he so continues to up the gears, and it becomes nauseating and so transparently fake.
This will become particularly problematic for your viewer base, who are going to be
drawn in by your rather juvenile tone, because they'll inevitably grow out of it.
In spite of the criticisms, the least you could say is that your Harambe video could
be watched by people of all ages.
Any of the newer stuff seems specifically aimed at the youngest denomination who will
never stick around anyway.
What inflames this scenario is the zeitgeist, as said multiple times before, this was the
era where happy-go-lucky personas died.
We want brooding, deeper characters, and his persona became outdated very quickly.
Equally, when trying to develop character, he often turned to a very sensitive topic
like Stefan Karl, and once again, I can't look into a person's mind and decipher their
motivations for making a video like that, but it seemed more of a way to prove that
he was a good guy, and although I don't necessarily think showing that you're a kind person is
a bad thing, if you go out of your way to make videos that divert from your normal style,
and on top of it, immediately after you receive criticism, as documented by my best mate Pyro,
it seems rather insincere.
It doesn't seem like character development, it seems like a construction of what he wants
people to see, the topics of your videos should not solely be dictating your character, however,
none of this mattered as long as he was still pulling views.
As noted on my Zoe Burger video, providing you have a positive like to dislike ratio,
your video typically tends to maintain rotation with the YouTube algorithms, if it's on
a trending meme, we're all quids in.
You see, in a way, behind the meme situation, Ag created a very strange dynamic, the criticism
from commentators like Emp, Fantano, and Pyro, meant that there was this sway of the
people who were completely out for blood whenever he uploaded, he gained a level of infamy,
equally though, if he could reach beyond there and hit a demographic of casual viewers, he'd
probably be able to alleviate the hatred, as those people aren't really concerned
with the culture, and at first, this seemed to be the case, he seemed to be able to scrape
the views to keep a positive ratio over those who were vehemently against him.
However, barely a year after all this had began, in August, the dislikes began to win
out, and it began to kill him.
Probably one of the most ironic tales to this is that people who he introduced memes to,
who provided him the views and support at the initial stage, then likely were the ones
who became more educated, and were then the ones to come back and contribute to his channel's
demise.
That's the thing, if you're an unassuming citizen discovering memes, then behind the
meme is perfect, once you're in the culture, you don't need him, and in fact, you may
come to loathe him.
Equally, as the popularity of the meme stopped its ascension, he had less people to introduce
it to, and increased accessibility online to memes further meant that he had even less
utility than before.
On top of this, he used his get out of jail free meme cards early on, by covering old
popular more timeless memes already, he had nothing left, and he had to rely on the modern
memes to be popular.
And as Emp rightfully noted, although we've definitely experienced an increase in the
number of memes, and some of them do seem popular in the moment, they're not lasting
the way that many of the older ones did, and that just doesn't bode well for a channel
like behind the meme, the markets had been flooded, his time was up, there was nothing,
his personality gave us nothing, his content gave us nothing, and the audience response
had soured, and the demand had plateaued.
It was a timely death, and eventually after a run with diminishing returns, behind the
meme stopped.
But it wasn't over.
As said, Kyle clearly viewed himself as being able to rebrand, his meme review was dead,
but what if he changed his content, did something else he was passionate about, there were so
many opportunities out there for him that he could pursue.
He made the return video we spoke about, there made a tribute video to Stefan Karl
after his passing, and then came his little series.
Now, I'm not going to detail every single thing, but I am going to give a quick summary,
just so people know what this is about, if you wanna watch the videos, they're still
up on his channel.
It begins with a trip to the store in which he buys the most familiar brand of vodka,
Smirnoff, implying that there will be intoxicated antics occurring.
In his second video he has consumed some vodka, shoots the shit, talks vaguely about the future
of his channel, showing you around his house and making random comments, and so on.
The third episode includes him driving intoxicated, and then talking about some deep stuff while
contemplating.
So here is the character development, we're getting a bit deeper, a bit darker.
Now there are some details that I'm going to leave out, because I think they're important
for the judgement, but you can tell that his tone is changing, and becoming more disturbed.
The fourth episode is more of this, just him back in an indoor environment, crying, drinking
more, and so on.
And the final episode is the fateful moment where he takes his own life, truly tragic.
Of course, it was a ruse, but why did he do something like this, well to prove a point,
he was telling his story of how he felt, and the hate he received.
But through my experience, it caused me to take a step back and have a look at our society
as a whole.
How we treat each other unfairly, how quick we are to turn our backs on another human,
how easily it is to forget we're all in the same boat just trying to get by.
Sadly, all these negative characteristics seem to be amplified on the internet where
people think they are anonymous.
It sucks, but that is how our society seems to conduct itself lately.
It's clear through this, he felt a lot of it was unwarranted, and yielded unnecessary
consequences.
So how do I feel?
Is he right?
Was the hate too much?
Well I think it's a double edged sword.
The problem is, we as public figures have to be prepared to take criticism.
The thing about behind the meme is that he never really dealt criticism.
As he said, he was just spreading positivity.
How can you hate someone for spreading love?
And on one hand, I don't think the hate messages, cruel comments, and so on are justified.
If they're directed in a personal fashion, they're very seldom justified, and I'll stand
by that.
And if you want to challenge them and take them on, then more power to you.
Things like doxing also absolutely terrible, and I think calling out people like that is
reasonable.
And the sort of vague narrative that was constructed through this seems to encompass all the culture
as hate, and whether you meant it to come across that way, the sort of very forced comments
that were inserted in the build up was the one identifiably fake element, although it
was implausible, it was otherwise well done.
Here's the point, as a guy, you may be lovely, you may be delightful, and although some of
M.P.
Lemon's criticism seems slightly doubtful to me, they weren't based in impossible outcomes,
and they were delivered in a way that separated the creator from the content, and they weren't
particularly harsh, although they did imply some strong consequences.
At the end of the video, M.P. even says this himself, that he's not there to hate on behind
the meme of the person, not hate on Kyle, so whether it was Kyle's intention to turn
criticism onto M.P. or Pyro, or anyone else who kind of led this cultural war, or not,
the fans who are interpreting it that way right now really need to think about this.
As creators, we can have a responsibility with how we deal our message.
If we feel someone is making bad content or can do better, we shouldn't hold our tongues.
If we can turn it into a good video, then hell, we should go for it.
I don't know why we wouldn't, and equally, there will always be people who take up a
cause with the sole purpose of hating.
What we need to make sure is that we don't rile people up unnecessarily, I don't think
any of the critics that we spoke about today did that.
Equally M.P. did actually see behind the memes channel as an actual threat to a culture
very intimate to him, of course he was going to make a video on it, he wants to see his
community thrive, behind the meme stood against that to him, and so of course it became a
discourse of what's best for a community, and that's a complex conversation, and people
misinterpret it, but it didn't make his points less valid.
Equally I find the notion of why can't we all just be positive, utterly pretentious,
and everyone knows I've never liked it, criticism isn't always meant to be positive,
imagine that being the case for movies, the transformers films entertained a lot of people,
made a lot of people happy, doesn't mean that people can't find reasonable explanations
to bash on it and deal out criticism, Ray Sremmurd, I am not a fan, but some people
really enjoy it, but it doesn't mean I shouldn't hate it, do I endorse sending hate messages
to the lads?
No, not at all, they're making music, but you have to separate those two elements, or
else it just seems like you're using suicide to get back at your critic, which is never
a good look.
Positivity can be a dangerous fail for very sketchy behaviour, and if you don't go after
someone simply because they seem nice on the surface, you may be looking over some very
seedy business, which there have been many examples of.
Criticism doesn't always make us feel good, but we're not entitled to a bubble of happiness
and smiles, and when I deal criticism, I'll do my best to be honest and fair, but at the
same time, I know someone might still be offended by it, it's down to them to harness that criticism,
and that's something Behind The Meme never did, he never changed his content for the
better, he never listened to what people were saying, and he paid the price for that in
the subsequent ratings.
I can't really feel bad for him on that behalf, at the end of the day, someone made a better
argument for why his content wasn't that good, regardless of who it pleased, or how positive
it was.
Khan was Behind The Meme mostly in the past, and I think that's sensible, it's had its
day, and as concepts, his channel was on its way out regardless, even without the hate.
I don't know if he's gonna have trouble restarting, as I feel like a lot of his critics will stick
around, but maybe we can become familiarised with a different side of a person who we've
really only gone after that one persona in the past.
I feel it's time.
Is Behind The Meme a victim?
It depends how you define victimhood, if being subject to disproportionate hate makes him
a victim, then yeah, he might well be, it seemed unnecessary, but at the same time it's
a consistent principle applied across all realms of commentary.
We've all received death threats, and looking at the actual creators who've criticised
them, they haven't been particularly harsh, and attacking them for merely having narratives
that contradict your image doesn't wash with me.
At the end of the day, they're just creators who wanted you to do your genre more justice,
and I hope that you will keep that in mind when taking your content in a future direction.
So yeah, those are my fairly extensive thoughts on Behind The Meme, interesting bloke, I would
love to hear your thoughts in the comments below, please tell me what you think.
Also I wanna give a big shoutout to the editors as always, I'm going to leave their links
in the pinned comment, go check them out, have a subscribe, they do a lot of good work
for me.
These videos would not be as top notch as they are without the help of these editors,
so definitely check them out if you can.
If you wanna reach me on Twitter, at TheRightOpinion, Facebook, I'll leave my links there, in the
pinned comment too, Discord, also in the pinned comment, everything's in the pinned comment.
I wanna give everyone some love.
Anyhow, I don't think I really have too much else to add, I don't know exactly when this
is gonna be out, but I hope it's out in time to at least maintain some of your interest.
Anyhow, we'll just have to find that out.
Until then, I'm TheRightOpinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
