Hey guys, Dev here, and I've got something special for you today.
What this is, is an hour and 40 minutes of an internal Antifa meeting.
Apparently someone from the Politically Incorrect board over at 8chan managed to sneak in and
record this.
And just to make sure that it doesn't get wiped off the face of the internet, I'm uploading
it to my channel along with relevant timestamps to interesting bits.
In my opinion, the best bit is around an hour and 10 minutes in, where they basically admit
that they're out there to incite violence.
This might be what we need to get a legal conviction or something along those lines
against the people behind groups like Antifa and BAM.
Alright guys, happy listening.
I love you.
I remember cutting these off so well.
Happy listening.
Happy listening.
Hey, how are you guys doing?
Nice to meet you.
How did you guys hear about this?
There was a sign outside of work.
Oh, shit.
Where was, uh...
Nordea.
Oh, a little bit Nordea.
Yeah, it was scary stuff.
You saw that.
I had no idea, to be honest.
I came to Peterborough like a year ago.
I was in Kitchener, Waterloo before that.
Scary stuff.
Yeah.
This is... Kevin's been around for a long time.
Uh, at least a few years.
I guess he started noticing him maybe like three years ago.
I think he started to do events maybe just in the last year?
Yeah.
As far as I can tell.
I've seen like other people.
There's like maybe a couple of neo-Nazi looking types that I've seen like maybe once or twice.
They like come and go, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've seen similar downtown.
You walk in the street, they'll talk about that.
Yeah, I guess the trouble is you don't really know.
Unless you see up close and like some of their representatives
start to like know for sure what they're concerned with.
Yeah.
Yeah, because I mean you do get like kind of able to go like
rush people or something around.
You don't want to yell at somebody and be like,
oh shit, they're a comrade.
They're actually anti-racist too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How about you folks, like was this a big thing where you were previously kind of thing?
I don't really know that much about it, to be honest with you.
I just saw it and I saw the ad out there.
I looked up the page and I thought, yeah, I should probably learn some more about that.
Sure.
I'm saying the same for yourself.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You've been in Peterborough for a while?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Is this pretty new to Peterborough?
No, no.
I've been to Buckhorn and stuff.
Oh.
And I'm from the area, right?
Yeah.
So I was in Peterborough for work, so.
Oh, okay.
We're roommates.
Anywhere we go, we're going to have both of you.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're going to have to figure out what needs to happen here.
I'm hoping, as I know Mikey, who was at the meeting, one of those said he was coming tonight
to talk to a fellow named Seth.
He said he'd be coming tonight.
We'll see if there's more people coming.
Oh, awesome.
Excellent.
Hello?
Mikey?
Yeah?
Mikey?
Yeah?
Maybe he's going to have a second baby here.
Yeah.
Yeah, like a positive ideation or whatever.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Build it and they will come.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There is a bit of water there.
I like it.
I like it.
Sort of a condition of like a cardiac?
Yeah.
It's sales, right?
So it can be pretty frustrating because of that.
It's not here nor there.
It's not awful.
Yeah.
It has to be because you're doing a lot of negativity.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, that tends to happen with a lot of people.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's always so much yelling that you can take.
Things won't fuck off and go shoot yourself.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You need development.
I'm just kidding.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've been looking around.
I've been looking around the last couple of weeks to be honest with you.
Yeah.
It's been your last five or eight?
Yeah.
How long have you been out here?
Almost a year.
Almost a year.
Probably 18 months.
Yeah.
That's two years.
Yeah.
A bit pretty hydrated over there.
Oh, yeah.
There's a lot.
There's a room.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You have a lot of summer kids and stuff like that, but there's a lot of turnover.
I mean, there's, from when I did my training class, there were only three people left.
It was like, that training class was like 30.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In case people live here, it would be like that.
Not in shock.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm actually the only one left in my training class out of 10.
Yeah.
Pretty much here.
Yeah.
So.
Gotta do it.
Awesome.
Can I just throw a little repeating on them?
Okay.
I might watch the last minute.
In here?
Let's go.
Spits up one second.
Okay.
Okay, if you want to grab a glass of water, there's some water there for me and then you can go once.
That's washing back that way, right?
Sort of?
Yeah, sort of.
Alright, well, we need to get back at seven now, so we might as well get started and, you know, see what comes of it.
People trickle in, trickle in.
Well, we'll wait for Mike to get back.
Yeah, that's right.
We'll go to the washroom and then start talking.
It's not very calm right at the office.
Alright.
I know. Like, was that?
Yeah, I didn't know.
I kind of felt like they had that under control.
It looks a little weird.
I know they wanted to do it.
Yeah.
I don't know. Did anyone else do another one?
I think you did.
Yeah, there's definitely two different strategies in terms of approach.
Okay.
So, it's not the happiness Monday evening?
Well, not quite as much, maybe.
They're talking about, I think that we talked them into not coming up, but they were talking about not doing anything Saturday and having a Sunday day of celebration of the revolution and something to show the Nazis they were wrong.
Awesome. That's kind of quite a word.
Alright.
So, I guess, yeah, on that point, Kevin Goudreau announced his rally, I think, on the 7th or 8th.
In the 11 days since then, there's been a bunch of different kinds of organizing happening.
Maybe just in terms of what we know about Kevin, just go around the table and kind of get that on the table.
I know he's the leader of the Canadian Nationalist Front.
Near as I can tell, the Canadian Nationalist Front doesn't consist of a huge amount of people other than Kevin Goudreau and some friends, it would seem.
But he does have support of some, but not all, of the white nationalists across the country.
He's alienated from Storm Alliance, which is a fairly large new group that broke away from the soldiers' vote, which in turn, they started from a Finnish group that is hardcore neo-Nazi fascist types.
Killed someone last year.
Yeah, killed someone last year.
So, Storm Alliance is disavowing Kevin Goudreau publicly.
Colin O'Leary, who is their main spokesman, said that.
That seems to be more along the lines that Storm Alliance is just a lot better at imaging than Kevin Goudreau is.
They're very good at putting the message forward that we're not against, we're not racist, we're just in favor of a white Canada.
So, they've done a lot better job of trying to do these kinds of actions, like they do things like work in soup kitchens or do free needle pickups to try and cover their image.
But when you look at what they're doing, they're also doing street patrols, which is what happened in Finland, where they're going along and then if they find someone they don't like because they're homeless, whatever, they beat them up.
And that started to happen in some places across the country, particularly in Quebec, where they're a lot stronger. The movement there in general is a lot stronger.
Is there anyone else in terms of what you know about Kevin? People have stuff they want to bring forward?
I just want to add, I don't know if it is public to everybody yet, but is there a location for the square?
It might be an aspirational move on Kevin's part, where he's kind of doing a power plan saying, look, we have this massive venue, now everyone's going to show up, but I don't actually know if that means we can expect 100, 200 people.
Trying to seem more official. What I saw, he said, I've got permit in hand, so it seems he's really trying to legitimize himself in a way that he wasn't before, but it would be nice to not let him have that platform to spew his shit.
Anything else you want to bring forward?
It's interesting, I think that a lot of these folks, how we approach these things is that it's very, you're talking about soup kitchens, so you don't pick up. It's kind of like how these folks start doing things, and we're kind of seeing that in Peterborough, in the Boudreau, kind of marketing this as an anti-immigration, anti-Trudeau rally.
It wasn't a good tattoo on his chest, so it's a really fun thing to look at.
You've probably had more experience with Kevin than anyone else. What's your read on him?
Well, I get the impression he's volatile, because he may be more likely when he's drunk, because he attacked a friend at the spill. He was working there, he kicked him out.
I've had a direct conversation with him. This is another night, he had the same product, he was there, and I had a direct conversation with him. I was asking him to renounce his beliefs and this kind of thing.
It was kind of a long conversation, he kept trying to divert the conversation from that, trying to relate to me with things that we might have in common, like punk music or white music.
I kept bringing it back to the subject, and then eventually I gave him the question again, and he said that he wouldn't, and if he posed the same question to me, how would I respond to that?
I was like, okay well, you're going to have to go, if you don't, I'm going to have to see your beliefs.
So that means, he was like, can't I just finish my beer? I'm like, no, I'm okay. So in that instance, he didn't fight back, but I also invoked the crowd that was there, because people would be outside with me.
Yeah man, I think that's cut a little bit. For sure. Yeah, so we were just talking about Kevin, what do we know about him? Kevin Monroe is the one that called the rally, I'm sure everyone's aware at this point.
And just kind of going over what we know about him, so we were just saying, can we volatile, but also not necessarily volatile.
He's been in Peterborough for three-ish years maybe, but only really actively organizing in the last year, and his group is the Canadian Nationalist Front, and then we were also saying that there's a time and place now for the meeting, or for his rally.
Yeah, so starting at two is what I've heard, and going until 4.30, so that kind of brings us to the next question I guess, which is, what are we going to do about it?
There's a lot of different kind of talk that's happened. I guess the other question, going around the table, how many people have been involved in at least one other meeting up until this point about this?
So just kind of getting people caught up, because I know a couple of us have been at a bunch of these meetings, but other people are just building into this. So Mikey, you've been at a bunch of the meetings.
Do you want to go around please?
Maybe it's your experience with activism.
So people just want to go around, name, pronouns, and any other stuff involved from this organizing.
Thank you, sir.
I'm Mikey. I go by he pronouns. I was trying to organize about the first page that I know of about the rally. Unfortunately, the difference of that approach and everything, but I happened to a few of the events.
I was there for the meeting before last, like the big one was trying to unite all of these groups, where there was a lot of talk of people wanting to do an event on Saturday.
But in that specific group, there was a lot of energy towards not addressing them or acknowledging them in order to not give them the show time.
And also a lot of talk about doing something on Sunday to celebrate the community diversity, but there's a lot of energy going on for those things.
There's also people that go to the chocolate night or something on Friday. I was thinking maybe we could talk about if they insist on continuing to do that, we could talk about a security kind of force for them.
Maybe team up with a couple of them because they would be targeted by Kevin in this group for sure.
Hello, my name is Kevin. I go by he pronouns. I have been doing anti-fascist work for a couple of years. I've been doing security work for a little bit of time now, I guess.
I haven't gone to many of the meetings for the last little while, but I do that going forward. I've been very busy with school, so that would be good.
Anything else? Yeah, let's go see if we'll have one.
Hi, I'm Stu. He pronouns. I've gone to a couple of meetings that have been called since the rally called by Kevin to meetings about trying to combat that rally.
I've been involved with a bit of this kind of stuff in the distant history for me. I guess in the early 90s or mid-90s in Sarnia.
There are some things that I know from that time, but it's in a different time now in terms of digital, the way that social media has changed everything.
Also, the fact that street thug is always discredited, so Nazis are trying to look different and conceal what they're doing.
I've been to one meeting. I saw a couple of the people there. Like we were saying, it seems like there's been a lot of energy, excitement.
But at the same time, I think people are underestimating and also perhaps I think because of the political opinions, underestimating just how dangerous and persistent fascists and Nazis can be.
There's a lot of this like, well, if we just love them enough, they're going to stop being Nazis. There are people out there, if we get to them early enough and if we convince them politically because they don't hold a lot of strong political beliefs.
If we hit people on the ground first thing and say, hey Nazis are going to say black people, indigenous people, women, trans people are your enemy. That's bullshit. Your boss is your enemy.
If you hit that first thing, maybe there's something you can convince, but you get to people like Kevin and they already kind of know what they think and it can be dangerous to just kind of let them say whatever they want for the sake of allowing free speech.
I've been to two meetings for this already and I have something to do with the fact that there's been a lot of, it's concerning that a lot of people don't want to do anything on the actual day of this event and people are really afraid of actually applying to the 94 platform and I think that's the biggest thing that we should be focusing on is the fact that it's, you're not going to stop these people from having these opinions.
The most important thing you do is stop them from spreading out as if there's more people.
My name is Steve. I've been to one meeting as well. I agree with everyone else that has spoken, but methods suggested by other groups will likely prove ineffective and potentially probable in the long run and it's important to do more direct actions.
I'm RJ. He, him pronouns. I didn't know this much was going on. I saw the sign out there and I just want to know if I can do more about that, to be honest.
My name is Christopher. I'm calling in from Washington. I'm calling in for dinner, basically. I don't care. I'm just getting some information. I'm trying to figure out what's going on.
Sure. Then I'm going to be doing a video about some of the things that you can do.
I know that I should learn. When I was younger, I started to realize that I was really into the racist hand names. I've gotten a lot of them for the past few years, just because I didn't know what was going on.
But, yeah, I just started hearing about all of this going on. I'm on social media very much, but I didn't see any of the signs and I feel like, you know what, it's getting to me.
I'm Crystal. I'll take just about any pronouns that are typically a share. I haven't actually gone to any meetings or anything, but I tend to be fairly active when I'm online.
Sharing these kind of meetings and social anxiety mostly has got me into it so far, but it's kind of time to stand up for a show.
Fair enough. Right now it looks like there is going to be something else going on on the day of possibly, but not in terms of actively confronting Kevin and trying to keep him from spreading his message.
Our kind of hope was that this could be a good way to start, but the other thing that we were kind of hoping to do or I was hoping to do by initiating past is the problem that this stuff will keep happening.
And although we could shut it down each time it does happen, the fact that we can only get 10 people out to a meeting kind of thing is a sign that the movement as a whole isn't particularly strong right now.
And if we're going to have the capacity to keep doing this kind of work, we're going to need to grow it.
So I guess in terms of what that kind of means, my thought of how to go forward would be that it's really important to go and try and get as big of a group of people as we can and shut Kevin down.
But it's also important to educate all the people walking by what exactly is going on and make sure that our political message that's getting out there.
So with that in mind, for the 30th, I guess my suggestion would be we should call some sort of public rally to try and get as many people as possible to show up.
Because we don't know exactly how many people are going to bring, probably won't be more than 20, but that still means we're going to need more than 10 people to actively shut them down and stop them from getting a victory, a propaganda victory kind of thing.
And of those people, my suggestion would be some would be involved in directly hunting this.
I don't know whether we want to directly confront him or whether we feel that's in our capacity because that has a whole separate set of risks and concerns and if people are going to do that, they need to know what they're doing.
But we can certainly make sure that he doesn't go unopposed and make sure that he isn't able to just kind of parade over wherever he wants and call it this great big victory for himself and look how much everyone here rallies behind me.
And then to that end, I think part of it would also be good is if we could get some form of propagandizing the people who are going by and make sure that every person that goes by that rally gets our message.
And here it's like, hey, here's who showed up, here's what his politics are, here's what our politics are, here's what his ideas aren't acceptable, if you agree, here's something you know you could do.
What are your politics?
Yeah, so that's the next step. It's the question of what are the politics in the room. So, the path.
There hasn't been a path meeting yet, so we can draft a mandate and put those politics forward. I would suggest that the politics should be anti-fascist, anti-racist, anti-transphobia, and then also anti-capitalist.
Because if we look at it, it seems to me that a lot of the violence and the nastiness that comes from these fascists stems from basically people being frustrated with the system.
And so part of stopping fires that we have to put out is also thinking about the system and how that creates it. But we should go around the table for that.
Carole, do you want to start?
Sure.
I'm just trying to not always keep saying that.
I mean, in general, I would say the whole anti-hate of all kinds, like specifying this kind of hate, that kind of hate, that kind of hate, it just separates groups.
So, stating that we are anti-all hate, like any kind of hate against any kind of group, would be my first thought.
Because fascists don't differentiate who they're going to hate. They don't care if you're black or gay or trans or disabled. It doesn't matter.
I mean, they don't care what you are. I mean, you can be white, but you have Jewish heritage or a Jewish-sounding name and you're not as a Jewish.
We should have more of those.
Exactly.
But anti-hate belongs to us.
And then yeah, just like we're saying, basically stating that we're not the ones causing the problems that the people that they're rallying against are not the people causing the problems that they're united against.
But what about the problems they have? They're not caused by these people.
People who are opposed to immigration who say, oh, well, immigration people take our jobs.
So your problem isn't immigrants. Your problem is jobs.
If you think that all Mexicans are rapists and all black people are drug dealers, then your problem isn't people of different color. Your problem is crime.
Anyone else want to go for it?
Yeah, just for inclusion and for a more equal distribution of resources and resources.
I would be more inclined to agree with Ken, I think, as far as his community. I like the idea of anti-hate, but I think it's pretty justifiable to hate Nazis.
I don't think being against hate of all people is necessarily, I don't know if I'm wording that right, but.
What does it look like?
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I don't think it's a bad thing to hate Nazis.
I think the biggest problem with trying to, like, organize people around the point of view of the media is that it's such an endless concept that it's hard to actually have a concrete understanding of what that means as far as mandates of organizing.
And that's why we thought it would actually go in and do peace analysis and say, like, we're actually against these specific things and these parts of society.
And it's nice to just be like, well, we're against the people that are being asked to do this to you.
But that's not good enough because it doesn't let us continue to organize anything beyond them.
If your structuring organization is in good response to these other political ideologies, there's no actual unity within what you're doing as an organization.
You're just simply being against the group that you perceive as being happy, wrong opinions.
And so there's no actual unity within an organization that does that.
But we started listening. It's often new to start saying, well, we're not just saying, you know, against, you know, racism and against, you know, transphobia.
Then we also have to say homophobia and religious intolerance and xenophobia.
And then we started listening often and asking, you know, we can say we're against all these things.
But the overall, like, it's kind of like a pride, right? Pride isn't about, like, just gay, just bi, just, you know, you don't just have a lesbian brain, just bi brain, just, you know, it's everybody.
It's a rainbow. It's everybody of all colors, of all religions. It's the whole idea of pride for everyone, pride in yourself.
You know, it's not even excluding straight people. It's like, hey, come be out. It's everybody. Be proud to be part of the group together.
So you can, you can be listed off individual things while also stating our overall day, like, literally an anti-hate rally.
Because there's, one thing that most people get behind is, I don't want to be a hater. Nobody wants to be a ridiculous.
You can have different kinds of negative views, but somebody can be racist and be like, oh, but I'm not sexist.
You know, somebody can be sexist, but whoa, whoa, whoa, I'm a homophobic.
And, like, if you're not saying you're against all things, then you're basically saying, well, then some kind of things are okay.
You know, those people are not our problem. And that's been a problem in a lot of the civil rights kind of fights over the years.
Like, you know, the feminist movement was coming along. They were saying, oh, black women are the bad guys. We don't want to make it about black people.
And when there was, like, black rights movement was there a limit of that, but we want to make it about color, not just about gender.
You know, with the gay rights thing, you know, a lot of times trans people are being put to death because, whoa, whoa, gay rights starts when you can bring back everyone else.
Right. So once you start putting one thing forward, you're putting another people behind you.
So I guess, like, I agree with the strategy of trying to, like, point people or, like, give people counter narratives or, like, things that would undermine the foundation of, like, for example, like,
of, like, for example, the cabinet's politics taking root and the people that are, like, passing by or whatever.
I also think that it's important to be, like, that it doesn't have to be, like, explicit or that it could be subtle as opposed to, like,
like, having to tell people they should hate their boss instead of hating, like, people of color or immigrants or whatever.
Because, like, people, I don't think people are, like, incapable of forming their own, their own conclusion.
It's just that they have, like, they don't have enough information. They also have other people telling them what to believe as well.
And so, like, I think if we're talking about, like, producing information to distribute on this thing, then, yeah, I guess I think that the most effective information would be stuff that engages with the political ideas that he's putting forward for this rally.
And it's, like, seemingly simple as they might seem to us, but basically decimating them in a way that's, like, clear language.
And I guess something that's, yeah, that messes up the foundation or, like, the ground that he can plant those seeds of his own ideology in,
which is also, I think it's, like, would require, like, a systemic analysis as well, but I don't think, like, it's a fine line between, like, giving people too much, like, I guess we do have an ideology or whatever, which, like, if we, yeah, once we get into, like, ideological stuff,
we're probably going to find that, like, not everyone in the room are on the same page, and for the sake of, like, being able to proceed to organize this, like, counter event, it's, we may not want to get, like, bogged down in that kind of thing.
I think, like, I don't disagree with not hating everybody, and I also agree with the idea of, like, showing people where they're, like, giving people an alternate narrative or politics,
but I also think, like, pending, like, more time to develop a shared mandate or whatever, like, it's possible, like, it might not be possible for us to have, like, a shared mandate in a certain way, but I guess the best way to do that would be, like,
one that's, like, a really low common denominator between all of us, and that, I'm not sure if that's what we want to do for, like, long term moving forward, but at least for the sake of this, like, event, like, trying to, yeah, come up with a shared strategy,
and you are, like, jobs to do at it, and then, um, yeah, and then trying to, like, destroy the politics of, of Kevin's route, and that's improved.
So, like, yeah, like, okay, so in terms of what you're saying, so, like, I hear what you said, like, you know, we had something about propaganda as a thing of doing, which I guess, so it's like, like, each individual person can have a couple of talking points, right?
Like, like a basic argument of integration, and they say integration is bad because whatever, independence is bad because whatever, however, there are three basic points, you know, to capture that, and, you know, like, for each argument, there are a number of things they're saying in the rally, and we could have just, like, a couple of fucking points, and this is why that's not accurate, this is why that's not accurate.
Yeah, exactly, so it's, like, you don't have to make the whole rally a whole thing, you know, to put it all on the fender, but you can have individual people basically saying, like, you know, what are your concerns, you know, integration, okay, let's talk about integration, like, you know, what are your concerns, okay, racism, here's, here's what they're saying about it, and here's what's actually true.
So it doesn't have to be, like, a big essay, it doesn't have to be a big thing, but we could make just, like, a couple of bullet points for each major argument.
Yeah, sure, so yeah, I actually, I think there's a lot of value being said on both sides of the table here, I think that there's some genuine concerns about a lack of intersectionality, a lack of folks being able to show popular solidarity between the press groups.
I think that's something that we definitely need to put on the table, right, because we gotta, when we're thinking about, you know, how do we combat fascism, how do we also make sure that if the groups that are, you know, going to be attacked first are the ones who are given the political power within the movement, right?
And so I think that the answer to the question that we talked about, oh, should we say hate, or should we say, or should we, you know, take apart what precisely we're talking about, I think there's value in actually doing that, in a particular part, because we can say to people, you know, someone who's an immigrant, and say, like, yeah, like xenophobia is what's affecting you, and on an individual level, we can be like, alright, let's, what can we do about that, right?
Where if we say, just hate, sometimes it, like with the crime by far, I want to say, kind of gets lost in sort of the ether, where it's like, oh, we're against hate, but to someone who's an immigrant, they might not be able to interpret that as something that is xenophobia specifically, or something that is specifically sexism or racism or transphobia.
So I think there's some value in sort of going out there, and then targeting specific groups to be like, hey, what can we do for you, and what can we not do in both?
I think that is something, kind of what you're talking about.
Absolutely, yeah. I think that's the approach we take, is if we want to organize the most, the people who are the fascists are going to come for it, we should go there to those people, and the people have to deal with it, because they, you know, they feel like shit every day, so they know what's happening.
Okay. I think Ken has a lot to say about being upfront about the politics, and mine is that I'm either in common with left, and or just whatever you want to describe it as, and in that moment, that he definitely came across a lot of an issue that I think that we'll run into, if we're trying to touch populist progressions in the chip room, where the things like racism, to some extent sexism, things like this, there's been a lot of progress.
There's been a lot of progress on the populist section, but the people who are most vulnerable to movements like Ken's, like transphobia and ableism, those are issues that still run to the core of a lot of common people who identify as progressive, but haven't been forced to address that.
So I believe, like as you were saying, that we should just say, and I hate, but then on individual talking, you have to really address and empower those groups, because they are the ones that Ken will attack, and so forth.
But, again, definitely managed to be representative, and more of that discussion about how people who will be walking by and focused on things like, hey, like what you guys are doing, those are the people who might act accidentally, or might just act still intrinsically to themselves if they haven't questioned yet, notions of transphobia, ableism, and so on.
Yeah, and honestly, I think that should be one of the talking points, but I know a lot of people who don't think that racism is here, because they don't experience racism in the world.
People who say, oh, I'm so progressive.
It's taken some of my friends being with me in a room and seeing something happen before they were like, wow, does that happen all the time?
It's just a little thing, but it's just one of those little things that happens all the time, and things get worse.
When I first moved to Peterborough, I literally had people help me go back to Africa, go back to Jamaica.
Now I have people helping me go back to India, go back to Pakistan, go back to Iran.
They don't even know what I am. They're just like, you're some kind of brown, whatever, get it?
I'm like, I've lived in Peterborough for 20 years.
I've got people who moved here last year being like, you don't belong here.
I'm like, how can you go in here?
Again, she's seen a lot of it herself, and she's had to literally wait until I left the room to then talk to other people.
These people are just acquaintances. I mean, don't freak you guys.
This is not just a one-to-one situation. This is a serious thing. Stop.
You know, I've had to explain a lot to these people because they didn't understand that I was racist at this.
Yes, and let me explain why.
Let me explain that I don't think you were racist, but I understand that you have views that you just didn't know any better.
Let me explain better.
I understand that, wow, I didn't mean to, but it's been a while, you know.
But it's still dependent, and I've noticed that the bottom of the connection is that we don't need to get out and rally,
because whatever, the rally was only two people, it wasn't even a big deal.
Just because there was, you know, a rally, it wasn't even a fever.
It was racist fever, it was fun, it was not fever at 12 o'clock.
Yeah, but you don't, basically. You're not willing to stand up against it.
How much do you think the rest of the city is?
Like, if you don't think it's that big a deal, then it's definitely not a big deal.
But the fact is, it's definitely a big deal.
So, you know, if you're not standing up against it, you're basically telling them that, you know,
that you're not standing up against them.
What they're saying is, you might not be doing the rally with them, but you think, you know,
these guys know what you're talking about.
And every time there's a rally in a Jewish city, anywhere else in the world,
the same response is going to happen.
Anytime they get told, you know, oh, whatever, the police are going to protect them,
they have to write a free speech, hate speech, whatever, it doesn't matter.
Every time, two days later, it shows up on your website, so, you know, frankly, websites.
See, this place, you know, supports us, yadda yadda yadda.
Even last year, where Kevin actually literally got shared with them,
there was still them talking about, yeah, talking about like, oh, you know, I had a really good response,
and how well received he was, kind of like.
So that's, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, that's a scary thing.
I mean, I've been in Peterborough for like just over a year now,
and I haven't even heard of that guy, to be honest.
Up until, like, I saw that poster, I saw it work.
Has somebody been, I haven't seen any posters yet.
Is he living around town a lot?
No, I saw the ad for tonight, but I've never even heard Kevin before.
I saw that ad, to be honest with you, and I've been in Peterborough for over a year.
Where did you see the ad?
On the outside, or where did it go?
No, it was at this meeting, sorry.
Yeah, he hasn't put up any posters.
I've seen any of these.
Sorry?
Yeah, yeah.
So, like Stu was saying, he now probably just gets something figured out for the 30th kind of thing.
So, in terms of what can they agree on, the things that everyone's seen, or what I'm hearing everyone's on the page with,
is that we need to create some kind of propaganda to, I've heard the term inoculate news, basically give a counter message,
and then the other portion of it has to be we need to stop him from getting any press kind of thing.
We need to make it so that if you look in on the street, you're not going to say,
oh, there's a bunch of neo-Nazis rallying, you're going to say, huh, not really sure what's going on in there,
but I'm not seeing any neo-Nazis probably marching back and forth.
So, that seems to me to be the two kind of things that need to happen.
The other thing we should plan for is it has happened in the past in other cities where they'll call the rally,
and then they don't show up because they're worried about too much of a counter-demonstration showing up.
I mean, that's a great victory for us if it does happen, but we should also have a plan for if that does happen,
so we don't all get there and go, oh, okay, well, what are we going to do now kind of thing.
Like the same thing.
Still tell people.
You might have been hearing these things on the news or on the internet. Don't listen.
So, what do we want to do in terms of the actual logistics of that day?
What time are we going to show up?
Yeah, time and place and all that stuff.
I mean, ideally, we'd want to probably meet up before this group gets there.
So, we'd be happy to have around 1.30, 1.45-ish.
I think it would be a unique place to meet at the, just around the corner of City Hall and the block.
It's called the Federation Park.
I'm thinking maybe we want to meet at the other park, both behind the government buildings.
That one, maybe we'll meet there. I think it's right there.
Okay, try that part.
Now, just so you guys know, in terms of community relations, we're also organizing a cultural protest with the community organizations.
So, just so you know, he definitely has a block for the Federation Park.
And he's booked it from 11, 4.30.
That's important to the city.
So, whether or not he's going to be there that fast the whole time, depends on the date of the time.
I saw a post on, like, right with the website that said 2.05.
They booked it only from, like, when I just came through that.
So, if he's at 4.30, if he doesn't have to be there from 11, he can go to 4.30.
He could have had that time, too, as, like, a buffer where he can call and say, somebody's on this region, or this area that I have booked, go escort them all.
And then come to another one.
It might be good if you have somebody there from 11 till 4, and we just hang out in the park, and then it'd be like a single man kind of thing.
I'd be scared of that.
Yeah, yeah, essentially.
I think that's maybe the only way we can...
That was an area, so it's actually funny.
Does anybody have a background in graphic design or anything like that, though, for making the posters, banners, etc., that we want to put around town, as well as the templates that we might be able to include?
I can take that off.
With the content of the pamphlet, I imagine that folks have some things to say.
So, maybe if folks wanted to message what they wanted to say to the computer or the page, I can plug it into the pamphlets.
It might actually be a better idea if we wanted to get together for another meeting.
Just the people, maybe, that want to work on the pamphlet, specifically.
That way we're at the same room, it's a little bit easier to coordinate and edit.
That'd be good though.
So, you definitely will see the posters made online.
So, just so you know, we've been working on press meetings for the last two or three days.
And our press meeting is going to be done by tomorrow, on Friday, to have people sign.
So, I'm sure that we'll get a copy of it.
And we're definitely also doing a banner.
That would have messaging, anyone's friends who love this here.
And we'll also make sure we know that this door is open.
So, what are you guys talking about?
Just like what you're saying, we're going to have someone there watching you.
There we go.
Because if you don't know, you may not show up, like he said.
And, or, you may not show up.
So, we're going to have someone there for you, you know, before you vanish the whole time, then before 30.
And, we're going to be across the street.
We booked that thing through our United Church.
So, we're going to be, we're going to have three people there.
If there are banners, we're going to have like, we're going to be as loud as possible.
We're going to have music, we're going to just have the whole program speeches.
And then we will have a banner that will go through on the sidewalk.
A large, very, it's simple to say, love this here, end white supremacy.
And it's going to be very large.
So, per the day of the, so on the 30th?
Yes, yeah, the day of, and also to the next day.
We booked Confederation Park.
And the reason I know that he booked it from 11.30 to 4.30, because I went to the city to find out what time.
And they said, they said we didn't have anything.
So, then I went back the same day, and because he said, okay, we'll book this space so that they can get it.
I went back the same day to a different person.
And she said, oh, they booked it from last week.
And I said, oh, well, they just booked me this morning, it wasn't booked.
And she said, oh, I don't know why she didn't tell you that, because it's clearly written right here that they have that space.
Does it just say specifically who booked it?
And it has some anti-immigration, anti-crucial approach.
That's what she asked.
That's what we titled it.
But that's not true.
And also, I think we know that this is not the only line.
That there's a few.
Yeah, so Storm Alliance called it originally, and there's a letter going on across the country.
Yeah.
So, Storm Alliance is a lot better organized than Kevin, and a lot more dangerous, just because they're organized.
But yes, yeah.
There was originally one happening in Toronto on Hamilton, both of those were canceled.
But Niagara, Peterborough, and Ottawa are still going on.
And I'm worried that folks are having a little trouble reading the book.
Yeah.
Okay.
Go ahead.
So, from your own personal networks, do you have an impression that there's more than just what's here tonight that is interested to go and be present, counteract the racist rally?
I'm confident that, like both organization and personally, there's probably another 15, 20 people that I know that should be out there.
I'm also expecting at least 5 to 10 more members.
I said I'm here for them more.
Yeah.
How about yourself?
I'm not sure.
I'm not hearing back from people.
So, I'm not hearing people talking about it, but I don't hear.
People talking about it.
Yeah, yeah.
People are looking at time for themselves.
Maybe now that there's a definite time, maybe we'll need something we don't care about.
Yeah.
Yeah, I guess that impacts what kind of strategy you normally use.
Yeah.
It's definitely like, you don't want to lose the confrontation with them because it's bad for your health, but also for propaganda purposes, it's not good to get.
An organization would do it.
Yeah, it's not good to get by the Nazis.
The Nazis are the police that in turn are going to ask to be on the area and they won't have a place to play.
Yeah.
So, with that in mind, is it possible that there's a necessity to just let people know that this is happening ahead of time?
In which case, should we be handling down counts like, hey, there's a rally happening at this time, one week from now, five days from now.
If you don't agree with this, you should be out there to help drown them out and shut them down.
In other words.
Yeah, well, yeah, also let people know what's happening.
So, just as far as timeline is concerned, so it's going to be on Friday we're going to have this, the press release is quite intense, but whatever.
We're going to be sending it out to different organizations, have signatures, we'll send it out to your group, as many people as possible.
So, Monday it gets top like PR, so we're asking that one year we're going to be saying yes, we're going to have a rally, our rally.
So, that's our timeline.
And then on Wednesday we're going to have a press conference.
And we'll let as many people come up to that as well.
Because the press has been asking us and we've been amongst the word until we're straight in our minds all the more.
So, Friday is a press release, Monday is a release too.
Wednesday is a press conference next week.
And Saturday is going to be a auction and somebody is going to let down their hair braid.
Well, we should decide as an organization whether we want to follow the same timeline or not.
I think there's a certain juxtaposition in terms of both strategy and kind of a larger view on how fascism needs to be combated going on.
And for that reason I think, I'm not sure, although we're working on the same cause, we're completely locked in step on everything.
But it's the group's decision and I'm just a single member of the group.
I would suggest the most effective way to get the biggest number of people out, to drown Kevin out, is as soon as possible.
Let people know about it, start pamphletting, start letting people know.
We need to figure out where the best spots to hand out the pamphlets are and definitely get them out, definitely get them out.
And then the only thing I can really think of on the day of handing out pamphlets, we do have to watch out to be individual at it.
Because then, these guys are really violent, right?
You go out there individually, right?
Do you want to make sure?
What kind of numbers are expected for Saturday?
Well, we have different groups. We have Quick, we have Peace Council of Europe, we have the Peace Name Centre, we have Food Not Long.
We have faith groups there as well.
We're hoping that we get down to people.
We already have Teddy, we have these bookings, but it's private as well.
And private, even we invited only two hundred and a half of them said yes, they're going to come. That's only at two hundred.
The last one I did, last month, we had three hundred and that was just two degrees.
So, we're hoping to get a good response for sure. Yeah, definitely.
And that's for the Saturday one as well as the Sunday one?
We're aiming more for the Saturday.
Because we want to know that, for example, people coming, like our immigrant people, especially people of colour,
if they're there protesting, you know, down with black people and no one's doing anything, then people are not going to feel safe.
So, we want to say that, you know, these are the minority and hopefully with all this happening, maybe they will show up.
But I suspect that they're going to. That's my gut feeling.
Are there indicators that people from other parts of Ontario will come here or Ottawa?
Ottawa has something going on. Niagara has something going on.
Windsor has something going on.
London, I think there might be something going on.
But Toronto, there's nothing going on. Hamilton has nothing going on. They're the two really big centres.
And there's like, there's the JNO in Toronto. There's soldiers going to Toronto. There's Storm Alliance.
There's a bunch of our groups, so there is a possibility that those folks will show up.
Plus, just Kevin's own connections from Boy Power.
Yeah, and from my perspective.
So, basically, even if you don't follow the exact timeline and, well, hand-putting or just, you know, putting up posters, even if it just was saying, hey, like, come out and protest against fascism on this day.
Like, it doesn't necessarily have to be the timeline. We don't have to say the guy's name or what the protest is or where he is. We don't want to advertise for him.
But telling people, like, if you were going to take Peterborough, if you, you know, you don't want this kind of thing in Peterborough, then come out on this day, you know, around this time.
Like, it doesn't necessarily have to be for, say, like, for this rally, for that one, just to show up.
And your venue is across the road.
So we could even, even if we choose to do a different timeline, perhaps say to them that is the venue of the counter-protest, just for the sake of legitimacy kind of thing and also not promoting where his rally is going to be.
So that thing that this is where the counter-protest is, this is where they will want to be to do the direct action.
The only concern I would have is it sounds like there's two very different strategies. Like, if one strategy is to confront him more, the other strategy is not to.
You don't want people confused on which one they're shown up to. If someone thinks they're shown up to a peace rally against a way kind of thing, that's very different than if someone's shown up to a rally that is, you know, going to...
A peace rally versus a counter-protest.
They're different things, and you don't want people showing up for one, think they're showing up for the other, like that's just...
But even raising awareness in the first place, like a random person on the street probably doesn't know there's going to be a rally.
Oh yeah, I'm not suggesting that. I just think it might be, it could actually confuse and muddle things. If you say, hey, show up here, and then people are like, well, I showed up for this, or people show up and, okay, these people are going, oh, I'm going to follow them, oh, no, that's not where I want to be, I want to be over here, kind of thing.
So are we going to...
So we could give the information that multiple groups are planning to, you know, account for this with, you know, an anti-hate rally, or, you know, a peace rally here, or a counter-protest there, to say that there are various groups coming together.
You know, you don't want to say this one group without one group, but this group's doing this, this group's doing that.
But at least it gets people looking up information on their own, and they can find that online, or check out each individual group.
So where are we going to put on our posters? Are we saying that our venue is Confederate Square, and saying, come to bear where we'll be counter-protesting, or are we going to stay in that venue?
I would say across the street, so you're not, you're not people showing up and, like, showing up on the precious doorstep.
Like, you know, you don't want people showing up and being at risk until you've got enough numbers that everyone is safe that shows up.
Henry, we, I assume, aren't going to get a permit for that or anything?
We're not going to get a permit for this animal.
So, across the street is going to be better.
Just on your point, yeah, we definitely are not, haven't named that person, so we are not giving, like you said, any PPR, and definitely, if you say confirmation from on your posters, the city, because we, when we were planning our rally,
Be very careful.
The city calls me because you don't have a permit, and so we had to get a permit.
We had, like, four rallies, and that was the first time the city, because you said the legal team called and said, do you know they're going to have this rally?
So we had to get a permit.
So if you put configuration permit, you're going to have a city call you and say, where's your permit?
But you could definitely be on the sidewalk.
That's, you don't need a permit for those things.
It's very hard to promote organizing just outside of that.
We don't want the president to be able to.
On the sidewalk, yeah.
I wouldn't be worried about it at all.
I think we'll, I think we'll, yeah, there'll be no problem.
All right.
So this is a.
This is a.
There's a rally.
This is a decision here that has to be made.
We should actually make a dead democratic decision on that topic.
So I guess the question is, where do we want to gather for a more confrontational rally, or do we want to do that?
And I guess just going around the table.
First, do we want to hold something that is more confrontational, that is separate for various reasons from more of a peace vigil approach to this?
I would vote in favor.
Stu?
For me, it's like somewhat conditional.
I guess like it's situational.
So.
Because it's definitely about like numbers and stuff like that.
So I'm kind of like, yeah, I defer to, I don't know if I have enough information at this point.
I support it theoretically.
If we have lots of numbers that we're interested in doing that, then I support that.
Appreciate it.
Well, to address that point, I guess, how do we deal with that question?
It seems to be we're going to need to just plant the flag, or we're not for sure not going to have the numbers kind of thing.
Right.
Should it be the case that we call it, and if we have the numbers, we go and confront.
If we don't have the numbers, we don't.
Right.
Yeah, I guess I would kind of maybe wait and see what other people feel about it, I guess, as well.
Yeah, so I would be in favor of that.
I guess maybe just to give some reason, because it does happen quite as well, just to talk about stuff.
When we think about, you know, having a peace rally, having a computational rally, I think that by the nature of sort of peace rallies,
I think that there's like a duality of tactics we can use, where like, yeah, people can be given computational, people can take the vaccine, do different things, right?
We can walk and chew gum.
At the same time, though, I almost see what's happening here is almost by having these two separate rallies, we're actually sort of doing a huge, tremendous disservice,
and tremendous service to the fascists by not confronting them.
Not only are we giving them space to be politically active, we are giving them space to propagandize, we're giving them space to consolidate, and we're giving them space to organize.
So, just to give a little bit, a really quick little historical bit here, in 1930s Germany, Nazis are on the rise.
There are several organizations, like the Waitrose Federation, as well as groups like the Roger Frankfurt Fund.
One organization chose the peaceful route. When the Nazis began to consolidate power, they were executed and thrown in jail.
The militant folks who combated the Nazis, they did that, and they were also, because of the disservice of a lot of the peaceful folks who were there, they were also killed and executed.
When we think about fascism, and how it rises, and when we look at it as an historical example, as we should, because history is a thing we should study and learn from,
we see that every single time that fascism is rode, whether it be in Italy, Spain, Germany, anywhere you go, where fascism is giving state power.
It has been because there have been large groups of people who have purposefully separated themselves from being congregational.
And, as much as I don't want to be the bearer of values, peace isn't going to do much. It's really not.
These folks are arming up. They are in bed with the palace angels. They have plans to kill and murder people.
They are not just simply having this rally to hang out with each other. They're having this rally to recruit, so they can get more people armed up and ready to kill people.
It is up to us, as organizers, and people who genuinely care about the union fascism, to be militant and to be combated.
And if we don't do either of those two things, fascism will rise, because that's what it's done in every single country, where people decided that peace would be a better opportunity than combativeness.
And what I'm seeing here is sort of very tragic, because I'm seeing a very, like, a repeat of history, where it's like, folks, we've made these mistakes so many times.
Let's not make it again. Let's get together. Let's shut them down. Don't give them the space to organize. Let's organize on the day.
Let's say Kevin Goodrich. Let's say they're Nazis. Let's say this is what they're doing. Let's tell people what they're doing, because they're telling people what they're doing, and we should be able to reveal the reality of the situation to people.
And so I would say that I think I'm very strongly in favor of a constitutional rally, because I would feel absolutely terrible if I was a part of the White Rose organization in Germany that advocated peace, or if I was a part of some organization in Spain, it would be that promoted peace and gave rise to fascism.
So, pretty strongly in favor.
As well, with my political ideology background and everything, I'm very skeptical of the police network, especially in Peterborough, of all places, and I expect that we are going to be seen and kind of structured in the response to everything as an unable force, regardless of if we do a peaceful thing or anything else.
In terms of confrontation, I think if they have high numbers, there is a risk of confrontation from them, especially with both venues, extremely close.
With that in mind, and with the skepticism about the police stepping in to be protecting the force, I am in favor of us having a separate thing where, when we say direct action, it isn't intrinsically a punch in the face, but it will possibly consider non-legal action,
like rallying with the permit and everything.
If we have the numbers marched through the streets, as we did at DACA last year, which got the masses' attention, versus if it was just a meeting in Confederate Square, then it would be activists learning about what is happening.
I think we need to be very upfront about it. I think that organizing is a violent act in itself, because they are organizing to commit violence.
In that sense, I think that we should, I agree that we need to have a separate group, or at least perhaps if it is open, an informal faction of the other group, where we will be separating off to the street.
Yeah, for sure. Also, when we are at Confederate Square and they are here, we need to be the buffer for short, 100%.
So, we are definitely here to stop the spread of this white supremacy in different ways.
Definitely, you have to be fresh in the sense that they have to know that what they are doing is totally not something that we want here in the city.
The problem with, if there is a larger group, the problem is that if we don't stop saying that we don't want them here, then people from other places can see Peterborough as things that you can just come in and be white supremacists and then leave there.
So, we definitely don't want that. But what we do want to see is something like what happened in Vancouver, where there were so many people who came together and protested the streets that it kind of drowned out the white supremacists to say that they are not welcome there.
Now, having said that, my concern is that if you are, like you said, you are going to be hunting in the face of being violent and or shouting really dehumanizing statements, you are just being like them.
And when you become, when you need to dehumanize somebody, it's easy to go places that you don't want to be.
If you are, you know, using outright, you know, a lot of techniques.
And that sometimes, or at times, if it's very militant, it can come across as being like the police and too aggressive.
And we as people of color, we want to be protected, but we don't need that aggressive type of behavior, i.e. like a militant who is protecting us.
But I feel it's important that, yes, if we are, you know, wanting to talk that there is some sort of protection, and from people, protecting people of color, to protect people of color,
to protect people of color, to protect people of color, to protect people of color, to protect people of color, to protect people of color, no matter what they say.
So, you know, and that way, definitely, but, to outright try to antagonize them, so that they're, you know, they're in their face and shouting really horrible things to them,
that I can't see will be a good thing
because to the outside world,
it will just be hate to hate.
And we don't want to hate to hate
because they'll just say you're just as bad
as those with disappearances.
So that's a problem,
but they definitely need to be comprending
the sense of control.
I think that's all right.
I'm definitely in favor.
I don't think we should be screaming obscenities
or yelling things or dehumanizing them,
but I think it's important
that we should be standing there telling them
that we don't accept white supremacy,
that we are not going to accept these types of behaviors
and that these aren't the kind of people
or the kinds of ideologies that we want here
and that they're not okay.
The hate speech is not a phrase of the future.
And that killing people for how they're born
or their faith or their nationality,
any of that is just absolute bullshit.
And I think it's important that we make that clear
within making ourselves look like a bunch of bullies.
That's not the intent,
but we can still have a confrontational,
no, you're lying, you're not telling the facts.
Immigrants are good for our economy.
They do all these things for us.
People of color are all throughout our history.
They've been here longer than many of the white people
have ever heard.
And enough is enough.
I'm definitely in favor of a confrontational
about looking to go into fights or call names,
but I do think we need to call them out on their ideology.
And if I can add onto that,
I think that's what having two groups of people
does really well in terms of having people
that are fighting people know what's happening
as you're going by,
because you are really controlling the message
because you do get that spin where it's like,
oh, someone's confronting Nazis, they're bad people.
And you can say, no, okay, here's where we disagree.
Here's where we disagree with them.
This is what we're doing.
This is what we think society needs to be like,
and we'd really like it if you could get on board.
And if the kind of things you're putting forward,
you know, anti-racism, anti-fascism, anti-Islamophobia,
anti-Semitism, those are things
that everyone can get on board with.
And if you do a good job of communicating that message,
I think you can walk in true gum.
You can make sure that the fascists aren't speaking out
and you can make sure that they're not getting energy,
they're not getting strength,
and you can quite frankly make them uncomfortable,
make them not feel welcome
while also not coming off as thugs,
not coming off as the bad guys.
Yeah, in terms of definitively capital-testing
and failing, I feel like it's extremely important
to also have a large valley of people who are just saying,
we are just here for peace, we are just here against hate,
we are just here to love, we are just here to come together
because it is important for people to be able to see that,
but there also does need to be a certain group of people
that are standing up saying,
we are not going to sit down and let us be attacked.
We're not gonna sit down and let our Eastern friends
and our families and our brothers and sisters and neighbors
be attacked because you can be at a peaceful rally
doing absolutely nothing wrong, not throwing anything,
not doing anything, not yelling anything,
that's not gonna mean they're not gonna
still ride a van into you.
You could just be minding your own business
but they will still attack you,
and when they do it, the other Nazis are gonna go,
that guy wasn't one of us, no.
It was who told you not a Nazi attack
and just a random attack that has happened to me
at a anti-Nazi rally by a guy
who may or may not have been one of us, I don't know,
but the fact is that they are disparate groups.
The thing that they have to tell them is that they all hate.
They don't all agree on the same things.
They don't all agree on their politics.
They don't all agree on who they hate
or how they hate them or why they hate them.
They all just hate and they're angry
and they wanna lash out at something.
So they're just lashing out, who are their things,
easiest who are their things,
eat whoever is gonna take it,
and if people aren't standing up,
then they're gonna think that they can
continue to get away with things.
They can continue hurting people
and they just get to retreat back into their own.
Did I say I was a Nazi?
I just said I was a Nazi, yeah.
Nobody's upcoming to their homes
and sprinting into their houses.
Nobody's throwing birds through their windows
and threatening their families.
I don't have to go rallying for that to happen to me.
I could just be walking down the street.
They know.
We've been attacked in bars.
We've had to be able to do the racism on the street here
on a regular basis.
I was recently attacked in my home by my roommate's sister
who was actually from out of town
and not only did the police refuse to press charges
because it was my work against terrorism,
but then they turned around and asked her
if I was from out of town.
It was the only person they asked where they were from
was her, yeah.
Both the roommate and her sister were both recovered.
I've been a leader for over 20 years, over 20 years,
but that's still what's happening to me.
I called the cops.
I said, I've been attacked.
They got their little bow.
Did you, though?
I think they could even write the name
of the woman who attacked her on the police report.
And that's just a day-to-day kind of thing for you to grow.
People just aren't safe here.
Dan?
I'm in favor of the confrontation.
Really, I'd love to know what that is about.
We do have to be safe.
We can obviously assess the situation that day
and if the numbers are on ourselves,
not to say attack, but just to,
I mean, I think we'll totally tell each other
that we know what the boundaries are
and the limits are.
But I would definitely sign it forward
and we'll direct and properly protest.
Being smart about it, not the term,
all of us, but I was thinking that we,
for the last couple of months,
it's a really, it's just a really fucked up time right now.
We have to, we have to have good strategy
to not get bumped into people in the U.S.
People in the U.S., also, propagated.
So, you know, I guess I'd rather go for a confrontation.
Sorry, to clarify that, I do mean on the other,
fully non-aggressive, like counter-contrasting,
like counter-message, being on the sidewalks
in front of a bar, but not going into the crowd.
We don't need to be two inches from our face.
Exactly, we need to yell at them.
We need to talk to the people walking by.
We don't need to yell at them.
I'm not sure if I think that I've been met that.
I just meant, you know, if there's enough people
and everyone is feeling safe,
that maybe we can get closer
and not try to instigate violence by any means,
but I think that there's more of a direct message
that you can visibly see, you know,
more people, like in Vancouver,
like in Boston, a few weeks ago, too, or whatever.
Yeah, I don't necessarily think,
I don't necessarily think across the street,
if across the street's what we can do,
then across the street's what we can do,
but if the score is what we can do,
then the score is what we can do, so.
And I think, again, it's something we'll have to assess.
Chris?
I think the problem we're gonna have
with actually doing a cabinet protest
is the commuter counting.
There are a whole pedagogy of hate,
so if you're gonna get started talking, I'm talking to them.
It's just you become shouting much,
which means both parties are just starting
to talk to each other.
I mean, if you want to take an example,
you can pass this to revolutionary or one of those Jesus
John Lennon, Donny, they were all killed
because they were pacifists, right?
So make sure they're not being preached love and hate,
but they also didn't really truly stand up
for a lot of things, right?
So they do need to have that type of stance
where you're gonna say, well, there's certain things
I'm not gonna stand up for.
But with, I mean, knowledge and power,
so we don't have to treat it to an idea
that needs to have a better idea.
So if you're trying to confront hate,
you need to speak about love
and actually speak on the behalf of them.
Why fascism is a negative idea,
why separating people is a negative concept,
and they all are inclusive, right?
So I just think if you are willing to do a counter protest
and counter this guy in particular,
with a degree of certainty,
you just need a negative idea.
With a degree of certainty, it's just gonna get negative.
It's just gonna get a negative match
and you're just gonna make yourself look bad.
So if you're going to counter productive
or counter the protest,
you've gotta attack the people who have good means
most to them, that's the people walking by,
which is basically getting them this information.
Sure, this guy's in here preaching hate,
but let me give you the alternative.
Why fascism is bad, why hating people
for different races and different colors is for great,
why it's bad, because then you're just gonna make him
look like a fool, and then that guy will go to the protest
by actually showing people that the guy's
a complete fucking moron,
and here's how we're gonna do it.
I think that's the final take on it.
I would say that it's pretty scary
that the city would let violent racists
organize something like that.
It's like we don't wanna be the ones
to instigate the violence, obviously,
but we obviously can't let them sell the message, right?
So we do need to find a way to divert the traffic.
The only thing about that is if they violently,
what do we do to stop that, right?
Make sure to keep it collective, right?
Yeah.
Jordan, can I have a comment?
I feel like a lot of the discussion we've been having
are getting into this notion of what being confrontational
actually means as far as practical implications,
and it's the kind of thing that I think we're all happy
with by understanding the fact that we don't want
to go start punching these people in the face is unwarranted.
You don't want to be the people that begin to get
that violence, but you also have to be prepared
for the fact these people are going to be violent
towards you.
You have to be prepared to defend yourselves,
and this confrontation and militancy,
that word that this kind of organization you want to have,
it's not a notion of going and trying
to instigate with these people.
We're not trying to get these people certified.
What we want is that we want to make sure
that they don't get the message out there,
and we want to make sure that they're denied
any sort of gains that they could get
from organizing like this.
So there needs to be a discussion at some point
about what confrontation militancy actually means
as far as practical discussions,
but I think we all kind of have a understanding here
where it's not going out to these people,
screaming slurs in their face and trying to start a fight.
It's defending our gains and making sure
that we can operate safely and help educate other people.
But it's also knowing you're having it too, right?
And because they preach hate,
they're going to use hate as an intimidation factor
to get their message across as a whole.
That's the whole premise of it.
If you avoid that altogether,
and just instantly use their hate against them,
they're more than equal,
rather than actually going out
and actually confronting them.
Because they're trying to spread their message,
so that's their idea,
so that you simply just say, that's their idea,
here's the flip side of that idea,
that's a better idea,
which makes them look like a fool.
You also have to be prepared for the fact that
I'm not saying to be prepared,
I'm just saying, well,
if you start to have engaging them
in that kind of conversation,
with a certain degree of certainty,
it's going to get better.
Oh, yes, sorry.
So I'm also okay with confrontation.
I don't think we necessarily,
yeah, I don't know, I'm on for confrontation.
I think that these people should feel that they
cannot organize here successfully.
If they leave that rally feeling like it was a success,
I think we failed.
And I think that we need to make them leave that day,
feeling like if they want to do that again,
it will be a struggle.
And I think confrontation is the way to be met.
I think if we don't come up with it,
it will leave that day,
having had people come up to them,
having had people feel comfortable coming up to them,
having felt like they got their message out there,
regardless of,
yeah, regardless of anything else,
I think if they are not confronted,
they will leave feeling empowered.
And that is the last thing you want in your community,
is a bunch of Nazis feeling empowered.
And I think confrontation is the way to make them feel
like they do not have power,
because they do not have power.
But ignoring them or allowing them to spread their message
will lead them to believe that they do.
Can I just say something that I'm going to leave?
Yeah.
Just so that we're also going to have
a group of people taking pictures,
because we do want to have these pictures,
and we're going to be posting the pictures
of these single Nazis all over the internet,
according to them.
And the police, if they say anything like,
kill the Jews or kill the black,
I think that's considered a hate crime,
and they could be charged.
So we will definitely have cameras and stuff
but I got them.
But thanks for organizing with us.
And we'll definitely see you guys on Saturday.
Yeah, sure.
Okay, take care.
Thank you.
See you.
Bye.
Well, okay, so I think effectively there,
everyone on the table said they do, to some degree,
want to do something separate from across the road,
lock off the Nazis from the public kind of thing.
My understanding going around the table
is everyone is on board with at least having
something on the sidewalk that makes it
so that the Nazis are not busy
when you drive down George Street and look right.
Past that, I think there are different points going on.
I'm not sure if we actually have enough
logistical information in order to make a call
on what we do past that because like a couple of you
both said, if it's the 10 of us,
that's very different than if 40 people show up,
very different than 100 people show up.
But the question is still, are people comfortable
with the idea that we would lock off the Nazis?
And to answer your point, I think you're right
that if you get into the shouting match back and forth
with them, you make an asset both of yourselves.
And in any action I've ever done,
the strategy has never been to like start yelling back
before the Nazis because they know some pretty foul things
and can just yell at you, but you can show it over them.
You can just be like, just chant, don't respond.
Like no matter what they do,
they can say whatever they want,
just Stonewall them kind of thing.
And then just chant, chant, chant,
so that they can show themselves
of course all kinds of profanities and terrible things.
And no one can know what they're saying.
And the important part is that we're educating people
because the best way to crush fascists
is to organize their place of undermoon.
So this is sort of all just a rut,
like we're yelling them to shut the rally down
so they can't propagandize,
but our real work getting done is community organizing
is getting the community together.
I feel like a lot of people would also
feel unsupportiveness in the ocean
in terms of fighting hate, ignorance, disinformation.
Like the idea that we're gambling,
that we're spreading real information
is it's not just saying Nazis are bad, fascism is bad.
But that we're not just coming out to say,
screw these guys, we're gonna be like,
listen, the problem they're talking about are real problems,
but this is not how we fight these problems.
I mean, I'm just saying that we're not trying
to just trust them, that we're fighting ignorance,
that we're fighting hate, that we're spreading information
to better people's lives.
So we catch it as a positive counter protest, basically.
Yeah, so do we want to call a rally
or across the street publicly and advertise for that,
not committing ourselves to anything more than that,
quite frankly committing ourselves to anything publicly
that could be illegal is always a bad idea.
But with the knowledge that the plan is to block
the Nazis off and if possible, shut them down
in terms of basically make it so the public
can't get access to them and they cannot get access
to the public.
Although, yeah, okay, go ahead.
My concern is that we can't have protection
in those terms, but that's what we want to do,
is have protection in those terms.
As we presented, we're trying to shut down
their ability to spread information
and if we're trying to halt free speech,
then once again, we're putting ourselves
in a position to be bad guys.
Right, that's one way.
I mean, I don't know if that's one way or the other.
Just because I've heard that a few times
that I haven't been ruining it.
Yeah, we were talking about we don't want to push hate.
The rest of us, we don't want to put in that.
But just like, it's how we state the message,
not just what we're trying to do.
Yeah, and I think the thing is that we have
to do shit in their mind.
Is that when we talk about tactics
and what we do physically in the real world,
like what we're doing, I think these things
have a political character that aren't dependent
on what the actual tactic is, right?
Because we can talk all day about,
is it fascist to do this?
And the reality is that fascists have a direct set
of political goals and political aims
that we don't have, right?
When we talk about fascists and we say,
hey, what do you think about shutting us down?
They would agree with shutting us down,
but they would also agree with genocide and FSI
and mass deportation, whereas we don't, right?
When we envision a totally different world
than they envisioned, our political goals
and our aims are totally different from theirs
just because we happen to also agree with shutting them down
I don't think it draws a world
that we don't see between the two of us.
They have a definite set of aims,
we have a definite set of aims.
They're going to push for theirs and we can push for ours,
but the reality is that if we don't adopt these tactics,
they're going to lose them because they're going to do it.
They're not worried about drawing moral equivalency.
They're just going to do it.
They're just going to kill people.
They're just going to take state power.
We should probably meet them where they're at.
Okay, so what about the adoption of the tactics?
Does the adoption be a message,
like the whole point is that they're able
to get away with being Nazis
because they're saying, I'm not a Nazi.
They're allowed to get away with this
and go get a raise in the American Union
because they're saying, I'm not doing that
even as they're doing it.
We live in a world where people say
that Black Lives Matter is a terrorist group
because they're arguing that black people
shouldn't be getting shot all the time.
We live in a world where people can swallow any message.
Like I've had friends, those friends,
who I know have not been racist,
who have said, well, all lives matter.
And I'm like, yeah, buddy, that's the point.
Black lives matter, all lives matter.
All lives matter, including black lives.
There's nothing wrong with Black Lives Matter
if all lives matter.
I didn't hear you saying anything
about all lives mattering with this guy who's killed
until somebody said Black Lives Matter.
But that same thing is that people
who they're just overhearing
is the message, the headline.
They're gonna read a headline saying,
anti-fascists try to shut down a rally
instead of having the protesters spreading information.
I guess if we present ourselves as the enemy,
then they use that same argument themselves.
And when they're recruiting,
that's what they use to paint us as the enemy.
To say that when we're the real terrorists here,
we're the ones who would actually
try to shut down free speech.
So if we just say we're just getting more information,
we're getting additional information from them
to shut them down, even if that's actually what we are.
Mr. Stewart, you wanna,
yeah, like, kind of like, jumping off the thing
that you said about the political cover that we're,
maybe think about how it's not just our politics,
sort of fascist politics that creates
what people can perceive it as,
but it's like there's political interests
that are shaping how that information's being put out,
like the narrative of it,
like maybe fascists being just bad or whatever.
That's also, like, there's a political interest
in delegitimizing any actor that's not a police officer,
more like a mayor, more like courts and that kind of thing.
These are the only places where this fight should happen,
according to the state and media and stuff.
And so, and otherwise,
just people having grounds for any kind of perspective,
it's like,
within that political context,
it's acceptable to a degree,
as long as it doesn't turn into
them actualizing their thing directly.
If they put it through the state,
if he puts genocidal policies into,
or immigration policies into power,
then that's still fine,
because it's just using the machinery
that's already there,
and it's not like seeing that it's a problem,
but when you have people in the community there
trying to directly stop something,
it's really easy to present it as,
and also not saying that we should,
like, I think I agree that we should mitigate how,
do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
Do try to mitigate perception stuff.
