Every three months or so, I'll peek back at my Kiwi Farms thread, just to see what's
going on.
And it's usually a whole lot of nothing, because I'm a pretty boring guy.
One person even did the Gotta Hand It To Him thing, which hey, I can appreciate.
But there's one bit there that got the ol' wheels turning.
Check out this interaction.
I feel like this dude exists solely to argue with his own fanbase at this point.
The funny thing is, in the past he has had videos where his opinion was fairly unpopular.
His fanbase argued, but it was never this vitriolic.
At this point, he seems to outright hate his fans.
It's the end of the journey for the Le Superior Centrist Grift.
Sooner than later, his new audience will overlap with Vosch.
It's what happened to Adam and Sitch, geez, tell me you don't watch Adam and Sitch without
telling me.
They might do too many Vosch reactions for my taste, yeah, but I'm not sure Vosch's
audience are all going to be watching dudes who spend half of their total upload time
making fun of Vosch.
I feel like he's regretting staying on the Centrist Grift for this long, and didn't
become a breadtuber a few years back when the pickings were good.
Well, no.
I didn't become a breadtuber for one reason, I'm not a socialist.
Simple as that.
But the important bit is the fighting with my audience stuff.
That has happened a lot recently, eh?
Yesterday's Sip, showing how libs of TikTok were factually incorrect with one of their
claims, that got some people pretty angry in the chat, frankly, irrationally.
Or when Lilith and I covered the Mar-a-Lago raid.
Or when Lilith and I talked to Richie, the detransitioner.
Or that Purity Spiral video.
In total, there may have been a dozen times that my audience has vehemently disagreed
with me so far this year, to the point that we openly argue in the chat or the comments.
And you know what?
That's okay by me.
I don't actually hate you guys, even when we have very strong disagreements.
I'm not spoonie.
I may say you're wrong, I might even call you dumb, but I don't hate you.
I don't want you to leave and never come back.
But I'm also not going to say anything I don't think is true, just to keep you around
either.
At the end of the day, I do value my integrity more than being successful.
This video isn't actually about the Kiwi Farms thing, by the way, they just got the
noggin joggin.
They'll say a YouTuber is going downhill because whenever they reply to criticism in
the comments, they're just coping and seething, and they clearly hate their audience.
But they'll also say that a YouTuber is a grifter who says only what their audience
wants to hear in order to avoid losing them.
And you can't be both of those things at the same time.
But you know what?
It's Kiwi Farms.
They're here for the entertainment.
Like from the comedy video, whatever makes the joke funnier without precedence.
It doesn't need to be consistent, only funny.
I can appreciate that.
No, they just got me thinking about the concept of audience capture.
I'm not talking about how to capture your audience, like how to be charismatic and hold
a crowd's attention.
I'm also not talking about a captured audience, where the audience is forced to listen to
a creator.
It's actually kind of the inverse, where the creator is forced to speak to an audience.
The term was first coined, I think, by Eric Weinstein.
The idea is that a content creator attracts an audience that doesn't quite align with
his own views.
So in order to keep that audience happy, friendly, and coming back for more content, the content
creator's own views has to shift towards their audience.
If the audience's views also shift, this can turn into a negative feedback loop, where
a content creator is incentivized to continuously produce more extremist content in order to
keep an ever-radicalizing audience watching.
And most of the time, the content creator also ends up radicalizing themselves.
Weinstein described what he does to try and avoid audience capture in a July 2021 appearance
on Rebel Wisdom.
That I may have introduced the concept of audience capture because I've been worrying
about the same thing from the beginning.
You know, I think I've counseled many people that you have to put poisonous tweets for
the people who follow you who you wish would not follow you, you know, you have to make
sure in some sense that they understand that you're not there to flatter them.
And he's been doing this as far back as 2016, when he said, I try to keep an open mind with
those who disagree with me, but any chance I get to shed followers with incurable hate
in their hearts is welcome.
And here's the same attitude in 2021.
I periodically intentionally shed clusters of followers to avoid what I years ago termed
audience capture.
By tweeting fair points that I know unreasonable people will not abide, whoever's left is usually
fair minded.
I'm now worried I'm losing followers due to a purge though.
That last sentence doesn't mean that he is okay with audience capture, by the way.
He later says, I highly recommend shedding those who attempt to steer you off the cliff.
It's well worth the losses.
We have many examples of those who have been lost to audience capture.
The most high profile one is probably Jordan Peterson.
I did the tubcast a little bit ago with Lilith and Taftage on his Ellen Elliott page rant
where he seemed genuinely unhinged.
This is a far cry from the educated, articulate 2015 era Jordan Peterson back when he was
uploading university lectures.
Where he was once intelligent, now he seems rather dumbed down.
Where he was once inquiring and skeptical, now he seems close minded and conspiratorial.
Look at his interviews too.
Where he once destroyed Kathy Newman, now he sounds a bit whacked out talking to Kyle
Kalinsky.
And while it may be his responsibility to not become a nutter, I don't fully blame him
either.
Look at what Jordan Peterson's gone through.
A benzo addiction, a wife who almost died to cancer.
The near destruction of his career, constant vilification wherever he goes.
From a political camp that, a decade ago, none of us thought were even capable of doing.
There's that comic where the leftist pushes the centrist into the rightist camp and the
rightist guy picks him up and the leftist guy is like, oh, all the centrists are just
on the right in the end.
That actually happens to a lot of people.
Audience capture isn't just how your viewers fluff you, it's how your haters hate you too.
It might be dumb to let yourself be controlled by contrarianism, but it's also very common.
Almost to the point that it's unreasonable to expect your average person to overcome
it.
Who is going to stay loyal to a tribe that hates them?
With these two feedback loops in play, how a creator and their audience radicalize each
other, and how a creator and his haters repel each other, we can see the mechanisms that
push at least some people to the right.
In fact, I think we all identified them during gamergate even.
Most gamers back then were edgy kids, yeah, but they still generally believed in the basic
liberal center-left principles, and the common sentiment felt in the community at that time
– I should know, I was there – was disbelief that the game journos, who were all self-proclaimed
leftists themselves and openly virtue signaled about their commitment to honesty and integrity,
had stabbed their own readers in the back when it came to uncovering the corruption
among their own.
I'm not surprised whatsoever that a lot of the old gamergate and skeptic people eventually
drifted away from the left, and if that event wasn't its primary cause, it was certainly
the first step.
But it's not just those guys, it's people like Majid Nawaz, who started off by funding
a counter-terrorism think tank and advocating on behalf of ex-Muslims.
But once his posts regarding Covid being fake went viral, his new audience began to feed
him new information, causing him to spiral into New World Order conspiracy stuff.
Or it's Brandon Straka, the gay guy who started the walkaway campaign, who popularized
Leaving the Left, who left the left so hard he found himself at the Capitol Riots on January
6th, telling the crowd to charge and grab police riot shields on the video.
Or it's Emma Sulkowicz, this is Mattress Girl by the way, now we're going into the
deep lore.
In 2014 she began carrying her mattress around campus everywhere she went, in protest of
the university's handling of her rape case in 2012.
In this case, she was so far left that this process actually de-radicalized her to the
center.
By 2019 she was a generic liberal, dating and being friends with generic conservatives.
Or it's Brett Weinstein, Eric's brother, the guy from the 2017 Evergreen College shit
show.
Just in case you don't remember that story, Evergreen College had an informal event called
the Day of Absence, where minority students and teachers were asked not to come to campus
that day.
They weren't forced, it was voluntary, and the idea was to highlight to white people
what it would be like if people of color weren't there in class or performing their necessary
functions.
Evergreen College's day was the Day of Presence, where they returned to campus and discussed
their experiences.
However, in 2017, in reaction to Trump's election, some students of color decided to
make the Day of Absence a day where white students were required to not attend school
for the day.
Brett Weinstein, then a professor at Evergreen, objected, and was thrust into the national
spotlight as the entire school erupted in protest against what they perceived to be
Weinstein's hatred.
Weinstein attempted to hold normal classes, but the protest became violent enough that
campus security told him it was no longer safe to be there.
Parts of the college were occupied by rioters and university staff and faculty not knowing
what to do, meekly complied with all of their demands.
The event was such a stain on the college that they've lost about half their total
enrollment since that incident.
Like Jordan Peterson, if you listen to Brett Weinstein's interviews and lectures from
2017, he's reasonable, articulate, and intelligent.
But if you listen to him now, he too is going down rabbit holes and radicalizing, in part
due to his experience at the hands of his enemies, and in part due to following the
positive feedback from his audience.
But I'm not saying that this is a uniquely right-drifting phenomenon, it's not.
What do you think happened to Hassan, or Shu on head, or Vashj, especially now that he's
in his fortress arc?
Anybody who isolates themselves from their opponents is bound to feel the effects of
not being exposed to new ideas eventually.
And it seems like the left understands this on some level, and actually wants it to happen.
That's why it's always a problem whenever a leftist talks to a non-leftist, it's always
platforming bad people or whatever, because they believe that even engaging with an alternative
point of view, simply acknowledging that it exists, is tantamount to personally helping
it spread.
It's fair if you argue your points so poorly that you lose your audience to your opponent
in a debate, then this might be true.
But it's even more true that ignoring your opponent doesn't simply make him go away.
He will keep making moves in the spaces you don't control, where your outrage can't reach
him.
That's the lesson of alt-tech.
I also think that's why so many leftists began to pull their own hair out after, when they
stopped talking to Destiny, he began talking to the right.
And when they got him banned from Twitch, he kept streaming off Twitch.
They genuinely wanted him to vanish.
But audience capture also isn't a purely political phenomenon either.
Look at Nikocado Avocado.
Back before he became a 400-pound bag of shit whose entire career revolved around eating
himself to death on camera, he did videos where he played violin, where he talked about
his romance and being gay, where he talked about being a vegan, yeah he was a vegan once
if you can believe it.
But it's his mukbang content that went viral, and so it's his mukbang content that he leaned
into.
He's got millions of subs and views and he's rolling in the money, but do you think he's
a happy man?
He might have been poor without his current success, but at least he wouldn't be this.
Take the political component out of the conversation.
How many YouTubers and streamers have changed what they do based on what went viral?
How many of them tried to break out of that mold, failed, and then went back to what worked?
And how many of them changed themselves as a result?
The list seems endless.
Game Grumps after John left, Doug Walker with Demo Reel, the Epic Meal Time guys, I feel
like every corner of YouTube has something like this happening.
Even me to an extent.
The deep lore of this channel is that it was started in 2009 with funny anime videos that
I made with my friends when we were younger, hence the name Short Petotaku.
But we also tried Let's Play stuff for a while before Gamergate got me into politics.
Around a year ago I received a hate message that probably got me to think the most out
of any other hate message, far more than anything from Kiwi Farms.
It was a Vosh sub who said that the only reason I was doing political content is because I
couldn't hack it as a Let's Player.
I was desperate for my channel to take off, and because my politics videos made it, that's
what I did.
And that I would really rather be a Let's Player or a streamer, but I'm just not up
to snuff.
Is that true?
I mean, on some level, maybe.
I've never said anything that I disagree with in any of my videos.
I never presented anything that I knew to be a lie, and I haven't arbitrarily shifted
my political positions to satiate my audience.
If I did I wouldn't do this video.
But I have noticed that my politics videos get hits where my Let's Plays and anime
reviews don't, and I absolutely did chase those hits.
On some level, yeah, I was audience captured.
But I don't think it was in the same way.
I still do the Let's Play thing, it's a gaming stream now by the way, and I'd be
grateful if you checked it out, I tried to stream in the ol' SFO Arcade most evenings.
But even if that gets no views, even if it never actually takes off, I'm content with
it.
I would like it to, obviously, but my enjoyment of playing games and talking to my co-hosts
and talking to the chat isn't dependent on my material success.
I may be doing what took off to pay the bills, but I'm still doing what didn't, because
I love doing them both.
Consider an alternate universe where SFO is actually a gaming channel or an anime channel,
where it's my gaming stuff that took off, and my politics videos get almost no hits.
I might be happier considering how stressful the politics scene can be online, sure, but
would I still never do politics videos?
No, absolutely not.
I'd be a gaming channel where most people are there for the gameplay, and occasionally
I'd do a politics video, or I'd have a side channel with no traction or something,
and once in a while I'd get a comment of somebody saying, man I came here for the games,
but I didn't know you were going to use your platform like this, I don't like your
politics videos, just stop doing them and stick to the gameplay.
And I would just be like, yeah whatever man.
In both cases, my focus is towards what pays the bills, but I would still ultimately be
doing all of what I want to do.
Ever since I've heard of the idea of audience capture, I realize that it perfectly describes
what I want to avoid.
I don't want to get so mind-fucked by the most extremist elements of my own audience,
no offense, that I end up thinking exactly like them.
And you shouldn't want me to, either.
Isn't it more interesting when we actually disagree, and we can use those disagreements
to explore new ideas or figure things out?
I have a feeling that if you want me to be exactly like you, it's because you want
me to propagate your ideas, and I'm not here for that.
Sorry.
Now, I don't think I'm as extreme as Eric with his idea that it's worth it to purge
people, that seems a little bit much.
But I also don't feel especially beholden to the idea that I should listen to people
who are both more extreme than me, and are genuine fans of me, when they demand that
I change my views or admit something is true when I don't think it is.
I'm not going to say, go away.
I'm not going to hate you.
I'm not total biscuits saying you've already been replaced, I don't care.
But I'm also not going to chase you around and beg for forgiveness, because clearly,
if I disagree with you, it's only because my growth is causing my ego to go to my head,
and there's no other reason.
No, I don't buy it.
I think I said this in another recent video, but I'll repeat it here.
There's a golden mean between doing exactly what your audience wants at all times, truth
or integrity be damned, and going to war with your audience or consider them dispensable
because they refuse to fall in line and worship you.
And I think that midpoint is firm humility.
I may disagree with you, but that means nothing beyond the disagreement.
I do what I want, not because I don't value your time, but because I do value mine.
I make the content that inspires me, when it inspires me, not because I'm egotistical,
but because I know that's when it will be me at my best.
And most importantly of all, there are so many people I once respected and watched religiously
who have been mind-fucked by audience capture.
It's true that I don't want to become somebody I'm not, but I also don't want to be that
disappointment for you.
You might disagree with me, you might even stop watching me one day, but I never want
you to be able to say that I changed and betrayed what I used to be all about.
No.
If I'm going to go out, it's going to be a different way than that.
