Hello my friends, I'm not going to be able to make you a traditional video today unfortunately,
but I do have something special. I'm currently cleaning out a whole bunch of stuff and I came
across this and I figured before I pitch it out it might be interesting just to document it and
take a look at what it is. Oh yeah there's also three bags of buttons. These are NDP buttons.
The NDP is Canada's social democratic party, though they used to be more of a straight up
communist party, but they've moderated a lot of their rhetoric in the past say 50 years or so.
They are historically Canada's third party, though they've actually dropped down quite a bit in
popularity in the past say 10 years or so. The height of their popularity was under Jack Layton,
who is one of the most beloved Canadian politicians despite never becoming prime minister.
They often spend their time advocating for quasi-socialist policies and punching at the
liberals from the extreme left of the spectrum. The reason that we have all of this NDP stuff in
the house is because my editor Dave, you'll know him as my co-host on Game Boomers and also as the
original SFO from way back in the day during the 2009 anime reviews. He's been part of the channel
this entire time. During his stint at university he was actually part of the NDP. He was a filthy
commie. Don't worry, we've since de-radicalized him, but he wanted to be more politically involved
and so he said that he might want to do some kind of canvassing for them and they gave him a pack
of materials. As you can see, nothing was ever done with it. So before we get rid of it, I
figured we'd take a look at it and see what's up. Anyone want a pin? Nah, they're all just going in
the recycling. They are, you know, like very normal pin. Nothing too special. NDP youth.
There's some stickers. Proud new Democrat. Proud human rights defender.
With the, uh, with the fist. Is that barbed wire on the fist? Jesus. These still even stick?
They do.
Yep, even after all these years the adhesive's still good. I should go stick these in random
places around the house just as a joke. You know what, I'll put one on our front door so
that other NDP pollsters stop fucking bothering us. There we go.
Let's see what's inside. Oh, flyers! It takes an act of love to realize that we're all in
this together. And an act of courage to dream better. I gotta do a video on this guy, by the
way. He's like insanely corrupt. He's the leader of the NDP right now. Oh boy.
Oh, there's more buttons in here. Okay.
Okay. Jesus. Wow. Just a whole bunch of shit. I mean, I think it might be illegal to knowingly
dispose of election materials. This is from an election that was like three or four years ago.
I'm sure at this point it's fine, right? Oh man, the really cringy slip is gone. I think I'll be
able to find a picture of it online, I hope. It was like an instructional pamphlet of what to do
with this stuff and like where to go vote and that sort of thing. And it had on it like the
most cringy woke ID poll shit you can imagine. There was literally like a black trans woman in
a wheelchair. I don't think anyone in Canada actually looks like this dude. I don't know.
Okay. Anyway, house cleaning continues. This stuff's going out. Thankfully Dave's stint as
being a commie was short-lived and I will return with more videos shortly. Probably tomorrow.
Yeah, you'll see. I'll see you next time, guys. I love you.
Got him. Rain Max.
