Behind any commercial flight is more than a century of political negotiation and accords
that dictate who, how, and where airlines can fly.
Aviation is one of the most unifying industries worldwide because it is what brings the world
together.
The beginning of aviation agreements came with the 1944 Chicago Convention on International
Civil Aviation.
This convention established the UN oversight agency responsible for civil aviation—the
International Civil Aviation Organization.
The ICAO is recognized by every country worldwide except for Liechtenstein, Dominica, and Tuvalu.
Of those, Tuvalu is the sole country to have an international airport so that means that
all but one sky-faring nation worldwide is part of the ICAO.
Soon after its inception, the ICAO laid out five fundamental rights of aviation—known
as the five freedoms of the air which serve as a framework for international aviation
agreements.
Each freedom has varying levels of acceptance, but every developed country worldwide grants
these rights to certain foreign airlines.
The first freedom of the air is the right to fly over a foreign country without landing.
Pretty much every commercial flight and commercial airline is allowed to do this.
There are exceptions—the EU has a list of hundreds supposedly unsafe airlines that are
not allowed in EU airspace—but there are no large airlines today restricted from certain
airspace.
It may seem like a given that foreign airlines can overfly countries, but the airspace above
a country is sovereign territory of that country—more or less.
There isn't actually an internationally recognized line of separation between sovereign
airspace and space.
Some say it's 19 miles above sea level—the highest altitude balloons and airplanes can
fly—while others say it's as high as 99 miles—the altitude of the lowest stable
orbits around earth.
The US classifies anyone who's flown 50 miles or higher above earth as an astronaut.
So that therefore means that the US recognizes 50 miles above earth as the beginning of space.
However, there are instances in which the US hasn't respected sovereignty below 50
miles.
When space shuttle missions returned to earth, they did so much like an airplane with a slow,
horizontal descent down to a runway.
Their descent paths were so long that they had to descend over foreign nations, such
as Canada, below 50 miles altitude.
And yet the US never requested permission from Canada to fly in their airspace.
Just because airlines are allowed to fly over foreign countries doesn't mean that they
can do so without restriction.
Of course they need to be in contact with air traffic control, but they also need to
pay what's known as overflight fees.
Overflight fees are how airlines pay foreign countries they fly over but don't land or
take off in for the use of their air traffic control services.
Airlines still have to pay to use air traffic control in countries they land or take off
in, but these fees are paid and calculated in different ways depending on the country.
Overflight fees are nearly universal.
The US, for example, charges $56.86 per 100 nautical miles.
You may think that these fees are fairly inconsequential since the only international flights that
really fly over the US without landing are flights to, from, or between Mexico, Canada,
and some Caribbean nations.
However, the US is actually responsible for a huge amount of airspace—way larger than
the US itself.
It was allocated this airspace by the International Civil Aviation Organization and since it provides
air traffic control for this area, it also charges overflight fees.
This does mean, weirdly, that flights from Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,
and other Melanesian countries pay overflight fees to the US when flying to northeast Asian
destinations such as Japan, Korea, and China.
In US oceanic airspace, however, airlines only pay $21.63 per 100 nautical miles.
It may seem like these small charges would have little effect, but on long-haul flights,
overflight fees can really add up.
Especially with the razor thin airline margins that you learned about in my why flying is
so expensive video, airlines do have to put consideration into where they fly based on
overflight fees.
Canadian overflight fees are notoriously expensive.
They work on a variable cost structure based on takeoff weight and distance flown so I
won't go into actual numbers.
Almost any flight originating in the US has to fly through expensive Canadian airspace
en route to Europe, as you learned about in my video about the north Atlantic tracks,
but airlines do have strategies to lower these costs.
The most efficient route between San Francisco and Frankfurt goes north through Montana,
up over northeast Canada, then across Greenland, Iceland, and down into Europe.
However, airlines don't always use this route.
On certain days with certain wind and weather conditions, they'll fly east through the
United States, then enter Canadian airspace somewhere over Minneapolis or Chicago so that
they'll pay less in Canadian overflight fees.
Complicated route planning software takes all the variables—weight, weather, overflight
fees, etc.—and figures out which route is most financially efficient, even if it wastes
time or fuel.
Moving on, the second freedom of the air is the right for airlines to land in foreign
countries for technical stops.
Essentially, that means refueling.
Modern airplanes have ranges of up to 9,000 miles so there's little need anymore for
refueling stops, but in the past, they were crucial for long-haul flights.
Shannon Airport, in western Ireland, once received hundreds of flights per day despite
being located in an exceptionally rural area.
The nearest large city to Shannon, Limerick, has a population of less than 100,000, but
geographically, Shannon Airport is the nearest airport to the US so back when airplanes had
shorter ranges, they'd make a stop to refuel in Shannon before continuing on to their continental
European destinations.
During the era of the Soviet Union, almost no airline had permission to overfly the USSR
so airlines had to literally go the other way around the earth.
Nearly every flight between Europe and Asia was routed with a technical stop in Anchorage,
Alaska to refuel.
Obviously this was incredibly inefficient.
Today's direct Europe-Asia flights take between 10 and 12 hours but back when they
stopped in Anchorage, they took as many as 22 hours.
Despite the huge range of airplanes today, there are still some flights that require
refueling stops.
Australia and New Zealand are almost exactly on the opposite side of the world from London
so any flight between the two places has to make a stop somewhere.
On its London-Sydney flights, Qantas Airlines makes a stop in Dubai and on flights between
London and Auckland, Air New Zealand stops in Los Angeles.
It is expected, however, that within weeks or days of this video going up, Qantas Airlines
will announce a new direct route between Perth in Western Australia and London with their
787-900 Dreamliners which would be the first direct commercial service in history between
Europe and Australia.
This 9,000 mile trek would take an immense 18 hours to connect the two continents.
The third freedom of the air is pretty simple.
It's the right to fly commercially from one's own country to another country.
This is just like Air France flying Paris to New York or Singapore Airlines flying Singapore
to Dubai.
Almost every international airline is granted this third freedom.
The fourth freedom is just the inverse of this—the right to fly commercially from
another country to one's own.
There are really no instances where the third and fourth freedoms are granted separately.
If an airline is allowed to fly somewhere, they're also allowed to fly back with passengers.
The fifth and final official freedom is the right for an airline to fly passengers between
two foreign countries on a flight originating or terminating in their own country.
Now this is very similar to the second freedom and the second freedom and fifth freedoms
are often but not always granted together.
With the second freedom, Qantas is allowed to stop in Dubai to refuel, but if they're
granted the fifth freedom, Qantas is also allowed to pick up new paying passengers in
Dubai and fly them to London.
Some examples of this freedom include Air India's New York, London, Hyderabad route
which is allowed to fly passengers between New York and London, Cathay Pacific's Hong
Kong, Vancouver, New York route which is allowed to fly passengers between Vancouver and New
York, and Ethiopian airlines Addis Abada, Dublin, Los Angeles flight which is allowed
to fly passengers between Los Angeles and Dublin, but let's move on to the sixth freedom.
It may seem a little strange that there's a sixth freedom in the five freedoms of aviation.
There are actually nine total freedoms, but only the first five are recognized officially
in the ICAO's five freedoms treaty.
While freedoms six through nine are widely accepted, they are not as universal except
for number six.
The sixth freedom is actually unbelievably common—it's the right for an airline to
transport passengers from one foreign country to another via their own country.
This is just like Air France taking passengers from New York to Dubai via Paris or Korean
airlines taking passengers from Frankfurt to Tokyo via Seoul.
As you can tell, having six freedom rights is basically a fancy way to say airlines are
allowed to connect passengers.
There are whole airlines that operate almost exclusively using six freedom rights.
Wow Airlines and Icelandair take passengers from North America to Europe via Reykjavik
and Turkish, Qatar, Ethiad, and Emirates airlines take passengers mostly between Europe,
Africa, and Asia via their middle eastern hubs.
While each of these airlines do have some passengers only taking a direct flight to
their hub, the vast majority of their traffic is connecting due to their geographic positions
between population centers.
I'll finish off by grouping the seventh, eighth, and ninth freedoms together as you'll
see they're quite similar and often come together.
The seventh freedom allows an airline to fly between two foreign nations without connecting
onto its home.
The eighth freedom is the right for an airline to fly between two cities in one foreign country
while continuing onto its own country.
And the ninth and final freedom is the right for a foreign airline to fly between two points
in a foreign country without continuing onto its own country.
It's extremely rare for these freedoms to be granted except for in the European Union.
You see, the European Union has a single aviation market meaning that any airline registered
in an EU country is allowed to fly flights between, to, and from any airport in the EU.
Budget airlines like Ryanair and EasyJet thrive on this regulation.
Despite being an Irish airline, Ryanair is allowed to fly routes like Edinburgh to London,
Paris to Lyon, and other domestic routes in foreign EU countries due to this single aviation
market.
There are almost no other instances where foreign airlines are allowed to fly domestic
routes.
Ryanair is also allowed to fly routes between two other EU countries, like Paris to Berlin,
and from other EU countries to outside the EU, such as Barcelona to Fez, Morocco.
This is also how Norwegian Airlines is allowed to fly long haul from Sweden, Denmark, and
the UK to the US… well, more or less.
You may recall that Norway is actually not part of the European Union, so they're not
part of the EU's single aviation market, but interestingly, Norwegian Airlines is actually
registered in Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, and the UK in order to gain access to the
EU's single aviation market as well as the Open Skies Treaty that allows unlimited and
unrestricted flights between the EU and the US.
There's one really interesting use of these treaties and regulations in the form of short
haul flights between the Caribbean and the United States.
Norwegian Airlines offers flights during the winter months from Boston, New York, and Baltimore
to Martinique and Guadeloupe, and these aren't extensions to their long haul flights using
fifth freedom rights.
These are standalone flights in small airplanes.
Boston and Baltimore don't even have Norwegian transatlantic flights.
Normally a flight like this would never be allowed but since Martinique is an overseas
region and Guadeloupe is an overseas territory of France, they're also part of the EU's
single aviation market and the Open Skies Treaty.
So those are the five, or rather nine freedoms of aviation.
Aviation is a very politically charged and complicated subject but these freedoms do
a great job of simplifying and standardizing airline regulations worldwide.
I hope you enjoyed this Wendover Productions video.
Videos like these are made possible by my amazing Patreon supporters.
Every dollar contributed on my Patreon is spent directly on the channel and I'm held
to that by releasing an expense report at the end of each month.
What's great about that is that you can be sure that any dollar you contribute to
my Patreon will come back to you in the form of a better video.
Viewers also get great rewards like t-shirts, stickers, handwritten letters, early access
to videos, and more.
I do hope you'll consider contributing over at patreon.com slash wendover productions.
I'd also like to give a quick shout out to shutterstock.com.
They're not a sponsor but they do provide me with a ton of great stock footage that
I use to improve these videos so please do go check them out.
Other than that, please follow me on twitter at wendoverpro, watch my last video on economies
of scale, check out my fan-moderated subreddit at www.reddit.com slash r slash wendoverproductions,
and most of all subscribe to this channel.
Thanks again for watching and I'll see you in two weeks for another Wendover Productions
video.
