I've made a lot of mistakes. There are many things I wish I could take back. But I cannot
grow if I refuse to see myself for who I truly am.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and my free time has been delightfully occupied by what will be
the person at the centre of today's final video. It is not necessarily something I've
found myself enjoying too much, but one must finish what he hath started, and I have to
admit, in spite of everything, all the other videos, and all the information, I definitely
underestimated the undertaking this topic would require, and even then I will be undoubtedly
disappointed that I have not been able to cover every single corner, look at every one
of his crap films, look at his books, see what's between the lines, maybe one day I
will return, but that day is not today. Even with every private video, every deleted tweet,
every single redacted statement, Onision has given me more than enough to work with, more
than I'd like, to be honest, and today we shall be closing that off in style. Although
not a requirement, I would recommend watching the previous videos to have a contextual grip
of what we lead into today.
A lot of what we've observed is, on the surface, the product of putting your life online. Onision
has, in a way, created his own story through the medium of YouTube, and I've often wondered
if Greg himself sees his life like a movie, one where he plays the main character, one
where he can be this role model to other people, this tortured individual, always on the line
between good and evil. I mean, we saw that in his little cult project, he had this dark
and light theme, and this sort of line between them, but the thing is, you can't easily manufacture
such a character unless you're a real artist, and the problem was that Greg clearly integrated
a lot of his own personal investments into this character, a lot of strange desires that
didn't merely involve him, and ultimately led to many people being hurt. Movies are
often movies for a reason, we may idolise some characters, we may even see parts of
ourselves in the worst people, but self control is a necessary constituent that should be
exercised, especially when you're a public figure with great responsibility.
The way that Onision had cultivated his audience gave him an even greater responsibility than
many creators, because his audience were highly committed to him as a personality, and would
likely be heavily influenced by his behaviour. He had carved out this corner on the internet
that was relatively isolated from reality. Onision was never interested in responsibility
though, and over time, he had managed to isolate various people who bought into his doctrine
more closely, and did for a significant amount of time, whether by luck or by judgement,
get away with it. As mentioned at the end of last video, by September 2019, the tides
were beginning to turn, instigated by many people, but brought forward by a person named
Sarah primarily, arguably the most concerning example of the people he involved in his life.
A lot of people at this point had already been dunking on Onision, he was a popular
target that accumulated views, but this was what finally pushed many people over the top
with their criticisms, and it went from look at this dude to look at this dude. These criticisms
have mostly amounted to focusing on his predatory behaviour, although there are many actions
that shouldn't be ignored either. Regardless of what he says, Onision pays close attention
to the drum that revolves around him, pays close attention to the videos being made on
him and knows what's being said about him, and this often leads to questions being asked
of him by his fans, and he has often responded to them. As noted, some of these responses
are for the better, sometimes these responses are for the worse. One of the things that
you will hear on a fairly repetitive basis is how honest he is.
There's a reason people call me the most brutally honest YouTuber, it's because I f***ing am,
I'm the most brutally honest popular YouTuber, hundreds of thousands if not millions of people
know me to be the most brutally honest YouTuber.
Now if that isn't a guy you can trust, I don't know who is. He'll have this assured tone
in the way he speaks, and he'll often speak about setting the record straight, he'll express
a confidence that will likely soften those who are willing to give him the benefit of
the doubt. He also often uses words and phrases that portray his honesty in an exceptional
light. Yeah guys, I'm an honest YouTuber, must be a surprise round here. Those sorts
of narratives are not just designed to show himself in a positive light, but show his
critics in a negative one. After all, if he's really the person telling the truth and laying
down the law, how are you meant to believe anyone else? These are all classic tactics
that have led him to be relatively protected by his most devoted audience. Another tactic
that he has developed over the years was creating conclaves of the internet where he could have
control over what's being said about him. For example, you look up videos on Onision
on YouTube in the last few years, and they wouldn't be the most positive. However, go
over to his numerous websites whose domain changes every few months, and you may find
a consensus more devoted to defending him. In a way, his Patreon was probably one of
the best examples of this. Patreon is a nice way for many creators to make buck when Susan
isn't feeling as generous. However, by creating a paywall, Onision creates a dilemma for his
critics. They can pay to see what's going on behind the scenes, see what Onision is
chatting and thus criticise it, and bring that content to the public eye, but then again,
if it's nothing particularly substantial other than Onision being Onision, you're paying
money into his Patreon, you're financially supporting him, so you might want to leave
it, but then you don't know what he's up to, and it might be worse than one thinks, and
he might need to be stopped. That's ultimately the concern of many of these platforms, and
exactly how, for a long time, he has to control a proportion of his fanbase. We'll discuss
the fate of his Patreon very soon, but this has always allowed him to capitalise on the
drama in rather derivative ways. For example, when testimony started coming out regarding
him around September time, he'd release these videos with very vague, ambiguous titles,
and most of it was rubbish, rambling, monetised rambling I must add, which were purposely
vague to remain monetised. Even with all this criticism, all this stigma, nothing mattered
as long as he had fans, and he was making money, those two factors will always keep
him buoyant. So how was this deconstructed, and is there still more to do? Join me today
in this final instalment, The Fall of Onision, where we document what went wrong, what went
right, and at what point I can go back to sleeping at night. Let's dive right in.
The first step to holding someone to a decent
account is publicity. Now honestly, after the year that's been, the sheer inertia that
many people are understandably experiencing, that's a harder job than most. I don't think
people really wanted to have to deal with another case. Nonetheless, Onision had the
attention of his previous actions which followed through onto today's situation. As noted in
my first video, I think Onision's behaviour was visibly irrational, in a way to make sure
that his audience was isolated in their commitment to him. In the past, his rather awful behaviour
seemed purposefully attention seeking, particularly when he was making commentary on other creators.
He knew what he was doing, and he wanted their attention, and for many people, you don't
want to necessarily feed that. It was a running fact that videos on Onision would get more
than actual Onision videos, and that in a way, it might be better to not make videos
on him at all, because you're so obviously punching down and just giving him the attention
that he desires. Although I agree with this to an extent, I'd also defend people who
criticised him because of the fact that he did already have an established fan base,
and I'm not sure if more people would be indoctrinated by him than people who disconnected
from him due to this run in criticism. I noted that many of these fans were probably captured
in his narrative at quite a young age, and as they mature and become a bit more conscious
of the flaws in his narratives, it might help seeing the additional videos calling him out
on those. There are three general basic ways when you interact with someone's content.
Negative attention, negative attention, and no attention. The goal in the past was to
make sure he didn't really receive any additional attention outside of what was necessary, to
hold him to account for his bogus content. In the last few months, the perspective has
split, and the goal has now been to shine negative attention on his actions. Overall,
the momentum has been gathering. Multiple new creators have been covering the topic
with fresh perspectives and commentary which engages new audiences. There were many accounts
set up to completely document his actions, providing accessibility to content creators
to pick up the story quickly, thus spreading the word further, and they deserve their kudos
too. Nonetheless, attention on this scale only really matters if you can bring about
real systemic change, and there are always gonna be some people attached to Onision no
matter what. Commentators are helpful, but their scope is limited, and it could very
easily fizzle out. However, it hasn't stopped there, in fact, there was one more twist to
The final character I want to introduce to this is someone by the name of Chris Hansen.
Chris Hansen was famous for his MSNBC show To Catch a Predator, which aired between 2004
and 2007. Now, this show wasn't overly successful then, and actually had its fair share of controversies,
but it has enjoyed a cultural resurgence in recent years due to the many, many memes,
but also the relevance to a platform like YouTube with many predators on there too.
Now identifying this relevance over the last few months, Chris Hansen has been setting
up shop on the platform, and hosting his own streams where he discusses cases of online
predation with various victims and creators.
Chris Hansen Good evening everyone from New York City, I'm Chris Hansen, and this is
Have a Seat with Chris Hansen, live on my YouTube channel, Have a Seat with Chris Hansen.
So thanks for tuning in, we have a very special guest tonight, as you know we've been kind
of exploring this whole world of predator behaviour, whoops I said predator, I'll get
back to that in a minute, on YouTube specifically having to do with a YouTube sensation named
Onision, whose real name is Greg Jackson, we've talked about it.
Now the medium that Chris Hansen was operating on now was one where you could reach him much
more directly, and eventually with the momentum, he would have been a fool to ignore the case.
To many people, Chris Hansen was a blessing of his own, him covering the case would provide
a lot more mainstream interest due to his leanings, and the fact that he transcends
the stigma that many creators have of just being a YouTuber, he can exert influence in
areas that others may not be able to, even if he doesn't have a huge number of subscribers,
he's a media figure, he holds clout on his own terms, and this sort of clout was well
served in the streams that he conducted.
It's hard to pick on specific details, but if you watch them, it gives people a platform
to talk about their own experiences, and allows investigations to be conducted in a relatively
safe and professional environment.
It's important that they're somewhat careful, as publicising certain information can compromise
future legal processes, however, on the other hand, the attention that Chris Hansen has
provided may be able to kickstart investigations that have more scope and power to work out
what's going on behind the scenes.
I did have a conversation with the FBI yesterday, with the breaking news here, and obviously
there was evidence that some of the young women have that could very well be of interest
to investigators.
And contact is being made within the Bureau, between the different field offices involved
here across the country, including Washington State, where a lot of this activity took place.
But again, a reminder that even though Greg Jackson, Onision, Kai, apparently were very
careful about ages in terms of having young women visit, sexual relations, and everything
else, what many people in these cases don't know, don't think about, aren't aware of,
is that the transmission of sexually explicit pictures of people younger than 18 is a federal
crime.
It can either be enticement, it can be the transmission of child pornography, it is a
penalty which carries a sentence of 10 years per image.
If it's a video, it's 10 years per frame.
So there is a very good chance that there's going to be a criminal investigation here,
and we will keep everybody posted on this.
This is not all sunshine and rainbows though, as Hansen and his team, most notably Vincent
Nakotra, has come under severe criticism for their practice on YouTube.
We're all aware that this generation may be a bit more out of touch, and Chris Hansen's
boomer eye contact doesn't lie, but as observed by many, it appears that Vincent's abusive
power of copyright striking, doxxing, and scamming goes beyond naivety, and for a significant
amount of time, Chris Hansen's decision to keep him on in spite of this seemed ill-advised.
There are other videos that document this more comprehensively, such as Mr. Gee-Gees,
which I would definitely recommend watching.
Now let me make it clear, Chris Hansen's videos have an invaluable place in this case,
however the greater good cannot excuse abuse of power, and such behavior could easily compromise
what you've been working for, and it may well have already.
You guys should not be giving Vince a pass because you don't want to derail the Onision
investigation, because people not addressing this, and continuing to allow Vince to be
a loose cannon, will be the ultimate derail to this investigation, but that's just my
opinion.
At the start of January 2020, Chris Hansen stated that he would be reviewing Vincent's
conduct, and a few weeks later he announced Vincent's departure from the show, most likely
due to the information that Vincent had mishandled Sarah's laptop with possible implications
to the subsequent legal admissibility of it.
Although there was some suspicion whether Vincent has actually been sacked, lack of
new information prevailing, benefit of the doubt will be provided on that front, however
the damage may have already been done, though I sure hope not, I may well be saving the
rest of this for a video of my own.
And with that serious caveat in mind, I want to turn the attention back to Onision.
The mounting of the narrative against Onision, particularly in the past few months, has given
him even less control on YouTube than before, however this hasn't stopped him from attempting
to prevent the narrative from spreading, he's still uploading regularly, and we'll go
into the details of those videos soon, but although the like-dislike ratio is enabled,
the comments are not.
I can't tell you Onision's exact reasoning for this, though he did make a video on it,
but not sure I'm gonna buy his explanation, however if I was to guess, I'd say it's
because if you show a strong dislike to like ratio against you, you can rustle up a narrative
that you're the victim of mob mentality to the people who may be sympathetic towards
you, while disabling the comments will prevent people from being able to rationally justify
their criticism or dislike of you, there were many people who said in the past that Onision
deleted comments that were critical of him, chances are that the volume of the comments
became too much control or filter, and the positive comments were so rare anyway, it
just wasn't worth filtering.
Actually, little update here, now that hate is gearing down, he's turned the ratings
off and restored comments while filtering them, which allows him to present the perspective
that he is on the comeback, gaining support and healing people with the facts, we'll
indulge in that in a bit, but he can be very sneaky sometimes, old Onision.
Now of course, there were other creators who spoke out about his content, and their comment
sections were completely open for people to express their feelings, but often an Onision
devotee wouldn't watch those videos, or go into those videos with an open mind at least,
and even then Onision would regularly claim and strike down videos that were critical
of him, partly because of the narrative, and partly because of the money, nonetheless,
he couldn't take them all out, or even Team YouTube, in all their oblivion, would probably
pick up the fact that he's up to no good.
Onision was clearly overwhelmed in this regard, there was nothing that he could do to halt
the stream of content documenting his misgivings, but this was only part of the battle, people
who had never really liked him on YouTube anyway, that dislike had just manifested into
a much more active hatred, so Onision was still relatively unharmed, but that was about
to change.
I've destroyed most every relationship I've had with other YouTubers by being rude towards
them.
I am a self-made pariah.
As said, at the start of this drama, Onision was uploading these very smug videos, but
he knew it was coming, but he was at least trying to prepare for it, I noted in my previous
video that he had started indirectly attacking Sarah by stating that people with BPD had
a troubled memory.
But in March, he uploaded this fantastic video, warning people about the power of fake screenshots.
It's about the most important thing that is ruining people's lives right now.
Fake texts.
Fake screenshot texts make up 99% of all texts.
That's a fake fact, and that goes to show you how fake it can get.
So anyway, Snufflepuff has been accused of r***ing murder at my f***ing station.
Um, what?
Oh, I panda-god with no beard for some reason, maybe I was too lazy to find it, have screenshots
on panda-god's phone.
Oh, I guess it's true then, no one can fake screenshots.
Yes!
Time to ruin Snufflepuff's whole life based on these entirely authentic screenshots.
Alright, so now you guys know, what you see online, the screen caps of like, you know,
whatever celebrity people target next or whatever, they're probably fake, okay?
It's all probably total lies, run by people who have absolutely no life, who are total
liars, frauds, f***ing losers, etc.
Now, I would argue that fake screenshots can be extremely destructive, and I would always
advise against them, if there are fake screenshots, then it's important that they are called out
when necessary.
However, this seems much more like a way to once again try and implant ideas into his
audience's mind before the storm, that his accusers would not be credible.
He knew this was coming, and instead of setting the record straight when he had the opportunity
to, he puts out these half-truth videos, because he's smug, and he thinks that can work.
You know, all those moments in villain videos, right?
Those movies when they're like, you and me, we're not so different.
That's because they're not.
The villain is just like the hero, they're both focused on the same f***ed up toxic s***.
It's bouncing around their heads, pretty much the same.
They're in the same universe, they're barely even opposing forces.
The hero is just the guy who hasn't f***ed up yet, and then become the enemy of the public,
and then turn villain by the public.
That's how easy it is.
His smugness continued into the drama, as noticed his videos would have some titles
to imply he'd be revealing something, and then boom, he'd hit you with 15 minutes
of unrelated codswallop or existential bollocks, or more of the same stuff that would just
vaguely call out people in an attempt to discredit them, while not actually saying anything of
real substance.
Sup y'all, I have become the bread and butter of a lot of people's dopamine kicks and their
actual income.
My favourite video prior to the meltdown, though, is one by the name of It's Over,
a more direct response to some of the allegations.
He once again picks out various posts that weren't really representative of people's
interests, speaks in a very general language, and including my favourite, if we were guilty
we'd be in jail defence, which is an interesting one for sure.
It's like I said, if the things that people said about Kai were true, then he would be
in jail.
It's so easy, just walk into the police station, you have, you know, something that's open
and closed, obvious, right, allegedly, so, and I feel like, you know, Kai's been proven
innocent, yet nobody cares, and the proof of innocence is the fact that you have someone
who open and closed said a horrible crime occurred, and said that they actually went
to court, their friend said they went to court, and yet Kai remains a free person after they
actually went to court.
He does show some evidence in this video, but I think he actually sneakily twists things
around.
For example, he talks about one person who was caught lying and doing illegal drugs,
seemingly referring to Billy, but then shows screenshots which were dated around 2012,
far before Billy, and therefore that must be Shiloh.
He then follows that up with his comment and corroborating evidence,
Another person was broken up with for literally taking money from me to survive in Canada
while actively sleeping with another person that I didn't know about, and they got pregnant
with that person's baby, okay, so I was like funding their livelihood, and they were actively,
like that's another reason I dumped somebody.
This is obviously a reference to Shiloh again, so he's just shown evidence that twice makes
a case against Shiloh, but acted like he's spoken about two different people, thus trying
to create this sentiment that he's got tons of evidence against so many people, against
all of his accusers, when really he's just challenging one of many.
I will say that the whole payment charade is a bit of an annoyance, but at the same
time Shiloh had already admitted this, and I think many people were aware that she hadn't
paid Greg.
You can argue whether that was the right thing to do or not, but I don't think it necessarily
compromises the claims of mental attrition that Shiloh had been asserting, although Greg
seems to think it does.
I personally disagree, I personally believe that Greg invested monetarily into these people
to create that sense of loyalty, as if he deserved something back, and I think with
the living hell that Shiloh appeared to go through, he got it back.
As for his other accusers, well, Greg isn't legally allowed to talk to them due to NDAs.
This isn't impossible, as he has tried to have other people sign NDAs, but then he really
should sue, that's what NDAs are for.
There's a legal agreement with someone that I can't talk about why I dumped them, that's
why I haven't talked about a lot of things, it's because I actually respect legal agreements
in that regard, so I can't talk about that other reason, but I also, you know, there's
other reasons.
Unfortunately, some people don't respect those agreements, and it's weird, because if they
don't respect a legal agreement, you know, where they publicly acknowledge something
was signed, how can you respect anything they say, something that they admit to having
agreed to, which, you know, if you've ever seen Judge Judy, all you have to do is admit
it happened, and then it becomes valid, like, have you ever heard of a verbal contract?
If you admit to making even a verbal contract, you could be held accountable in court.
But he's not actually going to be suing anyone, because he's not that kind of guy.
Good old gracious Greg doesn't do it for the money, despite asking thousands of dollars
just for an interview with a news outlet, and making copyright claims on multiple videos,
but we don't talk about those examples.
However, speaking about copyright claims, he bites back against those as well.
Let me talk about copyright claims.
So there was this chick who said that she was pursuing me for copyright claims.
She was very upset, because she got copyright claims on a video where I think two or three
of my songs were in it, maybe less, maybe more, but she said she was going to sue me.
And so she took your guys' money, and she flew out here, and she went to a concert,
and then she went home.
That's the story I was told.
That's how serious the people are who talk about copyright claims and me.
You have a person who literally took part in literal fraud right in front of you, and
yet claiming to be the hero.
So he's suggesting here that the point about copyright claims are invalid because people
got scammed by another person using that talking point.
No.
No, Greg.
It does not invalidate it at all.
There are crappy people around.
Doesn't mean you have a right to be claiming videos unjustly, which is what you have been
doing, I must add.
Onision regularly reiterates that these situations are quote, one of many examples, and yet it's
hard to think in multiple instances of any other clear examples that prove his point,
anything that can build on what he's trying to prove.
He also accepts Sarah's invitation to use various posts of information against her,
and trying to use it to once again invalidate these claims.
And that's what's interesting, is nobody respects or, you know, sees the fact that
I actually obey the law.
Like, you got a list of people who, you know, take part in doing illegal drugs, committing
crimes in general, uh, like fraud, and they do all these things, and yet they wind up
being the heroes, which is a mind-boggling thing to me.
Guys, isn't it amazing?
All these people doing drugs, and yet I'm being called a child groomer, whoo, doesn't
quite logically stack up, and with mine to my previous video, it seems possible that
you deliberately coerce people into these positions to use it against them in the future,
but I think that ploy is becoming very transparent now.
Throughout the rest of this video, he mainly shows screenshots only from Shiloh, from around
2012.
He rebuts a couple other claims, such as the idea that he looked up Netjunator's photos,
which he said was public content anyway, I still find it kinda weird he made that whole
video about her, but he ultimately finishes stating that he's not controlling, not oppressive,
but he is manipulative, and do you know why he's manipulative?
Because everyone is manipulative.
Manipulative, everyone is manipulative, everyone, and you guys don't realize it, but you are.
You're manipulative in the way that you take a position on anything.
For instance, if you are a supporter of Trump, you will automatically view facts as different
than everyone else, because you have that bias.
Bias makes us manipulative.
But I feel like I'm dealing with a bunch of people who just wanna see me fail, so they're
not gonna hear anything I just said.
They're just gonna hear the part where I say, everyone's manipulative, and they're gonna
be like, oh, well, he admits it, he's manipulative, and it doesn't become a human conversation,
it just maintains as a ridiculous, outraged culture, reactional thing.
Well, let's keep that in mind as we go into the next part.
It's Over was mainly a video aimed at attacking Shiloh for some nondescript reason.
Even when he's dealing with other allegations such as the ones that Kaiser Groomer, most
notably advocated by Sarah, he immediately turns it on Shiloh, and about her fake miscarriage.
I'm not gonna defend those actions, I'd argue that such behaviour could cause a lot of upset,
but once again, as a response, it's logically ineffective, first because Shiloh was clearly
mentally unstable at that point, and this was less than a whole month after the whole
Shiloh Forgot Me debacle in which you highlighted how unstable she was, and that doesn't really
change the reliability of a modern day accusation, other than the fact that she may misremember
it, it certainly doesn't affect her credibility as a proponent, in spite of the claims that
she is a quote self-admitted pathological liar, something that I found very little evidence
of, bar your own math, and secondly, and most importantly, because Shiloh isn't even the
main proponent of this narrative.
But ultimately, what I think sums up this video best, is this scrappily organised point,
where he talks about someone sending an email to Kai, warning him about Greg, but then shows
an image which I think is meant to be an email from someone attacking Shiloh, he obviously
forgets to censor her name once, despite doing it throughout the rest of the email, oopsie,
I don't even know what he's on at this point. This is the sort of explanation that
Onision knew would only fly with the loyalists, but those were the people he was appealing
to, he didn't even expect viewers to read the damn text. Onision was smug as all hell,
his responses were rubbish, but they showed an arrogance that he felt untouchable, and
he was allowed to be slightly sloppy on the details as long as people didn't care, he'd
do these mocking tweets of Chris Hansen, he was provoking people, and they reacted, however
as noted, the attention was slightly more committed at this time, and our good friend
Sir Onion was about to be taken down a peg.
This all started on the 21st of November, when he was informed that he was under investigation
from the FBI, he uploads a video basically having a meltdown, it's just him falling
apart on camera, making nonsensical comments, personally speaking, it's not the most enjoyable
watch.
Now we'll talk about legality in due time, but there is a more pressing situation to
talk about, and that was obviously the fall of his Patreon. Onision was still making a
decent amount of money from his Patreon, most likely from people who had forgotten
to stop donating, maybe some people had died, I don't know, he's been on the platform
long enough, but whatever, that paywall was a significant power play that enabled him
to make content and control a narrative in a place where he wasn't as wildly hated,
it also gave him a small amount of individuals who were more devoted for him. This was probably
what made him so chipper, that thought of constant income, however with the public pressure
and the serious authority behind this public pressure, Onion Man should have been a little
more careful. Why is this? Well apparently on the 24th of November, he decided that it
would be a good idea to post text from Billy. Okay, well it's been a fairly consistent mud
slinging contest between all parties, you can't be surprised there, so he posts the
text with the captions alongside stating that even if you were a liar, it didn't justify
his cruel behaviour. It once again gave me the impression that he was just trying to
stay one step ahead of the allegations while trying to discredit other parties, however
foolishly Onision posted an image that included Billy's phone number. Now many have alleged
that this was done to inspire harassment, and to be honest, I wouldn't put it past
him, but the tweet was deleted not too long after. Nonetheless, the post was up there
long enough for people to bring Patreon's attention to it. Patreon have a habit of looking
for a reason to ban people they don't like, and honestly, out of everything he has done,
this probably wouldn't be the top of the priority list for many people, however this
was the most concrete act of wrongdoing that Patreon could identify, and even though it
was on another platform who didn't actually act on it themselves, Patreon shut Onision
down, and that did not go well.
Onision Wow. Wow. Wow. So you guys are so into yourselves, like you are so committed
to censoring innocent people, that you're just gonna go and try to get my Patreon deleted
He very quickly uploaded this video called Wow, which once again, contained the somewhat
unstable ramblings of an individual who clearly was upset that his Patreon had been removed.
Now on principle, I would say that some of the rules have been a bit bent to achieve
this specific result, but as a component of the greater situation, then there's no real
doubt he should have been removed. Patreon was a real way that he could easily use to
find more loyal individuals, isolate them in the way he seemed prior, and he's been
called out for this again, and again, and again, and he has not learned, and therefore
they should be questioning his ability to hold the platform at least, and probably removing
it altogether.
Of course, Onision didn't really appreciate this line of reasoning.
Onision You tried to do the FBI, it didn't work! You tried to do the police, it didn't work!
So instead, he resorts to the paycheck, and you got it! You got it!
But he doesn't have to appreciate it.
As said, I'm unsure of the outcome of an FBI investigation, but regardless of whether there
ends up being an actual criminal conviction or not, does not mean no wrongdoing has been
committed.
I've covered many people whose behaviour I would class as rather inexcusable, but that
does not mean they've conducted anything criminally illegal, and given the testimonies that say
Onision has a way of working around the law, it makes sense he'd use this defence.
Onision's video itself is also interspersed with rather erratic behaviour, spontaneous
screams, and mood swings galore.
It's certainly a spectacle, in fact, this pattern of behaviour has been repeated continuously
in his uploads, to the point where various users have been setting up Onision Bingo.
Over the videos following the deletion of his Patreon, he documented multiple events
that seemed to worsen his standard of living, for example, Kai was seeking the dissolution
of the marriage, he was having to sell all his belongings, he was being kicked out of
his apartment, he was losing everything.
But why on earth was this all happening, and what do I really think is going on?
A large part of why I'm so active online is to keep the attention of others so I feel
not only appreciated but retain a false sense of value in myself.
In reality, I'm socially abrasive, emotionally conflicted, and despite my inflated ego, I
Onision is not a regular person, I don't think you need a behavioural expert to tell
you that, and his breakdown videos exhibited content that wouldn't be expected from a
rational being, however many people hypothesized at the time this was all an act, and rightfully
so.
It's purpose, though, is unclear, although some have stated that it might be so he could
plead insanity if any cases actually went to court.
Now I don't know if that was the case, but I had my own little theory for exactly what
was happening.
We have this situation, and we now know that this drama is different from the rest, this
one is having more of a profound effect on people's pockets, and that is obviously
going to upset Onision here, so the fact that he's pissed off is natural, but as noted
it doesn't stop there.
The one thing that Onision has always wanted were views, it's always been about views,
views make his world go round, and when watching this saga of videos, one clip always stuck
out to me, and that's the thing, in a way, it is exactly what people wanted, people
who are likely upset, angry, and indignant about what Onision has done want to see him
pay, and Onision was giving the people what they wanted.
For me, it's not exactly what I wanted, I will obviously talk about what I wanted in
due course, but I'd bring attention to the fact that many of these videos still managed
to be monetised.
Now, many of Onision's uploads since this time follow a similar structure, they start
off with him behaving in a relatively calm manner, and then after a minute or so, devolve
into this insanity that people clearly find the most entertaining.
Why is this?
Well, it's likely because if you submit a video for manual review when it gets demonetised,
the reviewers will not watch the whole video, they will most likely analyse the title, thumbnail,
description, tags, and maybe watch the first minute.
Of course, if they watch for an amount and see Onision behaving in a relatively calm
manner, they are more likely to leave the video monetised.
Also note how Onision was using vague, ambiguous titles, and not ones that are outwardly inflammatory,
giving the algorithms as little to pick up on as possible.
I personally believe that this run of uploads was a ploy to make money, that may not be
true, and I wouldn't necessarily urge people to say it as a truth, but I would make the
statement that with this in mind, it's still clear that he wants the attention.
In one of his videos, shortly after he claimed to have been kicked out of his house, he asked
audience this question.
What if I am mentally ill?
What if I'm sick?
What if I'm mentally ill, huh?
What if?
Okay, then you're making fun of a handicapped person.
Do you understand that?
And I want to clarify, I didn't find this funny, I didn't find this particularly amusing,
I found it rather uncomfortable, I think a lot of people did too.
I often found Onision interspersing this insanity with a narrative, one of blaming others for
reacting to him behaving in such a way.
Now for the record, I think you have to be sensitive around people acting like this,
but at the same time, this doesn't mean you forfeit all responsibility for your actions,
and if I aim to look at your situation from the most cold, detached perspective, the conclusion
remains the same, you shouldn't have a platform.
Onision also intertwines these videos with self-promotion and plug, such as Onisionfans.com,
which appears to be a redirect to the subscription page for Uh Oh Bro, another mess that we will
have to place under the microscope soon.
He mentions at one point he has a cameo too, which he does, and he's charging a meaty 60 dollars
for gigs on that, which some people have actually taken him up on. Delightful.
As you guys may or may not know, I have a cameo, and um...
This newer set of videos, although erratic, also seem quite organised, and with the intent
to promote his other content.
This didn't mean he was mentally well, it may mean that the problem still persists behind
the scenes.
In one of his newer videos, simply called Dissolution, another video that is still monetised
on writing this, he states that his husband Kai has filed for the dissolution of their
marriage.
It follows a similar formula, he talks about it, stays quiet for a bit, and then has another
episode in the car.
Of course, the document was completely fake, so that went nowhere, but suddenly he's sleeping
in a box with apple juice he obtained, then he has to stay in a cheap hotel, and then
he's in a cupboard, and it's all your fault.
So I guess all those videos where people are saying that I'm the final fall, and that
my life is over, and I've gone to a new low, and I'm so pathetic.
At the time, I didn't believe the circumstances that he was portraying, and I believed it
was an attempt in part to pander to the people who hate him, and in part to try and turn
blame and criticism onto them.
The interchange between this narrative and the insanity, which was meant to be the evidence
of his instability and his suffering, a lot of people were tuning in for that, but honestly,
with this all in mind, that should not be the focus, when I was watching these videos,
it was easy to lose track of what happened in the first place, but you go and look back
on what he's done, and the fact that he's lost his Patreon has to be somewhat detached
from his reaction, and people should make sure it is detached by not necessarily feeding
this content.
His narrative focused on the fact that people keep talking about him, and he wanted people
to focus on that, and how little control he claimed to have.
The general principle of proportional punishment is something that should stand, people like
to see others face consequences for what they've done, but not to an extent that may hurt them
beyond their actions.
I live in a tent, and you guys are sitting there going, we're so much better than him,
he's a loser, look at him, this helpless person, who has no chance of defending himself, ever!
Onision was trying to show the punishment he's faced was disproportionate, and brought
on by mob mentality and cancel culture, when in reality, all that he has lost thus far
directly from his critics were his Patreon, a consequence that I and many others would
argue is fair enough, and suddenly because he's losing this, he was out of a house,
his spouse was divorcing him, he was losing everything.
Some people believe this, but most people doubted him, pointing out the wetland environment
he was thinking, or the stock divorce document, so eventually in the new year he made a video
called Hi, stating that it was all actually an act.
He then made another video talking about how he wishes people would cover the real issues.
What you have here is cancel culture in a nutshell.
You have the source of it.
If you have an algorithm that promotes what people want to hear, and doesn't promote
what they don't want to hear, you have a propaganda machine.
You don't have a machine that promotes the truth anymore, you don't have a machine
that promotes what actually happens, you have a machine that panders to the most immature
and difficult to respect aspects of human selfishness.
We establish the idea that Onision has three main goals, to frame himself as the victim,
to distract from serious allegations, and to farm views.
Chances are he'll keep rotating these ideas while altering the tone and delivery, providing
the illusion that he is presenting something new, but I doubt anything new of value will
be said.
This is exactly how I would describe his recent run of uploaded responses, which is this endless
stream of content, where he talks very vaguely, splits it purposefully up into multiple videos,
and uploads it on a nauseatingly regular basis.
Many of these videos are practically unwatchable, and include him providing almost purely anecdotal
evidence and ad hominem attacks in an attempt to discredit his critics, while also making
some very bizarre comments himself.
So when you have people who are attracted to 18 and 19 year olds, you're talking about
people who are attracted to people who are at the premium age for breeding, and that
is on a scientific level.
So we like to social justice warrior shame people for being attracted to people who are
actually at the premium age of breeding, which is 18, 19, and if you want to be outraged
by science, that's fine, be outraged by science, be an idiot.
On top of the monetary motivation of so many uploads, and the copyright claims he can probably
file, Onision knows how to make an efficient response video, and to me, is purposely stretching
these videos to try and make his critics just give up on him, bring us to the point where
he can turn around and say, see, these people didn't watch my responses, how can they respond
to me anymore?
Fortunately, there have been people out there actually responding to these videos and pointing
out some of their problems.
Recently Onision made a video where he shows quote receipts, some people have questioned
whether they are real or not, but for me, I assume they are, because they're pretty
weak.
A fair portion of the video are texts from Sarah telling Kai that he's not a groomer,
which judging from the few messages that are dated, land around 2017, 2018, and the start
of 2019.
Sarah was publicly defending Kai at that point regardless, and everyone knows that, so what
is his point here?
I'm not entirely sure.
At one point he claims that these DMs are Sarah attempting to groom Kai, which I don't
really see and I've looked at it like ten times now, maybe it's because I'm on two hours
of sleep, I don't know.
He also makes a brilliant, fantastic point where he shows a message from Kai accusing
Billy of lying.
Here we only see Billy's very brief immediate response, and I cannot say whether there was
a more elaborate response that followed, at this point Greg then shows alternative
DMs of Billy saying she holds a grudge, before Onision then claims that as she's admitted
to lying, I guess, and given the fact that she has a grudge, she must be lying now.
Now you don't need a logical genius to debunk this claim, the average person lies during
the day, it's just people lie on different levels with different gravity.
The grudge wouldn't have helped, but a grudge doesn't necessarily mean a lie, and regardless,
Billy's claims were quite mild, probably the mildest, just about how it was a really
messed up dynamic, and how temperamental your behaviour was, where she backed up with some
pretty compelling evidence, more compelling than yours, she admitted in her tweet that
she wasn't fully in the right.
Yeah, you're going for her credibility, but I don't know what you discredit like this,
unless you're seriously implying that because someone lied to you about smoking weed, that
some evidence-based claims and some other rather mild claims are invalidated.
Not satisfied with one, Onision then uploads another video where he talks more about Sarah,
in between showing DMs that he claims as evidence against the notion that Kai sent news to Sarah,
which I personally find uncompelling, and using a Venmo situation in which Sarah was
involved in against her, which was quite poorly handled, to be fair, basically he gets really
mad, right in the middle, calling everyone stupid because Sarah's blooper video is
so clearly fake, because of obvious reasons.
You guys are so stupid, so so stupid.
You didn't even notice that her hair is a different length.
Did any of you notice that?
Her blooper video, which she recorded months after the first video, while telling all of
you that she recorded it the same day, different hair length.
How could you people miss that?
You are so stupid, and she's already proven without a doubt guilty of being a slanderous
liar.
I just wanna say, I am really tired at this point of Greg and his BS.
Firstly, the video uploaded onto Onision's channel clearly has a lighter filter, and
has light from a different angle which would explain colour differences, unless she's
made her beanie brighter too.
Sarah actually mentions this herself, in a tweet where she explains she added a filter
to hide the emotion.
It's hard to tell the length of the hair because of the angles and the fact that she's
changed her position with regards to the beanie.
Sarah's brunette hair comes round her cheeks, while the blonde goes down her shoulder.
This is recognisable in both the videos.
It's hard to spot on the Onision upload, and it's hard to see where it starts and
ends because of the lighter filter, and the fact that it's position is adjusted a little,
she's moved it back, but you can see it, especially when it moves.
Now, I'm not saying that this proves the video is real, but moving room, trying to
compose yourself, adding a filter, plausible.
Also, if we wanted to talk about receipts, because Onision loves proof, in one of the
first texts released by Sarah, you can see a cut off text where Sarah says she's having
a rough time with regards to making this video.
Once again, not definitive proof, but do not let Onision trick you into thinking this is
some open and shut case where he gets to be all mad at your gullibility when he knows
damn well the alternative explanations.
This situation isn't simple, he is trying to express anger to convey certainty, it's
textbook emotional manipulation.
This is not a gotcha moment, he is just an actor.
Listen, I can't respond to every one of Onision's videos, as fun as it would be, I'm sure
this isn't his last, but making other people out as bad won't make you good, and I'm
not here to argue that everyone involved is good, I probably wouldn't end up being a
fantastic human being either if I had to endure Onision, there are videos out there more focused
on his accusers, and you can make that judgement for yourself.
My main quarrel is, and will probably always be with Gregory, I even left a comment on
the video highlighting my problems through a throwaway account.
It disappeared immediately, I assume he's got a filter on, I do not know if it's up
at the time of recording, what I do know is that right now the comments left are almost
universally positive, so he's definitely using some sort of filter currently, and as
well as that, it feels like he's trying to keep attention on his other channel to
distract his critics.
What is he trying to distract people from?
Let's find out.
I do not expect to be embraced as if this is all okay, and my unhealthy social attitude
is somehow acceptable, it's not, feeling relief from forgiveness is for those who possess
faith, I am not one of those people, I cannot be forgiven.
I don't like what Onision is doing, even if I am sensitive to his mental state, I don't
think he should have a platform to do it, this doesn't mean I agree with everything
that people do in response, people should be relatively careful, for example in a recent
video called Baby Carrot, he rants about people who've allegedly mocked his penis
comparing it to a baby carrot.
Now this is a new one to me, but let's just take it for an example.
In this video, for a brief moment, he flashes his quote, baby carrot, and some people notice.
Now to be fair, the main goal of people who reacted to this was to report it for pornographic
content, which was within their rights, but once again Onision removed this very quickly,
and then, a few days later, uploaded another video where he complains about this.
Once again, it seems like an exaggeration, as actually, I couldn't find too many posts
about it, but I'd argue that these quote blunders are being done for two purposes,
firstly to emphasise victimisation, and secondly to make sure people stay distracted, because
although some people may take pleasure in his Patreon being deactivated, and all these
subsequent antics, they provide nothing of substance, and nothing that really aids the
allegations beyond that.
Ultimately, it does not circumvent the full problem, I do wonder if he wants people to
think he's losing everything so they take an eye off him, but that is far from the truth,
which is where we'll turn our focus now.
When I made my video around this time last year on DaddyOFive, I said what they'd done
after being kicked off YouTube was isolate their remaining audience and make content
for them on a separate website, it allowed them to still function above criticism, and
ultimately there was very little that could be done about that.
Now Onision being widely hated may be seen as a victory for some, but it also means that
once again, people can be easily isolated if he ceases to use platforms so openly.
For example, at the end of his videos currently, he shows this, an end card, with the inscription
of Onisionfans.com, in the bottom corner you will see some names, now it took me a moment
and a search to understand what these names represented, but they were the new subscribers
of Onisionfans.com, and by the most recent video he has a significant amount of names
on the end card.
Of course, in many of these videos he cries about how few supporters he has, but that's
certainly not a number to be sneered at.
Okay, but how much are they donating?
Petty cash won't make much difference at this point.
Well, I had a gander at this reward scheme after clicking on the link myself, and to
have your name in the credits at the end of a video, you need to be donating the equivalent
of 35 pounds a month.
Now 35 times to all these people is a significant amount, I must add a caveat that the number
of people included in the credits increased significantly following one specific video,
so I don't know if he updated it for that month, or if he just started including people
who were donating less, but either way, he is making a fair amount of income.
On his Discord server, the members rank has at least 50 people, and that's only the people
who I've seen online.
The minimum donation is 5 quid, so it's fair to say he's at least making a few hundred
quid a month on this medium alone, that's obviously excluding all the YouTube videos
he still has up and monetised, even the old ones which are still getting hits.
I'd also like to add that people who are concerned about the elite tiers may have decent reason
beyond the amount of money it makes.
For two tiers, he advertises one on one calls with the man himself, firstly on Discord for
those who are willing to pay, and then on Skype for the real high rollers.
You know the medium in which he connected with a lot of his former accusers?
Only highly committed fans are likely to be willing to pay for something as pricey as
that, and as mentioned, those are the sorts of people that Onision will be targeting.
Now I don't know if Onision is willing to take his chances at this point, but given
his track record, I don't think there's a chance that platforms should be willing
to take.
You may all be clowning on Onision on his main channel, but I don't believe he's
as down on his luck as he portrays himself.
I know it sounds messed up that people would be into him at this point, and even vulnerable
to his antics after all these exposed videos, but some of the most messed up people had
hordes of fangirls, you just don't know what people are into.
I think he wants to give people a false sense of security that they may have justice at
one point in the hope that the criticism, and the calls for YouTube to deplatform him
may lay off.
He thinks if he can portray enough suffering, then people may become bored.
I think that is quite foolish.
People are aware of the prime source of his income, and most notably power.
Even if Onision was making no money from YouTube at all, people would still want his channel
removed because it's not about the money, it's about the power.
Even the subscriber count, and the fans alone, will provide him with some level of that.
Many days during these quote breakdowns, he conducted these very casual streams with his
donors that are completely accessible at the time to the public, though they have been
privated since.
And although it's easy to frame him as if he's falling apart as a person, especially
with the recent deletion of his Patreon, I'd also say that by doing that, you give your
audience a false sense of accomplishment, when really, from my judgement, there are
a lot of exceptions here, and he's still using the situation to build something else.
And even if he has lost everything, then it should make these ventures seem more precarious
in many ways, because then you're dealing with someone who has much less to lose and
will act more desperately to obtain those goals.
Onision appears to be slowly closing off from the world, and granting people exclusive access.
Publicly, it looks like he's doing awfully, but if less people can see what's going on,
well, the problem is self explanatory at that point.
But I don't think it's that.
Don't fall for the bait.
This video has been primarily focused on his response, but I'm also telling you that you
don't want to become too focused on one element on this story alone, because you risk falling
out of touch with what he's actually done, and there are plenty of videos documenting
that, earlier instalments of my own included.
Onision had been invited on Chris Hansen's show, and demanded $350,000 to go on.
He also demanded $10,000 from a news outlet for an interview, and he's asking for a subscription
fee to be able to speak in a Discord chat.
He may not be here for a long time, but it won't stop him attempting to make a quick
buck off the attention.
Stay aware of that.
And with this in mind, let's move on to the next part.
When you're a YouTuber, it's basically like the most narcissistic job in the world.
Hey, everyone, look at me.
You have never, and probably will never encounter a more real YouTuber.
I've pretended to be such a good person for most of my life.
I've been trying to convince myself I'm a hero, and in reality, I'm just the most foolish
person in the world with a version of yourself that doesn't exist.
I don't really want to take too much focus away from what Onision's done, though it
is important to analyse his responses as well.
Since this drama has arisen, he has contacted various parties involved with the good old
guilt trip email, message, or Skype to explain in actuality how disappointed he is with them,
often speaking on behalf of Kai, too, who has been seldom seen since the initiation
of this situation.
It's the sort of condescension that pervades his attitude, the idea that actually, he's
so ashamed that people are coming at him in such a way, sometimes he'll be nice to you,
talk about a connection he thought you had, he'll even place himself under you to grasp
power over you.
It's an attempt to maintain a character that he envisions himself as having, this guy who
is in control of everything, who knows exactly what's going on, still under the impression
that if he can talk to these people in a certain way, he can make them listen.
There are so many responses by Onision at this point that it becomes nauseating, each
with their own failure to actually talk about what's being said and done, and that's because
the evidence is stacked incredibly deep, there is no real way you can respond without attempting
to discredit your accusers, to watch him flail in these responses seems to be some sort of
poetic justice.
What I've learned today, ours get away with their crimes in part due to people who are
too cowardly to report them to the police.
Your husband responds, guess I'm to blame.
Your response, I blame everyone who's ever been violated, not just on the violators,
but those who keep their crimes a secret.
You earned that.
Someone tells you that when people go to a specific location at a specific time of day,
they are always hurt, and you decide to go to that location at the specific time of day
and you get hurt, do you think it would be fair to say you were asking for it?
What about women and men who decided to go home to abusive relationships, relationships
where they are regularly beaten, do you think they're asking for it?
I'm sure there are a thousand scenarios that I'm not considering, but for all the ones
I am, it's pretty undeniable that they are.
When you look back at his previous comments, his strange tweets, his behaviours, Onision's
philosophy does seem to be one of control, but it also seems to be one where he speaks
ill of the people that he is controlling.
As noted, he has regularly spoken about how abuse victims almost share responsibility
for not speaking up, and now people are speaking up, finally doing what he has preached.
I feel if he was a man of his word, he'd have some grudging respect for his fate, but
he doesn't, and that's because he's not what he envisions himself as.
He's a coward, he's a money grabbing coward, in his head he might see himself as some supervillain
who makes people bow to his motives, and for a while he may have done that, but at the
end of it all, he's just a loser who pursues people who lack both physical and mental power.
Now he's putting on this show because he thinks he can create some greater narrative
about cancel culture.
There is little cancel culture here, Onision has continued to instigate in a way that will
provoke a reaction, and then frame it as self-defence.
Only a few weeks ago he filed two civil lawsuits against Chris Hansen and Repzion, the latter
simply for its continuous coverage of Greg's channel and Ms. Diving's.
Chris Hansen turned up at his house, and although you could say it was overkill, it didn't seem
dangerous.
These cases were obviously dismissed.
The strange detail comes about in the fact that Onision appeared to dismiss the case
himself.
Although there are theories circling around this, in another new video Onision confirms
he will be pursuing greater legal action against Repzion, I guess we'll just have to keep an
eye on him.
I'd also like to note that in Kai's statement, he says that Repzion has been harassing them
collectively for over 10 years, which would once again make Kai 15 upon the initiation
of this alleged harassment, which, although probably a deliberate lie to attack Repzion,
is unbelievably bad optics that backfire when you consider them.
Oh, and also Onision sued the wrong Chris Hansen.
Nice one, Greg.
I'd also add that it was funny he decided to claim all his insanity videos won't act
just before he filed the lawsuit, some real coincidence there.
Nonetheless, it's clear that given these examples, he will jump at any opportunity to
turn some perhaps excessive attacks into pure victimhood, and I would urge caution
with that in mind, for many reasons.
Firstly because, as mentioned, that is his narrative, there should only be one goal in
my opinion for his channel, and that should be termination, or at least removal of the
power to upload new content as it is.
That does not need to be achieved by harassing him, or anyone else, that can be done by making
a formal appeal to YouTube, putting serious pressure on them, and illuminating what he
has done.
Secondly, because in spite of his and Kai's actions, there is a family involved.
Given one of his clips has him shouting at kids in the background, many have questioned
his ability to be a parent.
Without greater context, nothing's going to be happening in that regard soon.
Thirdly, and probably most importantly, we do not know how far he's willing to go to
prove his point.
At this stage, it seems like he's trying to conjure up this story, and the moment that
people give that to him, then he could do something terrible.
Don't let him do that, and pin it on you.
People love to troll individuals who are widely hated, it's cathartic, it makes people feel
like they're providing some form of citizen's justice, but it's not conducive.
Don't let him compare himself to Etika, he is not in the same cosmos as him.
His victims have the right narrative, respond to what he says directly, bring attention
to the situation, remove his power.
I don't think Onision has a place on YouTube, from everything public, even the videos he
made public himself, it's clear there is something deeply broken about him.
From the 60 plus videos he made on Eugenia Cooney, to the documenting of suffering and
abuse within his own relationships in an attempt to stir up drama, to unlawfully claiming and
even removing videos that provide critical commentary on him.
It's all ground enough to reconsider his position on the platform, but the most prominent point,
and this is the one that I have stressed in the past, is the fact that as long as he has
the power, and a way to attract people who are willing to validate and defend this behaviour,
which although small is significant enough, there will always be people who unfortunately
allow themselves to become targets.
In the wake of new harassment rules, which in my opinion have gone completely overboard
in the censorship of content, such as Leafy Content Cop, and Yoko Naru's video vigilante,
amongst many others, the fact that YouTube, in spite of the almost overwhelming flood
of complaints and evidence against Onision, and how he has used this platform to obtain
power and use it in this way, the fact that they have the audacity to turn a blind eye
is unbelievable.
YouTube is still his most powerful medium, even if he has a fraction of the fans that
he had in the past.
Don't let him sucker a new victim in, because you want to protect your revenue flow, it's
not worth it.
I don't know what will happen by the time this video is out, if his channel is gone
then so be it, but the argument remains the same for anyone in this position who has used
their power to contact individuals far beneath their age and solicit activities that many
would view as morally wrong, whether he's legally culpable or not.
In fact, the only other time I have seen the channel shut down under predatory circumstances
was Austin Jones, and I'm convinced that was only because he was literally convicted
of child porn.
However, as said, Onision has a reputation for being strangely meticulous regarding laws,
now maybe people themselves are saying that Onision and Kai could be legally held to account,
and so I've decided to bring my legal eagle or swan in, John Swan, to have a look at these
accusations and see if there's any chance of a case being brought against Onision or
Kai in the future.
Take it away my friend.
This isn't going to be a very popular segment, and that's because the things I'm about to
present to you are probably not what you want to hear.
This topic has been one of the most stressful, aggravating and tedious topics that I've ever
had the displeasure of encountering.
Onision is not a good person.
In fact, he is most likely a disgusting and repulsive human being who uses his position
of power to prey upon younger girls that don't know any better.
Not only that, but he is most likely an abhorrent but charismatic bully who abuses his partners
both mentally and physically.
In other words, a piece of shit.
But you already know that.
So when is he going to jail?
Uh, yeah.
About that.
I want to preface this segment by making it clear that I do not support Onision in any
way, shape or form.
I'm going to be critical of Chris Hansen and the way that he's gone about his investigation
throughout this segment, but being critical of the way an investigation has been carried
out is not the same as supporting Onision.
I just want to clarify something before we start.
People have constantly been framing Onision as a groomer.
Okay, groomer has been a popular response to his tweets, but unlike the UK, Australia
and many countries in Europe, grooming is not a crime in the US.
It is perfectly acceptable for a 16 year old to move in with a 30 year old, not to have
any sexual relations and to have sex with them on the day after they turn 18.
It's really bloody creepy, but it's perfectly legal.
You need something a lot more substantial than that to get a conviction.
Throughout this segment, I want to put focus on one word in particular, evidence.
To convict anyone of any crime, you need a lot of evidence.
Evidence is sometimes hard to come by because it can't just be a person saying what happened.
That's not evidence.
That's a testimony.
And in order for a testimony to be proven accurate, correct and admissible, there needs
to be cold hard proof to back it up.
So where is the proof?
Now if you've been following this situation, your mind likely went straight towards Shiloh,
who allegedly has videos archived originally uploaded on Onision's channel, documenting
Onision's abuse towards her.
Any competent criminal defense lawyer would have many things to say about these videos
being admissible in court.
First of all, there's the issue of Onision's content itself.
Much of it is not to be taken seriously and could be classified as satire.
So why would these clips be any different?
At the end of the day, it's just one person's word against another.
That's not to say I don't believe Shiloh, but I'm trying to be fully objective here,
erring on the side of caution, because that will be the lens of the court system looks
at this from.
Courts generally err on the side of caution when it comes to making decisions, since they
don't want to hand out a wrongful conviction, and I'll try my best to maintain that position
throughout this segment.
Anyway, back to the videos.
So there's the problem of Onision's backlog mostly consisting of content that is satire,
but then there's also the logical arguments to be made.
If these were legitimate clips of Onision abusing Shiloh, why would he upload them for
millions of people to see?
It just makes no sense to the outside world.
The courts don't care if Onision is apparently insane, he doesn't have any medical diagnoses,
and a psychological assessment will likely bring back results that he is just a normal
functioning human being.
However insane Onision might be, I have no doubt in my mind that he is capable of acting
completely sane and more than able to fool any surface level psychological assessment
that might go on when going through the court system.
So all in all what I'm saying is that these videos will likely not be admissible in court
due to the nature of them and the content surrounding them, so we'll definitely need
a bit more than this if we are going to convict Onision of anything.
A better chance to get him on in regards to Shiloh would be under statutory rape.
Shiloh has stated that Onision had sex with her when she was 16.
According to her, he travelled to her state, Pennsylvania with the age of consent at 16,
he booked a hotel room, and they had sex.
This is illegal under Title 18 of the U.S. Code, Section 2422, Coercion and Enticement,
which carries a maximum jail sentence of 10 years or 20 years depending on the crime.
This sexual relationship is also illegal under Pennsylvania's age of consent laws.
In this state, two people between the age of 16 and 17 can consent to have sex with
each other, but not to someone aged 18 or older.
So if this happened, there are two counts to get him on, but there's just a slight
issue here.
Onision said it didn't happen.
So how do you prove it did?
CCTV footage of the supposed hotel would be long overwritten by now.
You could show evidence in the form of text messages that Onision was arranging for sex
at a hotel, but they would have to be able to be verified.
Does Shiloh even still have the phone?
If she doesn't, most phone companies wouldn't keep her back up, and even if they did, would
probably not comply with the FBI as Apple has done in the past.
Screenshots are not enough, given how easy it is to fake messages in Photoshop nowadays.
You can even hack into phones to make a text say whatever you want to say.
With Android, it's extraordinarily easy.
With Apple, it's a bit harder, but not impossible.
If both the recipients were using iPhone, they would automatically be using iMessage,
which is encrypted on both ends, meaning that not even Apple can read the messages.
The same goes for WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger, and Kik claims they delete messages as soon
as they're sent, so subpoenas of these apps is not an option.
I'm not sure what phone Shiloh had at the time, but any criminal defense lawyer would
have a field day with all these discrepancies.
I could go on more, but I'm not going to bore you with the details.
At the end of the day, it's Onision's word against Shiloh's.
The fact that Shiloh has a history of mental illness probably doesn't help her case either.
Any criminal defense lawyer would argue that if Shiloh is not in the best of state when
talking with Onision, that her evidence and statements should hold much less weight in
court or even that her statements should not be heard at all.
Again, I'm sorry if I'm being cynical, but I'm erring on the side of caution here.
You really need something super duper daring to get a jury to achieve a unanimous verdict
in court.
So I'm just trying to put all these accounts under scrutiny.
A lot of Chris Hansen's investigation had more to do with Kai than it did with Onision.
Sarah's argument in relation to Onision had to do with him grooming her, which isn't illegal
as I stated before.
I've seen the argument of power of attorney thrown around a lot.
That is, Onision couldn't have sexual relations with Sarah, even though she was within the
age of consent at the time because he provided for her.
He put the food on the table and in many respects, he was her legal guardian of sorts.
Now the issue with this argument is the power of attorney stops becoming a valid point when
you turn 18.
When you're 18, you're an adult and you can make your own decisions.
For example, a teacher is said to have power of attorney over a student in school.
In many states, it is illegal for someone who has power of attorney to have sexual relations
with someone who is under the age of 18, even though both parties may be within the age
of consent.
But when you turn 18, you can have sex with anyone you like, including teachers at your
school.
Is it creepy?
Yes.
Will that teacher lose their license?
Yes.
But is it illegal?
Not in criminal court, maybe in civil court under malpractice, but that doesn't apply
here.
So realistically, what do we have left?
At the moment, the arguments against Kai are looking a whole lot more convincing than
the arguments against Onision.
There have been accusations of child pornography specifically to do with Sarah that have been
thrown out against Kai.
Sarah allegedly had a laptop and phone originally belonging to Kai that had illegal pornography
on it that was supposed to be sent to the FBI.
Chris Hansen told her to send it to this guy, Vincent Nicotra, who's a scam artist and professional
cry baby under Chris Hansen's name.
Vincent had stated that Chris Hansen told him to await further instructions, but further
instructions never came.
It was just sitting in this guy's New York apartment for months.
Any criminal defense lawyer would have a field day saying that this evidence should not be
admissible for obvious reasons.
The amount to which this investigation has been absolutely botched is insane to me.
Chris Hansen is not the police.
Hell, Chris Hansen isn't even an investigator.
He's just an interviewer.
While his TV show is running, Hansen never did any of the behind the scenes work himself.
He merely interviewed the predators.
He had a whole team of professionals helping him.
And now here's this guy, which he fired and a lawyer accused of sexual assault in the
Michigan Supreme Court and also named in the center of a fraud scheme.
Good choice of people there, Chris.
Hansen has put a false sense of hope into these girls.
He set himself up to be the hero in this big story, the big man who is going to take Onision
down once and for all.
But I just don't think this is the case.
And neither does Sarah.
Because putting my faith in them to do it was not the correct move, obviously.
What these ladies did coming out into the public eye under all this scrutiny in the
world in front of millions of people must have taken some intense balls.
And they're all extremely strong for having come out with their stories against Onision.
I support the victims 100%, but that doesn't mean I can cherry pick the truth and tell
you what you want to hear.
I'm not going to do what Chris Hansen has done for months now and put a false sense
of hope into anyone who might have been affected by Onision.
Because what he's done may be disgusting, repulsive and creepy, but it's just legal
enough to where he'll probably get away with it.
Sarah has said that she's looking at bringing civil action against Onision, which I think
has a much better chance of getting some sort of conviction.
But he won't be jailed for this.
He'll have to pay damages.
Still better than nothing, but if this happens, he won't be going to jail.
Just before I end off today, I want to present to you one more aspect surrounding criminal
trial that you might not be aware of.
In order to have a successful trial, a jury needs to be unbiased according to the Sixth
Amendment.
There have been situations where a case has been thrown out completely due to a jury not
being able to be unbiased, perhaps in the case of significant media attention.
We live in a very interesting time with online media.
In the past, restrictions have been put on newspapers and TV in certain situations to
prevent a jury from being biased.
Just recently in Australia, newspapers and TV were banned from reporting on the conviction
of Cardinal Pell, as the case was still ongoing.
This has happened in the US before, and it's not out of the question that it might happen
with Onision if he does go to trial.
But the internet is not able to be controlled so easily.
With the internet becoming the new place where people are consuming their news and entertainment,
the dangers of influencing a jury begin to increase.
This is certainly a bit of a stretch, but it's important to consider that while reporting
on Onision's actions may assist in bringing his actions to light, it may also hinder civil
processes, and that is something we all have to keep in mind going forward.
I owe it to you, but I have some unfinished business here, so I suggest we round this up.
As noted, there is no guarantee that there will be legal ramifications facing Onision.
There may be more evidence, and that may alter the likelihood of any legal cases, but certain
individuals saying that others should be calling the police rather than making these videos
on it seem to have a bizarre grasp on the situation.
A lot of what Onision's been accused of doing isn't a black and white legal question.
A lot of the points regarding grooming aren't things that he's necessarily going to be convicted
of, and that's the way the law operates, on the steepest burden of proof, rightfully so must I add.
I will also add that when dealing with criminal evidence, the first thing you should do is
go to the police, but I will clarify it, I don't think a lot of what we're dealing with
today makes him a criminal, I just think they make him an unequivocally terrible person
who has grossly abused his power.
This is not exempting the possibility that actually legally incriminating evidence has been withheld
from the public eye, which would be completely justified, but he's a man who clearly has tried to
legally cover his backside, and we have to prepare for the possibility that he remains a free man.
Being a bad person doesn't mean being a criminal, but just because you're not a criminal doesn't mean
that you should have a platform, especially if you exploit the power in a way that a lot of the evidence
suggests that Onision has. Warning people who may fall for his mental tricks, and cautioning those who
may be romantically vulnerable to his manipulation is not a legal thing, you can't take out restraining
orders on behalf of all 16 year olds, you just gotta make your voice loud and clear, and hope they hear it.
Onision will continue to pull out all the stops to make sure he's not liable, as said, the gradual
isolation of his content is a step in that direction, but he also recently wiped his Twitter completely,
and he's continued to delete certain videos off his channel, often ones that on the surface, I couldn't really
see the purpose behind, but there may be something deeper within them. A lot of them have been archived
regardless, so there's not really a great amount of good in removing them at this point, though maybe he's
hoping investigating authorities will have a bit of a boomer approach to social media. Of course, it's not just
the feeds and the videos that make him liable, it's people like Kai as well, whose allegations definitely extend
into the criminal question, and like the possibly incriminating tweets and videos, Onision appears to have
deleted Kai. In fact, a police report was filed on the 22nd of November by a concerned neighbour who said
they hadn't seen Kai in a while.
Another report posted on November the 9th concerned a confrontation in which physical contact occurred,
which has led to some more conspiracy theories.
Communications, how may I help you?
Hello, is this the Gig Harbor non-emergency line?
Yep, we dispatched for them, how can I help you?
Hey, I wasn't sure if this was an emergency or not, but I would like to report something that might be an issue,
it looks like some sort of argument going down at a house.
Is this going on inside or outside?
I saw some people coming in and out of the house, looks like some sort of maybe 30s white male and a short-haired
sort of androgynous looking female, I'm not sure, and I'm not sure how it looks like a pretty heated argument
or whatever was going on, but I wasn't sure that it was emergency level.
Now, I doubt anything's actually happened, Kai, it's just very likely that Greg's hiding him from the public spotlight,
because the best way to deal with legal investigations is to give them as little as possible,
and that includes people as well, other than the involvement in the legal complaint against Repzion and Chris Hansen,
there hasn't been much activity from Kai.
Towards the end of December, there was a post on his Patreon, assumedly from him, stating that he would be taking a hiatus.
Onision is paranoid, and that shows, in a report that was recently made publicly available,
there was an accident involving his daughter, where she fell from the window of our house and cracked her skull open.
Alright, so these things happen, and honestly, it is really sad, but what was telling were the additional details,
including the information that while waiting for the paramedics to arrive, Greg decided to film the aftermath of the accident.
Now, if that raises your eyebrows, then understandable, as it raised the eyebrows of the police officers investigating as well.
What was his justification for this? Well, two reasons.
The first one, which I personally don't find very convincing, is that he wanted to record the landscape to provide information
for medical professionals so that they knew about the fall, but I doubt that.
What I personally find more plausible is the second explanation, where Greg states,
concern that he's afraid people might implicate him, referring to a situation when someone allegedly framed him for their suicide attempt.
Honestly, in spite of the lack of sense this argument makes, I find it more likely that he probably viewed it from that perspective
at the time he was worried that someone would blame him, given the nature of the internet currently, everyone does indeed hate him.
I must clarify that just by filming the aftermath does not mean that you couldn't have committed a crime,
although I personally don't believe he did, it seems slightly irresponsible that if the parents acknowledge
the child is prone to climbing a lot of things, they'd allow that setup to take place, though I digress, I do not know enough about that specific situation.
I must also observe how inappropriate it was that at the time he was due in the hospital, he was tweeting out various sexual content,
but maybe that was a paranoid reaction too, we all know that he's been recently trying to make his accounts so explicitly 18+,
maybe so he couldn't be accused of roping fans in with child oriented content before ambushing them with the adult stuff.
Perhaps with all these legal changes right now, he was worried about that too, though I personally think it's all a bit too late for that.
I'd also like to say that this is a very ill thought out tweet a few days after this incident, I'm not sure that's the sort of imagery you should be invoking, Gregory.
So with this paranoia, and with his bizarre reactions that it seems to provoke, he has had one more outlook that I think I'd debunk before reaching my conclusion,
and that is the hashtag satire. With his recent pinned comment, and the tags, it seems he might try and dismiss certain actions as a joke in the future,
and although there are certain things that you could explain in a farcical light, such as maybe his twitter comments,
a lot of evidence the stuff he has done to other people can't be explained as easily, because he presented a serious environment for many of the people
who are accusing him today, and the trauma that they felt is very real, that is beyond comedy.
I feel that he may be trying to shield himself from liability, and perhaps in the instance of legal prosecution, attempt to mitigate the sentence,
because obviously the sentence can depend on a lot of conditions, and there's a lot of minor things here that obviously wouldn't be incriminating on their own,
but when paired with a criminal conviction could harm a person's case.
Recently there has been this wave of narratives, I think partly accountable to the justified exhaustion of people talking about Onision,
and the overstepping of boundaries by certain individuals. They seem to be adapting greats, where's the proof line of reasoning?
The first logical fallacy in this argument is that I still don't know what claims they're responding to generally when they say that.
Where is the proof? There's shit that obviously makes Onision look bad, treating people horrible, but where is the...
I mean, a picture or something of Onision making out with one of these girls when they're underage, like where is the proof?
I mean, it's more...
Keemstar obviously clarifies here, for example, that it's underage making out, but for me that was such a small proportion of the allegations with so much more to consider.
If you want proof that Greg's manipulative to the point of false suicide threats, then there's proof.
If you want proof that Greg has used his platform to publicly shame and abuse people, then there's proof.
If you want proof that Greg hid a minor from the public eye and their own parents to then marry them, then there's proof.
If you want proof that after continuously reaching out to a person who is clearly not interested in them, Greg publicly stated on a video,
still up on his channel, that he intended to wait until they were 18 to get with them, then there's proof.
That Greg is abusing the Content ID system to copyright claim critical videos off him, something that I thought everyone cared about, then there's proof.
If you want proof that Greg uploaded over 60 videos on a mentally vulnerable anorexic person, as well as making claims they were accountable for the deaths of others, then there's proof.
If you want proof that Greg roped in significantly younger people for weird three-way dynamics, uploading it onto his channel, or using its influence to coerce and pressure certain outcomes, then there's proof.
If you want proof that Greg publicly posted people's contact details, then heaven help me, there is proof.
If you want proof that Onision lied while filing court order, there is proof. I could go on, and that's not even getting to Kai.
You can interpret and even challenge the proof if you personally question its validity, but denying the existence of proof is just lazy.
There's not some big twist here. As said, there's obviously certain claims that are harder to prove.
When I went over the specific underage making out allegation, I stated that it could not be proven. You can 100% make your own judgement on that.
I'm not sure that claims like pedophilia are true, and it's okay to have reservations about the case, but a lot of what we've discussed is hard to challenge, especially when a lot of it was on Onision's own channel.
And that is the second logical fallacy, to believe that the existence of an angry mob somehow implies that a person is innocent.
Mobs that lose sense of reasoning and justice are not good, for sure, and we've discussed that before, and people can see the problems with it.
But let's be real here, many commentators will be foaming at the mouth for Onision's copyright abuse alone if he was any other creator.
Criticise who you need to, but criticism of one side does not exonerate the other. Don't make that mistake.
As said, I think it's tentative whether Onision will actually see legal consequences for his actions, but he's not some calculated mastermind.
He clearly doesn't know his fate either, and he's doing everything to make sure, because he knows that nothing will stop him harder than the long arm of the law.
But as we know, it might not stop him. So how can we, and what is there left to say?
Onision, acting like I'm better than a lot of people when many of those people are more caring, sociable, and selfless than I am, or may ever be.
As said, I've only been able to cover so much regarding this interesting specimen, and there's still a lot deeper you could go.
But ultimately, what I want to do today was at least create a comprehensive case for why Onision's future on the platform of YouTube should be questioned.
Whether Onision plays within the bounds of legality, and even the YouTube rules, which I would question, there's a result that his behaviour yields which shows the consequences of his actions.
That should not be ignored. Obviously, the ultimate goal for many people will be to have his YouTube channels removed, and I understand that given how he has leveraged that clout to cause so much of this drama and suffering.
However, you also want to keep in mind the fact that regardless of what happens, even if you remove his YouTube, he will continue to persist.
All this drama has shown is that attempting to push him down brings him back more aggressively, in some form or another.
He'll move to a different platform, he'll change the structures in place to support him, he wants to adapt.
Plenty of people know how to loophole the rules, it's extremely important to be conscious of that, and the consequences that it may yield.
People just like DaddyOFive. Now, DaddyOFive was an abusive man-child with a victim complex, and he should have definitely had his child terminated.
However, I don't think he ever mobilised his platform to the degree that Onision does, and that means that even if Onision loses his YouTube channel,
there's no guarantee that he loses all the modes of communication with the audience that many people are concerned about.
Even now, he's clearly demonstrating modes to change in a way that protects his source of income.
That's the problem in many ways, putting someone out of sight doesn't mean they lose their power, sometimes it just isolates them with their victims even more,
so if you really consider Onision a threat, it never stops at him being held to account on one platform.
You have to be actively conscious about all platforms, I think that's the problem for many people, how does one stay focused on Onision's ventures?
After this video, there is a strong chance that I won't make another, and in many ways, you could say by doing that, I'm not exactly following up and keeping tabs on him.
I hope there will be people who do keep tabs on him, but at the same time, I wouldn't necessarily expect people to, and eventually, every topic dies out.
But Onision doesn't stop being Onision, Onision never stops being Onision, the only thing that may stop him is a criminal conviction, and that is not guaranteed to happen.
Obviously, I keep the option open, but I think you have to prepare for the worst case scenario, you have to be ready for Onision to wriggle his way out of this,
because that's what he is known to do, and that's what he will do time and time again.
I don't like Onision, I don't think he's a good person, I don't think he's an honest person, I feel that he's caused a lot of pain and dealt a lot of abuse to people who loved him,
particularly that of the psychological nature. Many of those people looked to him, and in the end, they went to him, with some going through Kai.
Onision was a creator with a lot of power, and that allowed him to retain a fan base in spite of the numerous controversies.
This time round, he was not so fortunate, and many of his worst behaviours were placed on display for the world to judge,
behaviours that now seeing them in the context of his YouTube channel shows his calculated and manipulative nature.
A significant proportion of the evidence is hard to see in any other context that may change people's minds,
and understandably, this has led many to call on YouTube to take full retributive actions.
I don't think Onision should be allowed to upload the content that he is currently on his channel,
and even if you think that he should have a channel, it's hard to see how these new videos are going to help him or anyone else in any capacity,
other than a monetary one. Of course, we have a strong suspicion that this is all an elaborate ploy,
which would explain a fair bit, to be honest. Although there have been minor victories that clearly irritate him,
such as the removal of his Patreon, overall, I still think he has other plans, and I don't think he'll be giving them up easily.
What about the future of his channel? Well, providing the channel does have a future,
he'll probably round out this rather bizarre series of content with a more serious video that will try and exemplify the meltdown videos as a result of personal persecution,
or maybe he'll go in a more insane direction until people stop providing the views they draw right now.
I don't like the question, how do I become a vegetarian, because it's like, it's kind of like, how do I, how do I lose weight, or how do I stop smoking,
how do I stop drinking, how do I stop beating my wife, or driving under the influence of drugs or something.
You know, it's just, it's really, really simple. Self-control. Why can't you? Why can't you just stop eating meat?
I'm telling you that you are an intelligent human being, and that you are capable of just stopping.
One of the philosophical dichotomies that Onision has preached in many of his videos is the idea of survival versus greed.
He believes the latter, greed, is undesirable, but Onision himself is merely greed masquerading as survival.
He takes what he can get, but he can get a lot more than most, and if you don't stop him, he'll blame you, and if you do stop him, he'll blame you.
There is no easy way around the Onision conundrum, at the end of the day, we can best create a discourse on this behaviour and bring attention to it,
not just for the sake of the people who may be a target, but for ourselves. Do what you think is right, have pure motivations.
Onision is a man of many motivations, but none of which are remotely beneficial for the general YouTube aura.
Some of his motivations are sexual, some of them are monetary, but they all intertwine into the idea of power that he wishes to retain,
and until one deprives him of that power, he has a complacency and determination that means I do worry about anyone else who may fall under his grasp,
which, as shown throughout this series, is still possible. I don't think the results of that power are positive for those around him,
either they end up being scarred, or they end up like Kai, whose behaviour has been equally wretched.
There's no way to succinctly sum up everything I've spoken about in the last few videos, but I hope you keep it all in mind when arbitrating your opinion,
and hopefully come to an educated conclusion. May you watch some other videos too, I might. I won't hold it against you.
For now though, the best I can personally hope is that no one suffers on Onision's hands again in that way,
and we can all take a few lessons forward from this situation.
Life. It's a thing that happens to pretty much everyone in some capacity.
From the day that life begins to the day it ends, it encompasses an experience unique to that individual.
How that individual may interpret their own life is also something unique, but one really must wonder how Onision views his life,
when he treats his reputation a sparing second to the power that he's always wished to acquire.
In a video where he talks about his ascent to suicide, he says this.
On that day I made a decision.
I was either going to kill myself there, or I was going to give myself some good reasons to live on.
In my mind I pulled that trigger.
In my mind, the moment that gun was to my head, I stopped being afraid.
I stopped caring.
I've changed as a person since that day.
Because now I feel like no matter what happens to me, I made it way further than I should have.
I am just brain splattered on a wall.
What you are looking at is a talking suicide.
So when you guys call me brave, remember you're just talking to a ghost.
It might just be another disposable video where he tends to rope in people with false death,
but whether the story behind it is true, the philosophy leads me to a question.
When someone lacks the grasp of one's own life or one's own purpose,
where do they draw the boundaries of how they treat other people's lives?
Onision has never played the boundaries like anyone else,
never with the regard for those around him that he gives and expects himself.
There is little debate over a lot of what he's done, and how he's regularly failed to justify
those actions, but the one question I do ponder is how aware of this behaviour he is,
whether he does perceive himself as the victim of some delirious witch hunt,
or if he knows of his deeply flawed attitude and approach.
I'm not entirely sure, but his moments of clarity do seem to be telling sometimes.
Throughout this video, I've shown clips from a 2014 upload called Who I Really Am
on his Onision channel, a video whose candid accuracy I felt couldn't be ignored,
and I'll leave you and Onision with one more quote from that.
Onision- I could try to pretend things are different, but that would mean lying.
If the truth is your enemy, then your real enemy is yourself.
Thank you.
I want to give a big shout out to my Patreons.
My $10 Patreons are all up on screen right now.
They do fantastic work, thank you.
I need to give a big shout out to my $50 Patreons, Somehullabaloo, Nico Deschamps, and Caroline,
and a very special thanks to my $100 Patreons, Brandon and Stanton.
Thank you guys so much, really.
Thank you.
If you want to reach me, my Twitter is at TheRightOpinion, Facebook TheRightOpinion,
official Discord link in the pinned comment, and Instagram also there.
I don't really have too much else to add, I think I might go and fall into an eternal sleep.
So until then, I'm TheRightOpinion, and I will see you in the next one.
