Three months ago, we released HAI's Crime Spree as a Nebula Original.
It was something experimental and risky—a live-action travel competition show where
instead of contestants traveling to the competitions, travel was the competition.
We loved making it, but we didn't know how much you all would love watching it.
But the response was overwhelming.
From Reddit comments to emails to people coming up to me on the street, you all made it clear
that you loved it and that you wanted more.
So we asked ourselves, if Crime Spree was a show on a YouTube channel, what would that
YouTube channel be?
What's come out of that is Wendover's first-ever live-action YouTube channel, Jetlag The Game.
So this is when this gets hard.
We just got to win a race around the world.
Welcome to Sacramento.
We're here in Nevada.
We're in Kansas.
We are here in Milan, Italy.
The tour's closed in five minutes.
I'm going.
I'm pleading.
This is a lot of pressure.
This is the greatest moment of my life.
All right, let's go, go, go.
Oh God.
Oh, okay.
How?
The security's bad.
We're screwed.
Let's deal with it.
We've been out for a long time.
I can't even begin to describe how excited I am to finally launch this.
Each season we're playing a new travel-based competition game across new locations.
The first season, which starts releasing today, is the game Connect Four, but instead of connecting
tiles, we're connecting real American states.
Myself and Brian from Real Engineering compete against the half as interesting writers, Ben
and Adam, racing to state capitals to draw a card, complete the challenge it describes,
and claim the state.
Once we connect four, either horizontally or vertically, we win.
The first episode of that is out right now at the link on screen, in the description,
or at the little i button in the top right corner of your screen.
But the drama only rises in episodes two and three, so be sure to subscribe and come back
each week for those.
Then, after a short break, we'll release season two where we go international with
a brand new game.
To be honest, we've sunk a huge amount of time and budget into this channel, so it would
mean a lot to us if you at least gave it a try.
But I think anyone who loves travel and transportation will love this show, so since you're already
watching Wendover, this'll probably be for you.
Once again, just click the link in the description to head over to the Jetlag The Game channel,
and thanks in advance for supporting the newest addition to the Wendover network of channels.
