Hello my friends, I'm back from traveling around for nearly 4 days, and one of the things
I did when I was gone was check out the new Joker film.
There'll be some spoilers in here, so feel free to not watch this video if you intend
to go see the movie yourself.
And I'll just say you should go see it.
Alright?
The spoilers begin.
Even though the movie is all about the Joker, in my opinion the metanarrative revolves around
Thomas Wayne, the father of the kid that will eventually become Batman.
The film's set in the 80s, and Bruce Wayne is still a child.
There's no Batman, and Gotham's rogues gallery doesn't exist yet.
One of the universal truths of the Batman mythos is that the deaths of Thomas and Martha
Wayne set into motion a series of events that influenced Bruce into becoming Batman as an
adult years later.
The stories are almost always told from Batman's point of view, or at least a point of view
sympathetic to him, so we only really get to see Thomas Wayne in a positive light, as
generally a good father whose untimely death haunts his son.
But in Joker we get to see it from either side.
It's left somewhat ambiguous what kind of a man Thomas Wayne is this time around.
The mother of Arthur Fleck, Phoenix's Joker character, is extremely manipulative and abusive
towards him.
There's evidence that he's the illegitimate son of Thomas Wayne, but there's also evidence
that his mother is simply making it up to try and get some of that Wayne family money.
It smacks of Michael Jackson's own early MeToo moment, where a delusional fan accused
him of fathering her child and abandoning them, an experience that eventually inspired
the song Billie Jean.
It's not just that though.
Antifa-style riots break out across Gotham inspired by the Joker's activities, where
the people assault the cops and call the rich fascists and so on, it's a very eat the rich
kind of mentality on display here.
Wayne Enterprise suits kick the shit out of the downtrodden for fun, and it's implied
that the city's rich, the Wayne family included, just do not care about the rampant poverty
in the city.
So, when random rioters gun down Thomas and Martha Wayne, it's not really presented as
a tragic moment in a young boy's life, although it obviously is.
But rather, the logical consequence of letting resentment fester in a large underclass of
disenfranchised people.
A recurring message in the film regarding the 1% is, they deserved it.
On the surface, this portrayal of the Wayne family makes Joker feel like a piece of revolutionary
left propaganda, and you'd be excused if you thought this was the case based on my
description alone.
But as it turns out, all the usual suspects, the revolutionary communists, the Antifa supporters,
the SJWs, the journalists, none of them are supporting this film.
They all hate it.
They're either doing their best to talk about how awful they think it is, or scare-mongering
constantly about how Joker is going to inspire more incels to commit more shootings.
And that's really the linchpin in this conversation.
The incels.
Joker is labeled as a film sympathetic to incels, or more specifically, sympathetic
to shooters, because it shows how the shooters are created.
It's very easy for the radical left to simply believe that toxic masculinity, and only toxic
masculinity, is the problem.
That incels are stamped with the word problematic on their forehead the day they are born.
That it's something inherent in their blood, their DNA, their makeup.
That each and every single one of them is incapable of change, and therefore simply
must be suppressed with all the force we can muster.
This attitude can be properly summed up by Emma Gonzalez, a survivor of the Stoneman
Douglas school shooting.
Those talking about how we should have not ostracized him, you didn't know this kid!
It's obvious she feels the ostracization of the shooter that attacked her school was
justified by his behavior.
And I don't know, maybe it was.
But how much of his behavior was something innate to him?
And how much of it was the logical end result of a negative feedback loop reinforced by
Emma and others?
I'm not saying that the shooter isn't responsible for his actions, he obviously
is.
But think back to my video, The Tyranny of Guilt, where I put forward the idea that acceptable
collective guilt doesn't mean guilt along racial or gender lines or whatever, but rather
an extreme form of individual guilt where you wonder what kind of dumb decisions you
made that might have set another person on the wrong path.
Yeah, this is one of those times.
In my opinion this is also the central thesis of Joker.
The eponymous character is already living in poverty, he gets beat up by people around
him for fun, he's abused by his mother, he loses access to his medication because social
programs are cut, and he inadvertently starts a revolution where thousands of other underclass
people begin to worship him, when it really seems like deep down the only thing he wants
is for somebody else to actually care about him.
He is, of course, responsible for everything he does, but if you don't think that some
responsibility is also on the shoulders of those around him who mistreat him, then you've
probably got an ideology that you want to push.
The radical left views incels as an unknowable quantity, we cannot hope to understand their
thought processes, we can only destroy them.
There are incels in your company, what are you going to do about it?
If they're forced to admit that the incels are not born, but created, yes for the third
time they're responsible for their own actions, and yes, they also reinforce their own negative
feedback loops in their echo chambers on reddit and elsewhere, but also yes, society treats
lower class men like absolute shit.
I really wanted to avoid using the word society in this video, but it had to come up eventually.
If all of those yeses are true, then the social justice upper class would actually be somewhat
culpable for the problem.
That's the point of Joker and it's why the SJWs hate it.
Because let's be real here, at this point the institution is left wing.
The SJWs are in charge of a lot of stuff.
They are, to some degree, the 1%.
We've got conservative governments right now, sure, but a lot of corporations, especially
big tech, are swinging more and more to the left.
And these people are completely fine with Antifa's revolutionary eat the rich mentality,
because they still believe that they're not the establishment.
Joker is a film that shows them where that mentality leads now that they are the establishment,
and their political opponents have become the downtrodden, and they don't like it.
At this point the Antifa slogan might as well be, eat the rich until we become the rich,
then eat the poor.
Joker is a tale of a straight white man on the lowest rung of the ladder, driven partially
by his environment to commit heinous acts.
When things fall apart did this story for black people, the left loved it.
When countless movies and TV shows have depicted women brutalized by men and eventually striking
out, the left also loved it.
But show the male underclass undertaking the same journey?
Now it's problematic, both in universe and for what they fear it'll inspire in the
real world.
I don't want to make a blanket statement.
Some people really are just born so predisposed to violence and exploitation that there's
just no helping them.
And to be honest, I don't know what to do about those people.
But I would hazard a guess that that's not most shooters.
When you pathologize an entire class of people, regardless of their race or gender or anything
else, it is the height of arrogance to be stunned when they inevitably lash out.
For the long time, that was the left's biggest contribution to our culture.
Proletariat revolution, smashing the patriarchy, eradicating racism.
They're all different variations of an abused underclass of people, lashing out against
their oppressors.
But when it comes to the topic of disenfranchised men, that logic goes right out the window.
The only thing the radical left seems to want to do is continue the oppression.
And they either don't know or don't care that it's their actions creating the very
problem they claim to want to solve.
I'm just ranting now because this video is half scripted and half my impressions of
the movie if you can't tell.
It's a good movie.
But I don't think it's a call to action for incels.
Nor does it show the Joker in a positive light.
It's a story about how victims become abusers.
It's a story about how ostracizing people doesn't make them vanish, it makes them
radicalize.
And if you do that to enough people, they will eventually come back with a vengeance.
This is a story the left intuitively understands.
Because they tell it every time they speak.
This time around, they just don't like who it's about.
