The hot new term of the day is a radicalization.
Just in case you couldn't tell, that's a combination of traditional and
radicalization. Subsequently, to be radicalized is
basically to be radicalized towards the idea of a traditional life.
This is generally used in reference to tradwives.
A tradwife is a specific type of wojack variant where it shows
a young female wojack wearing like a blue a blue dress and she has you know
long blonde hair. She's very traditional in how she looks
and generally the memes revolve around her wanting to do traditional things and
have a traditional life. And she's almost always contrasted in
the memes with either a a soy boy male feminist
or a promiscuous woman. And some of the criticism coming from the social justice
warriors regarding the uh the chad yes meme and the tradwife
meme as they're as they're often paired together
um is actually legitimate. For example you know she she is wearing a style of
clothing that is you know quite outdated
meanwhile he's simply wearing a hoodie. He's not nearly as traditional at least
in how he looks as she is and you can make the argument that
well there's probably some kind of imbalance there that needs to be
addressed. A lot of the alt-right people who want
tradwives they're probably jacking it five times to trap porn every single day.
But nonetheless that doesn't make the desire for a traditional style wife or
to live a traditional style life um invalid. That's a perfectly reasonable
thing to want for yourself and it's also a perfectly reasonable
thing to not want that if that happens to be you.
There are definitely people who find traditional family values you know happy
and and fulfilling and wholesome and they do really want to have kids and
they basically want to cultivate this this specific type of life. And then
there are people who aren't cut out for that. There are people for whom
the family structure might seem oppressive because they were actually
abused by their parents or something. There are people who feel like they
don't want to have children because that's just not their life path. But just
because someone wants something that is traditional
doesn't mean that they're evil. And in fact we've got this article from the
BBC called why I submit to my husband like it's 1959.
And the twitter intro to this article is is quite interesting. We'll introduce you
to a tradwife a young woman who has chosen to be a
traditional wife staying at home to take care of the household chores while her
husband works and she is fine with submitting to her
husband as he makes the key decisions in their lives.
And the actual story itself is literally just like
a look into the life of somebody who lives like this and it's not all that
interesting because I think we all know how people like this live at least on
some level. But the blowback that this got was
incredible. Who needs youtube rabbit holes when you
have the BBC broadcasting literal white supremacist
propaganda? You know you know race isn't really a
factor in terms of the story behind that article.
And you really have to wonder what kind of headspace you're in when you think
that like your mother making you breakfast before
she brings you to school or your mother making you dinner after you come home
or that the woman doing any kind of domestic work at all
that that's white supremacy. I've heard the argument that it's anti-feminist now
for for at least 20 years but white supremacy? What happens to all
of those various families who um who are made up of non-white women who
do this? What about all those muslim families where women are forced to do
this? Are they white supremacist Becca?
Of course keep in mind this person here Becca Lewis she was the one who
who wrote Alternative Influence broadcasting the reactionary right on
youtube. That ridiculous report a couple of years
ago that basically branded anybody who talks to alt-right figures as
alt-right themselves. Like Ben Shapiro the notorious white supremacist
Jew or Joe Rogan or Sargon or or any of these other people
that are all just alt-right according to this person. However Becca did feel a
need to explain her position. For those in my comments who don't seem
to know so-called tradwives are white supremacist women who devote themselves
to domestic duties in the service of perpetuating the
white race. It is a dog whistle meant to sound less
white supremacist than it is. Again what happens when a bunch of
non-white women do this? I didn't know that if you take like two
brown people and then they have a kid but at the same time the
woman is doing household chores the kid comes out white. I guess race
really is a social construct but we really have reached that point of
madness where a woman who stays at home and you
know vacuums or brings out the garbage or or cooks or
cleans or whatever that's white supremacy now.
Any form of traditionalism especially if a woman's doing it
is white supremacy it's it's Nazism it's the alt-right.
Tradwives the new trend for submissive women has a dark heart in history.
A certain kind of housewife has found social media and is airing the details
of their fight with feminism but maybe they should tone it down a
notch. Oh really? So you crazies can post the most ridiculous
bullshit on twitter the most radicalized insane propaganda
calling for the deaths of your political opponents
calling for violent revolution against capitalism and the putting down of
counter-revolutionary elements within society but when a woman says
she wants to stay at home and make a cake or something
now you've gone too far on the internet. Holy shit.
Rather awkwardly for the British tradwives who like to suggest their
movement is just about dressing in a Kath Kidston
and letting their husband choose where they're going on holiday in the U.S.
and elsewhere it is very much part of the alt-right movement.
It is especially popular among white supremacists who are extremely down with
the message that white women should submit to their husband and focus on
making as many white babies as possible. British tradwives insist this has
nothing to do with them. Some even said this type of housewife
was promoted by the third reich and it's like really? I didn't even know
that. Yeah and Stalin and the communists also promoted
the the births of the working class as well. This is
not something unique to fucking Hitler and Nazism.
You know that Hitler was a vegetarian right and he liked dogs?
Are we suddenly going to ban vegetables and butcher all dogs in the street?
Is that where we're going with this? It is not a Nazi thing to promote healthy
families. It's a civilization surviving thing. Oh
hey Mike Struckberry. How long until your girl cheats on you?
What are you doing laundering the tradwife thing? It's almost entirely
associated with far-right groups and activists. I like
how it's laundering now. If someone you dislike has a little
thing, even if that thing is literally the family unit,
to promote that in any kind of positive light, even if there's actual
positivity to be found there, is laundering it. The whole tradwife
thing was only a reality for a narrow middle-class group.
The vast majority of women worked, the work just wasn't valued.
There's actually some some point to this. I do know that back when the 1950s style
housewife was was in full swing there were a lot of poor women who just
couldn't afford to do that. There wasn't enough money floating
around in the household so they had to get jobs too. But this is where the
feminists got it wrong. Staying at home and caring for the house
and raising a family, that was a privilege. It was not an
oppression. Women were not oppressed when they did that. Well maybe some of them
were. I'm sure there were cases where some women just
weren't cut out for that sort of thing and didn't want to do it and they were
forced into it. But most women, it was a luxury
to not have to work outside the home. Because working outside the home, unless
you're like doing something exceptional, it sucks.
And that whole the work just wasn't valued thing. Well
one, when poor women worked outside the house they got paid. So it was obviously
valued at something. And two, there has been this other
movement going around for a few years now
where women who are housewives say that they should be paid these certain wages
for doing all of these these various household chores for the man.
And it's like well that is what your your work would be valued if you were
getting paid. Fair enough because you know work work
done domestically it's still real work and it still has value.
But the reason that you're not paid is because the man is not your boss and
he's not hiring you. You're working together as a team.
Nobody pays me when I do my own dishes and nor do I expect it to be paid. It's
what you do to have a life. And that isn't the only problem with the
whole trad wife thing. There are some other ones.
I have an article out next month on the increasing expectations of financial
independence on divorce. Anyone who thinks being a trad wife
sounds good, it's not quite as good if you get divorced 15 years down the line
and have a limited earning capacity. I agree if you're basically going to be
completely submitting to somebody else and therefore you you you lose years of
your life in the job market and then then you're
you're behind in your experience you're behind in your training you're behind
in your schooling sometimes. And then the relationship falls apart.
You are in a terrible situation and I don't know maybe depending on who you
are and what your relationship is you shouldn't be putting all your eggs in
that basket. But at the same time this trad wife thing it is obviously for
people who are already stable. Like if you're not in a stable
relationship already doing this thinking it's going to get
better you know it might actually just make your situation worse.
But again that doesn't make trad wife itself invalid for people to desire.
But no it's it's all just white supremacy. It's all just
trans hating gender criticalism. It's all just something that should be in the
past. It's all just impeding the advancement of women.
If this is your fetish or kink or lifestyle then go for it.
But the trad wife movement is clearly linked to far-right ideologies born in
2016 to help white supremacists with their
lack of women. Yeah the thing is when you get like incel types who
actually experience a lack of women in their lives
a traditional woman won't help them. Because a traditional woman will want
but also require a traditional man to to upkeep the relationship.
And incels you know for for better or worse don't seem to be able
to perform those functions. Because those functions include things that incels
generally don't have like the ability to not be bitter all the
time about your current life situation. The ability to constantly self-improve in
the face of hardship. Incels might be crying about the lack of
traditional women but the very act of going on subreddits and crying about it
is not something that a traditional man would do.
But here's the really interesting part about this whole situation. If this is
your fetish or kink or lifestyle then go for it. Maybe for
some people it is a kink or a fetish. Maybe for some people it is it is like a
non-sexual thing and they just want to to have that life. Either way
this sentence implies that regardless of whatever pressures
social justice is putting on the situation
if you truly want this then you should be able to do it. And that seems
reasonable to me. But then you get things like this.
I said I wanted to be a wife and a mum. The teacher laughed at me.
Tradwife is a growing movement of women who promote ultra-traditional gender
roles. She says it's feminist as she's choosing
what she wants to do. This sentence is almost written as if
it's not feminist but this person is falsely claiming as if it is.
And that does seem to be the position of radical feminism right now. This is an
older article but it still checks out. No feminism is not about choice written
in 2015 but still relevant today regarding how feminists view the
situation. Feminism is back in fashion. As the push
to claim the f-word has intensified public figures corporations and much of
the mainstream media have propelled a largely unchallenging version of
feminism into the popular consciousness. It is a feminism that never mentions
women's liberation instead opting for a celebration of
choice. First of all the choice arguments are
fundamentally flawed because they assume a level of unmitigated freedom for women
that simply doesn't exist. But the choices are shaped and
constrained by the unequal conditions in which we live.
It would only make sense to uncritically celebrate choice in a post-patriarchal
world. Well that just sounds like everyone
alive. Yes we all make choices but we all have
constraints on us. Like you always have to eat.
You always have to sleep. There are certain things that you have to do to
stay alive. Just because your choices are bounded by
those realities doesn't mean that you don't have the
choice. You are literally arguing against the nature of existence.
Second the idea that more choices automatically equate to more freedom is
a falsehood. That is literally what freedom is is the
freedom to choose to pick what you want to do with your
life and your time and your energy. Yes women can now work or stay at home
if they have children for example but this choice is fairly hollow when
child rearing continues to be constructed as women's work.
There is insufficient state support for child care and childless women are
decried as selfish. What you're talking about are
social pressures and it is very common for people who
truly want something unorthodox to have to fight against social
pressures. That is in fact part of what makes the victory of
achieving that thing so much more enjoyable. What you are asking for
is the ability to do something different
without the cost of doing something different. Third the focus on women's
choices as the be-all and end-all of feminism
has resulted in a perverse kind of victim blaming
and a distraction from the real problems women still face.
If you're not happy with the way things are don't blame misogyny and sexism, the
pay gap, entrenched gender roles, women's lack of
representation, or an epidemic of violence.
Blame yourself you made the wrong choice. This is the thing though sometimes you
did. The pay gap. Why do women go into fields
that pay less? Entrenched gender roles. Why do women
desire them sometimes? Women's lack of representation on boards
or in parliament. Why don't women do the same things that
men do to get into these positions? Sometimes it is the case that you should
blame yourself because sometimes it is the case that you made the wrong choice.
It is not the patriarchy when you make a mistake but no the radical feminists of
today have largely abandoned the idea of personal choice and it is all about
power politics. It's all about doing what is
non-traditional to fight the patriarchy and women who actually try a traditional
life they are traitors to the movement. Even
though they want that and they've actively chosen it and they're not
being forced. Sorry feminism is not about choice.
Liberal feminism asks nothing of women and delivers nothing in return.
But that is kind of the point because the liberals only ask to be left alone
to have the freedom to pursue what makes them happy and fulfilled. But a radical
movement can't simply leave people alone it has to
radicalize them. It has to take whatever beliefs they may hold,
reinforce the ones that fit the radicalization and purge the ones that
don't. Why saying it's my choice doesn't always
make it a feminist choice? All choices are not feminist. Many a
times we think having a choice and deciding something is enough to make it
feminist but the truth is far from this. I would go so far as to say that radical
feminism was never about women's choice. It was
always about women's radicalization. That's what makes it radical.
And when those articles are the propaganda here is the mindset that it
produces. If you are a housewife or a stay-at-home mom
you have no right to call yourself a feminist. You have literally surrendered
yourself to the patriarchy. Don't speak up for us when you're enslaved to a man.
Real feminists don't welcome you. Y'all are fake feminists.
Real feminists work. Real feminists don't get married.
Real feminists don't give their life to any man. Y'all disgust me.
If you don't think this person's been radicalized I don't know what to tell
you. But that's why the term is
radicalization. If it's all just power politics. If you can't be still on a
moving train then if you're not being radicalized
towards radical feminism then you are being radicalized towards
traditional life and patriarchy and the total submission
of all women. To the radical feminists there is no choice in feminism. There is
only supporting the movement as a good proper revolutionary
or living your life as a white supremacist regardless of your race I
guess. But the truth is in the choice. I'm not
going to sit here and and say that all women if they simply chose to be
trad wives would be happy. I don't think so. I think a lot of them
would. However I do think that there are just some people who aren't cut out for
traditional gender roles and that's fine. If it turns out that you are actually
one of those one in a million people if for some reason you actually don't
want kids and it would not be good for you to have them
or if it turns out that you're actually just 100% gay or if it turns out that
you'd rather not be tied down and you want to
travel most of your life and not really live in any single city for more for
more than a year or something. If it turns out that you just have a
different idea of what your life should be then you
should have the freedom to pursue that. And in the same vein if you have a
traditional idea of what your life should be
then you should have the freedom to pursue that. And I think
deep down if we if we think about it if we meditate on it and if we're honest
with ourselves we all know what kind of life we want
we all know what parts of traditionalism we want to incorporate into our future
and what parts we want to maybe let go or or de-emphasize a little bit
and it's gonna be different for every person. I'm willing to bet that if most
of those militant political lesbians sit down
and have the strength to be honest with themselves they'll realize that
you know maybe they're not actually lesbians. In the same vein I think a lot
of people who really desire a hardcore traditional life
if they sit down and meditate on a little bit and they have the fortitude
to be honest with themselves they'll probably realize that you know
there are some things about modern life that are
you know a little bit better than how it was a few hundred years ago. And maybe we
shouldn't be so quick to completely expel
the modern lifestyle simply because it's new. I probably sound like a broken
record at this point but again the answer is individualism. The answer
is personal freedom. Figure out what you want in your life and
go and do it. And don't let anybody tell you that you're a counter-revolutionary
element or that you're a white supremacist because
you're you're acting traditionally. And in the same vein don't let anybody tell
you that you're a degenerate because you do something that is a bit offbeat.
Be honest with yourself and pursue whatever it is that will bring your life
meaning. And don't let anyone tell you you should
do anything else simply because of some political position. It's all bullshit.
