Here, let's start the new year off right by wasting time on Twitter.
OniNG, somebody who I look up to quite a bit, posted this viral tweet yesterday.
I wanted to start my year good, but this was the first thing I saw today.
And this is a webcomic by somebody I've never heard of.
We can just very quickly go through it here.
Here's a purple-haired SJW laughing.
There's a new guy at the store.
Oh, what's so funny?
Hey, that millionaire gamer bro douchebag totally got robbed.
Hey, how'd you like it if you were robbed?
Oh wow, I can tell we're going to be the kind of co-workers who become good friends.
Wow, really?
Hell no.
And the whole point of these self-insert comics is they have their self-insert character parroting
their philosophy, and they pit that philosophy against various strawmans like, for example,
the bald new guy.
But Oni's tweeting of this comic went viral because apparently everyone's taking new guy's
side to the point that the words new guy have been trending on Twitter all day today.
In fact, Oni even remarked on this, saying that he woke up this morning and new guy is
now a trending meme.
Oops.
And I guess because of my good friend and co-host Lilith Lovett's involvement in propagating
of the meme, Oni has now decided to follow her back.
I have to say, I'm kind of jealous.
Lilith, you should get him to watch our show.
But yeah, new guy has become the latest hero, the first of 2020.
And of course, he's being replicated in various memes like the Virgin Chad template, which
is always hilarious.
But I think it's actually important to talk about what's going on with this comic here
because this seems to happen a lot with social justice comic creators, which frankly, a lot
of webcomics nowadays, they seem to be run or made by SJWs.
I wouldn't say that they always do this, but the lower you go down the quality rungs, the
more likely they are to do this.
They have a self-insert character, like I said, that argues with strawmans.
But the first question we can ask is, why is everyone siding with new guy?
I mean, it's kind of obvious if you really think about it for more than five seconds.
This is somebody taking glee in the fact that a millionaire gamer bro douchebag got robbed.
I assume this is in reference to PewDiePie and having his house broken into and Marzia's
jewelry getting stolen.
That happened, I think, a month or two months ago or whatever it was.
And she's taking glee in this because, you know, SJWs hate PewDiePie at this point because
he's not willing to self-censor or be apologetic enough for what they perceive to be his sins.
And the only thing that new guy does in this comic is, first of all, in the first panel,
he wants to join in what she's finding funny, hoping that it would be a positive experience.
He notices that it's, you know, probably not a good thing that she's just baselessly laughing
at a misfortune that befalls somebody.
And then he's happy about the fact that he thinks he's made a new friend.
In all four of these panels, the self-insert, the one that you're supposed to be siding
with, is the asshole.
And I think that the radical left right now has this weird identification with evil that
probably needs to be discussed at some point.
Maybe we can do it right now, in fact.
I mean, you must remember this from a little while ago, right, where they said that Pennywise
and the Babadook are said to be dating and they've become LGBTQ icons.
These are horrific supernatural creatures from it or whatever.
I didn't see it.
I don't really care.
But the point is, is that Pennywise, at the very least, I know a little bit about him.
He's not a good guy.
I mean, he's like a demonic clown entity, but I guess because he's being shipped with the
Babadook, all the horrible crimes he's committed, the fact that he is a personification of evil
itself doesn't matter because he's LGBTQ.
All that other stuff can be forgiven, you know, because he's one of the LGBTQ tribe.
And in fact, when this article came out and when this this was shortly a thing on the
Internet, there was definitely a lot of association with Pennywise and the Babadook by a lot of
individuals who just seemed to be, you know, my team right or wrong, my tribe, my group.
And you really have to imagine what kind of person views this drawing as as their ideal,
or at least as their mascot.
You know, you have these these horrific creatures who have done unspeakable things, but because
they're waving the LGBTQ flag, it's it's all right.
You know, they're they're on side now.
This whole thing moved beyond stupidity into something ideological when when it chapter
two came out two years later in September of 2019.
And it turns out that Pennywise was surprisingly anti-queer and that the killer clown wasn't
the ally they all thought he was.
You know, if you had your head on straight and didn't just think of things in terms of
ideology, you would have been able to notice this.
You would have been able to figure out that identifying with something that is evil just
because it is like you in some superficial way is probably not a good thing.
And yet mistaking solidarity for morality is something that the radicals on the left seem
to do as a matter of course.
For example, back when Untitled Goose Game was was the hot new thing, this tweet here
went viral where it had the the titular goose as a trans person, you know, having a little
bow in their hair and and holding a trans flag and says, anyways, goose is trans.
For those of you who don't know, Untitled Goose Game is a game where basically you play
as a goose and you steal the belongings of all these various members of this small town.
It's a it's a funny, silly little game.
It might last you an hour or two.
The music's great.
The graphical style is pretty adorable.
But the honest truth is you play the villain in this game.
Now, you're not a very serious villain because all you are is a goose causing mischief and
mayhem in this small hamlet by stealing people's stuff and running off with it and dumping
it in the lake or or stealing their hats or whatever it happens to be, because the point
of the game is is to cause relatively minor mishaps playing as basically a mischievous
spirit, you know, a trickster almost.
You might laugh while playing this game, but you probably shouldn't think that your actions
are heroic.
That's not the kind of game it is.
And yet goose is trans.
You could make the argument that goose isn't good, but it's more important that goose is
trans.
Now, maybe you're thinking I'm just pulling all this out of my ass and you know, maybe
I am.
But here's why I think that there's actually something to this.
When the Joker came out, we got articles like this.
Joker is a dangerous film and it's bringing out the worst in the Internet or why Joker
is sparking a backlash over its portrayal of incel violence.
Now, I like the Joker.
But to those of you who were really in love with this film, I hate to break it to you.
The Joker was a villain in that.
All right.
At least he certainly wasn't a hero.
That doesn't mean that the people that he went up against in that movie were heroes
themselves.
No, pretty much every single character, except for like the completely innocent or uninvolved
ones.
They're pretty much all villains in that movie.
But why didn't the Joker have the privilege of having social justice warriors identify
with his evil acts?
I mean, if they can do it with Pennywise, surely they can do it with the Joker, right?
Why was Pennywise an LGBTQ icon and therefore all of his crimes were downplayed or dismissed
or outright ignored until he stopped being an LGBTQ icon?
Then it was a betrayal.
While Joker never got that treatment, Joker was treated not as a progressive ally, but
as a totem for the incel problem.
I think we can actually get the answer to that.
Not from it or Joker, but from Star Wars.
And I am going to have a lot to say about Star Wars in a future video.
So this is just scratching the surface.
But let's talk about this for a minute.
I can't believe there's literally an explicitly anti-capitalist Star Wars movie.
And these dudes hate it because women leader do stuff.
Don't tell random man.
And this is what I mean.
It's not actually about the identification with evil or the identification with something
bad or negative or whatever.
It seems to me that the identification with evil is collateral damage.
It's a side effect of sticking with your tribe.
In this case, it doesn't matter that the new Star Wars movies are complete ass.
What matters is that they're anti-capitalist.
What matters is that they have women leaders in them.
That's more important than their quality.
We saw this with how they rallied around Ghostbusters 2016 as well.
Or the She-Ra cartoon or whatever.
There's countless examples of this happening.
We can see that when Finn's actor spoke out against the most recent Star Wars movie,
the radical lefties, at least over on the trash pile that is Reset Era,
said stuff like really thought he was one of the good ones
and liked him better when he kept his mouth shut and knew his place.
These are comments that you expect to see from like openly racist KKK members
or Stormfront users or something.
Not from the supposedly anti-racist progressive virtue signaling radical left.
In essence, when John Boyega decided to criticize Star Wars, he had left the tribe
and it no longer mattered if he was good or evil, if he was right or wrong,
if he was telling the truth or stating a falsehood.
Here is the rule spelled out plainly by some Tumblr SJW.
I love problematic male anti-hero characters,
but there are limitations to how morally gray they can be.
Like manipulating people and toying with them?
Cool.
Massacring entire cities?
My precious child.
Killing the heroine's closest friends?
I love you.
I'd die for you, my small son.
But being transphobic, racist, homophobic, or sexist?
Nice knowing you, bro.
I hope you rot in hell.
I mean, do you remember all those years of Yas Queen's sleigh when it come to Daenerys?
Right up until she turned into a tyrant and then Jon Snow stabbed her?
And then the reaction was a mix between
Daenerys was never a feminist icon and Jon Snow did her dirty?
What do you think they would have said if Daenerys had actually been successful?
Because remember the rule.
It didn't matter that she slaughtered an entire city.
What matters is that her politics were correct.
When your entire life philosophy is based on rebellion,
not just necessarily rebellion when something becomes too corrupt,
but senseless rebellion.
Simply a rebellion for a rebellion's sake.
Or maybe rebellion not as a means to reform a corrupted system,
but to completely destroy it and leave people with nothing but ashes.
And if you're a postmodernist, that is likely your point of view.
Because the postmodernists believe that there is actually no difference between good and evil,
that it's all simply power politics.
It's just tribes struggling for eternal dominance, that all hierarchies must be corrupt,
and therefore it's best to have your guys on top.
If all morality is simply relative in the way that the postmodernists think that it is,
then it's completely reasonable to identify with evil characters that hold your politics,
because there is no evil.
So Pennywise becomes an LGBTQ icon.
Joker is evil not because of his actions, but because of what he represents politically.
Daenerys was a tyrant building the empire of the good.
And to get back to Oni's nice guy comic, our purple-haired self-insert character is good
and right and just.
Not because she's actually good, right, or just, she's actually the opposite of those things.
But because her politics are correct.
And the new guy standing in for universal tolerance is shunned,
at least by the comic's author, despite being completely reasonable.
And I am happy to report that the entire rest of the internet seems to see things the way that I do.
Because everyone's recognized new guy, despite being the straw man that the author set up
so that her author insert could destroy, as being the actual good person in this scenario.
Because most people can actually recognize that,
even if we don't have a good grasp of what morality is, and I know I certainly don't,
there is at least something that is objectively good out there.
I couldn't define it for you if you asked me, but I think I know it when I see it.
I think this guy might be part of it.
And so new guy is trending.
And just like Lilith, I am happy that this unintentionally wholesome character
gets to be the first meme of the decade.
Not only do I want this to be a decade of wholesome goodness,
not only in memes, but other places.
But I also want wholesomeness to be the thing that we use to combat
the doom and gloom of social justice going forward.
Because at this point, the only narrative that the radical left has to offer people
is that the sky is falling, even when it's clearly not.
But yeah, new guy's gone viral.
People are making comic edits.
They're making their own wholesome fan arts.
And you know, looking over these edits a second time now that I'm recording this video,
I'm noticing that the original author really tried to make him look doofy.
You know, he's overweight, he's bald, he has kind of a funny face.
And yet all of these fan arts, they don't hide these facts.
They just make him look as good as possible.
He's putting his best foot forward in each one of these fan arts.
Of course, I decided to go look up the artist just to see
what they had been saying about it.
And I am obviously blocked.
Um, I've never heard of this person before this meme.
I've certainly never tweeted at her before.
I don't think she's ever heard of me, but nonetheless, I am blocked.
Probably because I follow Lilith and Lilith was involved in the propagation
of the meme or something.
At the same time, this person's tweets are also protected.
Surprise, surprise.
Because when you set up a straw man in one of your own works of art,
and even your self-insert can't knock over your straw man,
and everyone agrees with the straw man over you.
Yeah, I can see why you'd lock your Twitter account.
Now, of course, you could have taken the Shen Comics bike cuck route
and used it to expand her brand, promote herself,
maybe become a little bit more humble,
learn something along the way.
But no, she's not doing that, in fact.
But instead, when she first posts the comic, she says,
Clutch's pearls, won't someone think of the millionaires?
And then when Oni decides to repost it, she says,
wow, my mentions are fucked.
I guess having a bunch of piss babies call me ugly and horrible
for the next few days is going to be a thing.
You know, I haven't seen anyone call you ugly and horrible.
Maybe they have, if they do.
I don't think that's right.
At the same time, it's not that you're ugly and horrible.
It's that you're mean-spirited and cruel.
Even some folks I follow are making fun of me.
Yay, that feels nice.
Maybe this is an opportunity for self-reflection.
I'm not even saying give up social justice or anything,
though, of course, you know, any SJW who gives up social justice,
it's probably a good thing overall.
But I'm not even saying that.
I'm just saying maybe challenge your own opinions a little bit on this.
But if you're a postmodernist, it's going to be very hard to do that,
because the framework that you're tackling this from,
as we can see by the content of your comics,
is that there is no good or evil.
There's only power politics, and it's your team versus their team.
It's the SJWs versus the white supremacy capitalist patriarchy.
And that anything that your enemy has that is good
must be defined out of the good category.
And that any evil that you might have within you
have to be defined as good because you think your politics are good.
That's the problem with postmodernism, and that's why you identify with evil.
And now that everyone has noticed you identify with evil,
that's why people that you follow are making fun of you.
I know it doesn't feel nice.
And I know that having some kind of self-reflection on this
probably feels a lot worse.
But you are always going to be the spiteful little girl
in this bit of artwork that you've created,
demonizing completely reasonable people,
if you don't go through a process of self-reflection.
And this is not just some armchair psychology here.
Look at how she replies to people with legitimate criticisms about her,
regarding this comic.
I don't know what your other comics are like.
I never even knew you existed until I saw Chris's post.
But honestly, I think he just doesn't like the moral implications of the comic.
I don't think he has any problem with LGBT people,
since he has friends in the community.
I don't hate you.
Her only reply is a sarcastic,
yeah, he's such a moral person, the next Jesus, really.
There's no self-reflection here, just bitterness and rage.
And just in case you think I'm also pulling stuff out of my ass
regarding the moral side of this conversation as well,
let me just show you two of our old comic strips here.
This one seems quite old, based on the difference in art style.
It says, jerk-ass coworker.
And the coworker says, ugh, I am so sick of all this politically correct bullshit.
Look at this, do we really need content warnings for pictures of food?
And then the self-insert, who has red hair instead of purple hair now.
She says, maybe it helps those who struggle with eating disorders.
The coworker says, well, fuck that, I'm not going to coddle anyone.
Our self-insert says, well, no one is forcing you to use the content warnings,
but what's with the resentment towards this thing
that is simply being considered other people's feelings?
And then this comic's straw man says, I hate other people's feelings.
The self-insert ends the comic with, and there we have it, folks.
Now, in case you couldn't figure it out,
this is a comic about people who are insensitive, rude,
and generally uncaring about other people's points of view.
Okay, fair enough.
Here's a second comic by the same author.
That'll be $25.
So what are you up to today? Anything good?
Oh, I'm just getting a drink with my girlfriend.
Oh, hey, I'm gay too.
So where are you and your girlfriend going to go?
No, wait, I'm not gay.
My friend who's a girl and I are just having a ladies' night.
Okay, well, sorry, but that is infinitely less interesting to me.
You can see that the positions and attitudes of the author insert and the straw man
have completely gone on a 180 between this strip and the previous one.
She has now completely gone against the previous strip's moral,
and yet we're still expected to side with our author insert
and completely disregard the previous definition of what was morally superior,
because her point of view, her politics, are right.
And of course, now that New Guy is a meme, everyone's blaming Oni for it.
45,000 fucking tweets dogpiling a trans person for doing fucking nothing
just because Oni NG thought he'd parade her in front of his audience
of 300,000 pieces of shit for a fucking laugh.
See, I have not mentioned in this video at all, up until this point,
that the author of the comic was trans, because it's not relevant.
And frankly, until I found this tweet that we're looking at right now,
I didn't know she was trans.
The fact that she is a trans person doesn't actually matter.
Being a member of a minority group, whether that's a racial minority
or being trans or being gay or something,
it does not excuse you from having a shit personality.
But to this person, only the trans thing matters.
It doesn't matter what she's done, it doesn't matter what she thinks,
it doesn't matter what opinions she holds,
it doesn't matter that she identifies with evil,
insofar as she dies in terms of this silly little comic.
What matters is that she's part of the tribe.
And these people inherently understand this, I think.
They understand that the co-opting of New Guy and turning him into
a symbol of wholeness or positivity is damaging to their point of view.
So, you know, this person says,
if I see anyone making a New Guy comic putting the New Guy in a positive light,
I am blocking them immediately.
It's not about putting the author insert or the original author in a negative light,
but putting the New Guy in a positive light is the problem.
The spreading of the positivity is itself an affront.
Alright, Miss Mallory Jessica Ushidas, I don't know you.
I highly doubt you're going to watch this video.
And even though you would probably hate me, I certainly don't hate you.
And I'm not going to pretend that you're currently going through a positive experience.
But unless you understand that on some level your own toxicity brought this on,
then your situation is never going to change.
I'm not saying that those who are currently dogpiling you,
if that's what's actually happening, aren't responsible for their own actions.
They are.
But you're responsible for yours too.
And this is definitely a reaping what you sow scenario.
I'm not going to be so naive to say that if you go through life offering kindness,
you'll just get kindness in return.
That's not how it is.
But I will say that if you go through life offering the level of nastiness
that you seem to have been offering throughout this entire video,
you will get nothing but nastiness in return.
And I don't know about you, but having bad stuff happen to you sometimes
is better than having bad stuff happen to you all the time.
