Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and Lil Tay. I don't normally go into such topics, I think it's best to
leave the reaction commentator to their own devices, but every now and then something
deeply disconcerting comes along, something that drives me to action, and today that person
is Lil Tay. Lil Tay is a child, 9 years old to be specific, she likes to make that very
clear in her videos, in case you hadn't fucking noticed.
She's an instagram star and basically posts a lot of videos of her gloating over her fortune,
and boy, everyone just eats that shit up. She socialises with rap virtuosos such as
Chief Keef. In case you didn't know, Lil Tay has a load of houses, and a load of cars,
and a load of money. More money than you, the viewer, yes, she be flexing, constantly
there to remind you of how inadequate your own life is.
On the surface it seems like another embarrassing new low for social media, but when I sat down
to think about it, many questions came into my head, many things that I couldn't shake,
things that I had to find out for myself, most people just point and laugh at their
antics, but that's underselling what's going on here, isn't it?
Today I will tell you a different story, maybe one of tragedy, maybe one of exploitation,
that many men dare not to go. When I started this script it was a simple concept, observe
and dissect the Lil Tay situation, however as I researched more and more, the truth became
warringly clear to me. Am I going mad? There is a 9 year old behaving like a stripper who
just cashed her first paycheck and people are going, huh, that's weird. You know what,
it is fucking weird. And today we're going to go into Lil Tay's mind.
Back a few months ago I did a video covering Wobe Vicky and Martina Big, basically explaining
why being transracial makes no sense, and much less sense in comparison to being something
like transgender. I gave Victoria here quite a roasting, and to be honest, she deserved
it. However that did not dissuade her, and 8 months on she's still wreaking havoc on
the world as we know it. I hoped it was a fad that would fade into irrelevance, but
given the fact that her and Danielle Bregoli have become the darlings of reaction commentary,
they have only grown in prominence.
Speaking of Danielle Bregoli, that is someone else I also covered, albeit briefly in my
video The Dr Phil Problem, in which I laid out the problem of using children's legitimate
problems for entertainment and posed the question asking if this is really good for them, and
like Wobe Vicky, she has continued to cause a nuisance wherever she decided to drag her
exasperating persona. Now I really should have put two and two together and realised
that these two young bucks were on a collision course, but honestly I just wanted to block
it out of my mind and never speak of these simpletons again. The gods however have no
mercy on my soul, and in April 2018, Wobe Vicky and Danielle Bregoli decided to have
a good bout of fisticuffs. This meant multiple orgasms from the reaction commentators who
couldn't reach for their microphones fast enough. These two females are desperate for
attention, and they will continue to get it, and you know what, I do not blame the people
who give them it. At the end of the day, reaction commentators, news channels, they gotta cover
what's interesting, and what people want to hear, and if they don't cover it, someone
else will. That's the name of the game, and really, although they played a component
in promoting the ridiculous behaviour, there's nothing new about that, they're just a response
rather than a cause. In making a video I have to accept that I might give them attention
too, I just have to try and make sure it's not the sort that they desire. The thing about
the culture that people like Wobe Vicky and Danielle Bregoli have created is nothing short
of a simple shock value concept, essentially human clickbait. If you were to have never
heard of these people, you would inevitably be as intrigued as you would be disturbed.
How can someone like Wobe Vicky claim to be black? How can Danielle Bregoli be so trashy
at her age? These are simple questions, but questions that draw in an audience. However,
when these simple questions are answered, people begin to lose interest, and therefore
these characters create new questions, and new ways to shock their audience that will
keep them invested. This has definitely been aided by commentators who find new ways to
spin these people's existence, whether it's finding out what Wobe Vicky sounds like normally,
or whether it's the influx of Danielle Bregoli clones that fuel the juicy titles for these
creators. These sorts of people are on a lifespan of fame, therefore it is necessary
that they slowly escalate their antics, and Wobe Vicky and Danielle Bregoli's fight
appears to be a climax in both their careers, however if you can't top that then your
career may quickly nosedive, and you'll be running on empty in no time at all. And
this is where Lil Tay comes into it. Squaring off with someone 6 years older than you may
sound like a fucking stupid idea, but not to Lil Tay apparently, who used it as an easy
way to platformer antics, and suddenly everyone was fascinated with this child. Why? How did
we let this happen? Well, my last segment wasn't just meaningless waffle, it actually
intertwines perfectly with what I'm about to state. What interested everyone initially
about the girls aforementioned is that they shocked us, particularly with their audacity
for such an apparent immaturity. However, as people become desensitized to that behaviour,
it will no longer shock them, it will become normal in a way. One thing that Bregoli and
Vicky cannot change are their ages, and have you ever wondered why Lil Tay states her age
so often? Yes. A first Lil Tay stating her age may seem like a way to emphasise how
successful she is in comparison to your elderly broke ass, proof that there is no justice
in this world. But I propose that what she is actually doing, or what she is being prompted
to do, is a marketing technique to ingrain the fact of her age into the viewer's head.
It's shock value, and it's working in absolute rights. One piece of evidence of this act
can be shown in her video where she visits Jake Paul, another role model of the internet.
The video seems incredibly scripted, and Jake Paul himself at points seems prompted to bring
up her relative age, as if it's meant to wow the viewers. Jake Paul, dressed in his
virgin nonce-proof outfit, even says in his most convinced tone that now he thinks about
it, it's super crazy that she's 9 years old.
This is some of the most obvious subliminal marketing I've seen in a while. It mostly
sounds like a broken record repeating the same phrases again and again, just bashing
in the two simple facts, that she's 9, and she doesn't behave like she's 9. She's
antithetic to what a 9 year old should behave like, there's your persona. Find what the
stereotype of yourself is, and go with the opposite. Job done, you have your 15 or even
5 minutes of fame. It's important to note that Lil Tay still has plenty of leeway on
YouTube as she hasn't really uploaded content, and most of it is on Instagram, on an account
that is managed by Miranda Cosgrove of all people. I'm not sure if this is a joke,
but I noticed that she ripped a quote from a Joe Wolfe song for her bio. Though she doesn't
come across to me as a classic rock person, what do I know, it's a bizarre timeline
after all. The other appeal that Lil Tay has is the obvious, the one that we don't really
need to touch on too much because it's basically been gone over before, money. Certain people
have a great preoccupation with regards to how other people spend their money, and Lil
Tay is no exception. Being able to flex is obviously going to attract her people who
want to observe the life that she's living, and almost put themselves in her position
in a way to recapture it. This is certainly not what appeals to me, but it's a common
internet trait, being rich definitely helps your cause. Lil Tay is another step in a direction
that only seems appropriate for 2018, and will be used to try and vulture into some
sort of mainstream clique. Whether it's a step too far for many networks is another
question, but I doubt that many companies will flinch at the opportunity to make money,
regardless of the moral questions, which strangely enough no one seems to be asking. But let's
ask some more questions, and see if we can deduce any reasonable answers.
I think the first thing is, why haven't we been more critical of her age? And this isn't
necessarily to imply that people have ignored it, but it's more been a bit of a joke, and
that's fine, nothing's wrong with a bit of banter with the lads. But it does seem suspicious
and not something that we should be endorsing, the only real issue is that we don't challenge
it because we don't see who is managing her, we don't see who is in charge. This brings
me back to an earlier point as well, she acts completely antithetically to how a 9 year
old should behave. This creates a seemingly paradoxical situation, where people are shocked
by the fact that she is 9 years old, but then go on to judge her on the basis of her actions
as if she were an adult. Just look at the comments, it also doesn't help that social
media acts as a communicative block to the facts that would appear quite clearly if we
were to re-enact these situations in real life. Chief Keef is standing with a 9 year
old, I'm fairly libertarian when it comes to children's prerogatives, but that's pushing
it a bit, isn't it? This also brings us to our next point, the environment. In the commentary
community there is a host of ages, typically ranging from approximately 13 to 40. Now obviously
there are some barriers within that, but if I were to present you with that scenario in
the real world you'd probably do a double take. However given the fact that there is
a behavioural continuity, it often doesn't feel like that, some kids are more mature
than the adults, people are united by the environment so nothing seems out of order.
Lillte utilises these points, firstly she is placed in strictly adult situations and
therefore although her age may stand out it doesn't create an alarm, because her behaviour
although definitely immature is well acclimatised to these scenarios, it's not like Danielle
Bregoli has walked into a nursery and tried to smack a bitch up, though I wouldn't put
it past her, we'll see how desperate she gets. Secondly, everything is sold through
the screen, therefore they have complete domain to be as selective with what they want
to show, allowing them to completely sell the side of Lillte they want to. As I will
come to soon, it appears there is a lot more going on behind the scenes, but we don't think
to question it because the burden of proof would lie on us, and many people aren't willing
to go that extra step. Does that make it right? Hell no, I do not think any 9 year old should
be placed in that position, although I do think some children more well equipped to
fame than others. I think such a culture at the age of 9 is incredibly irresponsible,
that even if they demonstrate some level of shrewdness, it doesn't reflect a general
capability beyond being directed to behave like that. I will expand on why I believe
this to be an extremely fragile situation in a bit, but first we need to ask who is
behind all this.
There have been many questions bouncing around about whose responsibility it is, because
although I would like to think that Lillte is just cruising around the block in a Bentley,
I don't think that she'd get very far if she tried to. Obviously, there is someone
arranging all of this, I don't think it's Miranda Cosgrove strangely enough, I do not
believe hers is the main influence of this story. Let's dig a bit deeper. In one Instagram
post that seems to be staged to the point of parody, she assaults someone riding a scooter
However the discussion was very quickly switched to the person riding the scooter, who seemed
to be an older man of Asian heritage. Many have conspired that it may be in fact a relative
to Lillte, although it's unlikely to be her father whom Lillte claims to have left
when she was very young. It's left very ambiguous, and they could just be baiting
more discussion spurned from the mystery of Lillte's existence, she just appeared to
have materialised out of nowhere, and now we're just rolling with it. However the
clips to me are red herrings, and I'll explain why very soon.
Doesn't it all seem a bit surreal? I mean my theory would typically be that the people involved have basically turned
Lillte into a cash machine, but that seems strange given the fact that her family appeared
to already be loaded. I don't think someone seriously buys the fact that this is Lillte's
own money unless she put her fucking piggy bank into bitcoin while she was still in the
womb. What has been given away by a few clips to me is that Lillte isn't just an actor,
this doesn't seem completely forced, there seems to be some investment from her. Which
is quite astounding, there does seem to be an element of realism, now of course it is
to be taken with a pinch of salt, we cannot necessarily completely dissect the mentality,
but it doesn't appear to me as if it's a 100% puppet show. I say 100% because it's
clear to me from her limited vocabulary and explanations she's being somewhat prompted,
either from those around her, or maybe just the culture that she's immersed in, maybe
she literally got it from TV references. Regardless there does seem to be some sort of mutual
enterprise, Lillte is clearly trying very hard to understand how to behave in these
situations. Lillte claims that her father left when she was very young, generally children
raised by a single parent may have to end up being a lot more self-sufficient, so it
wouldn't necessarily surprise me if Lillte has at least a stake in this herself, even
if someone else is pulling the strings. So with all this information in mind, instinctively
people may point towards her mother, however a couple of videos are pointing towards someone
who may be her brother. Here's a video of him prompting Lillte during the Bregoli confrontation.
I'm not saying anything certain, but this seems very suspicious, and if true demonstrates
to me that there are some rather exploitive practices occurring. Some claim the person
in this clip to be icy ricey, another content creator who hastily deleted his content very
recently and was also a massive rice gun fan, and also has a link to an inactive Instagram
account in which he claims to be quote Lillte's sister. So if you want my prediction, he's
our guy, and he knows what he's doing. Lillte's comprehension in what she's doing seems to
be this elementary understanding on her behalf rather than the full investment in the reasoning
of what comprises a culture, and that makes complete sense, at 9 years old the way you
understand the environments around you is not as developed as it is when you hit your
teenage years, and although she's clearly no idiot, and much sharper than the average
9 year old, it demonstrates what needs to be known about her suitability for such environments.
Not suitable enough. It seems less of a situation where a relative is simply trying to use their
child as an actor to live out their dreams, and more a twisted westernised Asian dad meme
with facilitation where necessary, and whereas pushing for strong grades is certainly one
thing, a child being thrown in the public spotlight with something that they may not
truly understand is walking a tightrope, and I think it's important to discuss the tightrope
that Lillte is walking.
I want to show you a video. This is a video that has been picked up by a few as a sort
of true insight into Lillte's behaviour, and how she feels, however most of them haven't
really looked beyond that, and I think it's a much more important clip to this story than
many let on.
The emotional state is the first thing to notice, to Lillte's credit she has somewhat
thick skin, but even this can go too far. Immediately you're struck by the voice cracks
tone and the fragility that this conveys, this is much more likened to a 9 year olds
behaviour. The next thing to notice is the change in usage of reference to her age, whereas
before it was used as a tool to flex and shock, this time it's used to emphasise her vulnerability,
much more expectant of someone who behaves like that. You can see she's trying to hold
it back, you can see she's trying to repress, there's a lot of withheld emotion, you can
observe this in the colouration of her face, the instability of her lower lip, and the
very panicked breaths interspersed. This is not someone who is ready for the lifestyle
that she is currently pursuing, or she is currently being told to pursue. Lillte states
she loves her mother, it's clear in a way that that familial connection is vital to
her, she is human, and although she's still trying to chuck in the dialect, the yarls,
the attitude, it's all immersed. And then there's a breakdown at the end, and it is
fucking sad.
And you want to know what this tells me. This tells me that Lillte is an emotionally fragile
human being, but she's facading it with a lot of persona, maybe prompted persona, maybe
her own persona, but she's repressing what it is like to be in her position, the actual
turmoil going through her head. And you know who that exactly resembles? Danielle Bregoli.
It's funny that they hate each other, yet they seem to be despicably alike. The issue
is that pain has never left, you search for that resolve, that end of the upset, and it
will never materialise itself if you continue to repress it. There are many things that
I have repressed, and the longer you do it, the further down the slope you slide. All
these unresolved emotions that you want to forever avoid, but you cannot. You can only
bottle it up so much for so long. Whether Lillte was trying to fill the shoes of someone
who was never there, whether she behaves like this to ward off people who may try to inflict
pain, or whether she's just trying to fulfil her family's wishes. That is something that
I cannot decide today. But Lillte is not just some spoiled, fratty kid. And it's kind of
weird to say that because it's what you immediately go with on first impressions. She's loud,
she's obnoxious, she's confrontational, she's everything that you imagine that stereotype
to be. But all it takes is one break of character, and something else reveals itself. Lillte's
behaviour is an act. I certainly don't think she is ready to be in the public spotlight,
and I certainly do not think that this will end well. Plenty of child stars hit the hard
concrete of reality eventually, and people with less of an occupation than her have hit
it harder. And when you build your own fame off something that seems inherently unsustainable
you are just postponing the inevitable. That is the bitter truth. And while the person
who appears to be pulling the strings will probably emerge completely untouched by this,
he will take the profit and she will take the scars. The person involved who seems to
be her brother may be the catalyst of this predicament, and if so I find his actions
to be the most irresponsible. He looks old enough to be aware of the scale of what he
is doing, however maybe not wise enough to realise the possible implications. Only time
will tell. Either way the more I think about the fact that she might be used publicly as
a controversy magnet makes me very annoyed, as this guy seems to have avoided the public
eye altogether while using her to sponge up a hell of a lot of vitriol that many children
her age would not be able to handle at all. We as humans are fascinated with the exceptional,
we love to see humanity go one step further with its craziness every time, and make no
mistake Lil Tay is exceptional, there is no doubt about it. There are clearly many circumstances
that have allowed her to thrive, and upon a time where it appears that we look for something
even more absurd than what we found in where Vicky and Danielle were going we discovered
what the people craved. But I do not believe that it is good for her, I do not believe
that she is just some vapid brat, I believe that there is someone who desperately needs
the right kind of help, but with the current success that her persona provides it will
be seldom found. Her endgame is diametrically opposed with how she wants to get there, I
have no doubt that she wants to do nice things, she'd love to be friendly, she's probably
tried being friendly in the past but now they've found a formula that works for her and they
just want to run with it. So maybe with one day the hope that she can end up reaching
that state of peace and happiness, but the truth is it doesn't work like that, for all
the realism that Lil Tay may have her vision of the future is rooted in some fantastical
expectations that I do not believe can be fulfilled. Lil Tay clearly hates to receive
hatred and negative reception, she's disabled ratings on her content and as she rallies
against them she'll become more aggressive, trying to thicken that skin of her persona,
trying to play it off with the hunnid on her wrist, but as soon as she wants to snap out
of it to be that positive person that she briefly shows in her videos, she'll lose
the appeal that she had anyway. The other option is to continue to be loud, obnoxious
and unpleasant, but I don't think that's what she truly wants, just my forecast and
even then that will fade, it all fades when you behave like that. Lil Tay is fragile,
at the end of the day she's a kid, she's 9 years old, who is in way over her head,
and I hope she gets out of it in one. She and others want to tell themselves that they
can be this mature, independent baller, but like many others the superficiality masquerades
genuine pain that should be addressed. It's not healthy, it won't last, regardless of
how much money she makes, whoever's in charge should take a serious look at themselves and
ask if the legacy will be worth it. I hope, for everyone's sake, that it is.
What are your thoughts on the situation? Should Lil Tay escape the flexing persona,
and if so how? And how do we feel about other people who may be playing a role in this?
I would love to hear down below. I'd like to give huge thanks to the editors on this
project, once again another fantastic job, and I will be leaving all their links in the
description below, I urge you to check them out, they all have fantastic potential, and
make sure you subscribe to them if you enjoy it. Until next time however, I'm The Right
Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching, I'll see you in the next one.
