Tangentially related to the whole trigger warning thing is using an asterisk to censor
a name, generally by replacing the first vowel with the asterisk.
It looks something like this.
Trigger warning, sexual assault, rape, and murder, with various letters being censored.
I'm sure you've noticed this before.
And yeah, this is pretty messed up, isn't it?
Jesus.
It is.
It goes hand in hand with trigger warnings, simply as part of the warning.
So you don't have to be even further triggered by looking at the full word of murder or rape.
Now what this actually comes from is a website called Atsizklar.com, I think it's pronounced.
I don't know, it's Turkish and I can't pronounce any of that.
But it was a Turkish ultra nationalist website, kind of like stormfront.org, but for Turkish
people.
Back in 2009, the admins of that forum wanted to censor debates about Kurdish people.
So they set up a filter on their forums.
You couldn't post Kurd or Kurdish.
To bypass this, people started to put an asterisk in place of the U in Kurd.
And eventually that form of Kurd began to be used as an insult.
This floated around the Turkish internet for a while, but around 2012, I remember seeing
it on some more obscure sites like 4chan or other smaller message boards.
By 2017, it had broken into the English mainstream.
And now you see it all the time like this.
Wake up.
Still not British.
It basically improves noticeably.
It started as slang terminology to disparagingly refer to people of different ethnic or national
origins.
But when it crossed the language barrier and jumped over to the English side of the internet,
because of the asterisks already heavy use in censorship, the two uses combined and became
their own very strange phenomenon.
The combination of censorship as well as adding the ethnic or group identity element basically
made the asterisk a perfect pairing with stuff like trigger warnings, which is why
you get messages like this.
Trigger warning.
Misogyny.
Incels.
Murder.
I recently proposed to our project manager of introducing performance metrics to keep
our developers in check.
We will collect the data and use it to determine whether employee productivity is up.
This absolute incel, with a censored E of course, emailed me this bigoted message.
I have submitted to HR his threatening response.
And the message was just basically, implement this and I will kill you.
I mean, I can see how that can be taken as a joke, but you know what?
You're working in a professional environment, maybe you should cool it.
But nonetheless, incel is censored.
Yeah, I'm kind of curious actually.
What if we did something like, I N C asterisks L and search for that specific, what do we
get?
What is it with men making group chats about women they don't like?
Incel behavior.
Men of means don't do, wait, women do this about men.
Jesus.
This is gonna make me sound like an incel, but VTubers don't make me, why are you censoring
incel?
There's no, oh, it's because, oh, oh, okay.
I'm looking forward to an incel revolution when they have the first female bond.
There's no way these people, these random ass people are triggered.
I mean, maybe.
Why do they feel the need to do this?
All right, let's try murder.
M asterisks R D E R.
Yeah, when it comes to murder, these seem to be more like jokey, right?
Like they're kind of in on the joke, they get it.
Fair enough.
How about rape?
Why slut shaming contributes to rape culture, enthusiastic consent and sex positively are
widely undesirable.
I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna, I'm not gonna listen to your nonsense, but how soft do you
have to be to censor the word rape when talking about rape culture?
The superintendent looked the father in the eye and said that not only did the rape not
happen, but the student did not exist.
The sheriff's department found and charged the student with two counts of forcible, why
are you censoring sodomy?
Sometimes it's hard to tell whether it's a joke or not, but eventually it does become
rather ridiculous.
Doesn't it?
I understand that doctors are including obesity.
There's the censored one, obesity as an underlying medical condition that late, that leads to
death in COVID patients.
Do these doctors have any idea what kind of impact this has on families to be told that
their loved one's body shape is partly to blame for their death?
It's true though, isn't it?
Do you have any idea what kind of impact being told that being fat has negative health consequences?
This is, I can't believe that I'm seeing this stuff.
Nobody can be told anything negative now.
These are all spoiled children.
Give me one good reason for recording fatness as a cause of death.
Well, how about if you're so fat that your heart can no longer beat because it's encased
in a globe of fat and it just can't move anymore.
Imagine being so triggered by the word obesity that you have to censor it.
It's fucking wild, isn't it?
Remember when the fragile white, there's, I guess there, I don't know why they're sensing
fragile, but white, fragile white men made these stupid, is stupid a slur that needs
to be censored?
You know what?
I think, I think the next, the next frontier and all of this stuff will be like intelligence-ist.
If you're too smart, you're too privileged and we need to equalize you with all the dumb
people.
This is all fun and games, but this tendency of using the asterisk in this way actually
took a swerve at one point where they began using it on like real events or real people's
names.
As if talking about somebody, just referencing that they exist as a human is just too triggering.
You can't, you can't do it in public.
Content warning, trigger warning, hi, hi.
Just a heads up.
If you see Jake Paul, Jake Paul pop up on your feeds, it's probably about sexual assault
and human trafficking.
So please be careful when reading, dude, never drive a vehicle ever again.
I'm not going to comment on JK Rowling's new book other than that the portag's ridiculous
name makes me laugh every time I see it.
That's right.
JK Rowling went from like the progressive darling to persona non grata, progressive
non grata.
Here, let's see if I can like do this, you know, search Rowling.
I know this is nothing new, but I go through phases where I'm reminded how deeply hurt
I am by JK Rowling and I can't let it go.
I am so angry with the fact that I can't look or think about Harry Potter without getting
incredibly sad or feeling so betrayed.
I wonder how they would react if they like walk by a bookstore and there's like a sign
for like a new book or something and it says by JK Rowling.
Do they have seizures?
Do they just start like shaking on the ground?
Turfs can have Rowling and Chappelle.
I'm going to have to do a video on this Chappelle thing, aren't I?
It just keeps blowing up with the Netflix walkouts and stuff breaking white feminist
queen Margaret Atwood joins the ranks of JK and who I can't even tell who this person
is.
I can't recognize who is this person with these with these sensors.
I can't even look it up.
In fact, the whole can't even look it up seems to be the purpose of some of this.
The use of asterisks in this way eventually transitioned not only to show how the person
that you're talking about is they who must not be named, ironically enough, but also
because a lot of these people, especially if they're on Twitter, they think that these
larger known figures, these public figures, these creators sometimes that they name search
themselves.
And I'm sure people name search themselves at least once in a while.
You know, I might do it like once a year or something instead of curiosity.
But most people who are too busy doing their own thing, not spending all this time on Twitter
on Google name searching themselves.
They're not like reading their own Kiwi Farms threads or something, except shoe on head.
She does actually do that, but just called the TCU PD to report the large social gathering
caused by Steven Crowder and they told me that TCU gave him a permit to be there.
They can't do anything else.
Like do you think Steven Crowder just sits up at night searching for his name on Twitter
and you do this so that he won't notice that you're being critical of him in public?
Like it's either that or you genuinely think that the name Steven Crowder is triggering.
It's one of the two.
So I guess pick which way that you're going to be stupid then.
All right.
All right.
I got to see how far some of this goes.
Okay.
Let's try out Sargon.
Do you think it would be, I think it would be the, the A that gets censored or the O.
Let's try the A first.
That video of Sargon reacting to the don't say the R slur PSA by perpetuating repeating
every slur in the video and angrily shouting, who the fuck do you think you are?
My mom tells you exactly at which stage of the development his brain got stuck on.
What stage do you mean?
You mean the stage that you don't want to be told by some fucking nanny what to do?
I don't know, dude.
You sound kind of like a retard when you see a decent long play YouTube channel that likes
and follow Sargon of a kid.
I, uh, I'm not going to name any names, but at this point I know a number of very large
gaming YouTubers who watch my content.
Hi guys, by the way, people who are way past the 1 million sub Mark, not going to reveal
who they are, but yeah.
If you have a favorite gaming channel on YouTube, they're probably watching antisocialist content
and good.
I can hear my dad listening to Sargon.
You didn't even censor it properly.
And also, I guess he wants to learn about the tenants of dadism since he has a dad after
all.
This is back in 2016.
They've been doing this for a while.
Sargon fans are upset that gray bloke is an anti-feminist Nazi now, not politically incorrect
like he supposedly was before.
You go back to like a lot of, a lot of YouTubers from like 2010, 2011, 2012, all of them said
stuff like retard and faggot, all of them.
Even people who are squeaky clean now, like Veritasium, it makes every single person at
interviews look like a complete retard or Vsauce.
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman, Wonder woman,
Wait, really?
Like, no, no, they're not.
You can fuck around.
You can make jokes.
You can be not serious sometimes.
You can engage in banter and still be a good person.
I feel like I'm unearthing hidden gems by searching for people's names like this.
Let's try something else.
Why don't we try, um, let's try Ben Shapiro, let's just do Shapiro, do something like that.
Let's try it.
What do we get?
Oh God, Kyle Calagren, that guy with the glasses leftover, just had a minor heart attack seeing
the name of the actress playing Dorothy.
It's not Ben Shapiro's sister, they just have the same name.
Imagine having a heart attack because the sister of a political pundit that you don't
like might have a public facing job.
Fucking unreal.
These people are soft, dude.
Someone please come and shoot me.
My older brother's listening to Ben Shapiro's review of the Squid Game at 1.5 times speed
at full volume.
Based!
But listen, though, he's not, he's not at Giga child levels yet.
You have to watch it at two times speed.
My new hobby is censoring the names of people I don't like, like Ben Shapiro.
I think it's so funny for no reason.
Me too, buddy.
Alright, let's try Dankula.
Think we got something for Dankula?
The absolute shock of seeing someone retweet Dankula onto my timeline.
Been a while since I had to unfollow manually.
Yeah, it's, it's rough, isn't it?
To see his wholesome takes about his child and his wife, maybe some free speech stuff.
Every once in a while, that picture of his balls with like a smiley face on them.
If I hadn't done the tweet that Count Dankula replied to, would he have replied to somebody
else instead with the same thing?
Am I taking one for the team?
Or have my actions inadvertently caused more fascist bullshit to be in the world than there
would have been otherwise?
This is your brain on pure consequentialist ethics, guys.
Oh my god, I said something that an undesirable touched.
I need to sit here for the next six hours and calculate this shit out.
My face when I block all the weird Dankula fanboys amendments.
Hold on a minute.
What?
You're white.
You're fucking white, dude.
What is this digital ass black face you're engaging in here?
Get the fuck out of here.
I see Dankula is complaining cancel culture is stopping him from ever getting a normal
job.
It's all the mean lefty's fault.
Nothing to do with the idea nobody would want to employ an unwashed cunt who's very public,
unapologetic, racist, misogynist bullshit landed him in court.
You mean teaching a dog how to salute?
How to do the Nazi salute?
Like, is that what we're talking about?
You know what?
Fuck it.
I'm going to recreate that.
As soon as I get a dog, I'm recreating it.
Fuck it.
Sorry, Naomi.
Content warming transphobia.
She ratted out a trans sex worker to count Dankula for some reason.
Here's what happened.
A UK labor peer referring to trans women as creatures.
Never mind that shit.
What's her name?
It's for research.
So hold on, hold on.
It's it's problematic.
It's problematic if you put porn up and then somebody that you let's say you don't you
don't agree with politically decides to whack off to it.
What the what the fuck you call this ratting out a trans sex worker ratting out to what
end?
Cummies?
I wonder.
I think we'll get something for for Arch.
I mean, his his name starts with A. So it'd be like RCH something like that.
I don't know.
Let's see.
That doesn't seem like it.
Probably the same for V as well.
Like his name is too.
It's too short and it's too relatively normal.
And on the flip side of that, there's no way you're getting anything from my name.
Like what would it be?
S.H.
Or to for her to her to cool something like that.
Like, look at that.
There's no way of getting anything.
No, of course not.
Some of us are just uncensorable, I guess.
In fact, if you were to search for SFO, you would get stuff about the airport, the San
Francisco International Airport.
What's really funny is that Bad Bunny, yes, the the five dollars girl, five dollars a
month.
Yeah.
Her.
She does this for Destiny and Vash constantly, like half her Twitter account is about talking
about them.
And yet she censors their name every single time.
And to be honest, searching that censored version of Vash dredges up some of the funniest
leftist infighting stuff I've seen in a while.
Vash is definitely real chaser energy for for smacking his big manly penis against inferior
trans girl.
Oh, my God, dude, how does anybody take this guy seriously?
Y'all, I'm just never talking about Vash again.
I'm so fucking tired of getting well actually a dozen times every ask the most simplest,
most basic questions.
I don't care.
He's a fed.
He's so cringe when people say like his name is some kind of trigger word.
You normalize this stuff, you know, you already treat these trigger words seriously.
So on what grounds do you stand when you complain about this stuff?
I mean, it's public knowledge at this point that Vash engaged in some weird sexual harassment
slash grooming stuff years ago.
He's admitted on his own channel even if his victim decided to say Vash in this manner
with a censored letter.
How could you possibly object?
It sounds like you're just a Vash fan who doesn't like the fact that your favorite Internet
e-celeb is triggering.
We're back on Moviebob review.
So did Doug Walker, Doug Walker go full right wing to get his subs back up or is he an angry
post left bro now?
Doug Walker is he just a movie guy.
He's a nostalgia critic.
He's like the most milk toast of Internet people.
And he's the guy that you have to censor for a Moviebob.
Doug Walker left behind by the superior future.
It is awfully fucking weird how many people are chummy with Doug Walker at.
Okay.
Okay.
I thought it was just gonna be a Moviebob.
People are actually doing this one.
I remember seeing this back during the new guy thing.
I don't understand why stealing from rich people is bad.
Isn't it always morally correct to steal from the mega rich?
Like if Yulon Moles got a garage full of Telsa stone for him, I'd be laughing too.
But she says gamer bro.
If she's referring to someone like PewDiePie, well, he's racist as hell.
So this individual just seems to be a moral leper.
All right, let's do PewDiePie.
Here we go.
Yep.
Lots of nonsense.
Are you gonna next PewDiePie exclusive deal?
This all right, literally supports PewDiePie.
If you find PewDiePie attractive, you're not seeing heaven.
It's wild.
It's just this whole video.
It's been kind of nonsense.
To be honest, this probably isn't one of my greatest.
But the point is, is that they think either one, these names are actually trigger words.
Two, they think all these creators actually have the time or the care to name search themselves.
Or three, they want to shit talk somebody online and not receive any kind of clap back
from people who disagree with them.
And so they make themselves a bit more unsearchable.
You know what?
For old time's sake, let's do gamer gate.
When you're trying to inform the FBI, the siege of Washington was actually the act of
a secret cabal of gamers to control the government called gamer gate, but they won't stop laughing.
This one is going to be more jokey than the others.
I'm pretty sure.
Oh, no, wait.
Nevermind.
Lindsay Ellis has taken it seriously.
I'm reminded of when gamer gate happened and Todd in the shadows wrote an article condemning
their movement.
And all of these dudes were like, man, I thought you were cool.
And his response was, where did I go wrong that you thought I'd agree with you?
Because as we've said before, you've all cultivated an edgy audience, and then you turned into
moral busybodies.
The craziest example of all, though, in my opinion, is Sophia Narwhits.
Now, Sophia Narwhits is a friend of mine.
She's a trans woman, a journalist, a streamer.
She did on the ground reporting in Minneapolis during the George Floyd riots, and she likes
to spend her spare time on Twitch playing the absolute worst fucking games that I've
ever seen.
You know what I got?
Let's do the feminist robot game.
Let's do can androids pray?
This is narrative experience about angry femme mech pilots at the end of the world.
And so we literally have Sophia derangement syndrome now.
I get the biggest erection when people are afraid to say my name.
I have a priori finished my next piece, which should come out on either the ninth or the
tenth.
It ties neatly into my Sophia Narwhits piece as a broader critique of the independent right-wing
media ecosystem as power-coddling bootlickers.
People know who Sophia Narwhits is.
I've never heard of A. Khaled.
Stop retweeting Sophia Narwhits.
She may be on the ground for the Minneapolis stuff, but she's a right-wing chud responsible
for endangering the lives of thousands of journalists.
She's more of a journalist than those thousands.
She's actually out there doing real reporting.
There are plenty of people documenting the protests.
You don't have to retweet Sophia Narwhits.
It won't stop her blowing up because not enough people know who she is, but at least folks
in the games industry just had to avoid it, you know?
Oh my God, this person is doing real work and they're being credited for it.
We need more trans people in gaming.
No not Sophia Narwhits.
This is kind of like how Larry Elder was the black face of white supremacy for a while.
If a majority of the content you create is reactionary outrage regarding McGame's journalism
instead of actual meaningful content about video games, then you don't have a say in
how people should go do their fucking job.
It costs zero dollars to mind your own business and not send hate mobs against marginalized
writers.
Sophia Narwhits and Colin Moriarty need to go outside for once in their miserable lives.
Isn't Sophia Narwhits the marginalized one?
She's trans.
Does she have like what people call passing privilege I guess?
So she doesn't count?
Like what's going on?
Young trans women like Sophia Narwhits still tweet about gamergate in the year 2021.
She's not as relevant as people like ContraPoints or Blaire White but she's equally annoying.
It honestly feels a bit like jealousy, like these people who are taking off, who are nonetheless
not approved by the progressive machinery, and all these other people are just angry
about it.
Thinking back on the time Sophia Narwhits shared a post from my little blog about how
Rage 2 does a lazy job aping features of real genetic disease in its monster designs, with
her chud audience and a bunch of boneheads trying to come for me, a PhD human geneticist.
This might have to be a video that I do, like a different video, but I've had this idea
floating around in my head for the idea of semi-privacy, which I think really just boils
down to wanting the entire world to be a safe space.
But what it is, is people who have small platforms, they post something public, and it is public,
but because they have such little reach, it feels private, and so when something that
they post blows up, and it blows up for, say, a bad reason, like they gave a really bad
take, or someone says, look how stupid this is, they're like, oh my god, my safe space
is being breached, how dare you come in here and ruin my day.
It's like you posted it publicly, dude.
Just because you're not used to having your dumb fucking takes noticed, doesn't mean that
suddenly your rights are being violated when somebody notices your dumb take finally.
I get the feeling that Sophia Narwhits is like what would have happened if Valerie Keefe
had mastered appealing to the far right through gaming and being the ultimate pick-me, a fee
MRA.
You gotta admit, pick-me-quizzling is a hell of a grift, or I mean look, hell of a look.
The whole pick-me thing is just wild, like, if you don't line up with their politics,
and yet you are not, you know, the straight white male, but you are part of a demographic
that they claim to speak for, then you're not a real person, you're a pick-me.
You're not doing it because this is what you want, or this is your temperament, or this
is your real politics, or your real views, or your real desires.
You're doing it because you want attention from the straight white men, and so you're
saying pick-me.
It's kind of amazing because these same people, back during when Gamergate was on, they decried
the whole idea of the fake gamer girl.
You know, the girl who doesn't actually play video games, but she poses with a controller
or something in her mouth, and then she says, look at me, silly boys, girls can video games
too.
And the actual nerds, the guys who, you know, were picked on for playing games when they
were a kid, because that was a thing when I was young, and got bullied by guys and girls
alike for it, those nerds looked at those gamer girls and said, look how fucking fake
you are.
This is just, this is just you trying to get attention, and sometimes it was, but also
sometimes real gamer girls, girls who actually played video games, they got lumped in, and
those guys said, you're just wanting attention, get the fuck out of here, which wasn't necessarily
the right thing to do.
But my point is, people on the left decried the nerds for doing that, and now they do
it.
They do it when they say pick me.
It's the same thing, but it's in reverse.
These people didn't actually change how they behave, they're still the fucking bullies,
they just change what team they play for.
There's so much more, it's kind of insane, and ironically all you have to do is just
go check out Sofia Naros's twitter, and it's just full of people who are losing their shit
because she is the person that she is, and it's always amusing to see people melt down
at somebody else's success, solely because they don't like the politics of the other
person.
How dare you be successful, how dare you have a life, how dare you even be around.
Anyway, this wasn't actually a serious video, it's me goofing around for a bit, having some
laughs.
I'm not going to take everything seriously, you know, I'm not that kind of guy.
I hope showing you some of the idiocy that's out there in the world, especially on twitter,
was at least worth the time for you, maybe you found it as funny as I did.
Thanks for watching, I'll be streaming some more at twitch.tv slash game boomers, and
I'll see you in the next video.
Thanks very much guys, I love you.
