Hello everyone, welcome to a very late TikTok Tuesday.
I'm recording this at 10pm, which means I have to record it and edit it and put it out
in two hours or else it's no longer TikTok Tuesday.
You think I'll get to it?
Let's hope so.
I've had a very busy day today.
My day isn't even done.
Listen to everything I've done today, guys.
I have researched and written and recorded and then canned it off today for editing a
script for tomorrow's video.
And after I'm done putting this out, I'm going to go make that video for tomorrow.
And then Naomi and I went to go see Oppenheimer, and I've recorded a vlog for my side channel
about that movie, so check that out tomorrow as well.
And then we came home, we did a stream of Final Fantasy XVI, me, Dave and Naomi, it
was a fun time.
And now here at the end of the day, I'm recording TikTok Tuesday.
No I didn't forget, I've just had a very, very busy day.
Let's see all the stuff you guys have saved up for me this week.
Oh, it's one of those environmental protests blocking the roads, eh?
It looks German.
Yeah, it is German, this is in Germany.
These guys are assholes.
I hate this.
It's like, get out of the, get out of the fucking road.
Like, you guys aren't even helping anything, just get out of the road.
Oh, this guy wants to throw down?
Was that like a kung fu stance?
Like, whoa.
I gotta like save up these clips and do an environmentalist video because there's so
many of them, just people being assholes, blocking the road, getting absolutely, like
accomplishing nothing, even for their own goals.
You know, it's just, ah fuck, just watching them makes my head hurt.
Oh, and this gotta be one of those like, one of those drug videos where you just like see
someone walking through a downtown core and just everyone hanging, oh, the music.
Yeah, I gotta mute that music, guys, I'm sorry.
All my TikTok Tuesdays keep getting copyright struck and it's kind of annoying, so I'm just
gonna mute that.
But yeah, you see all these videos like going through downtown just full of rubbish, garbage,
people who are high hanging around, prostitutes, needles, homeless people.
Look at this guy, he just slouched over high as fuck, like what the fuck, dude?
This shit is like just depressing.
I understand, you know, the right wingers right now saying don't live in a city, you
see this, I understand.
Not every city is like this, not every neighborhood in the city is like this, but definitely don't
live in the downtown core.
It's fucking brutal right now.
The drug problem is absolutely terrible.
Some of it's out of their control, you know, people fall on hard times, I understand, but
some of it is just a lack of virtue on their part, the inability to do the right thing.
People want to be all like harm reductionist, but no, on some level it is a moral failing
on the parts of the individual.
This is my meal, I call this girl dinner.
Girl dinner.
What?
Girl dinner.
What is girl dinner?
What is girl dinner?
In 1923, TikToker Livi Marr seemed to have coined the phrase girl dinner in a video responding
to another TikToker who had said, the ideal meal is the imagined meal of a medieval peasant.
Livi Marr shows her plate of breads and cheeses and says, I call this girl dinner.
As the video went viral, the concept started to spread as other women showed off their
various arrays of small portions that combined equal a meal.
The concept was big enough to gain recognition on Twitter where users began to parody.
As a fat guy I'm insulted.
Now, there's even a boy dinner variant seeing men on TikTok showing what their dinner looks
like.
This is my meal.
I call this boy dinner.
Boy dinner.
Boy dinner, also has garnered parodies on Twitter and TikTok, often with fans comparing boy
dinner and girl dinner side by side.
Is this the next thing?
Is this the new TikTok thing?
God, I know I make TikToks now, but I fucking hate TikTok.
The culture of the site's absolutely awful.
it just makes me like grown in disgust at the human race.
It's like, oh, girl dinners for me eat nothing.
All right.
Are we bringing back like the anorexic chic of the 1990s?
Of course you can go too far the other direction, right?
Like I'm living proof.
I am actually the fat guy you see on the screen right now.
Oh, we've seen this chick before.
This was the person who was like trans species
who believed that they were some kind of Hawk.
We saw it in a previous TikTok Tuesday.
Okay, let's get an update from the trans Hawk person.
Hi, my name is King
and I'm a non-human alternate at the ID system.
And I'm making a discord server
for people who experience wing dysphoria.
It's of course open systems with non-human headmates.
And it is also open to, I think they're called wing kin.
Literally anybody who experiences wing dysphoria.
Wing dysphoria.
They're folks who experienced wing dysphoria
and who get the Phantom wings.
I know we are all familiar with the feeling
of needing to stretch our wings and not being able to,
but is it as common of an experience
to feel like you have water on your wings?
And feel like your wings got wet.
You don't have wings.
Fluff them up and shake the water out.
You've never had wings.
And you can't, and it's frustrating.
Oh my God.
This is, I don't know if like TikTok
is breeding mental illness
or the mental illness always existed
and TikTok is just creating a place for it.
All right, so let me see if you can get that, right?
These people, they're systems, okay?
Systems are like the modern Zoomer term
for a person with multiple personalities, okay?
However, they treat it with like a more spiritual bent.
It's not the science of psychology.
Now it's like you have multiple spirits inhabiting you.
And some of these systems include non-human alters.
Other personalities are called alters, okay?
So you have, do I gotta do a video
on all this nonsense terminology?
So you have people with alters that are non-human,
like other species.
So for example, this person has a bird alter.
So a bird alternate personality
in their system of multiple personalities
because they're a bird actually,
and their brain is apparently wired to be like a bird
or so they claim.
They experience wing dysphoria.
So you know how like trans people experience
gender dysphoria where they feel like
they should be the other gender?
Wing dysphoria, presumably,
is when you feel like you should have wings
and parts of your neurons in your brain
are firing towards wings that don't exist
and it's causing dysphoria.
I'm pretty sure this is all just either made up cope
or like an extreme mental illness.
But I do not believe for a second
that anyone is actually inhabited by the spirit of an eagle.
You know, it almost sounds like weird occultist Nazi-ism
to say it like that.
You know, the spirit of the eagle.
That's something you could see the Nazis saying.
But here we are, guys.
You think Hitler had wing dysphoria?
Oh, there are only two genders.
It's just basic biology.
Based.
Hi, how you doing?
Welcome to advanced biology from a biologist.
You see that thing?
Oh, no.
So we're gonna go over some facts together.
But first off-
Is the fact that you've been ideologically captured,
is that what the fact is here?
Heavy trans day of visibility, right?
So sex and gender, not the same thing.
You've probably heard that before, right?
It's because it's true,
because biology actually has nothing to say about gender.
Oh my God.
That degree is worthless.
You might as well just start wiping your ass with it.
Yes, of course, there's gonna be
some socially constructed components of gender.
You wanna know why?
Because every single culture doesn't have
the same presentation of masculinity or femininity.
They have different types of clothing.
They have different practices.
They have different rituals, different habits.
All right, fair enough.
But you know what?
There's a reason that most male people
latch onto their culture's masculine gender role.
And most female people latch onto their culture's
feminine gender role.
Because there actually is something
in these gender roles that relates to biology.
You don't have that 99% overlap if that's not the case.
And that's why when you defer
to your basic biology 101 class
that you failed in high school,
you look like you don't know what you're talking about.
Gender is only loosely related to sex
in so far as we've identified
certain physical characteristics
and have arbitrarily decided
that this person belongs to this gender.
But there are a whole bunch of people from that gender
that don't have those physical characteristics.
It's almost like there's some variation to sex.
And that's because it's not a binary,
it's a bimodal distribution where you have two extreme ends
and most people following somewhere in the middle.
He's talking about intersex people.
And as far as I understand,
intersex people are very, very, very rare, okay?
And since he's a biologist, he should know this.
The sex page in Wikipedia.
Sex is the trait that determines
whether a sexually reproducing organism produces male
or female gametes, otherwise known as small mobile gametes,
spermatozoa, sperm, pollen,
while females produce larger non-motile gametes,
ova, often called egg cells.
That's it.
I know some people, even on the right wing,
some people on Twitter were grumbling
that I said that if you're neutered somehow,
you're neither male nor female.
That's true because sex is the trait
that determines whether a sexually reproducing organism
produces male or female gametes.
That's what it is.
The point is that we're talking here about biology.
And when this retard talks about the two extreme ends
and most people falling somewhere in the middle,
he's talking about secondary sex characteristics.
But that's not the primary sex characteristic.
The primary sex characteristic is what gametes you produce.
So it's possible, for example, to be intersex.
And so you're somebody who looks female
and has various female secondary sex characteristics.
So you have the hips and the butt
and the boobs and whatever,
but you don't produce large gametes
because you're some type of intersex.
But that's not most people.
As he says here,
most people falling somewhere in the middle.
No, most people aren't intersex.
Most people do not fall somewhere in the middle.
Most people either produce large gametes
or they produce small gametes.
And therefore they're either female or male and that's it.
But this idea that intersex people
completely invalidate the sex binary is ridiculous.
And also that you can use intersex people
to backdoor in trans issues
when trans people aren't intersex people.
A trans person who has not yet transitioned,
they're still male or female and that's that.
You could be intersex.
You could go your whole life
being intersex and never know it.
And the reason to that is because when you're born,
nobody tests you.
The doctor just decides what you look like
and assigns you with sex.
And the society then assigns you a gender
that is traditionally associated with that sex.
I really hate when people appeal to nature
when they're trying to erase trans or gay people,
because when you actually study the animal kingdom,
the concepts of male and female cease to function
as we understand it.
When you're talking about creatures
that have vastly different sexual dimorphism than us.
They still have sexual dimorphism.
Flop sexes or produce both gametes or reproduce a sexually.
Yep, those all exist.
But you know what?
I think the most complicated species
that can reproduce in a way that is not very strict,
large gametes, small gametes is like a crab.
There's a crab that can do some of this stuff.
Less complicated creatures than crabs.
Yeah, you have like bugs that do it.
You have plants that do it.
You have various single celled organisms that do it.
Once you start getting more complicated,
it's pretty much universally male, female,
large gamete, small gamete.
And that's just how it is.
Here's what's important
about what this guy's trying to do here.
He's taking the authority of his scientific background,
which let's give him the benefit of the doubt
and say that it's true.
And he didn't just buy a lab coat
for 15 bucks off of Amazon.
And he's saying that because I've studied this stuff,
therefore this is how it is.
But the questions he's posing,
they're actually not questions of science.
They're questions of philosophy.
So we can look at a group of traits and we can say,
okay, well, we have traits one, two, three, four, five.
All right.
And we're gonna group traits, you know,
one, two, three to be male traits
and traits four, five, six to be female traits.
The question, why should one, two and three be grouped?
And why should four, five and six be grouped?
That's a question of philosophy.
Science allows us to observe the traits.
Philosophy tells us how we should group what we observe.
There's observation of the real world
and then what we value out of that observation.
Two different questions.
He's saying that we should value
or the observations of the real world,
a specific way in line with his politics.
And he's saying, look, it's because I'm a scientist,
but he's not asking a scientific question.
He's not saying that, oh, you actually don't know
that this other scientific effect is happening
in the real world.
No, he's not saying anything like that.
What he's saying is we should group them in this method,
not in the method that has been traditionally used.
But that's ultimately a question of philosophy, not science.
Here's an example of what I mean.
Why is it that a guy who's six foot tall,
that guy is considered a tall man,
but a guy who is, to use my own height, five foot seven,
I'm considered short.
Why is that the case?
I mean, the five foot seven and the six foot O,
those are objective measurements.
We have in fact measured two people.
They are in fact this size,
but it's philosophy that determines
that we should classify six foot O as tall
and five foot seven as short.
We could do it differently.
We could in fact say that six foot two is where tall begins
and that people who are six foot O, they're actually short.
We could do it that way.
The issue ultimately is what our preferences are.
And that is at the heart of the philosophy.
This guy clearly has progressive preferences
and he's using his credentials to make those preferences,
to make that philosophy look like science,
but it actually isn't.
All right, let's do one more if we get out of here.
It's like every single day, you guys,
and this is why I play my whole time.
That voice, is this another trans one?
What's his name?
What's your name?
I'm Tony.
Yeah, your name's Alex and I'm gonna be calling your manager.
This guy called me sir.
I ain't gonna tell him his every shit yet.
Everywhere I go, I get called sir.
I'm so fucking hurt.
Why would you call a chick?
Take out your shit, you're a fucking.
It's cause you don't pass, dude.
That's why.
Stop trying to gaslight trans people
and tell us that we're crazy.
Well, you are kind of crazy to be honest.
Did you call me a sir again?
What was that?
You said goodnight, sir?
This is transphobic.
Now he's just fucking trolling.
You're a fucking bigot, Edward.
All right, Alex, you know what?
I can't wait to this day.
It's a slur, do you not understand?
Wait, is sir a slur now?
That's why she calls us a code n-word.
It's like calling him the n-word.
Oh my God, that's ridiculous.
I have the right to be pissed about it.
You fucking did.
I said all along that you weren't.
You fucking did you liar.
Cis people need to be held accountable
for having cute trans people.
And I'm not gonna put up with this shit anymore.
You're crazy, bro.
You're a fuck.
Don't call me a fuck, bro.
Don't call me bro.
Don't do slurs at me, you fucking piece of shit.
No, fuck you.
Oh my God.
Are you a cis?
Are you a fuck, bro?
You don't even fucking know me.
Oh my God, dude.
Don't fucking call me sir.
This is transphobia.
I really don't want you to come out of the store.
Yeah, you don't even know me.
Get the, okay.
Listen, listen here.
I'll properly gender you, okay?
You're being a fucking Karen.
There is this idea that like using the wrong pronouns
or using a dead name or saying like sir
or instead of ma'am or whatever,
that that is on par with the worst possible slurs.
Trans activists are claiming that now.
That it's like, it's on par with like saying the n-word,
not as a joke, but with like real hatred in your heart,
like saying it like that's what it is.
And it's like, no, you guys are fucking ridiculous.
It's that's so stupid.
That's so dumb.
Trans people are like, they're unironically
the most sensitive,
the most triggered fucking people right now.
It's a wild, some of them, some of them obviously
like not all, not all trans activists, let's say.
The craziest fucking people right now, dude.
All right, that's enough nonsense for me.
Hopefully I can get this up in time for midnight.
It's gonna be a race against the clock to edit it all.
I've got maybe an hour to do it.
Let's see if I can get it done guys.
If I can't here, you know what?
Here, post in the comments.
Did I actually get it out before midnight EST?
I don't know, let's see.
All right guys, I will see you next time.
Have a good one.
I love you.
