Merry Christmas everyone! I'm recording this on Christmas Day! But you're getting it on Boxing Day,
December 26th, which is still technically within the Christmas season. Though I've heard Americans
don't actually celebrate Boxing Day, so TLDR, if you're in an English-speaking country that isn't
America, the UK, Canada, Australia, etc., we all celebrate Boxing Day. And it's part of the
Christmas lineup for us. So even though this is coming out on Tuesday, it's still the season,
at least for me. I hope you've all enjoyed your Christmas, and let's take a look at some
Christmas TikToks. Here we go.
I wonder what's wrong with the car. Oh no, RIP. I wonder if that's like a mode you can set up in
your car, or if that car is actually just borked. Also, I just noticed VLC, which is what I use to
watch all the TikToks I've accumulated. It has a little Christmas thing going on today. Oh wow,
is that only on the 25th? It's the Grinch!
Oh god, the kids think he's here to steal the Christmas!
And they're fighting! You can't take my Christmas! Oh my god, these kids are losing it.
Oh my god, they're really... I'm stealing your gifts, kid!
Like those kids were, like they were true believers, they were actually losing it!
That the Grinch has come to legitimately take their Christmas, oh my god. I wonder if that
would traumatize them, you know? I mean, probably not, but who knows?
Oh god, speaking of traumatizing kids, I've seen this next one, guys.
Parent hack. Wrap fake presents when kids don't want to listen,
and throw the fakes in the fire. Instantly straightens them up. Oh god.
Take the fake gift.
I wonder if that...
I mean, yeah, the kid...
Oh, see? Yeah, they're being bad, but like, this is probably traumatizing.
I mean, they might deserve it, who knows how bad they're being, but still.
Oh, I guess you're vacuuming your room now!
I remember being like a defiant little shit when I was a kid, you know?
Like, stuff getting taken away, I didn't care. I got grounded, I would just like shrug it off.
Punishing me didn't really work. In fact, I was much more likely to not do what they said
after they punished me, you know? Just like, it's like, oh, you want to do that to me?
Now I'm really not cleaning my room, fuck you. Like, that was my attitude as a kid.
I was a defiant little shit, that's for sure.
The difference between black and white Santa.
Merry Christmas, ho ho ho.
Okay.
That's gotta be a troll. Okay, someone splice that in.
That's not real, guys, come on! I mean, it's funny, but still, that's not real.
There's another Grinch one?
It's the- it is! This one's energetic. Oh, oh my god, he stole the whole tree!
Oh my god, yeah, that kid's sad, but...
Okay, that Grinch, like, the other guy, he was like trying to duck being hit by the kid.
This guy just flies in, steals the tree. Oh my god, dude, man.
These are some quality trolls, I will say. I hope it doesn't leave these kids scarred.
And if it doesn't, then these are some excellent trolling.
This one's got no audio. Looks like a guy holding a- what is that?
Oh, he's a PS5 and he's smiling. And he's like, I gotta hold this. Oh, oh, the regret.
The Christmas season, dude. You gotta get some kitchen
appliances instead of a PS5. Though, to be fair, the PS5 has no games, so...
Wait, this guy's actually stealing Christmas!
An actual robber stealing Chri- this is a real Grinch, dude, look at this guy!
He's a mean one, Mr. Grinch.
Wow. I mean, before we were trolling, this guy's actually stealing some kid's Christmas.
What a piece of shit, dude! You can't hold off in the rampant thievery just for Christmas?
You gotta ruin some kid's Christmas day? Oh man, these are some nice lights.
Oh, dude, look at the Santa! Man, that's actually quite nice.
That's... that's looking pretty good. I wonder how he has it going up there.
Is there like a track that you just can't see, or... I don't know, man.
It was no, you know, Clark Griswold, but still, it's pretty good, it's pretty good.
Actually, when Naomi and I went back to my hometown to visit my parents and some other
family members who were still there, it was boring as hell back there, right?
So we decided to take one evening and just hop in the car and slow drive around town
to look at all of the lights. You know, some people do this sometimes,
just go see what the lights look like this year, and there were some pretty decent lights.
There was one house that was kind of like this one, they just didn't have the Santa
going quite so high, but there was like a moving Santa going around the front lawn.
It's like, damn, Christmas decorations are kind of...
they're getting really complex nowadays, aren't they? Like before, back in the day,
when I was a kid, it was lights and it was sometimes statues in the front lawn.
Now you have like display lights shining up, like projecting onto the house.
You have inflatables, you have like just crazy stuff going on nowadays.
And speaking of inflatables, look at this. Let's take a look.
When your neighbors are homophobes and it's December.
What? Oh, is this supposed to be like an LGBT Christmas where you hump a tree?
Is that part of being LGBT now? Or is it just being in a furry... a unicorn furry costume?
What? Where's the homophobic? I mean, yeah, there's rainbow, but who cares?
Okay, dude. Wait, did you just dance outside the whole time, hoping that your neighbors
would see you? I guess that is a thing that happened. Sorry to use the millennial writing
phrase. Oh, yeah. Okay, so these are some like climate protesters. I got to mute it,
it's way too fucking loud. Okay, these are some climate protesters and they're spraying
oil onto a Christmas tree at some mall or inside some building or something, right?
I got to do a video on these guys where they just like, they destroy things and they sit
in traffic trying to get something going for climate, like climate justice, and it's always
bullshit. But yeah, they're just menaces. They're just fucking menaces. They destroy things,
they ruin everyone's day, and then they hold a banner and it says,
climate justice, we need to adopt socialism to prevent the planet from lighting on fire
spontaneously. Like, these are the most insufferable fucking people, dude.
You and me both, brother.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
Dude.
Damn.
To be fair, to be fair.
It's because there's no trees in New York, man, like naturally.
Holy shit.
Yeah, dude, dude.
Yeah.
Yep.
Listen, dude, listen, you got to get yourself one of those Charlie Brown trees that can only
hold like one ornament. That's the way to go. But yeah, dude, like living in New York's expensive.
That's a guy who's bringing in trees from the outside because there's no trees growing
naturally in New York anywhere. And he's like, hey, I'm going to sell them to rich people here
who will pay $500 for a tree. If you can drive 10 minutes over to Jersey,
get a cheaper one, you should do that. What are we looking at here, dude?
It's like a terracotta army of snowmen.
Hope I'm not getting copyright strict for this. Oh my God. How many, how many snowmen?
Oh, they got a machine make them. Okay. All right. It's like in Calvin and Hobbes
where he's always making like grotesque snowmen, like landscapes. It's great.
Merry Christmas.
Everyone had a lovely holiday season and that I hope if you have any laptop music,
that they can use stones and they get their car keys stolen at Food Lion and then they have to
live at Food Lion for the rest of their days. No taxis to pick them up or Ubers or anything.
What the fuck? This has like some, um,
can you fix her fellows? Can you fix it? I don't know.
Okay. All right, dude. That's some real 2012 vine energy going on there. Didn't it? Oh my God.
Okay. Grandma. I mean, you do you. Okay. Now this one reminds me of like people of Walmart.
You guys ever visit that subreddit where it's just the craziest, trashiest shit. Wait.
I think they're in a Walmart, dude. Yeah. That blue cart, the signs. This is a Walmart. Oh my God.
Art imitates life. Oh, it's this guy again. Wait, what the, what the fuck?
He puts snowflakes in his, in his haircut. Man. Every time I see a TikTok of this guy,
he's always just fucking cringe. Though I think it might be like a female to male transfer. I don't,
I don't fucking know, dude. I don't, uh, I just, maybe this is just a case of me being old. Like
I don't get the zoomers anymore. You know, I just don't get it. There's one final TikTok in the
Christmas folder and I know exactly what it is. This is a great one to end it on. Oh yeah. Merry
Christmas, baby. I'm totally getting copyright struck now. Santa deniers are seething right now.
Anyway, I hope you all had an incredible, uh, Christmas, Christmas Eve, Christmas day,
boxing day. If you don't celebrate boxing day, what the fuck is wrong with you?
And I will see you guys next time. Have a good one. Merry Christmas. Happy Hanukkah.
Enjoy the new year. Whenever that comes around. Wait, that's like in like in a few days.
How did I forget the new year comes around for Christmas? Okay.
All right. Okay. I'll see you next time. Goodbye.
