Oh snap.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, welcome to The Right Opinion, the hove twat with too much
free time.
And there's a snap general election.
Get in.
So if anybody across the pond or in any other countries hasn't paid attention, Prime Minister
Theresa May just called an election, and the hypest hype has occurred.
But first let's look at why she would have done this.
Because I have no life, I've spent the last few months following the polling for the British
government, eagerly looking at the trend.
Now when a Prime Minister is elected, there is a time known as the honeymoon period, which
is when an individual is expected to be particularly popular with the public, just for the case
of being a fresh impression.
Theresa May has rode out this supposed honeymoon period and seen through fiscal policy changes
and other world events, and her popularity is still buzzing.
And now she feels that due to the fact that the honeymoon period is statistically over
and she's still destroying her opponents in the polls, that it is a good time to host
a general election.
It's common sense, in a way.
It allows her to debunk the criticism of her being an unelected Prime Minister, and it
also allows her to put her Brexit policy to the test.
And I think this is sensible too, a lot has changed since the 2015 election, and policies
of the manifesto that were presented then did not address how the UK will approach Brexit
with good detail.
In hindsight now, it's clear how arrogant David Cameron was in thinking that Britain
wouldn't vote leave, because if he actually entertained it in his mind as a genuine possibility,
it probably would have been given more attention in his lovely little blue booklet.
So I'm generally in favour of a general election, and although some people are rolling their
eyes at this point and thinking, fuck me, another one, I revel at them, I bathe in them,
I eat them for breakfast.
The other good thing is seeing the back of twats like George Osborne, who will now go
on to be a cunt in the mainstream media, how I love self-fulfilling prophecies.
Speaking of the mainstream media, I see that Theresa is going to crush the saboteurs with
blue murder.
How I love unbiased reporting, bringing this country together every time.
Now I'm sure people will wonder who I'm voting for, well, I'm currently undecided, either
I side with a party that I generally agree with but disagree with on Brexit, or I side
with a party who I agree with on Brexit and disagree with on other matters, and also I
have to take into account that I absolutely loathe my member of parliament, I genuinely
thought to myself I could never vote for her.
But to sum up, I'm not considering any other parties right now, unfortunately they're either
not a presence where I live, or I just don't think they're suited to be in number 10.
The plan is that I'm going to wait for other manifestos to appear, analyse them on the
some of their parts, hopefully watch some of the TV debates, and make a fair, balanced
judgement.
On the topic of TV debates, Theresa May has refused to appear in them, which is fantastic
as always, not gonna lie, a bit miffed about that one.
TV debates are the honourable thing to do, and it often does help people assess the credibility
of a politician as the prime minister, and even if it is tactical, I always find it a
bit cowardly.
If they can't stand on a podium for 60 minutes and argue their cause, how can they convince
me that they're fit to run the country for 5 years?
All in all, whatever happens over the next few months, it will hopefully not be too much
of an open and shut case, because although Theresa is trouncing home right now, anything
can happen in politics, and there could be some little plots brooding under the surface.
She now has to prove herself as a campaigner, and someone who can convince me and the public
that her vision of Britain is the best and most deliverable one.
I'm The Right Opinion, and will June be the end of May?
Probably not, but we'll see.
