More than eight years have passed since I uploaded the very first video to this channel,
and the world was a very different place back in 2015.
Brexit and a Trump presidency both felt like longshots, the term Coronavirus was only known
by epidemiologists and crossword aficionados, same-sex marriage had just been legalized
nationwide in the US, Netflix and other streamers were only just starting to threaten cable
supremacy, TikTok's Chinese predecessor didn't even exist yet.
The eight years since the start of this channel have been extremely consequential in ways
we almost certainly don't yet fully understand.
Often the way we think about a Wendover video is not as the news of the day or week or month,
but rather the news of the year.
We try to cover some of the most consequential changes going on in the world that might be
easy to miss due to how gradually they're unfolding, but with enough time, even the
news of the year changes.
So today, as our last video of this year, we're going to be revisiting nine of our
most popular videos to look at what's different and what isn't, starting with a rare yet
encouraging case where we call out a problem, and then that problem actually starts to get
fixed.
Three years ago, we released a video called The Electric Vehicle Charging Problem.
It argued that perhaps the biggest barrier to greater EV adoption was the charging infrastructure,
rather than the cost of the vehicles themselves, meaning governments would find that incentivizing
cheaper construction would be a better use of their money than offsetting the purchase
price of cars, as was the incentive norm at the time.
Shortly after, quite a lot changed—for the better.
In 2022, Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act, including $5 billion for the construction
of 500,000 fast chargers by 2027.
An additional $2.5 billion was allocated to the brand new Charging and Fueling Infrastructure
Discretionary Grant program, which will give money directly to cities, tribes, and local
governments over the next five years to build even more chargers, essentially solving the
EV charging problem by addressing it from the top down and bottom up.
Already, America's chargers have nearly doubled in number since 2019.
But just because a station has been built doesn't mean it's working.
A consistent sticking point with the country's existing infrastructure has been its unreliability.
Charging a battery with hundreds of kilowatts of energy is vastly more complicated than
filling up a gas tank, as consistent, reliable charging requires a large DC power source,
functioning connectors and receptors, credit card readers, and touch screens, unlike gas
stations, which only require working pumps and credit card readers to dispense fuel that's
then ignited.
The problem is, the largest charging networks for non-Tesla electric vehicles are run by
EVGo and Electrify America, which were both born begrudgingly—EVGo for NRG Energy to
gain regulatory compliance, and Electrify America as part of Volkswagen's Emissions
Gate settlement.
Therefore, they've not always been the most customer-friendly, and each has been criticized
for a high number of non-working chargers, which can strand drivers due to limited alternatives,
but to help solve the issue, the Biden administration allocated an additional $100 million this
year for EV infrastructure repairs.
And there's good news for consumers who have issues with Combined Charging System,
or CCS plugins.
CCS has emerged as the dominant non-Tesla charging port standard in the US, but that
means there are two redundant yet still sparse systems of chargers—one for Tesla drivers
and one for everyone else.
But following a flurry of announcements, from 2025 on, nearly all North American EV
manufacturers will adopt the Tesla, now known as the North American Charging Standard, which
they argue is better for consumers.
Millions will be able to access Tesla's nationwide charging network before the Inflation
Reduction Act's chargers are complete.
The Tesla charging port is objectively more user-friendly than the CCS port—it's less
than half the size, plugs in easier, and can alternate between supplying AC and DC energy.
Plus, Tesla must open its charging network to non-Tesla EVs to qualify for funding from
the Inflation Reduction Act, which means consumers with pre-existing CCS ports can tap in to
an increasing number of Tesla chargers with retrofitted dual ports already.
On the other side of the globe, nearly two years after we released our video titled The
Failed Logistics of Russia's Invasion of Ukraine, Ukrainians are still in the midst
of a war with Russia.
In the invasion's opening weeks, we covered how logistics failures were a major cause
of Russia's unexpected failure to capture Kiev, and having identified this weakness,
Ukraine went on to strategically target Russian logistics infrastructure as the war continued.
As the saying goes, amateurs talk strategy, professionals talk logistics, when it comes
to warfare.
This is helping Ukraine maintain their ground against the comparatively massive Russian
military.
Ukraine's primary strategy has involved splitting its troops and tanks equally between
its eastern and southern borders to find and exploit cracks in Russia's defenses.
Since March 2022, Ukrainian forces have reclaimed half of the territory taken by Russia, from
here to here.
In fact, Russian forces were forced to pivot their strategy after the opening days of the
war, and later abandoned its northern front here, as their logistical hurdles there had
become too difficult to overcome.
Because Russia can't get frontline supplies far into Ukraine, they've had to rely on
civilian vehicles to transport goods and switch from long-range missiles to unguided munitions,
as they ran low on precision missiles after failing to overtake Ukraine's forces in
the opening days of the war.
Where Russia still holds land in eastern Ukraine, they've erected miles of blockades that
essentially require brute force, rather than guerrilla warfare, to reclaim.
They planted tens of thousands of mines and built miles of concrete barriers, which along
with strategic vehicle traps, stalled Ukraine's counteroffensive for months.
Russia's been able to hold out so long because of its ability to acquire weapons and vehicles
for the front lines, in spite of its needs-averse pull military strategy.
Russia still has the upper hand for artillery, as they fired an estimated 10 to 11 million
rounds last year with their manufacturing and transportation capacities, which means
Ukraine is still dependent on Western countries for supplies.
Ukraine's logistics could also be threatened by its other enemy—corruption.
President Zelensky has continually replaced cabinet officials and military officers, as
well as the nation's defense minister, to stave off an endemic problem until the war
ends.
Here on St Helena, things have changed as much as they can on a remote Atlantic island
since we released our documentary, The World's Most Useful Airport, in 2019.
It covered how runway design issues meant St Helena could never get the flights it truly
wanted—a direct connection to London, its capital.
This would have both allowed for easier trips to locals to visit family, and easier trips
for the likeliest inbound tourist market.
Well, St Helena finally got London flights—just not exactly in the form it wanted.
You see, as COVID shut down borders globally, it became impractical and financially infeasible
for the commercial airline, Aerling, to continue to fly flights from its hub in Johannesburg,
leaving the island without air service—but St Helena still needed air service to keep
supplies and people going in and out.
Therefore, non-stop flights began from London—albeit only every three weeks, paid for by the government,
and only with the select few passengers cleared to come to the island.
You see, thanks to its isolation and severe border restrictions, in 2021, St Helena was
one of just three jurisdictions globally to have avoided even a single COVID case.
After all, individuals could only enter after a 14-day quarantine, negative PCR test, and
constant masking.
St Helena's extreme isolation worked to its advantage during a global pandemic, as
it kept its 4,500 islanders safe, yet it got in the way of its mission to grow a self-sustaining
tourism economy, as its two hotels shuttered for over a year.
In September 2022, though, St Helena dropped its vaccination, masking, and quarantine policies,
and as a promising sign of rebound, recently announced that a second weekly flight will
resume flying from Johannesburg to St Helena every Tuesday.
And as tourism works to rebound, St Helena hit another major milestone that could transform
its economy and relationship with the outside world—it was finally connected to fiber-optic
internet.
Since 1989, the island has relied on a single satellite dish to carry all internet transmissions.
Because St Helena is so small, it's held out with this slow, sometimes sporadic satellite
dish for quite a long time, which has made islanders beholden to a telecom monopoly,
Shur.
As Shur was the only internet and TV provider, they set higher than average prices, even
charging islanders 600% premiums for any additional data usage incurred, despite the inherent
limitations of internet speeds routed through a single dish.
Therefore, while islanders had practical access to email and web browsing, it was perhaps
one of the last places on earth where innovations like web streaming and calls were an impractical
luxury.
But, in 2018, the European Union granted the island 21.5 million euros as part of its European
Development Fund to construct and maintain an undersea fiber-optic cable capable of transmitting
80 terabits per second.
Essentially, St Helena paid Google to construct a branch of the tech giant's Aquano cable,
which goes from here to here along the coast of Africa.
To offset the costs, the island plans to develop a satellite ground station business, working
with companies like Starlink to use their unique geographic position to link satellites
passing over the area of the Atlantic to the wider internet through the cable.
It's a project that will change the island physically, economically, and culturally.
St Helena will have the necessary infrastructure to support a strong, consistent internet connection,
with its extra data transmissions generating extra revenue.
It's a viable project model that other remote islands, like Tristan da Cunha, could also
replicate, with the cable now up and running and in beta testing.
So, as decisive as this decade will be for St Helena, it's already proven to be unparalleled.
While interconnectedness is now ushering in a new, more prosperous era in St Helena's
story, the pandemic, meanwhile, exposed the vulnerabilities of globalization.
We all remember the supply chain crisis—it crippled the industrial sector globally and
left consumers without products, as well as a lot of ships, out at sea.
Increased demand, bottlenecked ports, price increases, and more set this off, and then
each was magnified by the COVID-induced labor shortage.
But, when we first talked about this in our video, Why There Are So Many Shortages, we
called out the real Achilles heel of the sector—just-in-time manufacturing.
Businesses operated using the traditional just-in-case manufacturing model until the
1980s, building up inventories at each step in the process to assure the next phase wouldn't
be disrupted, even though they might exceed demand.
Eventually, though, manufacturers realized that all this surplus inventory was costing
them, reducing profit.
To disrupt that, a new model, introduced and developed by Toyota, shifted the process to
just-in-time.
Among other benefits, it freed up storage space and cash, and it worked… until it
didn't.
When labor shortages struck and cross-specific container movements slowed down, it caused
shipping delays and manufacturers weren't getting their parts just-in-time.
The crisis exposed a weakness in the just-in-time supply chain, so now, two years on, companies
are adapting.
Even though its causes and repercussions are weakening, the possibility of future disruptions
from events such as war or climate change are risks that businesses are increasingly
realizing they're not willing to take.
Instead of reverting back to one specific model, they're pulling pieces from several
and customizing their supply chains to work for them.
Take Volkswagen, for example.
When the disruptions of 2022 hit, the company saw a 7% decline in vehicles delivered, partially
due to the global semiconductor shortage.
Today, the company has not only diversified its semiconductor sourcing, expanding beyond
South Korean manufacturers and partnering with both European supplier STMicroelectronics
and Taiwan's TSMC, but has also set up an in-house cross-reference system to identify
shortages before they happen and find alternatives to silicon semiconductor chips.
This safety net is even more critical with the increasing market share of semiconductor-heavy
electric vehicles.
But building supply chain resiliency goes beyond just diversifying and sourcing alternatives.
Companies are also bringing operations geographically closer to home, called nearshoring, so they're
less exposed to global forces.
This is seen in the major migration of what was once Chinese manufacturing to Mexico,
as we covered in another video this year, which makes for shorter delivery times to
the US and Canada, easier quality control, and better supply chain resiliency due to
the LAN connection.
To continue playing the supply chain game, companies are also buffering or double-sourcing
where they can by identifying critical pieces, say a semiconductor chip in the supply chain,
and they're short-gaming the system by stockpiling just that specific part.
And of course, if AI wasn't part of the solution, then it wouldn't be 2023.
Companies are using smart technology to stop woes before they start.
AI can analyze output models and predict where a bottleneck or disruption may occur,
and it can also keep a running inventory and automatically reorder parts when they run
low.
Back in 2017, when we talked about the Little Plane War, it was following an intense corporate
volley between Bombardier and Embraer, two medium-sized companies manufacturing mid-haul
planes, and subsequently two very large companies, Boeing and Airbus, who wanted a piece of that
market.
The problem was that neither Bombardier nor Embraer had an in with the American commercial
aircraft market, the most lucrative in the world, and neither Boeing nor Airbus was making
a plane to meet the demand for smaller aircraft to service America's smaller airports.
To get ahead in the US, Bombardier undersold or dumped dozens of its C-series planes to
Delta, and Boeing didn't like that move.
In response, the American company filed a petition with the US Department of Commerce,
and it worked.
With Bombardier facing a 300% import tariff, it instead sold 50.1% of its shares to Airbus,
a European plane manufacturer with enormous purchasing and marketing power.
Also part of Airbus's appeal was the fact that it had a final assembly plant in Mobile,
Alabama, which meant its planes were technically American-made, at least partially, and that
waived foreign import fees.
Airbus quickly rebranded the C-series as the A220 to compete with Boeing 737, and the first
A220 made in Alabama took to the skies in June 2020.
Back then, some independent analysts predicted that the C-series would capture as much as
60% of the mid-haul market segment, with a goal to meet a demand of 3,000 planes over
the next 20 years, or about 12 and a half planes a month.
By 2022, Bombardier sold off its remaining interest to Airbus to focus exclusively on
its business aviation market.
In retrospect, this was clearly prudent, as it helped spur a 180-degree turnaround
from near-bankruptcy just years prior to $7.6 billion in profit in 2022.
Today, the A220 program is jointly owned by Airbus, its parent company, and the Canadian
province of Quebec, with a 25% share.
The two entities agreed to further invest in the A220 to a tune of $1.2 billion in 2022,
mostly in an effort to accelerate its total production to 14 per month between its plant
in Mobile and its headquarters in Mirabelle, Quebec.
That, however, has been slow.
In 2022, Airbus averaged just 4.5 A220 aircraft deliveries per month, thanks in part to supply
chain issues.
By late 2023, the company had manufactured a total of nearly 100 A220s.
Boeing, on the other hand, is playing catch-up.
It lacks a direct competitor aircraft to the A220, meaning it effectively seeded this smallest
sector of the aircraft market, so Airbus is clunkily hanging on to the market majority
and the plane war goes on.
Back in 2019, we released the video, How Rwanda is Becoming the Singapore of Africa, which
detailed President Pakigame's ascendancy and, at that point, 19-year reign in leading
the sub-Saharan country into prosperity—a transformation he hoped could be likened to
Singapore, one of the biggest success stories from Asia's era of rapid development.
Singapore excelled in three areas—geographic centrality, political stability, and ease
of doing business—and we noted where Rwanda was also meeting or improving on those.
At the time, indicators in Rwanda were promising—political stability was near the 50th percentile compared
to the rest of the globe, and the control of corruption near the 70th percentile, while
the country's GDP was quickly rising.
Since then, the pandemic, of course, stalled progress, but though the economy has been
quicker to recover, some indicators are now plateauing or even starting to fall.
Four years ago, it was notable that Kagame was still in power and had no plans for succession—this
raised eyebrows—and today, well, he's still at the helm.
While undeniably effective, bringing Rwanda from a genocidal crisis to a regional leader
in stability and development, questions on whether Kagame's means justify his ends
are becoming easier to answer.
In 2021, the US State Department released a report detailing several human rights violations,
which included, quote, unlawful or arbitrary killings by the government and forced disappearance
by the government.
Among those is poet and social critic Innocent Baty, who remains missing.
Then, there's the case of Paul Rusesabagina, who's known for his role in saving thousands
of lives during the genocide, as depicted in the Oscar-nominated film Hotel Rwanda,
but more recently for having been kidnapped by the Rwandan government.
Rusesabagina was a vocal critic of the Kagame administration before he boarded a private
flight from Dubai to Burundi for a speaking engagement, or so he thought.
Instead, he was sedated and flown against his will to Kigali, where he was detained
and held in solitary confinement before the government found him guilty on terrorism-related
charges and sentenced him to 25 years in prison.
Eventually, as of early 2023, he is now out on commutation following international political
pressure, yet this demonstrates the direction the country, and especially its leader, is
heading.
While it's long been understood that civil rights and freedoms are limited in Rwanda,
proponents of Kagame's argue that they were necessary to take the country from its genocide
to its current era of relative prosperity.
But perhaps because those rights violations are becoming more egregious, that era of prosperity
is looking like it could be coming to an end.
The murder rate has increased to four per 100,000, the average life expectancy has dropped
a year, and both the corruption and political stability percentiles have decreased at least
one percentage point.
But things are looking more promising from an economic perspective—businesses are continuing
to invest in Rwanda.
Most notably, Rwandair entered a partnership with Qatar Airways, which purchased a 49%
minority stake in the state-owned national airline.
Together they've invested in the new Begasara International Airport, a $1.3 billion project
that's under construction and set to handle 7 million passengers and 150 million tons
of cargo each year and act as a regional hub for sub-Saharan Africa.
It's slated for completion in 2026, and to meet that growth, Rwandair is doubling
its fleet from 13 to 26 planes.
Other businesses are taking note—Volkswagen, Motorola Solutions, Andela, and Radisson have
planted flags in Rwanda.
The country continues to shift and craft policy to entice foreign direct investment, and a
2023 US State Department report says that it's quote, easy to launch a business in
Rwanda, but making it profitable can be a challenge.
And yet, the GDP continues to climb, growing 8.2% in 2022, hitting $13.31 billion.
In the fall, Kagame announced he would run for re-election again in 2024, which is only
possible because his government extended term limits in 2015, and so the fate of the country
appears to remain in his hands.
And just as we said four years ago, it'll be up to him and his administration to improve
upon the political climate in order to make foreign direct investment attractive and stable.
It's not yet Singapore, but it's still trying.
Then there's China.
Now, if you're an aspiring educational YouTuber, here's a tip—make videos about China.
It's an interesting, dynamic place that just does numbers.
A lot happens there, and a lot has changed since we started making videos dealing with
the country.
Take, for instance, this one.
It's five years old, it did 9 million views, and while its main points still hold true,
how exactly China is making Africa its own China has shifted.
Now, the video's claim was that much of the continent is economically and politically
aligned with China, simply because China has pumped huge amounts of money into the continent
of Africa.
This much is still true today—China is still Africa's biggest financial supporter, only
pumping more and more foreign direct aid into the continent.
And as to why they're investing, well, that hasn't changed either—it's because of
what comes back in the form of cheaper labor, resources, and goods.
And the form of Chinese investment?
That's pretty much the same too, as most investment comes through large to very large
infrastructure projects.
What's changed has to do with, well, time.
Like every big project, the beginning's usually marked with excitement, but success
ultimately comes down to execution further down the road.
Take this light rail system that the original video identified as an impressive example
of Chinese investment in Ethiopia as it established sub-Saharan Africa's first inner-city tram
in 2015.
Well, now this system's proving difficult to keep running on time while operating costs
continue to crawl higher and higher.
Already by 2018, outside observers had identified that the system had a fundamental electricity
supply issue, which has only gotten worse since.
As of 2020, the system that once ran 41 trains across two lines was now only running 17.
As of 2023, average traffic had dropped to about 50% of the high-water mark, while waits
along the green line had ballooned to 19 minutes.
The problem is, it's hard for Ethiopian officials to keep the system running when
it can't get spare parts easily and lack the institutional knowledge required to fix
the Chinese-manufactured trainset.
This transit system is a microcosm for how Chinese investment in Africa has played out
more broadly.
They break ground on exciting projects that promise to aid African development, but the
projects prove ultimately flawed by a lack of foresight and an over-serving of blind
optimism.
For African countries with newfound experience in the difficulty of the upkeep and follow-through
on these infrastructure projects, some leaders are becoming more cautious of welcoming them
in while, for its part, China, now more wary of the cost of large-scale infrastructure
investment, is beginning to slow its role too, leading to serious belt-tightening on
these projects that have come to comprise the Belt and Road Initiative.
And it's not just the money leaving China that's changing, either.
The nation's robust manufacturing sector that has spearheaded its massive export economy
for decades has started to take a different shape in the last few years.
Chinese manufacturing still wins, but it's winning less, now six years later.
So too has this channel, as six years ago I actually traveled to make this, making my
way to the capital of Chinese technology manufacturing, Shenzhen, in the Guangdong province, so I
went there to see what it was like.
This was the first time I ever traveled for a video, thanks to an invitation by the company
Anchor.
Back then, they were a burgeoning startup that was just celebrating making their way
into Walmart, but today they've grown into a Chinese entrepreneurship success story,
and a company there's a good shot you've heard of.
Shenzhen as a city is really known for two things, one is its manufacturing capabilities,
especially for consumer electronics products, and second is gravitation for talents or human
resources, especially on the product development and research and development disciplines.
Six years on, this is still the case.
Shenzhen is the hardware capital of the world, and still home to some of the biggest tech
manufacturers, but not quite to the level it once was.
Take this motion graphic—Apple, Samsung, Microsoft, Sony, Canon—they all manufacture
products here in Shenzhen.
Or they did.
In 2018, Samsung closed its factory in Shenzhen.
More recently, Canon has closed its Zhuhai plant.
As for Microsoft, Sony, and Apple, they remain in the city, but the latter two have minimized
their presence within the country, with Sony moving all its camera-making facilities to
different countries.
Shenzhen is still the dominant power in the tech world, but it's giving up ground, and
that much can be said of Chinese manufacturing overall.
This is manufacturing output from China from 2004 to 2022—it's doing broadly what it
should be doing, going up and to the right with a stagnation during the COVID years.
The thing is, it's shrinking as a percentage of China's GDP—where it sat in the low
30s during the early 2010s, it's now in the mid-to-high 20s in the early 2020s.
This is all because the Chinese economy is changing.
As it makes strides towards middle-income status, China's economy is trending towards
services rather than manufacturing, and as standards of living and wages increase, the
benefits of manufacturing in China are becoming less obvious.
This, along with added geopolitical tensions, has turned some countries towards so-called
China-plus-one strategies, where they maintain a factory foothold in the country, but also
diversify their supply chain with factories in, say, Vietnam, so should a COVID strand
or a spat in the South China Sea turn off supply from Shenzhen, the company can stay
afloat.
Or, companies are beginning to outright skip on China's relatively cheap labor for options
close to home, which has to do with lessons learned with COVID shortages mentioned earlier,
as well as the exciting potential of other manufacturing bases, as, once again, we mentioned
in this year's video.
In this case of Mexico, both American and Chinese companies hoping to be nearer to the
US, while still benefiting from less expensive labor, have moved operations to just south
of the American border.
As it factors within China, and outside of China, the nation's manufacturing might
has shown cracks in the last few years, but still, for now, it wins—just by a narrower
margin than before.
Now, if there's a theme throughout these China videos revisited, it's that, broadly,
the way the world interacts with the country has shifted throughout the early years of
this decade.
COVID-19, of course, is a major part of this story, but it's not all of it.
Take this video, Australia's China Problem.
Between it, we make the point that Australia has hitched its wagon to China economically,
putting it in a difficult spot where it doesn't align socially, culturally, or in some cases
morally, with the regional power.
To illustrate the economic tethering between the two nations, we highlighted higher education
and raw minerals as two sectors where Australia's come to lean on China.
Well, now Australia has begun to work towards addressing its dangerous reliance on trade
with China, and it's doing so within those sectors.
This is a graph of Chinese students enrolled in Australian higher education.
Now, obviously, the initial decline can be attributed to COVID-19, but in the last two
years the numbers have remained lower even as restrictions have eased, largely on account
of an increasingly strained relationship between the two countries.
Since 2020, the two countries have been going back and forth—China slapped heavy-handed
tariffs on Australian goods from wine and wheat to coal and cotton, while Australia
has called for a critical inquiry into the origins of COVID-19 and expressed concerns
over Chinese behavior in the Pacific, aligning itself closer with the US and the West.
Surprisingly, though, by taking increasingly louder stances against China, and then being
frozen out as retribution, Australian exports haven't plummeted, minimizing the economic
damage that the countries had to ride out.
As overall exports from Australia show, not only has it bounced back from COVID and Chinese
tariffs, the sector's as strong as it's ever been.
While diplomatic tensions have begun to cool across 2023, Australia has actually found
itself with more leverage than any point prior in its relationship with China.
If China freezes out Australian coal again, for instance, they can simply sell to countries
like India, Japan, and South Korea that are bound to be left high and dry when China's
supply chain shifts.
With 2023 coming to a close, many of you are likely thinking about making some charitable
donations—after all, it's both the season of giving and the last couple of days when
tax-deductible donations can reduce your 2023 tax burden.
With whatever you're able to give, I'm sure you want to be sure that it's as impactful
and influential as possible, but that's a pretty daunting process when essentially
every nonprofit has a compelling argument as to why they're a worthy cause.
Now, you probably already know the solution to this.
When you buy, say, a new mattress, you don't just listen to what the various mattress companies
say, because of course they're all going to say that they're the best.
You look for independent third-party reviews, as that's a far more trustworthy source.
Well, our sponsor, GiveWell, is essentially that independent third-party review source,
but for nonprofits.
They've spent over 15 years researching charitable organizations and only direct funding
to a few of the highest-impact opportunities they've found.
In fact, people have donated over a billion dollars based on the recommendations they
provide since they make it easy—you get all of their research for free and can make
donations right from their site, and they don't take any cut—with the exception
of processing fees, all the money goes to the nonprofit.
Rigorous evidence suggests that over 150,000 lives have been saved through the donations
GiveWell has directed, as relatively small amounts can have a major impact when used
well.
Just one dollar, for example, can distribute a vitamin A supplement in an area where vitamin
A deficiency may increase mortality rates.
And even with GiveWell's already higher impact, you can double yours since, if you've
never donated with them before, they'll match what you contribute up to $100 if you
go to GiveWell.org, pick YouTube, then Wendover as the show.
So thanks in advance for the help you'll provide, and happy holidays.
