Hi! I'm here!
Hello. We were just whinging about you being late.
Oh. Well, you know how it is, right? It's kinda normal.
Yeah, it's perfectly normal. That was what we were whinging about.
I gotta go tell everybody. Hold on a second.
I gotta actually let everybody know what's going on. I put out a video that said
come over in an hour, but I should probably just annoy everyone with a bunch of
everyone's. So, at everyone
the weekly sip is live.
Give me a second here. I'll post it on Twitter too.
Okay. That's cool. Thank you. Appreciate it.
So, how's it going?
It's going fantastic. Thank you for turning up to Shitpost
with me for a while, Dev. Yeah, no problem.
It's been a while. A year or two. It has been.
I think the last time we streamed together was
the follow-up interview for Exploring the Politosphere, which was
ages ago. Couple years, yeah.
Does everyone have their coffee? Wait, do you have your tea? I mean, you're a
BritBong, so you have to have tea. I drink neither, so
I am going to disappoint everyone with Pepsi bags.
What kind of a BritBonger doesn't drink tea?
One who actually has taste buds, Dev. Oh, you don't
like tea? No, not at all.
It's leaf water with milk and sugar in it.
That's honestly very surprising, actually.
And I don't drink coffee because I know if I start drinking it
on top. Listen, it's really good.
I'm sure it is, but that's exactly...
Oh god, I'm very coffee right now, and I don't mean to drink, I mean I'm coughing
a lot. I don't have the Coof,
though. I've already had it twice. I had, back in April 2020,
I had Coof One, Coof Original, and then
in October, I had the Delta
variant. So, people who say that the Coof isn't real seem to be
retarded, but it's not that bad.
Most people are so bad at that shit. I think I got Coof Two
Delta Boogaloo
a few months ago,
but it literally was just like a bad cold. Oh, did you get tested?
No, but I didn't get
any. I got symptoms that I
don't normally get when I get a cold or a flu.
And like, including like shortness of breath, which
only really, which only really, which means it was attacking my lungs, which it doesn't
never happens to me when I get the flu. Right, right.
I mean, I got tested and it was confirmed, so that's
I mean, oh god, you know,
it is sometimes hard to support those who are against
the current establishment when they say such ridiculous things as
COVID doesn't exist. And it's like, come the fuck on.
How, how much tinfoil do you have to be wearing to actually believe that?
Like you can, you can, you can, you know, wonder about vaccines, you can
complain about lockdowns because that's completely reasonable, but like
COVID doesn't exist seems to be a ridiculous position
to hold. At least I think so.
Here's the thing. I have only just recently got my first shot because I was holding
out for a while to see about, you know, like long-term effects and
whatnot. Yeah. But then they started, basically because
I'm a student and also I work in an industry
tangentially connected to the NHS, I was basically being pressured
on all angles, so I eventually just had to concede. Otherwise
I would have likely lost my job and been stuck
studying at home for another, for another term.
Another five years.
So I was like, you might as
well. And it's, so I only just recently got
the first jab, but it's fine. Like,
I don't necessarily have a problem with vaccines in general.
I just, I did feel there was a bit to be said about it
being rushed through trials and whatnot. Yeah.
So I just, so, so I got it
recently and it's been fine. The worst I got was that my
muscle was stiff. Yeah. See for me, what ended
up happening was like, I was considering getting it, but I was
also waiting for the trials to be done. And they, they finished up like this past summer, right?
I was like, okay, they seem to be like safe enough. All right, fine. Trials are over.
Nothing's really been uncovered. Nothing too crazy. Fine. And so
the, the plan was because I work from home
and everybody else who lives with me in this house, they don't. The idea
would be that, um, I, they would just get their shots first and
I would take care of them if something bad happened. And then once everyone else was
immunized, then I would get it. Um,
so everyone got their shots. And then when it came time for me to get mine,
the Ontario government announced the vaccine passport.
And I was just like, well, I'm not going to fucking comply with this. This is ridiculous.
So now, and honestly, now that I've had COVID, I don't really care. I've had the Delta variant.
I really don't care. Like there's natural immunity. Natural immunity is real. So
now I'm just like, I'm not going to lend any of my,
my own personal legitimacy, however little that might be
to a vaccine passport that I fundamentally don't, don't agree with.
So now I'm just not going to get it. Fuck it.
Yeah, I can totally understand that. Political jargon for $10.
Thank you very much. Fan of death. I don't have much to give, but here's some for a good cause.
Thank you very much. Um, anyway. Oh, I forgot to
I forgot to ask, what's the cause?
Cancer Research UK. What is that? It's a, it's a, it's a charity to
research cures for cancer. Oh, oh, you said cancer
research. I think you said council research UK and I was like, what?
No, Cancer Research UK. All right. Oh, oh,
so, uh, have you talked about what happened at the start of your show yet?
What do you mean? Well, I know
Aiden was supposed to be on. She messaged me and she told me, did she tell you what's going on? Why she didn't, why she
she was, she was late. Yeah. Wasn't it to do with something to do with her family?
Yeah, it was a family thing that came up. So she sends her apologies.
No, that's fine. I told her, I told her
I was less annoyed that she didn't turn up and I was more annoyed the fact that this is the
second time in a row she hasn't turned up. But I basically
I basically just told her that it was fine and not to, not to worry about it.
She's a really nice person, but I know that she, she gets
she, she has a tendency to like worry if people hate her. I've noticed.
Yeah, it's, she is a, she's a lovely lass, but she's just
it was, I was just, I was a little bit salty
at first, but then I just decided, cause fuck it. Yeah, right.
It's not worth getting salty
about. It's a 12 hour stream and we managed to get through the first topic
with just the, with the guests we had, so
it wasn't a bother. Yeah, fair enough.
Jesus.
Maybe I've got Omicron. I'm just going to get all the COVID's.
Oh, you, you dying? Kinda, I don't know why.
Actually, you know what it is? It's where I live.
Um, the climate, the specific climate in this like one location
in Canada is just dry. It's very, very dry
in the winter. Um, and you don't have this in the UK because it's just
a difference. Um, we get, we get cold
enough here in the winter in Canada that water can no longer evaporate.
Um, so it just freezes.
Water, so in the winter you'll have no clouds and
the sky is always sunny and blue, but it's like
minus 60 degrees Celsius out and the air
is extremely dry. So you just like, you're just
constantly coughing and, and Fleming because, and like everything is just dry.
Jesus, it's awful. For, for the most part here
it's like minus two in the middle of the night and it's like, like right now
it's four degrees Celsius. Yeah.
I'm not worried about global warming in the slightest because Jesus, it's so cold
here. I wouldn't mind a little bit. The thing is
with the UK is that where it is in terms of latitude
it should be a lot colder than it is, but we also get because of
where specifically, where we sit on the planet, we get, we get
warm current, warm air currents from the south, which heat up the
country all year round. So we're like a few, like we're like
a good, maybe five, 10 degrees hotter than we should be.
Well, the, uh, the west coast of Canada gets the same thing cause of the ocean
warm currents. So Vancouver right now is like our
early summer, you know, I'm just freezing.
It's like, all right, thanks.
But it's kind of interesting though, because I'm far enough north that
there's not much snow. It's all just ice. We have sheets
of ice that come down rather than snow.
The only person, the only person who knows what I'm talking about whenever I talk
about this with people is Arch cause he's in Norway. They have the same thing.
Fucking, I don't get how you can live
like if you don't, if you went much further north, you'd be living a fucking
Well, when I did live further north,
um, there were tunnels underneath some sidewalks
that allowed you to get to certain parts in the city really easily without having to expose
yourself to the air. And that's just how they do it when you go far north, I guess.
That's actually pretty cool. That's actually pretty cool infrastructure. I'd like to see that at some point.
Unfortunately, it was built with taxation, pal.
Fucking, don't go there. We're not having that conversation today.
I'm going to kill him with laughter and then I win the argument by default.
Is that how it works?
I don't know.
I'm pulling from the Jeremy Corbyn book of victories.
Hey, didn't he come out as based recently?
Was he being like anti-vax or like, sorry, anti-vacuum passport?
No, that was his brother, Pierce Corbyn. Oh, what's his deal?
He's basically, he, do you know
how all the lefty revolutionary larpers like hate anyone who's actually
revolutionary because it reveals their larp?
Sometimes. I have seen people like Castro though.
Basically, Pierce Corbyn is the
actual revolutionary to the larp revolutionary that is
Jeremy Corbyn. Okay. So when he's out there talking
about like burning down the houses of MPs or something?
Yeah, he's out there saying, we need to burn down the houses
of MPs. We can't put up with this anymore in response to like
like lot of facts, like COVID lockdowns and stuff.
He actually got arrested today as well. For saying that?
Yeah. Because it's considered, I think they said
it's considered cause to violence. Damn.
I mean, I guess it is technically if you think about it.
So basically he is the actual revolutionary to the
Jeremy Corbyn's larp revolutionary. Alright.
But he's coming at it from a left wing perspective I guess?
Yeah, he's a lefty revolutionary but he's like, he's
slightly more acceptable than the American progressive because he's kind of an
old school lefty English
old school English lefty, like this sort of
George Orwell type lefty. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know what you mean.
So I don't know how many weekly sips you've watched over the years.
I've done quite a bit of them, but the basic idea of the show
the basic idea of the show is
I usually shit post just talking with the chat and talking with people for
about half an hour. And then I do the
I do articles and I go over a series of articles. It's usually
a random number from a random time period. The idea is
over the course of a week I will research for various video topics
and I'll store them up and I'll store them away and I might not make those videos that week but I'll at least
store up the sources that I collect. However, when I find an article
that is interesting enough to be talked about
but does not actually fit into any kind of larger video
I put that aside and those ones that I've collected
for the week I do on the weekly sip.
That's the process of how I do this show.
Right, okay. I need a method
of seeing the things so you can either send me them
or you can screen share and I'll
screen feed Streamlabs. I should be able to screen share with you
let's see how it works.
720, oh jeez I can't do 1080.
God dammit. If I hit go live
there it is.
So there it is. Can you see that?
Hold on, I'll screen feed
there we are. You'll pipe it in? Yeah, now
they should be able to see it. Wait, why is Mitch saying
eww dev? Fucking, cause
Mitch is being a silly boy and he always
isn't. Isn't he the
guy who had the one like grossed out Pepe avatar
and he had to say that he's not cringe political opinions?
Yeah, that was his name for a while, not cringe political boast.
He's a
good boy. I like Mitch but. Yeah, I've talked to him once.
Yeah, he does love to take the piss
so does me.
Jeremy Corbyn actually voted against Boris'
plan B restrictions. Jesus.
Yeah. What a weird situation you guys are finding yourself in.
The thing is, you'll find that that is not
a principled opposition. That is an opposition
based in attempts at
getting popular. Because
the socialist wing of the Labour party
are on the defense right now because Keir Starmer
took over from Jeremy Corbyn and he's, I wouldn't say he's entirely a
Blairite but he's more of an election.
You're cutting out a bit for me, geez. I was just saying
he's more of a Blair, like
Keir Starmer's taken over the Labour party
and he's closer to a Blairite than he is to a Momentum
guy. He's not from the socialist wing of the
Labour party. Right, right. And so the socialist wing of the
Labour party will just go against the, whatever
the Blairites do which, and the Blairites seem to be supporting the Tories
from lockdown stuff. Yeah.
So, I've collected my articles and here they are.
I think you'll like this first one. Right.
Because it'll probably, it'll probably tickle that
ANCAP funny bone of yours. So let's read it here.
These parents built a school app. Then the city called the cops.
Oh for fuck's sake.
Like, fuck you. Let people homeschool their kids.
No, no, that's not what it was. The official app was a disaster
so knowledgeable parents built an open source alternative.
Oh, I see. Oh, I like this.
Okay, so.
Christian Langren's patience was running out.
Every day the separated father of three was wasting precious time
trying to get the city of Stockholm's official school system to
work properly. Langren would dig through endless
convoluted menus to find out what his children were doing at school. If working out
what his children needed in their gym kit was a hassle, then working out
how to report them as sick was a nightmare.
I have done a big sip, Tidge. You missed it. Here, I'll do one for you right now. Hold on.
That's good stuff, man. Ah, yeah. Start drinking coffee.
It's good for you. Okay.
Two years after its launch in August 2018, the Skoll platform
had become a constant thorn in the side of thousands of parents
across Sweden's capital city. Commissioned
in 2013, the system was intended to make the lives of up to 500,000 children,
teachers, and parents in Stockholm easier, acting as the technical
backbone for all things education, from registering attendance to keeping a record of grades.
The platform was a complex system made up of three different parts, containing 18
individual modules that are maintained by five external companies. The sprawling system is used by
600 preschools and 177 schools, with separate
logins for every teacher, student, and parent. The only problem
is that it doesn't work.
It was a huge red flag when they said five different companies.
This tells me that this is an app that's been made by
committee, and anything made by committee tends to be shit.
Generally, you need a singular
coherent vision, and you can delegate
the creation of that vision to different people, but it needs to be a singular
vision. Video games actually have that problem quite a lot
as well, with a game being pulled in a thousand
and one different direction. It ends up
not fulfilling any of it.
You keep cutting out for me, man. Do you have an auto-closer on your mic?
I don't think so.
There's a way to set up in Discord.
User settings, voice and video, and then you'll have
automatically determine input sensitivity. If you turn that down
a bit, it might be a bit better. Hold on.
Sorry, where was it again? So user settings,
then voice and video,
and then it says input sensitivity,
and it says automatically determine input sensitivity.
You can slide. Because what it sounds like is at the end of your
sentences, when your voice goes a little bit quieter, it's cutting it off.
Wait, so
am I dragging it upwards or downwards?
It's left or right.
Am I dragging it left or right? If you go left,
then that should actually lower the noise floor.
So it shouldn't cut you off. Right, okay. Is that better?
It seems like it, yes. You already haven't cut off
once. Right, that's decent. Fair enough.
So to continue on, the Skoal platform
has cost more than 1 billion Swedish krona,
$117 million, and it's failed to match the initial
ambition. Parents and teachers have complained about the complexity of the system.
The launch was delayed, there have been reports of project mismanagement,
and it has been labeled an IT disaster.
The Android version of the app has an average 1.2
star rating. Oof, that sounds awful.
Just give me a second here. I love democracy.
I don't, but you know.
Okay, let me just keep reading.
Because this is a long article, we don't got to read all of it. I just kind of have the certain,
the certain bits. Yeah. So Lang Drin, he's a developer and the
CEO of a Swedish innovation consulting firm.
He has a hat, which was emblazoned with the words
Skrota Skoal platform, loosely translated as trash the school platform.
He joked that he should wear the hat when he picks his children up from school.
Weeks later, wearing the hat, he decided to
take matters into his own hands. From my own frustration,
I just decided to create my own app. Oh,
he's just going for it. He wrote to city officials asking to see Skoal
platform's API documents. While waiting for a response,
he logged into his account and tried to work out whether the system could be reverse engineered.
In just a few hours, he had created something that worked.
I had. Absolutely.
Absolutely based in innovation build. I had information
on my screen from the Skoal platform. Then I started building an API
on top of their lousy API. The work started at the end of
November, 2020, just days after Stockholm's board of education was hit
with a 4 million fine for serious shortcomings in the app.
Sweden's data regulator had found serious
flaws in the platform that exposed the data of hundreds of thousands of parents,
children, and teachers.
People's personal information could be accessed from Google searches.
That's what I'm saying. This school system just
doxxed a bunch of people. Fuck me, man.
Oh my god. Incompetence.
In the weeks that followed, Langdren teamed up with fellow developers
and parents and they hatched a plan. They would create an open source version
of the Skoal platform and release it as an app.
Building on Langdren's earlier work, they opened up Chrome's developer tools,
logged into the Skoal platform, and wrote down all of the URLs and payloads.
They took the code, which called the platform's private API and built packages so it
could run on a phone, essentially creating a layer on top of the existing
glitchy Skoal platform. The result was the
Opna Skoal platform, or open school platform. It was
released on February 12th, 2021. All of its code is published under an open
source license on GitHub. Anyone can take and use the code
with very few limitations on what can be done with it, what they can do with it.
If the city wanted to use the code, they could. But rather than welcome it with
open arms, city officials reacted with indignation.
Even before the app was released, the city government warned
Langdren that it might be illegal.
How is it illegal to make an
open source app? Probably because it's using like school information
or something. It's just going to be
governments mad that a private citizen did something better. That's what the story is, basically.
Well, that's what I mean. It's basically just
state mad that state got proven incompetent.
So, in the eight months that followed, the city of Stockholm
attempted to derail and shut down the app. It warned parents to stop using the app
and alleged that it might be illegally accessing people's personal information.
Officials reported the app to data protection authorities and
Langdren claims tweaked the official system's underlying code to stop
the app from operating at all. Then in April, the city announced it was
getting the police involved. Officials claimed the app and its co-founders
may have committed a criminal data breach and asked cyber crime
investigators to look into how the app worked.
The move took Langdren, who had been meeting with city officials, to address
concerns about the app by surprise.
Well, this is basically just like going, this
feels very like, very by the numbers
state action, just don't question us.
Question us and we'll, they're trying to make an example of this bloke because
he showed them up. Yeah. Basically like their solution sucked,
he made one that's better and they don't like that.
That's all it is. So, the
Opna Skull platform is not a complicated app.
While the official school platform is built for everyone involved in education in the Swedish
capital, its open source alternative is just for parents.
The one Euro app has been downloaded around
12,500 times on iPhone and Android
with an average 4.2 star rating and it only shows basic information.
Parents log in,
12,500 downloads for like an
education app, that's pretty good actually.
Parents log in using the Swedish digital identity
system bank ID, that already sounds fucking awful right there.
I didn't know the Swedes had that, but okay.
The bank ID is also used by the Skull platform. They can then see information about
their children that's pulled into the app through the Skull platform API. The app shows
school calendars and events such as music concerts, a daily schedule for pupils,
notifications from teachers that link out to grades and news updates, food that's being served in cafeterias,
and an option to report children that are sick. Everything that we
display is open and public information.
He explains that when the students grades are shown, they are displayed
through an in-app browser where the app can't access any data.
So basically they built an app
that took the data from the other app that was glitchy as fuck
and made it actually work. And that's why they're complaining.
They're complaining because they did something better. Yeah.
It really, this just really gets on my last nerve
because it treats, it's treating private citizens
like they're criminals just because they
had the nerve to innovate on
like build upon what the state was doing. Not even directly go against
the state, just build upon what the state had done and make it better.
Yep. Yep. Exactly.
And doing it, and not even using
state funds either. They did it like under their own time.
Yep. It's fucking, like this is just
it's peak pettiness and it really gets on my libertarian hackles.
I knew this would be the greatest, the great article to start with you.
So. It just, mmm. The city of
Stockholm was unsure about the official platform from the beginning.
We do not have open API, so they made their own solution.
It may be illegal because people's personal data is involved.
And even though Helen Mossberg, who is the
deputy head of digitization and IT at the city's education division,
claimed to be generally positive about the app, she still said that
a rigorous investigation was being launched.
In mid February, a Swedish security firm completed an external audit
of the app and the report was not published.
And then three weeks later at the end of February, the city said
it was making security updates to the Skoll platform to stop any potential personal
data from being accessed, effectively shutting down Apna Skoll
platform's home brewed API. This began
a tug of war between the two sides. The Skoll platform would be updated,
Apna Skoll platform would respond with its own updates. In March,
Apna Skoll platform was apparently updated seven times to avoid sabotage from
the city, which continued to change its underlying systems.
So it doesn't sound like the city is actually fixing any of the problems with the
app. This has been going for like two years at this point, but when it comes
time to, when it comes time to stop this competitive app,
they're, they're updating it like crazy.
Well, that's what I mean. They're not trying to, they're doing this
out of spite. It's painless. They're doing it. They
would rather the app be actively worse to use
as long as a private citizen wasn't the one to make it.
Yep. Do not pretend to tell me that the
state cares about you. In early April,
the city asked the developers to unpublish their source code from
GitHub. On April 15th, the Education Administration
announced it had completed its investigation into the parent developed system and had
concerns about how the app handled data. The city then reported the developers
and Apna Skoll platform into the police, saying that it believed a
data breach had occurred. They wrote the police report
in a way that was supposed to look scary. That says, says Langdon.
In the following weeks, Cybercom investigators came to his house and interviewed him about the open source app,
a process that Langdon says caused him to doubt the work the team had done.
You have to make a decision at that point on what you're trying to do. He ultimately
decided to keep working on the project along with an expanding team as they believed it was
the right thing to do. As the dispute was unfolding,
Apna Skoll platform continued growing in popularity,
including a swell the number of people involved in its development. So now
they have 40 people working on this app because it's so popular and apparently it's at least
it's at least kind of financially solvent, probably not for all 40 of them, but
people want this basically. The volunteers have
found and squashed bugs, developed a search feature, and
translated the app into different languages. They also raised
potential security issues with the official app, even as the city worked against them.
All right.
I know you're trying to sue us, I know you're trying to sue us out of
existence and possibly get me arrested, but here's why your app is shit.
Yep. So it seems like
in the end, they won
because Apna Skoll platformer had to wait months to be cleared.
We do not believe anything criminal has been committed,
said the leader of the police's preliminary investigation, and the
data regulator in Sweden did not open an investigation into the city's complaint.
So it seems like the city lost this one, at least so far.
Based.
However,
things changed in September. Langdon was traveling to his brother's
wedding in France when he got a phone call. The city was changing
actually, no, no, this is when it got better. The city was changing its position on
Apna Skoll platform and any other app seeking to do similar things and decided to let
others access the data within its systems. To do so, the city struck
a deal with an external provider that will be able to set up licenses between
Apna Skoll platform and the city. So now the city
can guarantee that private data is handled in a correct and secure way while
parents can take part in the market's digital tools in their everyday lives.
See, I have a feeling that governments would just generally be better
off if they allow this kind of economic activity to happen
and just be like, listen, you can just pay us a cut and we won't fucking bother you.
Better than like fighting their own populace, you know what I mean?
Well yeah, basically if they
allow the populace to get involved in the streamlining of state activity
not only will it save them time, it will save them money
and it will avoid a lot of the
complications that come with government bureaucracy and inefficiency.
Like, here's the thing, I am a pragmatist, I might
be an anarcho-capitalist, but if a state is going to exist, I want that state
to be as streamlined and efficient and cost-effective as possible.
So, I think this is ultimately
like, as an achievable political goal, this is probably an incredibly
good thing. It's something that should be emulated elsewhere.
I mean, at the end of the article Langren says that all
officials should make their APIs open source so citizens can build technology
that works for them. If you build the API, the app will come. And
I can understand the security complaint. That's reasonable. You don't want
people getting a hold of your child's schedule or something. Yeah, fair enough.
But I also understand the other side of it too, you know?
There's a reasonable conversation to have here that isn't just
shut it down. To be fair, the original
state-built one was doxxing people so
they don't really have a leg to stand on on security. That's true. They were
also failing at it. But just because they were failing at it, that doesn't mean that it's also not a legitimate
question to ask. You know what I mean?
Yeah, I suppose. But I'm just saying that
being a part of the state apparatus does not
exempt you from... That kind of incompetence? Yes.
Not just that incompetence, but also from being a
security threat yourself. Right, right. So that's pretty much the end of that
story. I knew you would enjoy that one. I did,
so thank you very much. Okay, what's the next one? Oh!
Oh, you guys are going to love this! You guys are going to love this.
Do you remember Thirsty Sword Lesbians?
I don't, but elaborate, please.
I covered it on the show a couple months ago. It was a tabletop RPG
rule set that was only for
lesbians. If you weren't a lesbian, you couldn't play.
And of course they have all the things like, fascists can't play this game. You know what I mean, right?
You know what I'm talking about. You know the kind of thing I'm talking about.
Woke tabletop. Yes.
So, they have announced their
Woke First expansion. They're now
kickstarting Advanced Lovers and Lesbians.
Draw your sword and bare your heart with new character types, fresh
settings, and even more ways to enjoy Thirsty
Sword Lesbians. This Kickstarter received $97,000.
How? How? How? Why?
Why does this exist? Oh, it makes
me angry just looking at it. No, cause look,
why would people waste a hundred grand on something like this?
Like...
Look. Okay, let me read it. Let me read it.
Draw your sword and bare your heart with this new print supplement for
Thirsty Sword Lesbians. Ten new character playbooks, four adventures, twenty
plus settings, and a toolbox full of inspirational mechanics that will take
your game to the next level. And Advanced Lovers and Lesbians.
Wow. Dude, do you see this image?
Can I make it bigger? Hold on.
That's gross.
That's legitimately gross.
Looking at it, some of it's
fine. The art isn't bad, but freaking
I don't know. A lot of the characters just seem to be drawn
to be so deliberately off-putting.
I don't know what it is. Well, it's made by the company Gay Spaceship
Games, and if I zoom in enough, can you see this?
Right there. Actually, hold on. I'll need to pull up.
Just give me a second.
Okay. So, the original Thirsty
Sword Lesbians had official artwork
of this. And there it is.
And yeah, the characters are pretty ugly. However,
what's interesting is that they are clearly
and obviously aping the design of a
reasonably obscure 1990s anime
called Revolutionary Girl Utena. And I'll show you what I mean.
Nobody fucking watches Revolutionary Girl Utena anymore. That was like
made in 96. That's what I'm saying. I've heard of Utena.
Right. So, here's Utena.
Hold on. Can I get a better picture than that? Come on, internet.
Okay. Here's Utena.
It's clearly the same kind of design, but the characters are significantly more
appealing. I'm not seeing it, bud. I think you're gonna need to zoom.
No. Are you sure? Yeah, I think you need to
zoom out, bud. Zoom out? This is... Okay, hold on.
That's just... Yeah. What do you mean? I'm not seeing
this picture of Revolutionary Girl Utena. Oh, you're not?
I wonder why. Hold on.
Why isn't it... No, it's not giving you the...
It's only... I think it's only showing one window. Okay, hold on.
If I did this... Yeah, that's good. Okay, so this is
the Thirsty Sword Lesbians box art, okay?
Right. And this is the Utena art.
Oh, I see. That actually looks good
and appealing. And the thing is, by today's
standards, Utena is a reasonably left-leaning anime.
Like, it wears its feminism on its sleeve. Like, if
you wanted to point out what is a feminist anime, it would be this show.
For sure. However... However, it's still
actually very good because the characters are well developed and there's like an actual full story arc and they go
through troubles. The main hero loses fights and has to come back. Like, it's
not just all Mary Sue bullshit. It's... You can have
good feminist or even socialist or any
brand of left-leaning storytelling. You can still have that
but I think there's a reason we haven't seen it in about 20 years.
Well, let's take something like...
Let's take something a lot more Western and live-action like Law & Order, for example.
If you listen to any political discussion on the show, Law & Order,
the side that always wins out is
always left-leaning. It's always the
sort of bog-standard Democrat position because
it's set in New York.
But the show is still good in spite of
that because it's well-written.
It just seems to be rare nowadays to have things that are well-written.
It doesn't exist anymore.
In any case... I think
all the creative talent of the 21st century was just
poured into the Lord of the Rings movies and now we're having to say it through
a 100-year darkness of no talent just
because it was all went into those movies.
Are you eating something? I kind of hear. Are you chowing down?
Not really. Oh, are you drinking? Do you have a slurp for us?
Yeah, I'm chugging.
Okay, that's what it is.
This is coming out if you're interested.
I keep bothering Arch and Sargon to say, listen, we have to play a game
of Thirsty Sword Lesbians. We have to play a game of this shit.
It would be fucking hilarious. See, here's the thing though. Arch would
probably go for it. Sargon, I know he's busy these days, but I think
if Sargon got a spare five minutes, I'm sure he'd be down for it.
Actually, Arch is the one who said no, he did not want to play
Thirsty Sword Lesbians.
Well, to be fair, he's very serious about his tabletop.
Right, right. Okay, let's go on to the next thing I've got here.
Andrew Garfield talks Spiderman.
Money is the thing that has corrupted all of us and led to the terrible
ecological collapse that we are all about to die under.
Shut the fuck up, Spiderman. How is this about Spiderman?
Like,
I didn't realize Spiderman was a socialist.
An eco-socialist at that.
I just don't understand. He's asked about
his newest, because he's in the newest Spiderman movie.
Hey, Mr. Andrew Garfield, how do you feel about your new Spiderman movie?
And this is what he gives us as an answer. What the fuck?
They almost feel like automatons at this point.
No matter what question you give them, it has to relate to
to woke talking points.
And to the point where it's so ingrained in their head that they just can't deviate from it anymore.
I don't know.
I almost feel sorry for them for how NPC they have become.
Let's see what he actually said. Oh, this is why he spoke to the
Guardian. Okay. So speaking to the Guardian, Andrew Garfield briefly
touched upon his time playing Peter Parker
in Sony's second cinematic take on the Marvel character for The Amazing Spider-Man
and its sequel. Relieved to not have to dance around being asked whether or not he'd be back for the
third reboot at the studio, Garfield seemingly relished in the frank honesty
of what it was like to be catapulted into a character as monumental
as Peter Parker.
There were millions of dollars at stake and that's what guides the ship. It was a big awakening
and it hurt.
So he's whinging about that movies cost money
and they are expected to do well. And that he got
paid.
Grow the fuck up you man child. He says
Comic-Con in San Diego is full of grown men and women still
in touch with that pure thing the character meant to them. But you add
in market forces and test groups and suddenly the focus is less
on the soul of it and more on ensuring we make as much money as possible.
And I find that heartbreaking
in all matters of culture. Money is the thing that has corrupted all of us
and led to the terrible ecological collapse that we are all about to die
under. It's like holy fuck. Dude, I think you'll be fine living in Hollywood.
Actually no, that's probably going to go underwater. But you'll have enough money to leave. Don't worry about it.
This almost sounds like, I don't know
it almost sounds like he's a child who
watched Spider-Man, thought Spider-Man was real but then
went to watch the movie being filmed and realised it's all fake.
Yes. Now he has a point. There's definitely
been a trend of just soulless cash-ins
on behalf of Disney and Marvel and Star Wars.
You know, there's been some really shitty movies that are clearly just there
to swindle fans and run away. That happens.
Don't get me wrong, those exist and in fact a large
proportion of the comic-skate
or whatever is whinging. I say whinging. That's being a bit unfair.
But it's complaining about that.
Yeah, but he then links it to the terrible ecological
collapse that we're all about to die under.
Man. Okay Lefty Doomer.
Yeah, like, again, just like the vaccine
conversation earlier. I'm not going to be one of those people who is like climate change doesn't exist.
It does exist. But like, I think it'll be fine, dude.
You know, I think human ingenuity will
invent some cool new thing that will solve whatever problems that we have
and it'll be okay. We are not going to, like, the planet's
not going to turn into a bowl of molten lava. It'll be okay, guys.
Like, stop thinking like you're going to be living in fucking fallout.
It's fine. We're not going down that road.
The two big problems with climate change are cutting down trees
and plastic in the ocean. Those are the two big ones. Yes.
Now, plastic in the ocean is already being solved
by market forces as we speak. There are already been technologies
developed to eat, like, micro technologies being developed to eat plastic.
And second of all,
the trees, we've had methods of sustainable
tree growth since the Roman Empire.
Like, this isn't new information.
It's not some big revelation on how to cut
down trees without killing them. The problem
is that China and Russia, and to a lesser extent India, don't care.
And when you have those three, like, America and Canada and the UK
and Europe can do whatever it wants, but if you have
those guys not giving a shit, you're not going to solve the problem. You can't point
the fingers at us.
Well, ultimately, India
I think it's just a case of they're still in their industrialization phase.
So, they will come round over time.
Russia will need a regime change, but I think that's something that will occur naturally
because they're not a totalitarian regime.
They're more of an oligarchy. Authoritarian, certainly, but not totalitarian.
And China
I don't think China will last the next 50 years.
Yeah, China will destroy itself at this rate. Everyone's like, China, you gotta confront China. Well, yeah,
we do gotta confront China, but also, China's already on a downhill path
of its own making, you know?
Whenever someone says, oh, a country's gonna take over
America as the next big,
the next number one economy, there always seems to be
some underlying thing that people are ignoring.
Like, with Japan, it was the fact that
Japan, it was the fact that
in order to fuel their economic prosperity in the 80s, they were taking on huge
amounts of death.
And in China, it's the fact that their entire
economy is based on being the factory of the world, and if that
gets taken away, they'll just collapse under their own weight.
Right.
I guess it's time to go onto the next article, because I don't think there's anything more worthwhile than this.
It's long, and it's really fucking stupid.
So it's just him whinging? Okay, fair enough.
I forget what this one is. What is this? Oh, yeah. Check this out.
This is on a subreddit about trans pets.
Okay. My male dog doesn't
lift his leg to pee. Is he trans?
My dog has already hit the two years of age mark and still pee is like a
female or a pup. Should I make an appointment with a trans-friendly
vet for gender reassignment?
Right. Let me make one
thing abundantly clear.
You cannot have a trans dog.
Trans is a very specific, being trans
is caused by a very specific mental state that is exclusive, as far as we know,
to humans.
Hold on. You cannot have a trans dog.
Okay, you're gonna like this one. Yeah, this is r slash
trans pets. Oh, just kill me. Kill me.
How to stop my cat from being aggressive while
dilating. So my cat
Julie had her gender reassignment surgery three
days ago. The surgeon said that her neo-vagina
needs to be dilated three times a day, ten minutes each.
But she isn't liking it. How can I help her? My
hands are full of wounds because of her claws and teeth. I wanted to get
her declawed, but claws or nails are an essential part of
being a woman or a female cat. So
So you've cut a male cat's bollocks off
and now you're pouring fucking fluids onto its wound
and you're expecting it not to hurt?
It's not just that. The surgeon built a cat
neo-vagina that needs to be dilated with like
what do they use? It's kind of like a
it's like a rod that holds the wound open.
Yeah, I know, but what I'm saying is that something tells me
that this is not a veterinarian's association
approved. Probably not. So it's very
likely that that wound really fucking hurts for that cat.
Yes. I'm hoping this is like a troll sub.
Like holy fuck. No, I see, I
really hope as well because as funny as it is, at the same time
this boils my piss because I really hate, like
needless to say I hate animal abuse, but I really hate animal abuse.
Yeah, this is ridiculous.
Okay, this one. Alright.
Are you guys ready for the latest TikTok dance?
You're not going to be able to hear it, okay?
So I'll post it in the chat.
Here it is. And you can pull it up yourself.
And then on three we'll play it, okay?
Okay. One, two, three.
I'm dreaming
of a mass Christmas
Pick that shit up over your nose
You can't even sing!
Where the anti-masker is all set And there's
a political division
To get our Covid count so low
Oh to know
I'm dreaming of a mass Christmas
Pick that shit up over your nose
I'm dreaming of a mass Christmas
Don't wanna see no chin diapers in here
Seriously, on the mouth and the nose. Or get out!
Come on! It's not that hard.
That's it.
Oh god. I would like to say a couple of things.
Oh okay. Sorry.
Which is good because it wouldn't play on my end.
Second of all, that's ruined
my day. Thank you.
I love Christmas and that has
thoroughly corrupted the image of Christmas.
I am proud to say I have only worn a mask
once and I found it reasonable when I did because I was going into a hospital.
And it's like okay yeah fair enough you know. Honestly we probably should have been doing that before
the pandemic anyway. It's a hospital. It's a different situation. But I don't
wear them to go to stores or anything. I certainly don't wear them just walking inside my house.
Fuck that. Fuck all the Covid theatre.
Fuck it. I have never.
Right. It is a legal requirement in our country to wear them on the bus.
Which is only recent. That only came in a couple of weeks ago.
It is
technically legal to wear it. It is technically.
You do technically have to wear it in certain venues but nobody enforces it.
Because people are sick to death.
And
I only wear it at work because it's a legal part
of my requirement at work because I work
in an industry tangentially related to the NHS.
See here it kind of exists in a grey area
because it makes sense to me that if a store owner wants you
to wear a mask in their shop they can tell you to leave if you don't. It's their property. It's their right.
It's their business. It's their house. You got to do what they say. Fair enough.
But like the government will not arrest
you if you don't wear a mask in a store. But they
sometimes find the store for not telling you to do so.
But the store is not empowered to make you do so.
It's like no one wants to actually be holding the potato.
The hot potato responsibility on this. So they've left it as
vague as possible. You know what I mean?
Mitch for $2.65. Thank you very much.
Physically remove those mask speakers and animal
trunes so to speak.
Hopper posting in my
fucking chat.
We're not going to read these articles but I just wanted to go over the juxtaposition here.
They're both from the same thing. They're both from Yahoo. You got
Joe Rogan who's not a doctor gives terrible vaccine
advice. There's the headline.
Oops I accidentally clicked off of it like an idiot. Okay. Joe Rogan who's not
a doctor gives terrible vaccine advice. Podcaster Joe Rogan who has no public health
expertise told his listeners that
healthy young adults have no need to get a vaccine.
That's probably kind of true. However, the headline
and the way that they're framing this is like
they had to put in who's not a doctor. Okay. So also from Yahoo
you have five things Bill Gates wants you to
know about COVID-19 variants. Couldn't you say
five things Bill Gates who's not a doctor? Like there's
obvious bias here. Here's the thing.
Joe Rogan is a podcaster. Bill Gates is their lord and master.
He is one of the
leaders in what the certain right British right wing
YouTube circles would call the managerial elite.
Yes. So have you seen that picture of Bill Gates drinking shit water?
No. Okay. So a few years ago
Bill Gates was heavily promoting a machine that turned shit into
drinkable water and the water looked completely fine.
It was probably like when it comes down to the actual molecules involved, it probably was
just regular water, but he takes it and he takes a big swig of it and he's like, that's delicious.
And it's like, holy fuck dude.
It's like at best it's water. It's not delicious. It's just
water. Yes. At worst, at worst you're actively trying
to deceive people into drinking shit tasting water.
Yep. Okay. What is this?
Oh God, this is from UndeadScribe. What did Poe send me
today? Oh yeah, this. Okay. This is a
trans person who's Japanese. Does anyone want my own
egg wine? It's about 100 milliliters.
Only wine, but not the eggs. Okay. This person cut off
their own testicles and then fermented
those testicles and made wine out of it.
Oh.
Look, I'm all for trans
rights, right? Oh, I know. I know how much you're into them, buddy.
I'm all for trans rights, but at the same time, can some
of you just stop being such fucking degenerates, please?
Like, can you just, like, I feel like the mother
in the car in the Babadook. Just, why can't you just be
normal?
Oh God, like you got like women who like cook with their period
blood or they like, they make like vagina yeast bread
or whatever the fuck. It all like, why the fuck are people doing this?
Why? Because they're not okay.
Like gender dysphoria is the least of their worries.
Man, and you know what, like this is not
a phenomenon. It's like, it's not exclusive
to these types of people. Now we've seen a lot of it from these types of people in the past,
in the past decade or so, but I recall when I was growing up hearing
about, and this is out of more traditional communities, about
women who would eat placentas and I'm like, what the fuck is wrong with you?
Who? Why? Who the fuck wants to eat a childbirth placenta?
And it's like, well, it's just, it's like a natural thing, dude. It's like, shut the fuck up.
I don't want to, I don't want to do any of this.
It all just sounds awful.
Oh, hold on a second. I think my headphones just died. Uh oh.
Hey, are you still there?
Yeah, I'm still here.
Okay, they came back. I can hear you. Great. Alright.
When recycling goes wrong. Oh, okay. Hold on.
In the chat, Millie, the weekly sip is a lot better without the Minecraft server BS.
I advertise the server at the start of the sip for like 30 seconds.
Does that bother you that much? Alright.
Okay. Minecraften. Yes.
Only surveillance can save us from the coronavirus.
You must have seen this, this headline around, right?
Big data. Oh, yes.
Look, here's, here's all I'm going to say.
Anyone who supports this, if the revolution
does end up happening, if the boogaloo comes along,
I will not mourn your death.
Okay, so.
Only surveillance can save us from coronavirus. Big data
offers tools to stop the pandemic right now if we change our definition
of privacy. Look at this, look at this
fucking guy's phone. What is this, 16 different
COVID apps? One of them is called coronavirus sus.
Fuck. Okay. In those parts of the world
under lockdown, people have discovered a renewed appreciation for the internet
and the resources it offers. Books, movies, music, endless
news content, and the tools to communicate with friends and family.
Imagine the lockdown without the internet. It's not a comforting thought, but that would just be like
renting games from, you know, the local Blockbuster or whatever and just
staying inside. So.
To be honest, that's, that's, that's making me a tad nostalgic. I could go for that right now.
Yeah. Fucking. Yeah. Fucking get, get some
pizza, some ice cream, play some GameCube or something.
Oh, it takes me back. To be fair, it was N64 for me. I'm a little
bit older. N64 was my big rental time.
My, um, I rented a lot when I was young because by the time I got to my teenage
years, Blockbuster had largely died out. Yep. But
it was GameCube for me because again, I was a bit younger
than when you rented, but also I didn't really have a choice
because renting would largely died out by the early 2010s.
This is a shame, man, because now, now you just got to pay like
fucking $90 in Canadian money to get a new game. Fuck.
Here's the thing. It's also the fact that
like, not to get us too far off topic, but also like
it's the fact that it's largely been replaced by stuff like Xbox Game Pass
and yeah, Game Pass is, Game Pass is worth it on the face of it
but also at the same time it's like renting
like renting was good because it was specific. You could go
and rent the specific game that you wanted. You weren't just
getting like, paying a monthly fee to like get like a
different selection of games filtered in and out every month. Yep.
It's a possibility that none of them interest you.
Yeah, when I was growing up it was $3 a night.
So you get a game, you have it for a full 24 hour period. Cost 3 bucks.
6 bucks if you go for the whole weekend.
Stay up all night, eat some sweets, eat some pizza,
complete the game overnight, take it back the next day.
Yep. Yep. Alright, so
let's go through here.
The internet's system of surveillance has been perfected beyond
our imaginations and usually beyond our acknowledgement. It now extends
over email, social media, credit card payments, cell phone use, and
travel records. Every flight and hotel booking, every payment and bank
transfer, every call, every picture can be brought together in a single
platform and mined for interesting or unusual patterns.
Yet, while extending in every direction and the system was completely
powerless to warn us about the coronavirus, let's fight it. That is about to change
and our concept of personal privacy will have to change with it.
That sounds fucking awful and fuck you.
No, it's not happening. I will
throw away my phone and I will
throw away my phone and I will give up technology before I allow
the state to track me using my
devices. I will go offline before
that happens. I have a Galaxy S2.
Any of you remember that phone? The Galaxy S2?
What is it? 2010? Yeah.
And the reason I haven't just mindlessly updated is because
it still works. I don't use data or anything
when I'm out. Here's what I use my phone for. I occasionally call my parents
and I occasionally text some people and that's it. I never use data.
I never really use its other features. Oh yeah, I have like
an exercise app on it that I only occasionally use because I'm fat. But the point is
I don't need a super powerful phone.
And also, I'm not even sure if my phone would work with a coronavirus
scanning app that's currently being enforced in Ontario.
So, like, my
Facebook, I have one picture on my Facebook because they require
you to have an avatar. And the picture is of Dr. Robotnik's
face. And it's been the same picture since 2008.
Like, I work on the internet.
I have the YouTube channel and I stream on Twitch and all this stuff.
But when it comes to me personally, I live a very low tech life.
And I kind of prefer it that way. I kind of prefer it that way.
Short-Fighter Taku is very tech-savvy, but
Devin, he's not
He is a good,
Mormon boy. Not Mormon, Amish boy.
He's a good Amish boy.
He is a good Amish boy and he does no wrong. It's funny because
like, I'd say most of the time I go out
of the house without my phone. Like, if I want to listen to music, sometimes I'll bring it. But I also
have like an old MP3 player from like 2006. It still works. So it's like, whatever. I don't care.
But the point being is that
my parents who are boomers, they're, they're older than me.
They, they chastise me every time I
leave the house without my phone, because sometimes they'll call me. I'm not there. Like, where were you?
Oh, I didn't have my phone when I went out. Like, why don't you have your phone with you when you go out? And it's like, well
fucking, you spent most of your life without doing that shit.
Why does it matter now?
I never needed it. Yes. I hardly ever need it. Like fucking leave me alone.
Yeah. And I, I, I like
the occasional feeling of, because I live like 10 minutes away from a forest,
I like the occasional feeling of just going into the woods and being disconnected from everybody else
and just kind of having an hour or two to myself, you know,
Naomi and I will go for a walk, you know, it just no, no,
no connections. You don't need to be connected or jacked in all the fucking time.
Oh, I know that feeling. I grew up in an area of the
South of England called the New Forest in Hampshire and
literally having the forest on your doorstep, it's such a blessing.
It really is. People don't understand how big and how wild Canada
truly is. Like there is, unless you're in like
Vancouver or Halifax or Montreal or Toronto or Ottawa,
if you're anywhere else or Calgary. Yeah. If you're anywhere else
you are an hour's worth of forest
away from anything else outside of your town. It is, this is a
wild, isolated country. There's just tons of mountains, tons
of forests, tons of rivers and lakes. Like there is no,
there is no, most Canadians live in a
place where they can just go off the grid in about 15 minutes. It's quite nice.
Before, um, before the 20th
century fricking Canada was basically just IRL Skyrim.
Yeah, pretty much. There's like nobody fucking here, man. Like,
okay. People talk about native civilizations and, you know, they
weren't as primitive as people said, especially if you get down to like Central America, they
had like empires and they had feudal systems and stuff. So it's okay. Fair enough. But like
the natives that lived here before Europeans showed up, they
like they, they, they only barely existed
because it was so fucking hard to live here. It was so cold.
So even, even now that that's reflected, like if you're
outside of a big city, like there, there's, there's some truly
off the grid areas here. It's, it's, it's actually nice. It's quite nice.
Indeed. So yeah, we can move on
because like this is just a bunch of stuff. Oh, oh, we want
to pay for your bullshit. Fuck you. Right. Before we do that,
I'm going to read some super chats. Oh, okay. Um, because
because we've got quite a few while we're talking. Oh shit. I don't
want, I don't want people to feel neglected.
Um, uh, $1 from Mitch, just saying trune
and
and Mr. Personality for $14.88. Don't think
I don't know what you're doing when you write that. Um, cannibalism
with extra steps. I'm not sure what that's in context
too, but okay. Neither do I. What did we talk about
previously? Oh, the, uh, the testicle wine.
Oh, right. Okay. Yeah. Pretty much. Listen, listen, would you drink
the testicle wine? Um, how much
would you be willing to pay me to do it? What if it was from a hot trap?
Still, how much would you pay?
The hotness, the hotness of the trap is irrelevant.
It's still bollocks in it. It's still fermented bollocks.
Oh, wait, hold on. Does, does bollocks mean
mean balls? Yeah. Oh, I always thought it meant
thought it meant ass cheeks. No, it's why you get, it's getting kicked
in the bollocks. It means getting kicked in the balls. Oh, okay. No, no.
See, I don't really know British slang. I always thought it meant your butt. No,
it's, it's, it's your, it's your balls. Oh, okay. All right.
It's like the, how hot the trap is, is
immaterial to the fact that it's still fermented bollocks.
Right. Shall we move on? There's a guy in the chat who said he's
from Thunder Bay. I went, I went to school in Thunder Bay. I went to university there.
What a, what a fucking isolated, oh my
God, what an isolated shithole Thunder Bay is. Okay. Thunder Bay
is a reasonably big city and it's surrounded by like six
hours of forest in all directions. There's nothing there.
It's just wild wilderness. It's man. And also
Is this why, is this why when you and your friend, when you and Dave, I was about to say
your friend, I don't know his name.
Is this why you and Dave, whenever you talk about your hometown,
you talk about it like it's like some middle, like some like
middle America buttfuck nowhere town because it actually is. It actually
is. Yes. And also, unfortunately, it's been overrun by
heroin since we moved away. It is not the idyllic place it was when we grew up.
It's a shame.
Is that because of like deindustrialization?
Actually, no, because the towns, it's one of those single industry
towns, but that industry hasn't died. It's forestry. Like there's no mines to be shut down.
There's no factories to be shut down. It's a paper mill.
And so that, it's been going now and it's probably going to keep going for a long time
because Canada has tons of trees. But no, it's just
that like a lot of people who
couldn't leave and couldn't get jobs at the mill because it's really the only place
you can work in the town, they just ended up getting on drugs because they couldn't, they didn't
have anything else.
Is it a case of like
a scarcity of like jobs in the town? Yes, yeah.
All right. Yeah. And yeah, you can walk out into the forest in the summer
and just find random junkies living in the woods.
Oh. Yes, I went to Lakehead University. I went to Lakehead University.
I got, you know what? I got my minor in gender studies
at Lakehead University. Yeah, you've mentioned that on the stream
before. That's how I know about a lot of this shit. I still have
my old textbooks. Okay, so I have like 40
minutes, right? We should probably get through these articles. Yeah. All right, what's this?
Blaine police investigating after Instacart
shopper allegedly drives over an elderly couple's groceries.
Jesus.
Why would you do that?
Why would you drive over, like if you, if you work for Instacart and you buy an elderly
couple's groceries, why would you drive over it after, let's
see. An Instacart shopper drove over their groceries last week
possibly in response to a pro law enforcement sign
in their front yard. Oh, so they had like a
like a blue lives matter, like a thin blue line kind of sign in their front yard. So this person
delivers their groceries and destroys them. Wow. Okay.
Yeah.
It's just like, oh yeah, that's totally a way, like it's not
even necessarily, it's not even necessarily about conducting yourself or having a
anti-cop opinion that winds me up. It's just like, this is only going to be detrimental
to you in the long run. Like yeah, you destroyed their groceries so they can buy you.
They can buy you more. Is it worth really losing your job over?
Yeah, so according to a news
release, the couple had placed an order for delivery on the morning of December 6th.
Once the driver arrived at their home,
the couple went outside to meet the driver. The driver yelled from the check the inside of
their Christmas wreath where they found a receipt with a derogatory message written on it.
It says that Instacart doesn't pay their employees, find another
slave, fuck the police, racist pigs,
and the groceries themselves were destroyed
and left in the driveway. Oh my god.
Wow. Wait, so this wasn't even because
of them? No, it was, it's just that
this person who works for Instacart just didn't care.
They feel like they're not getting paid enough and they saw the
thin blue line sign in their front yard, so they destroyed the groceries
and wrote on their Christmas wreath. And they wrote
find another slave, fuck the police, racist pigs, and it's like Jesus.
Oh my god.
Wow. So they've
identified the worker, a 36 year old from Coon Rapids,
and that charges are in the near future. She is not cooperating with us, if you can
believe that. They're going to add disorderly conduct charges
and criminal damage to property. And a GoFundMe
has been raising $7,000 for the old couple, so that's nice.
Oh, that's nice. I like that.
You know what? This is actually missing a part of the story. This is a different article than the one that
I had planned to show, so just give me a second. Give me just a moment, okay?
Listen to those taps.
Those clickety-clacks. Here it is. Alright.
Found it. Because part
of the article was supposed to talk about who
the person was, who this 36 year old driver was for Instacart.
But it wasn't in there. So I just quickly found it. And here's what it is.
If you can see it. Milliwig in chat is asking what's
Instacart before we move on. Instacart is a, do you know what Instacart is?
No. Oh really? Okay. So Instacart is a company
that you, there's an app and you
put in your grocery list on the app. And they have workers who
will go out to a store and buy the food
and then deliver it to you. And then they charge you for the delivery and they charge you for the food.
So the idea is if you can't leave your house but you have to go grocery shopping
you can get an Instacart order.
Oh no, a lot. We don't have anything like that mainly because
oh we do actually have something like that. It's called Ocado.
And we
mostly don't have any competitors to Ocado
mainly because most grocery stores
have their own delivery services. Right. Direct to your door.
That's not common here. So apps have kind of filled the void. And we also have
similar ones for food delivery like Grubhub and stuff like that. Where if you want to have food
from a restaurant that doesn't deliver delivered to you, you can go to
there's SkipTheDishes, I think that's Canadian only, there's Grubhub
and what's the other one? Shit. Uber Eats is one of them.
There's one more at least. We have Uber Eats and Just Eat.
Those are the two big ones here. Right. Right. Okay. So Instacart
is just a grocery delivery service basically. But here we go. Find another slave
fuck, find another slave racist, fuck the police pigs
and here's the person.
This individual with purple hair named Tara. How very
surprising. Yeah.
I wonder if she might have a political slant.
There might be a reason why she destroyed this elderly couple's groceries.
Possibly tell. In any case, she's
facing a 90 day jail sentence in fines.
Good fucker. I'm good fuck. Yep.
Okay. So what's this? Oh, check this out. You're going to like this.
Okay. Listen, listen, listen to this, okay?
A 10 year old boy steals parent's car to visit his grandparents
who are 68 miles away. And then he tells the
police he's a dwarf who has forgotten his license.
Absolute madman. He drove his parent's car into a
snowy ditch and he said that he was a dwarf. He just forgot his license.
He drove more than 10 kilometers for veering
off the road where he was found by a snow plow driver who alerted the police.
The parents had woke up, discovered that their children was missing
and somebody had taken off with their car. They were pretty upset. The boy told the snow plow
driver that he was a dwarf and he had forgotten his driver's license at home.
And it turns out the child wasn't injured and the car wasn't damaged and they decided not
to file charges. Um, so I
guess that's a good end, but wow.
Here's the thing though, getting 10 kilometers away with no driving
experience at 10 years old, that's pretty impressive.
Yeah. Is this in Canada?
No, this is in Norway. Oh, Norway.
I was just going to say, Canada, Norway, it's still like icy as fuck.
That's even more impressive.
Imagine having the balls to say, oh yeah, I'm just a dwarf.
Did he pass the speech check? No, I don't think he did.
I do not think he did.
Go ahead, go ahead.
I was going to say he had a 70, he needed a 75 for the speech check.
This one is actually a much more serious one.
Jesus. That fucking, that headline is like a roller coaster.
Holy shit.
One, I obviously, I don't feel bad for the
boyfriend cause the boyfriend's clearly got anger issues.
If that's, if he blew up that badly, um,
I don't think he did.
I don't think he did.
Um, yeah, discovering your wife's having an affair
is horrible, but still, um,
furthermore, like,
I don't really feel sympathy for her too much because she's a nonce.
Um,
the only person I feel really sorry for is the 50 year old boy
cause one, he got beaten the shit off by a fully grown cage fighter.
And also because he got taken advantage of by a nonce.
So, you know, what's interesting here is that in Canada, nonce means idiot.
It doesn't mean pedophile.
Nonce here means pedo.
That was the source of a lot of confusion for a long time when I was talking to British people.
You're just like, why would you want to kill idiots?
I mean, there's a good reason sometimes.
But you know what I mean though? Like it was, it was strange to hear.
It's just like, oh no, it, nonces are unforgivable. It's just like,
you can forgive people for being stupid.
All right, so let's see here. Um, jealous ex-convict
Paul Robson, who was 50, carried out a vicious
attack against Caroline Kale, 47, and her teenage lover
after he snooped and prowled outside of her home.
This is in the UK.
Yeah, no, it wasn't New Crassle Crown Court. This is around where I live.
It says
Linton, Northumberland.
Hold on, Linton. Give me a second. I'm gonna
switch over to the live screen for a second.
People won't be able to see the feed, but.
Northumberland.
Linton, Northumberland. Linton, Northumberland
map.
How close is that to you?
That's
literally within, hold on, I'll do the directions on
Google Maps. From my exact location,
it's about a 30 minute drive. Oh jeez, that's not far at all.
No, it's about a 30 minute drive.
You could probably get to where they are from me on public transport.
Oh jeez. So, let's see what happened.
Robson may have stamped and kicked on her, leaving her with unsurvivable
brain injuries, chopped off her hair in clumps, cut up her
clothes and slashed her buttocks. Injuries to her eyes and
neck bruising indicated she may have been strangled. He also
attacked the boy with scissors and a meat cleaver, sprayed
them both with ammonia and stole their phones, later updating
her social media pretending to be her while he was on the
run. Holy fuck. This guy's
crazy. Yeah, this dude is insane. This makes me
even more surprised that she did this, cause he's insane.
She must have known he was insane. So why would she
cheat, and furthermore, why would she cheat while being
a nonce at the same time?
This makes me think that she must have been, like, either
she had no regard for her own well-being, or her
urges to nonce were that strong that they overrode her self-preservation.
Cause something tells
me, for that kind of blow up, she had to have known he was
like, violent. Okay, hold on, there's something strange here.
Robson and Mrs. Kale, who were separated from her
prison officer husband, had lived together in Linton, but split up weeks
before the murder, and he found out she had started a relationship with the boy. It almost
sounds like she didn't cheat on him, she just started fucking the boy
after they broke up. Oh, okay.
Possibly, I don't know what the timeline is, but what the fuck?
But she sounds like a real piece of work herself, not
again, I'm not condoning what he did. Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I know, I agree.
Well fucking, she cheats on her prison officer
boyfriend with him, then she breaks up with
him and starts noncing with a 15 year old boy, and then he comes
in and just goes ham on her.
Absolute fucking, what a shit show this entire story is.
Yeah, man. Oh god.
I'm trying to, this is
all stuff that I've already read, I'm trying to find
details of where the kid comes involved, and it's just, nope, she was just
fucking a kid. Alright, there's no
like extra story with him, it's just, she was
fucking a child, and he decided to go crazy and kill her. Wow.
What a fucking story. I know she's dead, but
surely they should probably give more emphasis on the fact that
what she was doing herself was incredibly illegal and immoral.
The article actually doesn't, like it mentions the fact that it's an underage
boy, but doesn't really play it up. I'm surprised, like
apparently, I guess he was just so violent, that's what the whole entire article is about.
Holy shit.
I just can't help but feel that they're trying to make me sympathize for someone
who I really feel no sympathy for at all.
Possibly, yes. Alright, let's continue.
Okay, here we go. I'm skipping this one, I'm gonna use this one for something else, I'm skipping this one.
90 day Beyonce star.
I make $50,000 a week selling my farts in a jar.
I mean, we've all got to make a living somehow.
A reality TV star is making waves on social
media after letting it rip, after letting it rip
that she makes more than $50,000 a week by selling her flatulence
to strangers. A video detailing her
smelly side hustle currently boasts 6.6
million views. That's the fart of the deal.
I thought farts were super niche,
but also something fun, quirky, and different, said Stephanie
Motto. She first gained international recognition
after appearing on the reality TV show 90 Day Fianc, and she has since started
her own YouTube channel, and also, oh, she founded her own OnlyFans
clone called Unfiltered. Oh.
That's more of a fucking hustle than selling farts in a jar, lady.
Well, that's what I mean. It sounds like she's a businesswoman, but she's also doing this as a
side hustle. First of all, if you have successful,
if you have a successful business already,
what the fuck do you need to be doing this for?
This isn't desperation. This is just, she's fucking weird.
Listen, listen. $50,000 a week, though.
That's a lot of money. True. That is true, but freaking
can't help but feel that this isn't 100% necessary
for her to do. She eventually
turned to selling her jarred farts on a platform because she thought it'd be a hilarious
publicity move that would get a lot of people's attention. But then it turns out
that she, the gassy gal made $50,000
in one week from hawking her toots. Her unfiltered
inbox is flooded daily with people wanting to purchase jars of her farts
and that people frequently request videos of the production process
from caboose to container. So you want to buy
a video of this chick putting a jar up to her asshole and farting into it
and then quickly, quickly canning it so that the smell stays there for when you buy it.
I can't even blame her
really, because she's just responding to incentives. It's the guys who buy
the stuff that I really hate.
So, she
eats beans, a protein muffin, a yogurt, hard-boiled eggs, and sometimes
a protein shake, and then she fills the mason jar
with flower petals, because flower petals that are scentless can
absorb other scents and make the scents last longer. And then she farts
into the jar of flower petals.
I like how she's put thought into this.
Like, this isn't just a thing for her, this is a proper
business model. She's innovating on fart jars, what the fuck?
Man, okay.
I know that we were going on a couple years ago about gamer girl bathwater
or whatever, but this chick takes it to a whole other level.
That's what I mean. She has evolved thoughttery.
She's innovating thoughttery.
Fucking hell. Alright, what's next? What's next? Oh.
Hold on, let me just pause this. Tennessee man
pulls out an AK-47 after being told to
wait 10 minutes for his Little Caesars pizza.
Fuck. I guess he fucking wanted his pizza.
That's what I mean. That must have been some really good fucking pizza.
Have you had Little Caesars before? I haven't. I have and it's
actually really shit. It's like the cheapest, most cardboard fucking pizza
you can get. Like $8 for a pizza and it's just garbage.
Alright, cause my understanding was that
Little Caesars was like, my understanding is that Little Caesars did
like, what was it called, the hot and ready pizza
where basically they just take a pizza
that's already been made and put it in a box and give it to you really cheap.
Yes, they do. And it's not very good. It's pretty shitty. No, I can
imagine not. That sounds like something you would buy if you had like 15
minutes on the clock for a lunch break or something. And that is what I did
back, cause when I worked, the last grocery store job I worked at, there was Little Caesars
pizza in the area, like a 2 minute walk away, so I would do that all the time.
It was so fucking bad. Okay, so
one man allegedly went too far. When he told his Little Caesars pizza
was not hot and ready, he pulled an AK-47 on the employees.
He points the gun at me and he says, where's my pizza?
I want my pizza now.
He became upset when he was told that his pizza was not in fact
hot and ready, but he would have to wait 10 minutes for the pizza.
He left the store, went to his car and came back with the weapon.
So
another customer in the store who had gotten her pizza
gave it to him, which was enough to make him leave. The employees
then called the police who tracked him down and arrested him.
The employees started screaming, we are not
always hot and ready. Never listen to the commercial. We're not
always hot and ready.
I like how that's how, where her
mind turns to is the fact that the commercial is misleading and it's not
just, this guy's a fucking psycho.
Like, I'm sorry about our misleading
advertising, sir.
Right, okay, we have had a super chat so I'm going to address it.
No problem.
Merc for $5, thank you very much. Fart in jars
are the new NFTs.
Oh God. What does this AK-47 dude
do when his girlfriend isn't hot and ready?
Alright, here's the next one that I've got.
Bay Area car break-ins are on the rise, prompting
car owners to leave their trunks open.
Wait, isn't, wasn't this the thing that fucking
what's-his-face Seth Rogen
was saying wasn't an issue? Yes.
So it turns out that people
are just leaving their cars open with nothing in them so that the windows
don't get destroyed as people look through them.
Yeah, basically people are just saying, look, I
have fuck all to give you, so just leave me alone.
Yep.
And I like how Seth Rogen is so disconnected
from anything outside of California, at this point he says, oh yeah, the last 10 years
my car's been broken into 15 times, that's totally normal.
Yep. No, it's not. It's not normal.
Maybe it's a
Canadian thing, but even in our big cities there's not that much
thefts or car break-ins. Oh no, like, London
is the crime capital of the UK,
like with it being its capital city and also because it's
really poorly run, but it's like
and like we have rising gang warfare and rising knife
crime and all that stuff, your car will be fine.
So this person says
imagine having to clean out your car and leave it
open in the public just so people won't break the windows on it.
Oakland, we are looking sad, man.
Yeah. However, the police say you shouldn't do it because
they can steal your batteries, they can steal your tires, they can go into your glove department and find your
insurance, so you still shouldn't do this, but
no one's stopping these robbers.
Fuck. Just leave California, guys. Just get the fuck out of California.
I keep telling Lilith to move.
I know, but she keeps saying she's comfortable there, doesn't she? Well, what happened is she inherited
a house. Oh, I see. So, like, at the very
least she has to find a buyer for that if she was going to move and then move to a decent place.
And also, despite all of California's problems, the other areas of the states aren't exactly
as trans-friendly. That's like, okay, yeah, fair enough, I get it. I understand.
She just moved to Canada, fuck.
Even more conservative areas here, they're very much
like, we'll just leave you alone if you're not doing anything wrong. We don't care if you're trans kind of thing.
That's how things are here. It's pretty much the same in the
UK, it's just fucking, as long as you
don't, like, yeah, we're a bit grumpy, but as long as you mind
your own business, no one's going to give you trouble. Yep.
I'm going to continue on. I'm sorry I called the Grinch
anime. Please stop threatening my family.
Dear
vindictive Japanese cartoon watchers, you know me
as the sack of shit who referred to the Grinch as anime in a now
viral blog post. While I have some to regret,
while I have come to regret this post deeply, both personally and professionally,
for the sake of my family, I must humbly request that you cease
your highly coordinated retaliation, which has already escalated to an
alarming degree. Fucking hell, man.
First of all, you are wrong,
while you are wrong that the Grinch is not an anime, it's a cartoon,
and I will die on that hill, even though anime
is literally just short for animation, so.
The blowback began almost immediately with internet
user Yu Yu Hakusho Queer, who came out of
the box strong with, you pinhead fuck, the Grinch is not
anime, I'll ensure you and your family wake up every day in harm's
way. Minutes later, another user, Ms. Hente
Shawty, posted a Google 360 view of my mother's
apartment with the caption, his mom's crib, do ya thang.
The threatening remarks piled on, with a few users
taking it to the extreme by posting photos of baby carrots and claiming,
these are the author's penis. Those were not my penis.
No shit. From slanderous to
dangerous, no heinous comments were off limits from anime
fans. It's the intimidation of my family members that have crossed moral
bounds, the threats via email and snail mail, the bodily
fluids on their porches, the multiple incidents of dumping hot
hookah coals into my mother's shoes. It has all been
shamefully too far, and for what it's worth, this is the sort of holiday destruction
the Grinch would have wanted. I sincerely apologize
for calling how the Grinch stole Christmas anime
and for calling the Grinch one of the best guys in anime. This is not
the half-hearted apology of a man fearing for the life of his family
and the well-being of his mother.
This is such a stupid article.
It's literally just a case of, it's like, this reads
like an absurdist post. Like fucking
why are people sending death threats to this guy because he called the Grinch anime?
The thing is... Even calling the Grinch anime sounds like a shit post.
I have a feeling, yeah yeah, you know what this is?
He did call the Grinch an anime, and he did get
a blowback from it, but this is him making fun of the blowback.
That's what this is. That sounds more plausible to me,
actually. Yeah, because The Hard Times
is not a satire site in the same way as The Babylon Bee, but
it does do these kind of jokey posts, yeah. I would certainly
hope so, because otherwise, anime fans, you're different from
when I was at my peak of anime fandom, but you need to calm
the fuck down. Okay, there's
like four articles left but we're running out of time, so I'm gonna do the last one.
I'm gonna do the one that I intended to end the show on, because this is
fucking hilarious. Check this out. Somehow
Adolf Hitler has received a COVID vaccine passport
in the EU. I told you
it was the Fourth Reich.
The private key used to sign the EU's digital COVID certificates
appears to have leaked, leading to forged certificates for people,
even dead ones like Hitler. The former Supreme Leader
of 1940s Germany would appear to be alive and well if the EU's
digital vaccination program is to be believed.
Actually, he's doing better than well. He's been vaccinated for COVID-19.
Well, very nice. Yeah, no, Hitler is still
dead, don't worry. Yeah, nobody's, nobody's out there, you know,
making clones of Hitler and like raising them up in cryogenic
stasis in Argentina or something, all right? No one's actually doing that.
It's not some really cringey action movie where he takes off his glasses and goes, my god,
he's back.
It would appear that someone has gotten their hands on the private cryptographic
key used to certify digital COVID-19 vaccination
cards in certain European countries and has been forging bullshit
certificates for real people. Cyber criminals in the dark web were recently
spotted selling access to what they claimed were forged digital vaccination
certificates for $300 a pop. When asked by journalists what they were doing,
one criminal provided them with a working, a working vaccine certificate
for Adolf Hitler. In addition to the former dictator, approved
vaccine passports for Mickey Mouse and SpongeBob SquarePants were also
being hawked. Well, you have to, you have to imagine
that he doesn't want to get isolated in Mickey Mouse's clubhouse
and you know, Bikini Bottom's been on lockdown for the past
six months, so you know, he wants to get outside, he wants to breathe some
fresh air again. The fake but approved
certificates were recently viewed and they were able to verify
that Hitler's was still working as of Thursday.
The fake certificates appear to be sourced from some kind of compromise of the EU's
digital vaccination certificate program, which is Europe's recently instituted
effort to ensure that all citizens are vaxxed before they can travel or attend most
recreational events. Also called the Green Pass, the certificate
can be obtained through a variety of methods, either via health agencies or testing
centres following vaccination. And it's pretty much a requirement if you want to see a movie,
eat a restaurant, or do anything that involves fun. According to the European Commission, the pass
contains a QR code with a digital signature. However, it would appear that
the private key responsible for validating those certificates has been leaked
or misused. Because now they're just making a bunch of joke certificates.
That's fucking great. Man.
Actually, as someone in the chat pointed out, Adolf Hitler
literally won an election in Namibia last year. I did that article too.
There was a guy who was, it was a former German colony
and they didn't really know much about World War II. So people there
were just naming their kids after like their grandparents or whatever. And they had, they sometimes had
German names. So one kid grows up with the name Adolf Hitler
not knowing what it means and he wins an election
in Namibia. And then he has to like tell the world, uh, I know I don't
intend to take over the entire world. I'm sorry.
Fucking.
You sometimes forget the
fucking, just how big the world is, don't you?
Bullshit can happen.
So it seems like someone got a hold
of how you make these certificates and has just been making fake ones.
Like crazy. Including one for Adolf Hitler.
I like how he hasn't just been making fake ones for other people. He's just been
making shitpost ones as well. To be fair, he's probably doing both.
He's just doing the other ones like silently. That's happening here. There's like
there are doctors who don't agree with the vaccine passports, even
though they're like pro-vax and they will just give you an exemption now.
Cause like, fuck it, we got to stop this. So there are some doctors who are just like silently handing out
exemptions. Yeah. And there's like a lot of places here that aren't
accepting them either. You know, they're not, they're not
when places, like, okay, hold on.
Now you have to have your phone scanned to go into a restaurant, but there are some restaurants here that are just like
we're not going to bother with that shit. That's fucking bullshit. We're not going to scan.
It's like, oh, cool. That's how it should be. No one should be listening to this anymore. It's fucking ridiculous.
Anyway, that's the articles.
I have like five more, but we've run out of time. So I will do
those next week. It's not a big deal. Let me just, okay.
Yeah. I have switched, yeah, I have switched us back to
the live, to the live screen. So it's literally just the picture of Shinji with a
coffee. Shinji?
Shinji with a coffee. Yeah. Why Shinji though?
Because it was the weekly sip and it was the first thing that came to mind that was both anime
and was coffee related.
Awesome. Plus it was
the thing about Shinji is that he looks vaguely like me if I was
if I was thin and scrawny. And also the fact that
he also like, he looked, it's
in that picture, he just looks mildly unimpressed.
So wait,
are you saying that you would jack off over an unconscious woman's body?
No, I would not do that.
You wouldn't do, you wouldn't do the ultimate Shinji move?
I'm so fucked up.
Actually, okay, that got
back when that movie first came out in like 2005 or whatever it was, that movie
got put on Canada's official list of banned, banned
movies because of child porn in it.
Because it showed Asuka's tits. Oh God.
Canada is terrible when it comes to animated CP like
stuff. Okay. If you, if you own a copy of that movie
in Canada, like a legit copy that you bought, you can go to jail for the same length
of time as a child molester.
Yeah. That's fucked. And here's the thing,
nobody wants to tackle the problem because who wants to be the guy
that like takes on that bad optics, you know, of
oh, you're the one who wants to make drawn child porn legal.
It's like Jesus. Even, everyone knows
that it's stupid, it's too far, but no one wants to be the person who has that
on their legacy, you know what I mean?
Yeah, I get what you mean. Right. We do have
Jackson for five dollars, thank you very much. Trans Acceptance is
so far in Canada that my very conservative parents over ten years ago
were not willing to accept I was trans just because I cross-dressed on a
dare once.
That sounds about right. Like lots of Canadians are, lots of Canadians are just
like, I don't care what you do in private, just as long as you're not like
being fucking ridiculous like a lot of people are, as long as you're just like
being a regular person, you can do whatever weird shit you want. It's like, okay, cool. You know, that's how it should be.
Yeah, that sounds violently Canadian.
Like, nobody likes pride parades,
nobody likes big demonstrations, nobody likes violent demonstrations.
But if you're just like, if you're gay or if you're trans and you're just hanging out and being a regular
person, nobody here gives a shit.
It's like, yeah, it's pretty much the same in the UK.
You will get some areas where people, where like the odd individual
will be a dick about it, but for the most part it is just people
who are just like, alright, fair enough.
Like, let's take, like
I'm sure if you've kept up with Count Dankula,
like Count Dankula's Twitter, you'll have seen a regular poster on there called
Femboy Blacksmith.
He goes to college dressed in girls' clothes
and no one cares. Like,
no one gives a shit.
And as far as I can remember, it's been like that since the 90s. Like, maybe not earlier, like in the
80s had some legit homophobia floating around in there, but then
when the 90s came around, it was like, who cares anymore?
People were just like, private, you know?
Well, put it this way. In the 1960s, I think it was a case of like,
two thirds of people found homosexuality to be, you know,
like horrible. And then by
97, I think it was, this is a statistic I saw years
ago, so I might be getting the exact date wrong. I think it was something like
only 10% of people found homosexuality to be wrong.
Yep. Yep. Honestly, like a lot of those
social problems have been solved at this point. People are just getting crazy online
over fucking nothing.
All right. I think that's about the end for me though. Who do you have on next?
Single player Carl and Charles Akitsune.
I'm supposed to go on their podcast at some point. That's right.
Yeah. It's a good podcast. It's a good laugh.
I'm an editor for Single Player Carl,
so he's like, not only is it a good
laugh, they're also very interesting to talk to. So I'd highly recommend it.
Right, right. Does, does Chaos Charge still work
for It's a Gundam? I know he was like his
either editor or something along those lines for a while.
Well, he did rig the
Gundam 3D model for him. Yes. I'm not sure
if he was ever like an editor or something. He's not stewed.
That's a misconception. People thought he was stew. He's not.
That's a misconception, but he
I do know that he did rig his 3D model for him. Oh, who's stew then?
Stew's just a character. It's made up.
Yeah, see, I think that's why last time I talked to Gundam, he said
that Charza was stew in spirit.
Yeah. Because basically
what happened was is that people started assuming that and he said
and people, so, and it kind of Charza started
going along with it for a laugh, just, you know,
started going along with it just, you know, to
just for a laugh, but it got so prevalent that Gundam kind of pulled him
aside and said, yeah, we're going to have to stop doing that now because people actually believe it's
true. Oh, well.
Yeah. And to be fair, Dave on my side of things, Dave is a real person.
I mean, kind of. He's like, he's half alive.
He's in a constant state
of potential undeath, but he is
technically in a legal sense alive.
Yes, yes, that is the case.
Jackson for another $5. I feel I should clarify this was in Alberta as well.
Okay, fair enough. Yeah, Alberta is like Canada's Texas.
Lots of oil, lots of conservatives, lots of people who want to leave Canada.
It's basically the same thing culturally as Texas is.
And even then, they're still very live and let live there.
You know? Yeah. Alright, I should probably
go then because it is 12.59 and my time's up at 1.
So, I will see you later, man.
Right, I'll catch you about. Thanks for listening. Yeah, no problem.
See you later, Chat. Thanks for coming in. Bye-bye.
And there we go. That's that. Definitely a very different
weekly sip, but hey, it's always good to try something new.
I will see you guys later. I gotta stream tonight.
More Yakuza. I know usually Adam and Sitch stream, but fuck it.
I gotta catch up on my Yakuza playthrough on the gaming channel, so
drop by the Twitch channel tonight or on the gaming YouTube, one or the other.
And hopefully I'll have a new video for you tomorrow. Catch you next time,
guys! I love you.
