Turns out today is International Men's Day, but Twitter isn't pushing anything to celebrate
the accomplishments of men. Did you know about this? Why, yes I did, my friend. Yesterday,
November 19th was International Men's Day, and as far as I saw, it wasn't trending,
nor was there an official moments page on Twitter. Today, the 20th, is the Trans Day of Remembrance,
though, and that's all over Twitter, even though this is honestly the first I've ever heard of that
holiday. I guess it was just an innocent mistake on Twitter's part to not formally recognize
International Men's Day. But hey, Twitter users themselves remembered, and a lot of them did,
making it pretty weird that it didn't actually trend. But nonetheless, there was a bunch of real
solid sentiments about it, pretty much exactly what a good person would say on both International
Men's Day and International Women's Day towards women. And then you get to the usual that we've
all come to expect from Twitter, garbage takes by garbage people. Happy International Men's Day,
especially to trans men, disabled men, men of color, queer men, mentally ill men,
feminine men, elderly men, poor men, male survivors, and other vulnerable men.
I guess this holiday just doesn't extend to any man that doesn't meet those intersectional
standards, eh? Oh look, an IRL form where only men are invited to discuss men's issues.
You know, the same thing that women do for pretty much every feminist space out there.
I wonder what the top replies will be to them. Yeah, that's pretty much what I expected.
Why do women-only spaces get to be women-only, but men-only spaces have to be gender-mixed?
Cut the umbilical cord already, Karen. And of course, there's the usual verificants
who have decided to try and derail the conversation, talking solely about male
feminists and how they are the only good type of man. You know, that higher than average
possibility that they might end up being rapists or abusers must really endear them to the feminist
cause. And really, this is the equivalent of driving by the burning house and thinking,
how can this benefit me? Feminists look at a day like International Men's Day and wonder how this
can be turned to dismantling the oppressive patriarchy, because everything has to be focused
through their narrow lens of interpretation. But in the end, Twitter retards are going to tweet,
let's go upstream to the media, who I am sure have been outputting a bunch of shitty articles
blasting the day for no reason other than they can. This time I decided to challenge myself.
I haven't gone looking to see if any articles exist before I started writing the script for
this video. I'm just betting that they're out there. Let's see what I can find.
Starting off strong from pink news, on International Men's Day, here's 10 quotes
from influential queer men on mental health and self-acceptance. Because on International Men's
Day, being a man isn't enough. You've also got to be queer or you just don't qualify.
On the Daily Mail, should we ban International Men's Day? Good morning Britain viewers clash
over the celebration, with one insisting the event means nothing. How in the hell
would you ban International Men's Day? I mean, there's no official celebration,
people don't get time off from work or whatever. Are you expecting governments around the world
to pass legislation preventing people from talking about it on the internet or something?
While Tamer51 from New Cross South London felt that both women and men should be celebrated,
Andrew from London thought the day was divisive. Man, the Brits really are cucks, aren't they?
There's no reason for both men and women to be celebrated on International Men's Day,
if they're also both not celebrated on International Women's Day.
And International Men's Day is just as divisive as International Women's Day is.
It's like you don't know what equality is despite jabbering on about it constantly.
Oh god, the Mary Sue. Things we saw today. Yes, International Men's Day is a thing.
Surprise! The not female gender exists actually! The idea of a men's day is complicated, since,
much like the recent focus on straight pride parades, a lot of the demand for one comes as
a response to women's day, without recognizing that International Women's Day was born out of
women's marginalization at the hands of cis men. Actually, you've got it all wrong. The demand for
International Men's Day, as well as straight pride parades, or frankly any other public display or
celebration of normativity, is that people are now wise to your game, in place of cultivating
a personality, honing a skill, developing an understanding of something intricate.
You know, doing the long, hard work of becoming a well-rounded human being.
Instead, progressives take a shortcut by emphasizing what is demographically different
about them, rather than anything with actual substance, and then parlay that difference
into political power through advocacy. And if that's the new game, in place of something
like hard work or knowledge, why shouldn't men play it? Why shouldn't straight people,
or white people, or any other group of people that the SJWs despise?
Hey, it's Yahoo style. I didn't even know that Yahoo still existed, to be honest.
Do we need International Men's Day? Debate breaks out.
Well, to be honest, we probably don't need it, the same way we don't really need International
Women's Day. Man, this pesky equality thing really gets in the way of the feminist march
towards utopia, doesn't it? After all, International Men's Day focuses on six pillars.
Highlighting discrimination against men, supporting male health issues, improving
gender relations, promoting gender equality, celebrating male contributions to society,
and promoting male role models. How many of those pillars could the radical feminists
actually object to? Well, they don't believe that discrimination against men exists,
it's all just punching up. They don't believe gender relations can be improved,
because it's all simply a power struggle between opposing tribes, and their tribe needs to win,
and men need to lose, because men are oppressive and they're not. They believe gender equality
refers to balancing everything in women's favor, and when you tell them that's not
actually equality, they shift the goalposts to equity instead. They believe that male
contributions to society were stolen from women or people of color, since we was kangs and shiet,
and they believe male role models are patriarchs. That really only leaves male health issues,
which I can only presume that they're either neutral on, or considered to be female health
issues as well, because they're shared through trans women. People are rallying against toxic
masculinity on International Men's Day. No, people are rallying FOR men on International
Men's Day. Only the rad-lefts are rallying against toxic masculinity. It's men that get to
define what the positive and negative aspects of their gender roles are. And I do not agree that
all of the things feminism shunts under the toxic masculinity label are either toxic or unique to
the masculine. Are people going to rally against toxic femininity on International Women's Day,
or is that going to be considered oppressive to bring up as well? Okay, I'm going to stop searching
for these articles at this point because I've discovered something about this topic.
Should we be celebrating International Men's Day? Well, I don't know. Let me actually consider the
questions instead of just snarking about it this time. Here's the Google searches for the phrase
International Men's Day from 2004 to today. Google's graph might be ass, but you can pretty
easily replicate this yourself by going to trends.google.com. Almost all the time that
International Men's Day is searched is not actually in November, but in March, which is
when International Women's Day is. That's a pretty powerful argument that International
Men's Day only exists as a reaction since people only search for it during its opposite and not
during the holiday itself. This could also be a consequence of the holiday itself being routinely
suppressed by traditional media, social media, and literally everyone else whenever it comes up,
kind of like how it wasn't trending yesterday. But in the end, both arguments lead to the same
conclusion. People don't care about International Men's Day. The SJWs hear this and think,
of course, every day is International Men's Day, obviously. Every public place is a straight pride
parade. Every location is a safe space for white people. All of these things are needed only for
minorities because they live in a world that is actively hostile to them while being structured
for the ease of the majority. Of course. And anyone with a brain can figure out the problem
with this logic. The world is actually hostile towards everyone. Regular people walking around
on the street is not a straight pride parade. It's just people getting on with their lives in
an overly non-sexual way. And there are absolutely locations on this planet, whether they're nations
or neighbourhoods, that are actively hostile against white people. But to the ideologue,
it's all or nothing. It's zero or a hundred. It's on or off. My tribe or yours. So to them,
if it's not a rainbow-coloured float full of naked, jiggling men, it's overpowering
straightriarchy, I guess. But there's a more obvious answer as to why people don't care
about International Men's Day. And no, I don't think it's that men are oppressed or treated
like trash by everyone everywhere MRAs, though that certainly does happen. I think it's because
men are too busy getting on with their lives to actually care one way or another about the holiday.
There's too much shit to do. School to study for, work to attend, businesses to build, athletics to
train for, money to earn, partners to romance, friendships to cultivate, art to create, books to
read, books to write, gardens to grow. Whatever it is, men are not only busy, but men often take
pride in how busy they are. It might be a stereotype that men do and women exist, but
there's always at least a nugget of truth in a stereotype. It's why men define themselves proudly
or otherwise by what they do, sometimes more positively by what they've built, sometimes
more negatively by how much they earn, sometimes self-destructively by how useless they are,
but always as a subset of what they're doing. And you know, speaking as a relatively normal guy,
we're generally happy with this arrangement. I'm happy to work hard and reap the fruits of it if I
get to choose the work. I don't need an international men's day because I have more than
enough happening in my life that I don't need to take a day off to celebrate my penis just to feel
good about it. So if there are actually that many women who really need a celebration once a year,
where they get praised solely for existing and having a vagina, and they covet that celebration
so much that they'd scream bloody murder at its criticism or view the implementation of its
gendered opposite as a threat, those women probably need to seriously reconsider the
trajectory of their life.
