I once made a video titled, health care is not a human right.
And despite the title of today's video, I'm completely correct, health care isn't
a right.
Health care is the labour of other people, and you don't have a right to anybody else's
labour.
You might trade something for it, or maybe they'll give it to you willingly, but if
you had a right to it, that means you compel it out of them even if they don't get compensated
for it.
Nobody has the right to expropriate the labour of others, and so, nobody has the right to
health care.
But that was more of a political philosophy video.
This video isn't about rights, instead it's a practical discussion.
Classical liberals, social liberals, conservatives and libertarians all consider free or highly
open competitive markets to be the best way to efficiently distribute resources in society.
And they're correct!
But unlike most other goods and services, health care has some unique facets that result
in a highly competitive market not actually creating the best health care system through
those competitive forces.
The nature of the health care market means that, unlike a lot of other markets, a purely
deregulated no-government version of it is not functional.
Let's begin by describing an economic concept called a perfect competition.
According to Investopedia, perfect competition is a theoretical market structure where the
following criteria are met.
All firms sell an identical product, meaning there's no difference in what's being sold
or in its quality.
All firms are price takers, meaning that any one individual seller is small enough that
they can't unilaterally influence the market price of their product.
Its share has no influence on prices, meaning that the market is so competitive that even
larger sellers can't adjust their prices without suffering a loss.
Buyers have complete information about the product being sold and the prices being charged,
meaning that everybody buying the product knows exactly what they're buying and what
it should cost, so it's impossible for sellers to pull a fast one.
Capital resources and labour are perfectly mobile, meaning that capital and labour can
move within the market without incurring a cost.
And firms can enter and exit the market without cost, pretty self-explanatory.
Some other definitions of perfect competition include points like no externalities, meaning
that costs and benefits of an activity don't affect some uninvolved third party.
Or all buyers are rational, meaning that every single choice people make in this market increases
their standing.
And a whole bunch of others, but frankly, all of these points overlap in a lot of ways,
and can be boiled down to four easy-to-understand factors.
1.
All the products are homogenous.
2.
All actors are price takers.
3.
All actors have perfect knowledge.
And 4.
All actor has an entry or exit cost.
I should make it clear at this point that perfect competition does not and cannot actually
exist in the real world.
There is no market that, if left to its own devices, would naturally read a state of perfect
competition.
Rather, the idea is that various markets, if left to their own devices, will reach various
places on a spectrum of competition.
The closer any given market's natural spot on that spectrum is to perfect competition,
the less that outside regulation will be required to keep the market intact.
The further away from perfect competition on the spectrum, the more regulation will
be required.
Over-regulating a market relative to its level of natural competition generally leads to
excess economic drag that destroys the market.
In other words, taxes and regulations make everything cost too much, while under-regulating
a market generally leads to a market failure.
In other words, there's no instance where supply and demand match up so nothing gets
sold.
So, with all of this in mind, let's consider the healthcare market.
Using these four points, how close is it to perfect competition?
Well, one, are the products homogenous?
As in, are healthcare products indistinguishable from one another?
The answer is obviously no.
Every health problem has a different solution.
There's not one cure for everything.
Even within the realm of one disease, there may also be multiple treatments.
Additionally, healthcare is constantly changing, with new medicines, new surgeries, and new
forms of therapy appearing constantly.
Not only that, but individual actors often perceive healthcare in a specific, particular
manner.
People may prefer some brands or types of medicine over others, even if there's no
practical difference.
People will prefer their own familiar family doctor over somebody new.
People often visit the same pharmacy to get their drugs, even if another would do just
as well.
Even in instances where products might be homogenous, the intimate nature of healthcare
leads people to treat them as if they're not.
How about point two, are all actors price takers?
As in, no individual actor can affect prices, meaning buyers can't bargain any lower and
sellers can't bargain any higher because price equilibrium has already been reached.
Again, the answer is obviously no.
Healthcare providers have a lot of influence to set prices in the market.
There's a number of reasons for why this is the case.
One is the inelastic demand for healthcare, meaning that the buyers of healthcare don't
see their demand drop off as supply or price changes.
Here's an example.
Assume you have a cure for cancer.
If you have cancer and the price for the cure is $1,000, you'll want to stay alive so you'll
pay the $1,000.
If the price is now $10,000, your desire to stay alive hasn't gone down, you'll still
pay that price.
For most people, if it means staying alive, the healthcare market can charge them everything
they have to be cured, because what are they going to do, not get cured?
So the demand for the cure is inelastic, meaning that the normal supply demand curve doesn't
really apply because there's no upper limit on what you might pay.
Of course, for some people, this just isn't the case.
A 90-year-old might not want to destroy his savings and leave his family with nothing
in order to cure some disease if he's just going to die of something else a little bit
later anyway.
This is the don't destroy your economy for the sake of grandma because of COVID argument
and it's a good one.
But for most regular people, the demand for healthcare is pretty inelastic.
Now you might object here.
You might say, well, if somebody wanted to charge me too much for a cure, I'd shop
around for a lower price.
And that might work to a limited extent.
But that leads to the second reason as to why some actors are price takers and some
aren't.
There's an extremely limited supply of healthcare options in any given area.
Most people can't just fly to a different location to get more specialized or competitive
care.
Most people are stuck with the one hospital in their town, the handful of doctors that
are still hanging around, and if they're lucky, a trip to the nearest city to see a
specialist.
If you live in a city, you'll certainly have access to some more options, but it's
still not going to be on the same level as something like having five grocery stores
all within distance to buy your food at.
The third reason is because of patents.
Patents are good.
They allow inventors and discoverers of new products to profit off their hard work and
not just have it stolen from them, but they also severely restrict the supply of some
products.
Consider that cancer cure again.
If one doctor discovers the cure for cancer and patents it, he ends up holding a monopoly
and can charge whatever he wants for that cure.
And on some level, good for him.
He put in the work of discovering it and deserves to be rewarded disproportionately in comparison
to those who didn't.
But without competition, you still reach the same problem I described in my first point.
Patents can exacerbate the negative effects of inelastic demand.
And they're likely the reason why at least some price controls are necessary.
Let's move on to the third quality of perfect markets.
Do all actors have perfect knowledge?
Again, for the third time, absolutely not.
Healthcare providers have a huge information advantage compared to patients, giving them
ample opportunity to obscure the actual market price of any good or service.
I remember reading an article on a recent weekly sip a few weeks ago where a dentist
took advantage of his low information customer base to perform a number of unnecessary fillings
and root canals in order to line his pockets.
The average person doesn't have enough knowledge to evaluate whether or not they're getting
a good deal from their doctor or just being taken for a ride.
The reason you should be getting second opinions on medical advice isn't only because your
doctor might be shit, it's also because your doctor might be scamming you.
And four, do actors have entry or exit costs?
Yes, they do.
Beyond simply the cost of starting up a business, the regulatory cost of starting a healthcare
business specifically is quite high.
And to be honest, I'm kind of okay with that.
Yes, the ancaps are correct that a healthcare market with no regulations would remove entry
costs and probably lead to lower prices.
That's true.
But you know what else we'd see?
Remember this quack from red litter media fame who tried to sell this dumb roller device
as a pain reliever so you could make an infomercial where he rolls it all over a naked lady?
Yeah, this guy got absolutely fucked by healthcare-related lawsuits for selling such an obviously fraudulent
device.
Pre-regulation, the amount of snake oil being peddled by less than reputable individuals
was way higher.
If you want to be sold pills that do nothing and devices that don't work for an illness
you don't actually have, deregulation is the way to go.
But having an actually functional healthcare service requires some consumer protections,
which means there needs to be some market entry costs.
There are certainly ways we can reform the current regulations to reduce drag while not
sacrificing quality, but the extremist position of no regulation just isn't tenable.
There are some other libertarian objections to universal healthcare that are probably
worth going over as well.
People often rightfully object that centralized systems tend to become more inefficient and
corrupt the larger they grow.
This is true.
This is often an argument against universal healthcare in America.
That the federal government can't possibly manage a system that is large and centralized
enough to account for all of America's citizens and locations.
But the truth is, most other countries don't actually have that kind of centralized system.
The Nordic countries, Canada, the UK, and I think Japan as well, have devolved a lot
of their healthcare operations to more local levels of government.
Using the system I know best as an example, federal involvement in Canadian healthcare
basically amounts to a legal requirement that the provincial government implement a universal
health insurance plan.
Everything else is left to the provinces.
It's funny, if you ask your average American socialist the question, do you want Canadian
style healthcare, they'll overwhelmingly say yes.
But if you ask them the question, do you want each individual state government to manage
their own healthcare service, they'll reject that option in favor of a universal standard.
It's almost like they don't know what they're talking about.
Just to clarify here, single payer healthcare refers to systems where hospitals and clinics
are privately owned, where doctors can work for themselves or work for others, but the
bill is paid for by the state's health insurance program, that's the single entity that pays.
While multi payer refers to systems that have a number of different insurance programs,
both private and state run, that cover the cost.
These two schemes contrast with systems where there is little to no government involvement
in healthcare, like how the US is often portrayed, and systems where the government not only
pays for healthcare, but owns all of the infrastructure that provides it, and employs
all of the doctors directly as state employees as well, like in China.
It does turn out that the Canadian style decentralized single payer system is pretty efficient though.
I know the World Health Organization is quite shitty nowadays, but it wasn't always so,
and back in 2000 they put out a study on the efficiency of the healthcare systems in 190
odd nations, and those decentralized single payer countries ranked pretty well.
However the top spots were held by decentralized multi payer countries, like France and Italy.
There's a wealth of data from the OECD as well, comparing the healthcare for multiple
different nations, and on average, countries with some form of universal healthcare system
are able to match or exceed America on pretty much everything.
Another libertarian criticism is that the less regulated, more profit driven system
of the United States gives them an advantage when it comes to research and development
of new drugs and practices.
A more profit driven system can lead to more innovation, and healthcare is no exception,
but I'm not sure how much of that is actually a contributing factor here.
America does produce a lot of innovation, don't get me wrong, but a 2010 study in the
American Journal of Public Health found that while America does produce a huge amount of
innovation in healthcare, it's proportional to America's GDP and the amount of money
America spends on healthcare.
The same study also notes that countries with more regulations still produce as much innovation
proportionally, so the fear that America might lose its competitive edge if it adopts a single
payer system may be unfounded, even if that precludes the option for private investment.
There's a couple reasons for this.
One is that insofar as drugs are concerned, even countries with the best universal healthcare
schemes generally don't cover drugs.
This makes sense to me because a healthcare service is something that you use only occasionally,
so setting it up to be a communal pot to cover that occasional use, like how you'd fund
a firefighting service, seems reasonable, while drugs are goods that are owned privately
and used exclusively, so it makes a lot more sense that you should have to buy them.
So all that being said, the pharmaceutical industry is likely to remain private, and
the benefits of a private system will still apply, including innovation.
Meanwhile in the medical side of the system, there's not much reason to believe that
a single payer option will lead to some kind of innovative stagnation.
Consider the American military and American spaceflight, two domains where, despite there
being a single payer system, in that only the American government is selling contracts
for these services in the US, there are multiple private companies competing against each other
to fulfill the contracts.
The innovation stagnation argument is a lot stronger when it comes to the outright nationalization
of a business.
Not so much when private businesses continue to compete, and the government just so happens
to be the customer.
Another common criticism is efficiency of cost, which is different than the efficiency
of service discussion we had earlier.
And on this point, there is no argument, we've all seen those ridiculous bills that go viral
on social media, where people end up paying tens of thousands of dollars just to have
a kid at a hospital in the States.
It's rather crazy to be honest.
Here's some more data from the OECD, and it shouldn't surprise anybody just how much more
Americans spend on healthcare, but take a closer look at the numbers breakdown.
The OECD average shows, per person, $3,038 of public spending, meaning coming from government
taxes, $207 of private spending, meaning coming from a private insurer, and $629 of out of
pocket spending, meaning the person themselves has to pay for it.
Compare that to American numbers, $4,993 and $1,122 out of pocket dollars, which are both
much higher, but at least proportional to the OECD average.
But Americans also spend $4,092 on private spending.
That's both directly and proportionally much higher, and we've already gone over the data
earlier showing healthcare quality to be about on par, so Americans aren't really getting
a good bang for their buck.
That extra $4,000 in private spending, that's money going to private health insurance companies.
In another study, aptly named Healthcare Administrative Costs in the United States and Canada, 2017,
it's found that the American system is more inefficient than the Canadian one, despite
the gross inefficiencies of the Canadian one, and I know them well, specifically because
the deregulated nature of the American system has allowed private insurance companies to
create a gigantic bureaucratic apparatus that is incredibly inefficient and drives
costs way up.
In most markets, the hardcore libertarian types have a good point when they say that
deregulation promotes competition, and competition will force businesses to trim the fat in order
to stay competitive.
But in the healthcare market, the opposite has actually happened.
Due to the unique nature of healthcare, which we went over earlier, the inelastic demand,
the lack of knowledge, etc., excessive deregulation actually leads to more market inefficiency.
In healthcare, once regulation puts a hard cap on the profit motive, the business model
naturally shifts to reducing costs, which can be bad depending on how it's done, and
broadening market access, which is not only a positive, but the exact goal of the regulation.
Looking over everything I've presented here today, it seems like while the possibility
for disaster certainly exists, as right-leaning people like to point out, it is also entirely
possible for there to be a universal healthcare service that avoids the inefficiencies inherent
to central planning, avoids the tendency of government to destroy competition through
nationalization, still provide quality service, still allow for innovation, and broaden access
to the service while reducing costs.
I would however warn left-leaning people that this is not due to the failure of markets
themselves, nor is it a structural problem inherent to liberal capitalism, but rather
it is due to the unique nature of the healthcare market.
This could not be replicated with the food market or the property market, for example.
They are all different animals.
But if you're dumb enough to just call it all capitalism and think it's all bad, you
probably don't get that.
The thing is, the libertarians of old understood this too.
No, I don't mean that common commie talking point of OMG, libertarian used to mean socialist
but they stole it from us.
That's just a bunch of crying coke, frankly.
Frederick Hayek is considered a libertarian before his time.
He called himself a classical liberal, and in his 1943 book, The Road to Serfdom, he
wrote extensively about what is now known to be the libertarian argument for a universal
healthcare service, where, as in the case of sickness and accident, neither the desire
to avoid such calamities nor the efforts to overcome their consequences are as a rule
weakened by the provision of assistance, where, in short, we deal with genuinely insurable
risks.
The case for the states helping to organize a comprehensive system of social insurance
is very strong.
There is no incompatibility in principle between the states providing greater security in this
way and the preservation of individual freedom.
To the same category belongs also the increase of security through the states rendering assistance
to the victims of such acts of God as earthquakes and floods.
Wherever communal action can mitigate disasters against which the individual can neither attempt
to guard himself nor make provision for the consequences, such communal action should
undoubtedly be taken.
Unlike the frankly crazier libertarians and anarcho-capitalists who came later, Hayek
was not interested in stateless societies.
He recognized the necessity of the state, but he also recognized the necessity that
its power be checked and restricted.
After Hayek had abandoned his native Austria for the UK and refused to return due to it
being brought under the control of Nazi Germany, he wrote The Road to Serfdom to specifically
be a rebuttal to both fascism and communism from not only a moral but economic perspective.
His position, a position I think is true, is that loss of individual liberties occurs
when the government controls economic decision-making through the type of central planning necessary
to implement a command economy, something that fascist Italy, Nazi Germany, and Soviet
Russia all did.
Hayek also argued that the abandonment of classical liberalism in favor of these planist
ideologies would create oppressive societies, and he was right.
And despite this, he still viewed a universal healthcare service not as a component of planism,
not as a backslide into these totalitarian, authoritarian ideologies, but rather as a
method to maximize personal liberty.
And from a layman's perspective, it's not hard to intuit how this is true.
It's not only that we have an ethical injunction to help the sick, it's that if a person can
return to contributing to society after being cared for, he more than makes up his burden.
It's both a moral and a material argument.
One of Hayek's most famous quotes is regulation for competition, the meaning being that government
should regulate a market if that promotes competition, and should deregulate if that
promotes competition.
It's not a dogmatic stance of deregulate everything or nationalize everything, but
rather an understanding of the practical reality that not every market is the same, and that
state action is not universally evil.
By the way, despite all of this, healthcare still isn't a right.
You still don't get to compel labor out of others.
You still don't get to take from them and not provide compensation for the taking.
But understanding that fact and operating within that knowledge, a universal healthcare
service is still a good idea.
It's still a privilege that wealthy nations should afford to their citizens, if they have
the money to do so.
And thinking so is not exclusively a socialist position.
There is a strong capitalist argument for universal healthcare, and frankly it's a
bit strange to see that America hasn't figured it out yet.
Alright guys, that about does it for me, thank you very much for watching.
I have a feeling that this video will be controversial among my audience, but just remember, if I've
offended you, I'm right.
As always, streaming tonight on the gaming channel, twitch.tv slash game boomers, make
sure you drop by.
I'll see you there.
Have a good one, I love you.
