I figured I'd rattle this video off real quick before putting out the next one.
There was enough comments worthy of serious reply on the capitalism vs socialism video
that it's worth it to bring them up in a video of their own.
So let's go.
David Razzie writes,
I loved Wigan Pier.
Sad and informative.
Loved the part where he says that if socialists had to spend one week with the working class,
they know what's best for, they wouldn't be able to stand rubbing elbows with them.
Wigan Pier, by the way, was the George Orwell book where Orwell describes his travels through
the poor communities of the UK and how those experiences brought him into believing socialism
was the way forward.
But as the book goes on, he begins to critique that idea.
The part of Wigan Pier I included in the video was the critique of basically the bourgeois
socialist.
The person whose desire to redistribute wealth to the poor is not out of a love of the poor
but out of a hatred of their own class.
I brought this up because it really reminds me of a lot of verified Twitter journos.
Rich kids who have no problem living off dad's money but use socialism as an excuse to hate
their dad.
Because they have daddy issues.
That's really all Twitter socialism is.
I mean, people like Jonathan McIntosh and Alex Lifshitz both fit this perfectly.
It also refers to that type of middle class socialism where people are born into the middle
class and have just enough of a chip on their shoulder to think they deserve to be in the
upper class but not enough work ethic to actually get there.
So they just want to destroy the upper class out of pettiness.
These are what we call cunts.
In my opinion, Orwell's analysis is correct.
It's easy to see why socialism appeals to so many people when you witness such terrible
suffering.
But it's ultimately not the way forward.
Torfi Borgramson, or whatever, writes,
I like to steer the conversation to something tangentially related to this, since we can
basically agree that capitalism is good along with a few regulations to keep its slightly
more egregious faults at bay.
What happens when all low-level jobs are eliminated by automation?
And then he goes on to offer an explanation of workers being able to compete with automation.
I have been banging my head against this problem for a while and I have only two solutions.
Only one of which being morally viable.
One, compensate all citizens that cannot work with the funds they need.
Or two, eliminate automation.
Is there something I'm overlooking?
If not, we have a bleak future ahead of us.
Automotion is probably the biggest wrench in the works when it comes to conventional
capitalism.
Conventional logic about advancing technologies always assumed that new industries to support
new technologies would provide just as many jobs as the old industries did, so that even
though there would be a rough transition period, society would ultimately benefit from the
new technology.
A great example of this is the swap from horses to automobiles.
When it became clear that automobiles were the way forward for transportation, the industries
surrounding horses basically collapsed.
People working in horse breeding, feeding, shoeing, stabling and so on, pretty rapidly
found themselves out of jobs.
But the new job network that was created to support the automobile created just as many
if not more jobs.
The assembly line, the mechanics, the transportation and distribution of fuel, plus all the industries
that sprung up from faster travel, trucking, shipping, delivery, tourism, modernization
of roads and so on.
The destruction of the industries that relied on horses was ultimately a net good.
And in fact, governments that used protectionist measures to prop up horse-related industries
and ban widespread use of autos, like the UK for a short period of time, found themselves
significantly further behind in regards to transportation as a result.
What generalized lesson we can take from this is that even though it may be rough on some
people, maybe even a lot of people, stifling technological advancement to protect industries
is a massive setback for society long term.
But also that the jobs created by advancement generally replace over time the jobs lost.
Regarding automation, we can agree that the first part of that rule still applies.
Staling technological advancement to protect industry would be a massive setback for our
society.
Especially when other nations who have no qualms about impoverishing their populations
with massive unregulated automation finally develop the means to do so.
These nations will completely crush western liberal democracies with their productive
output, as well as crush their own populations, if western liberal democracy does not solve
the automation problem.
But the second part of the rule may not apply.
It's not guaranteed the new generation of industry generated by widespread automation
will create at least an equal number of jobs to the amount lost to automation.
So we're stuck in a bind.
We need automation, but adopting it will destroy our workforce.
I'm not sure if a universal basic income is the right solution, but at the very least it
addresses the right problem, unlike the terrible solution of banning automation entirely.
But I think humanity has confronted something like this before during the massive transition
between hunter-gatherer societies and agricultural societies.
We can describe production as a ratio of time spent with goals achieved.
In the distant past, hunter-gatherer societies basically survived day to day.
They would spend large portions of their day hunting animals or collecting vegetables,
and generally the day afforded them just enough time to collect everything they needed to
survive for that day, or maybe a few days into the future, but nothing beyond that.
When civilizations stopped being nomadic and started building simple villages, the ability
to farm crops and livestock created more food than before.
The same amount of time is spent by both the farmer and the nomad, but the farmer has more
food for his effort.
This excess food is basically what allowed modern civilization to begin, because it allowed
for two types of people who do not contribute directly to either food production or defense
to serve society and not starve.
People who run simple governments, generally a noble class, and people who study the world,
generally a priestly class.
These people do not generate food with their work, they only consume it, but they do enrich
society in other ways, and the society is better off for it.
Even in modern times, there are so many jobs out there that have nothing to do with the
basic upkeep of society, but if we didn't have those jobs, our lives would be significantly
lower in quality.
I'm talking musicians, authors, programmers, lawyers, actors, artists, YouTubers.
This is the classic arts versus STEM argument.
STEM runs the world, but arts makes it worth running at all.
Over long periods of time, the percentage of people dedicated to society's basic upkeep
dwindled, and each time this happened quickly, society underwent a shock.
The economy was up-heaved as a new standard settled into place.
People suffered, but not in the long term.
I think this is what will happen regarding automation.
People who own the automated factories cannot simply hoard all money in perpetuity because
then nobody would be able to buy their goods.
At the same time, the government cannot simply just take all the money from the factory owners
and give it to the jobless either, not without using force on them and turning into a totalitarian
state.
I think in the long term, meaning not in our lifetime unfortunately, society will again
readjust to a new economic standard.
There won't be an entire species of poor people for the next few million years due
to automation.
I think that the people who would have worked in manufacturing, who no longer can due to
automation, and yet who still don't join the workforce in the new jobs created by automation,
will still have roles to play in the new economy.
But those roles will involve developing new areas of human interest, and trading that
value with the people who still work in practical jobs.
Just like the priests and the nobles ate the farmer's food, but still contributed to
society in other ways that were far more beneficial than food production.
I'm not saying this process will be easy, I'm not even saying that everybody will
survive it.
I'm saying that it's probably the only way forward if you want western liberal democracy
to remain intact.
Frankly, it's the least amount of long-term suffering available to us, but our generation
is going to have to bear the largest cost.
Barrow 45 writes,
Democracy is non-negotiable.
And I replied,
Better dead than red.
iSmithy writes,
There has never been a capitalist society.
If you consider our modern civilization to be capitalist, you're wrong.
We live in a social democracy, which is a mixture of both capitalism and socialism.
So if you say that capitalism is the most successful structure, you must also agree
that socialism, which is integrated with this capitalism, is also just as successful.
Your definition of socialism is asinine.
There are many different forms of socialism aside from Marxism which don't involve seizing
the means of production and distribution.
Take the government and the entire public sector, for example.
The police, the army, these are all socialist.
Again, we live in a social democracy, which makes use of both socialism and capitalism.
A capitalist society would be immediately flawed because it would remove morality from
the government.
It would create a structure divided by money, equivalent to power.
Those with more money have power over those below them.
They would remove the concept of equal opportunity, they would remove the safety net that provides
a certain quality of life to all of a country's population.
Soon enough, we would fall into a dystopian oligarch with horrible living and working
conditions for the lower class.
You right-wingers make the claim that the free market results in self-regulation of
morality as well as economy.
This is a completely false claim that no credible economist has ever made.
During the industrial revolution, businesses had no qualms about using child labour.
They still have no issues polluting the environment, the air you breathe and the water you drink.
Without regulation, it would be the businesses that hold power and dictate morality rather
than the people.
And you would be stupid to rely on businesses in this way, especially considering the rise
of automation, which will continue to rapidly reduce employment.
The fact is that a country has to be regulated by a government, which means social integration.
Our idealism about capitalism is just as flawed as the idealism about Marxism was before
the uprising of the communists.
Now a few other people have posted similar comments, so I'm going to try to address
them all here.
This idea that a capitalist economy with government regulation is the same as socialism, or is
a capitalism and socialism mix, is simply incorrect.
Socialism refers to the social ownership of the means of production.
That is the definition.
And let's be frank, that means government ownership of the means of production because
the government is the representative of the people and you can't have a mob of people
owning shit without appointing some type of leader.
So in practicality, socialism does refer to government ownership of the means of production,
not government regulation or even partial government participation in the economy.
These are different ideas than socialism.
Government regulation is when private business is legally mandated to maintain a minimum
standard for the public good.
So things like health regulation on food is not government ownership of the means of production.
It's government regulation of the privately owned means of production.
This is not socialism.
Government partial participation in the economy is when private businesses exist and remain
private, but the government decides to use its own resources to build its own competitor
in that market.
So things like a national post service is not government ownership of the means of production.
The government has built its own means of production to compete alongside the privately
owned means still within the marketplace, but it has not seized those privately owned
means for its own use.
This is still not socialism.
Well, what is socialism then?
When government seizes ownership of the means of production, that means that the government
decides it owns all private business.
It does not build its own alternative to private business.
It does not regulate private business.
It takes over private business, often unjustly and without compensation to the owners of
that business.
This is socialism.
So when people talk about places like Canada or Sweden or the UK being socialist democracies
or combinations of capitalism and socialism, my only reply to that is just no.
Having a healthcare service is not socialism.
Regulation is not socialism.
These things are still within the realm of capitalism.
A total lack of these things refers to laissez-faire capitalism where the government simply does
not give a shit about the economy, but regulated capitalism is still capitalism.
In fact, a serious danger of laissez-faire capitalism and why capitalism needs regulation
is the concept of the monopoly.
A monopoly in a market where one competitor owns the entire market, or alternatively a
small group of competitors decide to stop competing with each other and rig the market
in their collective favour, represents a situation where unregulated capitalism fails to act
in the interest of the public good.
Regulation in this instance is the opposite of socialism.
Rather than the government owning the means of production, the government is forcing the
market to allow competitors to compete in situations where one competitor owns the entire
means of production, and all new competitors to the market can no longer function based
on the validity of their product.
If a society were socialist, it would simply seize the monopoly for itself, but regulated
capitalism intervenes to allow the market to function like a market again.
I'll be talking more about monopolies and regulation in the interest of the public good
in my upcoming video on net neutrality.
Béjourjour1 writes, why is theocracy not included?
I am not surprised somebody named Béjour is asking about a theocracy.
Marcus Rezegh writes, just a thought, similar to how real socialism has not been tried yet,
it feels like many capitalists, who climax at the thought of laissez-faire, argue the
same line when confronted with past and current problems of capitalism.
As if removing all regulations will somehow make all problems go away.
In my opinion, anybody who says real anything has not been tried yet can be safely dismissed.
Can you imagine the reaction if I said, real nazism has never been tried, it's obviously
a good system, let's just try it.
It would be pure fucking insanity, dude.
I don't know why everybody's willing to give the socialist this free pass, I'm certainly
not.
They're fucking immoral.
Alpha Potent writes, you refuted the anarchists, but what about the anarcho-capitalist perspective?
I mean, if the society agrees enough to vote in an uncapped majority, 50% already agree
with the NAP, so any revolutions are improbable since it's unlikely that in this day and
age a modern country would let its majority be suppressed.
Dude, I don't want to sit in my house and claim it as my property 24-7.
And don't say some shit like private security companies will do it for you, because those
won't exist.
Those people will have their own houses to take care of, they won't want to be there
protecting yours.
Unless of course, you intend to start giving them room and board at your place in compensation
for them defending your land, and oops, it looks like we've got feudalism all over
again.
Brocialist Party of America writes, uh, a lot of stuff.
This guy is quite literally the angry middle-class socialist Orwell described.
He's good for a laugh, but there's honestly not much to reply to here, there's so much
delusion.
Socialism doesn't believe in great works, reality says otherwise, you dumb piece of
shit.
Remind me again who developed the first satellite, put the first humans and animals in space
and invented cell phones and laser eye surgery?
The Soviet Union.
Remind me who did literally everything else, and on top of that, took all of those socialist
achievements and radically improved upon them.
And on top of that, has still managed to survive and pull more people out of poverty world
wide?
Yeah, that's capitalism.
I know that America, for example, is not happy about jobs going overseas.
But in the long term, for the bigger picture, it's actually a good thing that India and
China, two countries with some of the most grinding poverty on earth, also have some
of the fastest growing middle classes on earth.
It's not a bad thing that Chinese and Indian peasants are no longer starving and capitalism
did that.
The American class is awfully angry that it came off their backs and I don't blame them.
Their problems need solving as well.
But let's not pretend that world wide capitalism isn't helping people.
Well that's that, at least for now.
I'm going to be using some of the ideas and definitions from my capitalist video in the
upcoming net neutrality video, so if you haven't seen it yet you might want to go and brush
up on it.
I'll see you guys in a few days.
