Are there more differences between groups or within groups? The liberal answer is within groups,
that differences between individuals are more vast than differences among groups of individuals.
Here's an example. We know that there's a correlation of 0.6 regarding women being more
agreeable than men. What this means is, if you have a group of women and a group of men,
and you take a random person from each group and bet that the woman is more agreeable than the man,
you'd be right 60% of the time. But there's enough overlap between men and women that 40%
of the time, the man would be more agreeable. And the biological differences between men and
women are much larger than, say, the biological differences between the races. This is why
liberals are fundamentally individualists. They believe that there's more variation between
individuals within racial groups than the groups themselves. And therefore, it's the individual
that has a different temperament and point of view. It's the individual that generates the
different ideas and solutions that society needs. The progressives believe the opposite.
Their answer is between groups. They believe that differences between groups of people are larger
than differences between individuals within that group. That two individuals from different groups
have less in common with each other than any other random individual from their own group.
In their view, any random white person will always have more in common with any other random
white person than any random black person. This is why they consider diversity to be inherently
moral. Because the only way to gain access to different ideas and points of view are through
token inclusion of people from other groups. You need representation from a puerality of
different races, ethnicities, sexualities, and whatever else, because their points of view are
so unique that their inclusion is the only way to gain access to that knowledge. I think this is
true to some very limited degree. A white person who's lived in a majority white country, in a
majority white neighborhood, probably hasn't experienced too much racism, and may benefit
from the knowledge of somebody who has. But the progressive point of view, that simply having
black skin is enough to qualify the person as the keeper of that knowledge and the educator
of the ignorant, even if the individual in question is quite privileged in other ways,
seems to be a rather racist argument. In fact, the idea that there is more difference between
the races than between the individual is one of the fundamental racist ideas. It's what the Nazis
said when discussing the non-Aryans, it's what the KKK said when discussing black people, and it's
what progressives say today, that you are so different from me due to your race that there is
no common ground between us, and that you are so similar to all people within your race that now
that I know what race you are, I know what kind of person you are. If that sounds racist to you,
that's because it is. This idea of comparing progressives with racists isn't new, and the
progressive tendency towards racism has been lampooned pretty consistently in the past few
years. Yes, most white progressives are simply white supremacists with a guilty conscience.
I've been reading D'Angelo's White Fragility, I knew I'd have to deal with this thing eventually,
and she says as much in the book. She admits to being a white supremacist, she believes all
white people are white supremacists by virtue of them being white, and that the only way to achieve
black liberation is the constant, eternal shaming and restriction of all white people.
Let's talk about open borders advocates, and if it seems like I'm suddenly shifting gears here,
I'm really not. There's been a specific sect of politics on both the left and the right
that has been entirely pro-open borders, pro-migration, and pro-globalism.
On the left, there's a racial component to it. It's racist to not help those poor brown people
into our country, they need our help, and we stole the land from them anyway. On the right,
the attitude of big business is that it's good for the economy, meaning large corporations,
to import foreign workers and drive labor costs down. Standing in the way of both of these pushes,
however, is the nation-state itself. And because western politics has swung a bit more in the
patriotic direction in the past five or so years, it's no surprise that both the legacy media,
as well as the activists on the ground, have tried to reframe all nationalism,
even civic nationalism, as evil and bigoted and fashy. After all, if we're all humans and we all
have human rights, why would we prioritize one arbitrary group of people over another?
Why not bring the underprivileged foreigners into the first world fold and benefit from their labor,
especially since some of them will naturally be talented individuals that will finally have
the chance to contribute in a big way with access to modern education? The liberal reply to such an
argument, and to the entire open borders movement, is that the authority of the state ends at its
borders. Borders provide a jurisdiction for laws to be in effect. Laws are the practical
implementation and protection of the human rights of the citizens living within the state. With no
borders there's no jurisdiction, no laws, and no universal human rights. After all, without a
border, how do you know where your country's laws are in effect? Are they just in effect everywhere?
That seems rather imperialist, as does allowing the best and brightest from foreign nations to
move to western countries, leaving those nations with a massive brain drain that prevents them from
building themselves up to our level of quality as well. Where imperialists once extracted resources,
they now extract people, and progressives are happily leading the charge because it makes them
feel moral. And with the exception of, like, extreme natural disasters or a genocidal government,
it's not the moral responsibility of any nation to help the citizens of another nation.
Those citizens have the responsibility to improve their own countries.
Their responsibility lies within their borders, just as our responsibility lies within ours.
Sovereignty extends only as far as territory does. But with no borders, no jurisdiction,
no laws, and no human rights, how do progressives view law itself? They give a lot of lip service
to the idea of human rights, of course. They talk about constantly making more things rights when
they're really not. They talk about extending rights to people who they view don't have them,
etc, etc. But what do the progressives actually do? What do they actually advocate for?
Well, for example, one of the demands that came out of CHAS is a complete abolishment,
not a demilitarization or a defunding, of the Seattle police. The justification for this is
that the police are tools of the white supremacy, and that the community, meaning black people,
should be policed by their own. As I said earlier, there's some limited logic to this.
A force of white people who have never experienced racism, policing a community of people who have
entirely different views, ideas, and problems may very well feel like an occupying force.
But consider that black cops are regularly whitewashed as Uncle Toms or race traitors,
or not being real black people. And it would seem that the progressive view of policing is that
the practice itself is white. At the same time, progressives have entirely abandoned the idea of
equality before the law. California's acts its equality laws in order to make affirmative action
legal, and grant various minorities extra privileges in the state's hiring practices.
And this sort of thing has been a long time coming. The shift within progressive circles
has been away from equality and toward equity. Simply setting an equal playing field and letting
equality rise to the surface is considered racist. In fact, by some radicals Martin Luther King Jr.
would be a racist because he wanted black people to be judged by the content of their character
and not the color of their skin. But now, the color of their skin is the only thing progressives
care about. So it's no surprise to me that, to a lot of these people, universal application of
human rights is now considered to be racist. It's the white man's law, don't you see? And
non-white communities shouldn't be subject to it. This is entirely consistent with their worldview.
They consider racial groups to be more different than the individuals within those groups.
So why should the same laws apply? And one of the best ways to break that universal application,
to break the law itself, is to break the jurisdiction over which it presides,
the borders and the nation. But what will the progressives replace it with?
In one of Steven Crowder's videos, one of his Change My Mind interviews I think,
he talks to a German-born woman studying in the US regarding freedom of speech.
Crowder's position is essentially the liberal one. All speech should be permitted,
and you combat hate speech with debate just like you'd combat any other bad idea. And the woman
appreciates that position as the liberal position, but she says that we Germans have a responsibility
considering her country's history to think and behave differently. Now I don't know about you,
but I'd never say we Canadians, and I doubt that the Americans or the Brits would say we Americans
or we British, as if they somehow have the authority to speak for the entire nation.
But when you believe in collectivism, when you believe that there are more differences between
groups than between individuals, when you believe that all Germans are like you simply by virtue of
being German, then you can speak with the authority of all of them. Similarly, during the Hong Kong
protests, I remember seeing another video. This one was of a Chinese person ranting at the camera
about how Western imperialists need to stay out of Chinese affairs, and how Hong Kong citizens
need to remember that they are Chinese. This is actually a saying in Chinese,
remember that you are Chinese. I've had Chinese girlfriends and lived with Chinese roommates,
and they've all either said this themselves or were told it by others at one point.
The idea is that Chinese culture is more important than the cultural standards, even sometimes the
laws of the country that they've moved to. It didn't matter if other Canadians did things
differently, they needed to remember that they were Chinese, and a different standard applied
to them, even if they were entirely Westernized people. We've seen this collectivist attitude
with more than Germany and China, we've seen it with Muslim immigrants, we've seen it with
Latino immigrants, and so on. To them, it doesn't matter what authority the nation has over them,
as citizens or immigrants, because they serve a higher authority based solely on their identity.
And in the absence of borders, jurisdiction, laws, and rights, this is what the progressives
would replace the universal standard with. A racial law that you can never escape from,
where your group identity at birth is the sole determining factor of what standard you are held
to, what rights you have, what laws are applied to you. And this horror show makes complete sense
to the progressive worldview, because they see all individuals within a group as being similar
enough that one token member can speak for all their concerns, and all groups being different
enough that each one must be held to a different standard. Why do you think that things like open
debate or meritocracy or even objectivity or science have been redefined as white culture,
as things that progressives believe that non-whites should avoid in favor of their own
cultural standards? Because if accurate ways of measuring the world are taken off the table as
whiteness, then the subjectivity of different standards are all that we have left. Every time
somebody tries to punctuate their point with, as a black person, as a gay man, as a trans woman,
as a single mother, whatever else, this is the idea they're appealing to. That their specific
group has its own standards, and that the universal treatment of all humans need not apply.
Don't let them get away with it. We are all human, we are all equal before the law,
and we are all free. Progressives, ironically enough, want the tribalism of the past to return,
and that's something that all liberals have a moral obligation to oppose.
