During the GameBoomer Shenmue stream, Dave and I talked about why Japan is so rich despite having
a relatively low population and almost no natural resources. Because that was a let's play and not
me actually sitting down and figuring things out, I stumbled all over the topic as I'm apt to do.
So let's actually go over this a little bit. In Professor David Landy's book,
The Wealth and Poverty of Nations, he explores the question of why some nations are rich and
others are not. He basically comes to the conclusion that a variety of factors caused
Europe to be the world's powerhouse. Landy's believed that Protestantism in Northern Europe
drove the population to value hard work, punctuality, free thinking, and the free market
more than Catholic Southern Europe and significantly more than the rest of the world.
Which, while valuing hard work pretty uniformly, almost always dissuaded free thinking. He also
believed in the hydraulic thesis that centrally managed states kept their grip on power through
the use of water control, and in the climate thesis that tropical regions are, all things
considered, harder to develop technologically. But most important to us, he believed that
cultures that were higher in trust were more likely to be wealthy regardless of other factors.
They could be poor in human resources, in natural resources. They could be isolated. It didn't
matter. If the people were able to trust each other, wealth would generate for each person
in proportion to how much work they performed. That does seem to line up with reality. Like I
said, Japan's a nation with basically nothing but rocks in the water, and they're a world economic
powerhouse. Meanwhile, you have places like Venezuela, or Africa, or the Soviet Union.
Natural resources everywhere, but constant corruption, waste, and poverty. It would seem
to me that simply having stuff doesn't automatically make you rich. Another book,
Guns, Germs, and Steel, by Jared Diamond, also has some ideas that mesh quite well here.
It's not hard to figure out that technological advancement is only possible when a society
transitions from hunter-gatherer status to agricultural status. Long-term complex
invention requires that you stay in one place for a long period of time. Staying in one place
requires a surplus of food. A surplus of food requires three things. Animals capable of thriving
in captivity rather than dying off or becoming violent, hearty, high-carbohydrate vegetation
able to be cultivated by farmers, and a dry, cool climate to allow for long-term storage.
So basically, Europe and Asia. However, Europe still had a few more advantages up its sleeve.
China remained a water bureaucracy long after Europe had transitioned to basic feudalism,
because rice requires significantly more water to grow than grain. Most great human civilizations
began due to the ability to control the water for irrigation, like the Egyptians, Indus,
and Mayans. But the climate's always been fickle, and the states that survived stopped revolving so
heavily around water control. Nonetheless, the extra food allowed for both organized religion
and complicated bureaucracy, as society could now afford to feed priests and nobles. Europe and Asia
also had a trade advantage. They were able to transfer food, animals, and goods along the same
latitude, while African and American traders had to trade across climates, limiting their options.
Europeans also cultivated an immunity to disease, from living closely with livestock, to widespread
trade and travel with other ethnic groups, to access to a wider variety of foods. These diseases
would prove devastating in European contact with North America, where it's estimated that most
native death occurred due to disease transmission. But ultimately, it would be Europe that came out
on top due to the geography of the area. There's been many, many attempts to unite Europe under the
same banner. The EU is only the latest one, and they almost always fail because the geography of
Europe lends itself to isolationism. Different languages, ethnicities, and traditions are more
likely to stay separate than join up. The European coastline is jagged and irregular. Islands are
everywhere. There's great mountain ranges and dense forests. Look at how many countries that are in
Europe. There's an equal number of ethnicities in China, but China's almost always had a stronger
cultural impetus towards being a unified nation because 1. the water situation required it to be,
and 2. the landscape's composition of flatlands and rivers made wars of conquest more possible.
In fact, there's even another theory that the three greatest human civilizations to ever exist
flourished around three semi-isolated large bodies of water, leading to both seafood consumption and
cultures that were at least somewhat more isolationist than the surrounding nomads were.
We keep coming back to isolationism, for all of its flaws, because it's an important step in
cultural development. The idea of individuality arises from isolationism. You know, each person
is a nation unto themself, and all that. The world's greatest religions almost always put
forward a single individual as both a hero and a manifestation of the divine. In Europe,
paradoxically being both packed with people, as well as having a geography that tends towards
isolationist cultures, had the best possible environment for the idea of human individual
rights to come about, after thousands of years anyway. Okay, we're way off topic, but this is
all important stuff. A wide array of conditions, from climate to geographic, generated a culture
in Europe that created individualism and thus kicked off the Enlightenment, which led to our
modern technologically advanced society. And Asia was basically able to tag along, because their own
climate and geography allowed them to get about 80% of the way there on their own anyway. Diseases
wiped out the population of the Americas and Australia, because they never had a reason to
gain an immunity to them. And the Middle East and Africa existed in a climate where a booming
advance was basically impossible long term. My first takeaway is, hey, alt-right. It's not race
that caused white people to be a dominant global force. So the ethno-state is an ideal that it
would be a state for all people of the white race. It would be our homeland, it would be our safe
space. My second takeaway is that when idiots like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez talk about growing
yucca root in North America because the brown immigrants are somehow intrinsically tied to
the food from their native lands, she sounds like a moron who doesn't understand that race is
separate from agriculture. Our communities are naturally in tune to live in an environmentally
conscious way. When someone says that it's too hard to do a green space that grows yucca instead
of, I don't know, cauliflower or something, what you're doing is that you're taking a colonial
approach to environmentalism. You've both got the same ass-backwards blood and soil argument,
and you're both idiots. So Professor Landes spent a great deal of time in his book correlating the
levels of interpersonal trust between your average people and the wealth of the nation,
finding a pretty close correlation. And we also know, thanks to Jared Diamond's work,
that primarily Europe, but to a much lesser extent Asia, eventually created societies with
some concept of individualism, due to many factors not limited to water supply, trade opportunities,
climate, vegetation, and geography. How do these two things piece together? Well, in a society that
values human rights, that enshrines the individual at the core of political thought, there's high
levels of interpersonal trust. Think of it this way, each and every single one of us has a
truckload of problems. Problems with school, problems with our home life, with our girlfriends,
our boyfriends, our family, our kids, our parents, problems with ourself, health problems,
addiction, poverty, you name it, we have it. And any one of those problems could turn us into an
absolute lying, thieving, cheating catastrophe. But they generally don't, all things considered.
Let's say you and I are building a house together. When we make the business deal,
we're accepting that yes, each of us has many reasons to simply ruin the deal,
but we're trusting each other that we won't. When you trust me, you're inviting the best of
me to step forth. And when I trust you, I'm doing the same. And when we both trust each other,
we have time to actually do the work that we've agreed to do. If I don't trust you,
I'm not going to be working on the house, because I don't think you'll be working on the house.
So I'll be micromanaging you, hovering over your shoulder, double checking your work, etc.
But if we both just accept at face value that we're faulty people, and presume we're going to
deal with ourselves as best we can, we can simply get the job done and get paid. This is why the
micromanaging manager at a retail store is almost always the cause of both his worker's malcontent
and the store's long-term failure. This is why eBay wasn't the massive flop that it was
predicted to be. Back when it was new, the general perception was that I would send you garbage and
you would send me a check that I couldn't cash. But that's not what happened. People were actually
honest. And suddenly you have online shopping, something that could have never been invented
in a low-trust society. Just like there's a correlation between high-trust societies and
wealth, there's a correlation between high-trust societies and societies that manage to develop
at least some semblance of human rights, stemming from individuality born from isolationism. The
G7 consists of America, Canada, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, and Japan. All European or Asian
based countries with high levels of trust and respect for human rights. Now this development
of a high-trust society can obviously be disrupted by an outside force. Communism absolutely ruined
China in this regard. It probably could have been there by now without it if Taiwan's any indication.
Totalitarian systems of government, from communism to Nazism to Sharia Islam to all the rest,
all share a tendency to turn high-trust societies into low-trust ones. I can't build the house with
you honestly because I don't know if you're a member of the secret police or a party informant
or if you're here to judge my vices and my virtues. A state that leaves people alone gives
people time to trust their fellow man. It's why the free market works because we're all given a
faith shot at it. It's why democracy works because we're all able to have our say truthfully and
without punishment for going against the grain. And it's also why importing massive numbers of
people from low-trust societies without giving them time to assimilate will destroy us in the
long run. We might think we're being humanitarians but they just view us as suckers. We can judge a
culture by what it produces. And Western culture uniquely produced the best civilization in the
history of our species. It's not because of genetic superiority, though we shouldn't be
ashamed of our genes. It's not because we stole it off the backs of somebody else, though we're
not responsible for our history. It's because our environment cultivated the best way of thinking,
of speaking, of acting in the world. I like living in and being a member of my high-trust society,
thank you very much. I'm not sorry for it. I'm not ashamed of it. And I'm not willing to sacrifice
it on the altar of political correctness.
