It's finally time, guys. I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna say the word describing something
so toxic, it must be opposed in all of its forms. The word referring to a people and
how they are different from others around them. The word whose underlying ideas are
a relic of the past. Once accepted in all of its glory, but today must be violently
cast aside for the march of progress to continue. It is now time to say that dreaded word.
N- N- NATIONALISM
Nationalism refers to the individual's identification with their nation and support for the interests
of that nation, sometimes but not always leading to the exclusion or detriment of the interests
or individuals of other nations. Following that, a nation is a large body of people united
by common ancestry, history, culture, language or some other factor, generally inhabiting
a particular country or territory. Nowadays, we have a tendency to use the word nation
to refer to an organized political community under the control of a government, but that's
actually what a state is. In today's colloquial speech, nation and state are used interchangeably.
This came about due to the early 1900s preference for the concept of the nation state. A nation
state is a political organization where the nation, the people of some common ethnicity
in a common location, and the state, the government with the jurisdiction over that location,
are congruent. Political science of the time advocated for nation state building as a way
to maximize freedom and prosperity, as opposed to imperialism, where multiple nations paid
a central imperial authority to fund their own oppression, or colonialism, where a ruling
nation would forcibly convert the people of a rival nation to their own. Common examples
of the nation state are Israel and Japan, where the populations of the state of Israel
and the state of Japan are overwhelmingly ethnically Jewish and Japanese respectively.
Nations and progressive movements are generally anti-nationalist. They view their goals as
being fundamentally globalist, and with good reason. Trade and diplomacy are international
endeavors, generally with huge benefits to the people involved, and an insular world
view can hamper those efforts. At the same time, there's also a solid moral argument
to be made. If there's an ethnic cleansing happening somewhere, it doesn't sound convincing
to simply ignore it because it's happening in somebody else's backyard. The obvious problem
though is when a state begins to ignore domestic issues in favor of foreign ones, where the
international takes precedence over the national. Nationalism as an ideology is linked to fascism.
This is often correct. The fascists of many countries, most notably Nazi Germany, appealed
to ethnicity and ethnic nationalism as justification for their wars of expansion, ethnic cleansings,
and totality of state control of the whole society. The Nazis believed that because the
ethnic German people were scattered across multiple different states in Europe, Nazi
Germany had a moral obligation to unite them under one state. One people, one language,
one Reich. Ernst Renan gave his famous lecture, What is a Nation?, in 1882, where he described
multiple problems with the ethnic idea of nationhood. He first notices that large empires
like Egypt, Rome, and China were in fact not nations, but were multi-ethnic empires,
with varying levels of stability and integration across time. From this we can see that, although
nation states do exist, it is not a requirement that a state map onto an ethnicity for that
Renan brings up the great Germanic invasion of France in the 5th century, lasting until
the 10th century Norman conquests, and how it caused an entirely forgotten change in
the Frankish Empire. Renan states, France became quite legitimately the name of a country
to which only a virtually imperceptible minority of Franks had come. The idea that the population
of France was composed of different races was in no way apparent to French writers.
The difference between noble and serf was as sharply drawn as possible, but it was in
no sense presented as an ethnic difference. It was presented rather as a difference in
courage, customs, and education. It did not occur to anyone that the origin of all of
this was a conquest. After one or two generations, the Norman invaders no longer distinguished
themselves from the rest of the population, although their influence was not any less
profound because of this fact. They had given the conquered country a nobility, military
habits, and a patriotism that they had not known before. In other words, even though
the invaders of France had settled there and had become the new rulers of that land, they
nonetheless adopted some French customs, just as the French had adopted some of theirs.
And although a sophisticated genetic analysis of the lords and the serfs, if one had existed,
may have revealed two entirely different ethnic groups, nobody alive at that time saw themselves
as anything other than a unified French people. In fact, as Renan goes on to clarify, the
unity of the French people required not only the creation of a common national story that
they could tell each other, but the forgetting of certain facts that could threaten that
unity.
The union of northern France with the media was the result of massacres and terror lasting
for the best part of a century. No French citizen knows whether he is a Burgundian,
an Allen, a Taifal, or a Visigoth, yet every French citizen has to have forgotten the massacre
of Saint Bartholomew, or the massacres that took place in the media in the 13th century.
You might see it as ahistorical or anti-intellectual or something, to forget a part of history,
especially something as key as a massacre. But on some level, everybody has grievance
with everybody else, and to live in a civil society, you must eventually forget.
Nobody today views France as a series of ethnic groups that fought bloody wars between north,
central, and southern France, and that they're somehow all united in a tenuous alliance,
just waiting for the republic to collapse. No, we all see them as French, they see themselves
as French. They have forgotten those battles, and those massacres, and those conquests.
Brennan also takes aim at the idea that language should be some universal unifying factor.
To that, he says, nothing could be more false. Prussia, where only German is now spoken,
spoke Slav a few centuries ago. In Wales, English is spoken. Gaul and Spain speak the
same primitive dialects of Alba Longa. Egypt speaks Arabic. Slaves often speak the same
language as their masters, but are often enough a different race to that of their masters.
The point here is that race and language can be the basis for a nation, but it is not the basis
to force a nation where one is not wanted by that population. Renan offers several examples of this
in action. In our own day, the day of 1882, we have seen Italy unified through its defeats,
and the Ottoman Empire destroyed by its victories. Each defeat advanced the cause of Italy,
each victory spelled doom for the Ottomans. For Italy is a nation, and the Ottomans,
outside of the Turks and Asia Minor, is not one. How is it that Switzerland, which has three
languages, two religions, and three or four races, is a nation, while Tuscany, which is so
homogenous, is not one? Switzerland, being of Germanic origin but spending most of its history
as explicitly anti-German, brings us back to the Nazi desire to unify all ethnic Germans under one
state. Renan predicts their attempts to do so 50 years before by understanding the logical outcome
of ethnic nationalism. The Germanic family, according to the theory I am expounding here,
has the right to reassemble the scattered limbs of the Germanic order, even when these limbs are
not asking to be joined together again. This is where we get the liberal answer to nationalism,
civic nationalism. It's the idea that a nation is not based on a race or an ethnicity or a language
or a historic location, but rather on the shared liberal values, principles, and a willingness to
uphold those political institutions. This idea is, in my opinion, one of the greatest French
contributions to the liberal tradition. The English liberals have a lot going for them,
don't get me wrong. They started the tradition, and I think Locke is their greatest writer,
but in my opinion it would have been a lot harder for the English to come up with civic nationalism,
mainly because the differences in their political structures. As we talked about earlier,
nationalism relies, on some level, on the ability to forget past slights. To say that those battles,
those massacres, those atrocities were in the past, done by different individuals, and for
better or worse we're unified now. A state of affairs that people on all sides must voluntarily
come to if that nation is to survive. But the civil structures of Great Britain, of Canada,
of the United States, are not nation states, but instead are multinational unions. The British are
not some homogenizing union of Britons, forgetting about the existence of England, Scotland, and
Wales. They are a political union of distinct nations, each with their own national pride.
The United States is not a state, it is 50 states, an alliance for a common cause. Canada
rests atop a delicate balance of English and French ethnic interests, agreed upon to end a
war. It's Renan who first understood that lasting peace only comes when people forget their pasts,
and in doing so, forget the reasons to oppose their neighbors. If you're an English liberal
getting mad at me talking about this, don't worry about it. Most of the rest of French
philosophy is garbage, you're fine. However, the progressive and the socialist reject nationalism
in all of its forms, both ethnic and civil, and in doing so, rejects the open liberal democratic
society. They understand that a society is destroyed by ethnic tension, and so the civic
national prescription of letting bygones be bygones has to be suppressed. This is why racial
agitators exist. People who seek to constantly dredge up the history of slavery in the United
States hundreds of years later, or those professional victims who divide people into
oppressed and oppressor classes in order to sow disunity. Let's be clear though, unity is not
the greatest value. There is certainly a time and place for disunity. Let's say one person murders
another. Before the blood is cold is not the time to say, hey, let bygones be bygones. Let's all
forget this happened to move on in a civil way. If the perpetrator of a crime still lives, then
there still exists a moral duty to see his debt to society paid. If the victims are gone and the
perpetrators are gone, then what good is there in dredging up the past? What does it do other
than create more problems? This is why that multi-ethnic griller meme is so wholesome. They
know what their ancestors did was wrong, but that shouldn't stop civil society from moving forward
for everybody's benefit. The progressive rejects civic nationalism out of ignorance. They see the
American flag, the Canadian flag, the British flag, whatever it is, and scream fascist because
they believe that nationalism can only be ethnic, and therefore any symbol of nationalism can only
refer to ethnic supremacy. Of course, they're wrong. These flags don't represent a race or
a religion. They represent a shared compact to uphold the civic values of these places. And yes,
to exclude those who refuse to uphold them. The socialist rejects civic nationalism because civic
nationalism represents one of the greatest threats to the socialist project. Renan finishes his
lecture by saying, man is everything in the formation of this sacred thing which is called
a people. Nothing purely material suffices for it. A nation is a spiritual principle,
the outcome of the profound complications of history. Two things which in truth are but one,
constitute this soul or spiritual principle. One lies in the past, one in the present. One is the
possession in common of a rich legacy of memories. The other is the present-day consent, the desire
to live together, the will to perpetuate the value of the heritage that one has received. Man is a
slave neither of his race nor his language, nor of his religion, nor of the course of rivers,
nor the direction taken by mountain chains. A large aggregate of men, healthy in mind and warm
of heart, creates the kind of moral conscience which we call a nation. A nation is a non-material
thing that nonetheless exists as long as people believe in it. If the group of people who
constitute a nation say, yes, these are my values, then that nation exists. And it's just as real as
anything else. And the socialist, in aiming for a worldwide workers revolution in totality,
must fundamentally be anti every nation. Or to be more precise, must work to craft an entirely
different narrative for people to believe in. The narrative of the revolutionary working class.
Which is confusing to me because even as these people reject nationalism as being inherently
fascist, even though it's not, they're ultimately still hyper nationalistic when it comes to
indigenous rights in Europe colonized countries. Despite their outward hatred of nationalism,
when it comes to the status of say indigenous reservations, land claims, racial tensions,
they suddenly revert to a level of blood and soil rhetoric that would make a Nazi blush. I thought
progress was moving past the idea that ancestral ties to specific tracts of land gave those with
the blood of a chosen race unique, exclusive and spiritual claims to that land. And yet these
people are happy to jump backwards as soon as the claimant has brown skin. For those of you who
don't know, Canada is responsible for the residential school system. I talked about it in
my Canada 150 video, but that was like four years ago. As the history goes, the government of Canada
and the Catholic Church ran a series of schools, the residential schools, for indigenous children.
In 1969, many of the schools were closed, and the ones that stayed open underwent some much needed
reforms. By 1996, the final school had closed. From the 1880s, up until that reformation point
in 1969, the residential schools carried out an ethnic cleansing of the indigenous population
of Canada. Indigenous children were taken from their parents and placed into these schools where
they could be reeducated to think, speak and act European. Additionally, there is solid evidence
of rampant physical and sexual abuse of the children at these schools. Around the same time,
the USA was enshrining the national rights of its indigenous populations as recognized ethnic
nations within their multinational union. Canada would not do the same until 1985. About a month
and a half ago, a mass burial site was discovered at the location of several of Canada's residential
schools. It was initially reported that the bodies of 215 native children were discovered,
but that number has since risen to, the last I checked, 1,505. This isn't quite like American
slavery, where both the slaves and the slave masters have been dead for over a century,
and so those people who are complaining about it today have no idea what they're talking about.
There are victims alive today who suffered under the system. Some people say we shouldn't celebrate
Canada Day today since this drama is unfolding right now, and it's a pretty huge stain on the
national identity. Fair enough. Those same people would rather see a commemoration of those dead
kids. I can understand that. I'm assuming you're probably an American listening to this right now,
based on the demographics that YouTube gives me. For you, this would be like, say in May,
somebody discovers a new mass grave of black slaves in the south somewhere, and as a result
of this discovery, activists in your country are demanding that July 4th this year be cancelled.
Would you agree with that? I don't know. I understand their anger, especially the still
living survivors. At the very least, they clearly deserve a big fat cheque from the Canadian
government. But does that mean I want Canada and all of its legitimately good things to vanish?
Would that help anybody? Surely we're capable of reckoning with the past while still celebrating
the actual good we've done, and there's a lot of it. Surely that is the spirit of civic nationalism.
We don't need to simply say fuck it and draw racial lines, but we also don't need to throw
the baby out with the bathwater, simply because nationalism bad socialism good.
Renan correctly said that a functioning nationalism requires moving beyond past
atrocities, not getting mired in the hatred that the people who came before you held.
But there's also a practical reality that you cannot use that principle to prevent justice
from being served. I understand that because of the recent discoveries here in Canada,
leftists want Canada Day cancelled. But you know what? Leftists have been clamoring for Canada Day
to be cancelled for decades now. They're using the legitimacy of a recent event to bolster their
voice. And the truth is, if Canada Day is cancelled this year for this reason, then
they will cancel it every year for this reason, because their goal is ultimately to destroy civic
nationalism. They're anti liberal, and that for me is reason enough to oppose them. I recognize all
the bad that my country has done. I recognize that there are still things we can do today to
right those wrongs. And in that spirit explicitly, I am celebrating Canada Day today. Thanks for
listening, guys. I hope you enjoyed the video. Speaking of Canada Day, I will be doing a Canada
Day stream tonight. Me and my friends are going to play the indie game Death Road to Canada. We
play it every year on July 1st on Twitch. Not going to be talking about politics tonight. We're
going to be hanging out talking with the chat and having a good time. So please consider dropping
by twitch.tv slash game boomers. I'll see you there. Thanks very much for listening. I love you
