Hello my friends, welcome to the new SJ Weekly.
This one's gonna kinda fly by fast because my time today is very limited.
In fact, my coffee from this morning has already gone cold, unfortunately.
So let's just skip that and get right to it.
On Metro, metro.co.uk, police are very close to losing the streets, top officer admits.
A top police officer has warned we are very close to losing the streets as government
funding cuts continue to bite.
Now I know that at least 50% of the United Kingdom's police force budget is devoted
to social media patrolling, but that stuff is absolutely essential, there's no way
we would ever pull resources and money off of that to actually patrol the streets of
the nation.
Sergeant Simon Kempton, Operation Policing Lead for the Police Federation, blamed a fall
in officer numbers for being behind a rise in violent crime.
He called on the government to focus protecting its citizens, and said the future looked bleak
if officials continued their gross underfunding of the police service.
Sergeant Kempton told Metro, I think the first and last duty of any government is to protect
its citizens, and if the budgets across government have to be constrained, difficult decisions
need to be made.
But keeping people safe, alive, and getting on top of criminality should absolutely be
the top priority of this and any other government.
This stark warning came just days after a top police chief claimed forces were at a
breaking point following severe cuts to their budgets.
And please keep in mind that the police that are on the streets are wasting their time
doing stuff like this.
Ken Marsh, Chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, admitted the country's largest
police force had run out of things to sell after it had been forced to sell off more
than 1 billion pounds worth of property over the past 6 years.
What about this time next year when the budget's even smaller?
Do we start to get rid of police officers?
Figures have shown that 606 police stations have closed since 2010, leaving some cities
such as Bath and St. Albans with no station at all.
And oddly enough, this actually flies in the face of the far left's propensity to regulate
everything.
You know, when when Sadiq Khan says we need to regulate knives, well who's going to be
the people to go out and actually regulate those knives?
Because if you don't have a police force to do it, it's not going to happen.
And that's not even the biggest problem.
The biggest problem is the absolute rise in knife attacks that comes with having one,
a non integrative population, and two, no police there to watch over the populace.
Let's switch gears over to Sweden, where in their preschools boys learn to dance and girls
learn to yell.
Something was wrong with the penguins, the incoming class of toddlers at the Seafarers
Preschool in a wooded suburb south of Stockholm.
The boys were clamorous and physical.
They shouted and hit.
The girls held up their arms and whimpered to be picked up.
The group of one and two year olds had, in other words, split along traditional gender
lines.
And at this school, that is not okay.
Well, there does seem to be something elemental in the human animal that has at least some
level of a gender split, especially at this age.
But as expected, a social justice education system would have to stamp that out.
Their teachers cleared the room of cars and dolls.
They put the boys in charge of the play kitchen.
They made the girls practice shouting no.
Then they decided to open a proper investigation, erecting video cameras in the classroom.
This may still be divided over whether gender differences are rooted in biology or culture,
but many of Sweden's government funded preschools are doing what they can to deconstruct them.
Okay, okay, okay.
One, I'm not sure if the science is completely divided anymore.
I think that we might have landed in like a 60 biology, 40 culture.
That sounds probably about right.
However, it doesn't matter to these people, apparently.
Whether it's biology or culture, it doesn't matter because Sweden's government funded
preschools want to deconstruct them.
Even if it somehow turned out to be 100% biology, it's something that, according to social justice,
needs deconstructing.
The state curriculum urges teachers and principals to embrace their roles as social engineers,
requiring them to counteract traditional gender roles and gender patterns.
It is normal in many Swedish preschools for teachers to avoid referring to their students'
gender.
Instead of boys and girls, they say friends or call children by name.
Play is organized to prevent children from sorting themselves by gender.
A gender neutral pronoun, hen, was introduced in 2012 and was swiftly absorbed into mainstream
Swedish culture, something that linguists say has never happened in another country.
It sounds like the Swedes are just naturally cucked, I guess.
The children at these schools do not show a strong preference for playmates of the same
gender, and are less likely to make assumptions based on stereotypes.
Yet the scientists found no difference at all in the children's tendency to notice
gender, suggesting that it may be under a genetic influence.
This actually makes complete sense to me.
The choice to have friends of the same gender or opposite gender is probably something that
is informed by the culture or subculture around you.
If you're a boy who would get bullied for being friends with a girl, you're probably
not going to be friends with a girl.
That makes sense.
However, the ability to look at a boy and look at a girl and notice that they are at
least somewhat different, yeah, that's not going away, nor should it.
I mean, this is like asking these kids to be purposefully colorblind in order to not
privilege one color over another, it's a ridiculous idea.
When we are drawing, says Melissa Estica, 31, one of the teachers, we see that the girls,
they draw a lot, they draw girls with lots of makeup and long eyelashes.
It's very clear that they are girls.
We ask, don't boys have eyelashes?
And they say, we know it is not like that in real life.
Well, boys do have eyelashes, but when it comes to drawings, like these are not lifelike
drawings, these are child's drawings.
They are meant to be generic signifiers of an idea, not lifelike specific people.
You know, when you could, for example, meet a man with long eyelashes and you could tell
he's a man because he has many other signs of being a man.
But when you're drawing a doodle, there might be one sign or three signs.
So if, if you're going to draw something simplistic, you're going to have to include something
like long eyelashes to show that it's a girl.
This is not sexism.
This is not a problem.
Miss Estica looked frustrated.
She had set a goal for herself to stop the children from identifying things as four girls
or four boys.
But lately her students were absorbing stereotypes from billboards and cartoons.
And sometimes it seemed like all the slow systematic work of the seafarers preschool
was flying away overnight.
Maybe this is happening not for the reasons that you think.
Maybe it's not because of billboards and cartoons.
Maybe part of it is genetic, maybe part of it is how it is and how it should be.
Maybe part of it is that even if it's cultural, there is not an inherent harm in identifying
things as four girls or four boys.
I understand the logic of not strictly identifying the kitchen area of the, of the preschool
as four girls.
You know, that makes sense.
Very clearly, boys should be taught basic cooking and, and like housekeeping knowledge.
You know, if, if you are, if you're ever an early to mid twenties guy living on your own,
either you live like a fucking loser or you learn how to take care of yourself, right?
In that essence, that makes sense.
You know, the, the idea of, of, of man's work or, or women's work is, is a bit ridiculous.
However, however, there are definitely things that are four girls or four boys.
For example, like maybe vaginas and penises.
You know, I, I, I make the joke of, of the, you know, the, the feminine traps and, and,
and the feminine penis, you know, in girl dicks.
But they're obvious jokes and I know that V might get riled up about it because he doesn't
get it.
But yeah, like, no, there are certain things that are intrinsic to either boys or girls.
And you can't simply say that everything is agender.
That is not how the universe works.
The most striking part about all of this, all of this gender neutral stuff is that the
people doing it, they're going to find themselves in, in maybe 20 to 30 years living in a caliphate,
which is very strictly gender regulated.
And so all of this stuff is going to go completely out the window because you're going to have
little girls in hijabs and you're going to have boys who are taught to beat them.
All right.
So Sweden, if you, if you want your ridiculous gendered ideas to continue into the future,
you need to get a handle on your immigration because the, these things are mutually exclusive.
They're both insane.
They are both the way that a liberal democracy should not be going, but they also don't work
together.
