Joe Biden is losing his mind.
Yeah, I did a video about Bernie yesterday, I've got to do a video about Biden today.
Because when it comes to the Democratic Party right now, at least in my opinion, no matter
who wins, we lose.
Neither of them are really fit to be the president, but for different reasons.
And with Biden, it's because he has dementia.
At this point, you can't say he doesn't.
There's so many examples, it's not even funny anymore, it's just sad.
And yeah, some of these are gaffes.
Like when Biden argued with the other candidates on stage during the debate over who has the
most blacks.
In the black community, and anybody else, double what you have for anybody else.
Wait a second, wait a second, it's Bernie.
That is quite right.
Let's not argue about polls.
No, this isn't the Democrats circa 1800, it's the Democrats today.
Or when during another debate, Biden said that he never called for cuts to Social Security,
when it was in fact obvious that yes, previously in his career, he had called for them.
When I argued that we should freeze federal spending, I meant Social Security as well.
I meant Medicare and Medicaid.
I meant veterans' benefits.
I meant every single solitary thing in the government.
Biden's made a lot of gaffes over the course of his political career.
He's also known to be a stutterer.
And right now, the media is trying to play things off as if that's just the case.
But anyone with a brain knows, it's not stuttering anymore.
It's not, it's not gaffes anymore.
We are witnessing the early stages of dementia.
Like when Biden forgot the Declaration of Independence.
We hold these truths to be self-evident.
All men and women created by the, go, you know the, you know the thing.
Or when Biden during a live stream, and yes, candidates are now hosting official live streams.
That's democracy in the future, I guess.
He just wanders away.
He walks right out of frame.
And they in fact have to cut the feed in order to presumably have an aide come in and get
him situated again.
Which means that they can't build any factories or any, anything within one mile of the estuary
of the Delaware River and the Atlantic Ocean and Chesapeake.
And so the whole point of this is that we can do a lot to deal with endangered species.
And one of the things I would like to raise is that we have to deal with this on an international
basis as well.
Because right now, for example, we have a thing, you know, Brazil has the Amazon is
burning because they're trying to clear the Amazon in order to make money in agriculture.
Or when he believed that he was vice president in 1976.
Or when he believed he was in Vermont when campaigning in New Hampshire.
Or in a very spooky coincidence, he says we can only re-elect Donald Trump.
Out of the mouths of dementia patients, I guess.
Though I guess if you want to see more dementia-addled truth, check this one out.
Joe Biden is a healthy, vigorous 77-year-old, his doctor declares.
Yeah, I don't buy it for a second.
And yes, the documents in this article describe somebody who seems to be quite physically
healthy.
But get this.
The only test that hasn't been done is the cognitive functioning test.
But the fact that he's on the campaign trail and meeting a rigorous travel and meeting
schedule probably would suffice as a replacement for the formal test for cognitive functioning.
Yeah, no, dude, do that test.
Ask Biden to draw a clock, see what comes out.
This is obvious BS.
We all know why he's not undergoing the cognitive functioning test.
On Forbes, there is an article published, Does Joe Biden have dementia?
Does it matter?
By Elizabeth Bower.
Forbes, however, has deleted the article.
You can kind of see it behind there, it's weird.
But this page is no longer active.
Well, thanks to the wonders of archive.is, you can just scroll past this and see the
rest of the article.
Let's take a look.
News outlets such as CNN are reporting that former Vice President Joe Biden has won the
primaries in the states of Michigan, Missouri, and Mississippi.
It becomes increasingly probable that Biden will be the Democratic nominee for president.
At the same time, among Republicans at any rate, speculation continues that, as is the
case for about 10% of Americans within his age range, Biden is impaired with dementia.
Some people dismiss evidence of Biden's incapacity as just a matter of gaffes, little mental
hiccups of no consequence.
They aren't gaffes or simple mistakes.
They are tokens of serious mental incapacity.
Judge for yourself.
How about his claim that 150 million Americans have been killed by guns since 2007?
Oh, I think I missed that one, dude.
Tomorrow is Superstar Tuesday, and I want to thank you all.
I tell you what, I'm rushing ahead, aren't I?
150 million people have been killed since 2007 when Bernie voted to exempt the gun manufacturers
from liability.
It would put 720 million women back in the workforce.
Nobody should be in jail for a non-violent crime.
My name's Joe Biden, I'm a Democratic candidate for the United States Senate.
Play the radio, make sure the television, excuse me, make sure you have the record player
on at night.
Poor kids are just as bright and just as tall as white kids.
We choose science over fiction.
We choose truth over facts.
From the Alzheimer's Association webpage, aggressive or angry behaviors may occur in
people with Alzheimer's or their dementias.
A 50-year career politician doesn't snap back this way to a blue-collar guy asking
him a reasonable question given his party's stance on the issue.
That is referring to a very public altercation between Biden and I think it was a factory
worker or a construction worker or something.
There is a large portion of the union workers that are gun enthusiasts and you are actively
trying to diminish your Second Amendment right and take away your gun.
You're full of shit.
Alright, thank you guys.
Shush.
Shush.
I support the Second Amendment.
The Second Amendment, just like right now, if you yell fire, that's not free speech.
From the very beginning, I have a shotgun, I have a 20-gauge, a 12-gauge, my son's hunt,
guess what?
You're not allowed to own any weapon.
I'm not taking your gun away at all.
You need 100 rounds and you're-
When you said you were going to take our guns, that means what?
I did not say that.
That's not true.
I did not say that.
It's a viral video.
It's a viral video like the other ones are putting out that are simply a lie.
It was your voice.
You said that.
You're taking the guns.
Well, he just clarified it.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Take the AR-14s.
Okay, this is not okay.
Hold on, hold on.
Hey, let's keep going.
There's a lot of guys.
A lot of guys want to-
You're welcome for me, man.
I'm not worried.
Hold on.
Give me a break, man.
Don't be such a horseman.
But even this article ends with the conclusion of Biden should take the test so that everyone
can just shut up about the issue.
Unless that is the claims of Republicans that he has been pushed and manipulated into this
election against his own best interest and he'd be better off having stayed in retirement
are actually well-founded.
He shouldn't take the test if that's the case.
She ends by saying that most Democrats don't actually expect Biden to even last his entire
term and simply hope that he'll pick a good VP, I guess, to take over.
There's another far less reasonable article on the topic and that one was already kind
of on the edge of reasonability.
You need to stop saying Joe Biden has dementia.
Why?
There's at least some evidence and he's not being tested for it.
He's avoiding the tests.
The DNC is keeping him out of the limelight.
They've restructured event schedules.
They've gone so far as to change the rules so that Tulsi Gabbard would not run circles
around the two geriatrics that are left on stage.
Obama repeatedly tried to get Biden not to run for president.
The former president is reportedly worried Biden will embarrass himself.
And this is what it's really all about.
The DNC, they really have nobody.
Elizabeth Warren fell apart.
They don't want Bernie Sanders.
And they won't dare try again with Hillary Clinton.
Biden's the only star they have.
What they're banking on is that whole return to normalcy thing.
That has been Biden's saying.
It's basically the neoliberal MAGA at this point.
Return to normalcy.
Go back to a previous era of politics before Trump came in and changed the game.
Go back to the neolibs and the neocons gracefully playing tennis with each other eight years
at a time.
Clinton, then Bush, then Obama, supposed to be Hillary next time.
Just back and forth.
Didn't really matter.
Policies weren't all that different between the two of them.
Kick cans down the road.
Return to normalcy.
That is what Biden's running on.
The DNC is hoping that people who are politically unengaged but have fond memories of the Obama
era will recognize Biden as being the former VP and will simply tick his name off based
on name recognition.
It doesn't matter to them that Biden's actually demented.
It doesn't matter to them that there's actually a fair chance Biden won't survive
his first term.
They don't care about his history, his previous hard work, his dignity as a human.
They only care about taking the reins of power.
Any one of us who has watched an older relative wither away, whether it's from dementia
or Alzheimer's or any of the other effects of old age, we can all see the beginning steps
with it in Biden.
And it's not a personal attack against him.
It's not hatred of Biden, hatred of Democrats or liberals, hatred of old people.
It's nothing like that.
Because the truth is, we will all be Biden one day.
Everybody gets old.
Everybody will suffer from something, and everybody will die.
It's not a personal attack against Biden's character.
It doesn't erase his previous accomplishments, his distinguished 50-year career.
But it does mean that now, at this point in his life, he's not fit to be president.
Trump is going to absolutely humiliate him, and that is no way to end such a distinguished
career as Biden's.
The DNC is in a rough spot right now.
The party itself does not want to be taken over by Bernie and the socialists, a reasonable
fear, though it might be somewhat overblown.
But who do they have left?
Kirsten Gillibrand, Tulsi Gabbard, and Pete Buttigieg could have actually beat Trump in
the general, had the DNC allowed any of them to rise to the top.
But no, they had to go for Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden, both of whom are fundamentally
unelectable.
Warren, because she's an unlikeable snake in the same way that Hillary Clinton was,
and Biden, because, frankly, he's just too old.
If Biden had run in 2016 instead of Hillary, that might have been a close race.
I'm not sure.
I really don't know.
Because Biden was still with it back then.
But his time's up.
I say this with respect for the man.
Biden should not be in this race, and the DNC keeping him in because of their own selfish
reasons is absolutely appalling.
