Thank you very much everyone for the 100,000 subs, though this video is like two years late.
I'm doing it now because I just received, finally, the silver play button. I've unboxed it on stream,
it's nice and shiny, though I did smudge it up a bit with my fat thumbs, and now I can return to
being a bit more edgy since I had to temporarily sanitize the channel in order to be eligible for
it. However, I'm reminded of Sargon's 100,000 back in the day, where he decided to take the
opportunity to shout out smaller channels, including mine by the way, that he thought
was worthy of your attention. So I'm going to do the same thing. I've got more channels to shout
out than he did back then, but I'm also going to include channels that aren't quite political.
So basically this is going to be a list of channels that I think you should watch that
are all under 100,000 subs. Now just to be clear, there are many YouTube channels over 100,000 subs
that I do watch, but they don't need a bump from me. Plus they're probably the same ones that you
watch anyway. So today I'm just going to be going over the ones who are a little bit smaller,
who would probably appreciate a little bit of a spotlight that I think you should be checking out,
with of course a special list of mentions at the end. So stay tuned for that too.
All right, let's get going. And because I'm going alphabetically, the very first channel in the
list is Academic Agent. Now Academic Agent and I disagree on basically everything, but that's okay
because I like to hear other people's opinions on things. I like to hear other perspectives.
And if you basically want the neoreactionary view of politics, Academic Agent is the guy to go to.
He first hit my radar when President Sunday banded together with a bunch of leftoids and got him
fired and canceled from his job. I've been watching him on and off ever since.
Second up is Ace1918. He's been a viewer of mine for a while. He does a lot of cultural stuff,
but I think probably most importantly is that he's had a lot of trouble getting his channel
monetized. So maybe a boost of subs will help him up. So please consider following him.
Next up is ActuallyTina. Now Tina is not a professional YouTuber in any sense of the word.
And basically all she does is she streams Final Fantasy stuff. I've had fun rating her a couple
times because she usually gets all flustered whenever I do. But where ActuallyTina is really
known is on Twitter. I first encountered her account during gamergate. She's nonpartisan
politically and her takes tend to be hilarious. So I don't know about her YouTube because it's
just Final Fantasy, but if you're on Twitter, definitely follow her.
And speaking of gamergate, the next channel I'm subbed to is Airplay. This is an upcoming
documentary about gamergate. If you're interested in the old lore and having the now decade old
story retold, this would definitely be a channel worth subbing to for when the documentary comes
out. This is Anastasia from Anastasia in Tech. Her thing is talking about microchips and AI.
She's very intelligent. She definitely knows her stuff. And if that topic's interesting to you,
she is the one to be following. Next up is AppaBend, a Filipino Shoda who really used to
make a lot more videos than he does. I think his channel would be blown up if he actually made
consistent content, but he seems to want to do things at his own pace. And hey, that's his
choice. He kind of reminds me of Third World It's a Gundam. So check him out. Next on my alphabetical
list is Big Nick. But Big Nick is mostly known for being Not-So-Arudite's boyfriend.
It's misogyny that he came first, guys. Nick often appears in Not-So-Arudite's content,
and frankly, Arudite is great. She's a fellow Canadian, so represent. But also she's very
educated in terms of psychology. You want to see some top tier psych takes, as well as debates and
memes and general shitposting. Hers is a pretty good channel to follow. I've talked to her a
couple times now. I'm happy to be acquaintances with her. And I would love to talk to her again
in the future. So let's hope it happens. We're in the bees now. Blaze the Hedgehog.
His channel is strictly not political. This is all about like Sega history. Because I'm a gamer,
I love that sort of thing. Borderline OCD. His whole thing is repairing old consoles,
like the hardware, placing parts or soldering things or whatever. This is actually also a
hobby of mine too. I've done a lot of console repairs, console mods in my off time. I follow
a lot of bigger channels that do this sort of thing. And they're all pretty good too. But his
is the only channel that I follow that engages in this hobby that is under 100k. There's just
something about tinkering around with old hardware, you know, opening up that old Super Nintendo or
whatever from your childhood, seeing how it worked. It's just so fun to me. Britannia is
a friend of Kraut, and I was introduced to her through him. She makes videos that are Kraut-like.
She is a part of Kraut's attempt to make a libtube community on YouTube. It is not socialist,
but it's also not conservative. And though she makes content very infrequently, I do like the
videos that she puts out. CafeBeef and her boyfriend Kiln Firelink. She's a Pokemon YouTuber,
but like Tina, she's more known for her stuff on Twitter. And on Twitter, she is a fantastic,
hilarious schizo poster. Definitely worth following. Caleb Hart. Caleb Hart's on here?
Jesus, he only has 41,000 subs on YouTube. Caleb Hart is a huge Twitch streamer, dude. He's got
like, he gets like several thousand viewers on Twitch every single time he streams. He's one of
the most well-known speedrunners in the world. He does Final Fantasy VII speedruns. He does
Mega Man X speedruns. I find his stuff to be hilarious. I guess his YouTube channel just
doesn't get much traction. He's one of the OGs, though. He's been around for like 15 years,
and he's still great. Cherry is a Destiny orbiter. She definitely plays up her physical
attractiveness during her streams, but she doesn't do the TEEHEE Bimbo thing. She's actually pretty
intelligent, too. I've spoken with her a few times in private. She's always been a pretty chill
person, and though I don't have much time to watch streams anymore nowadays, when I do tune
into her show, I tend to have a pretty good time. Chaseface is a follower of mine. He actually
reminds me a lot of Silo Kayhawk, but I can't shout out Silo because he's more than 100,000 subs.
Chaseface is definitely cut from the same cloth, though. He does video game analysis and reviews,
a lot of it revolving around current video game culture. His stuff is not explicitly political,
but he is definitely not a leftist. Chatmort's vlogs are pretty good, but like other people on
this list, she is way more well-known for her Twitter posts. Another person that I met during
Gamergate? I've always enjoyed her takes. She's pretty funny. Ched Logic. I've enjoyed all my
private talks with Ched. He's a pretty good guy, it seems. I haven't known him for that long,
so I can't, you know, super vouch for him, but his content's hilarious. He's pretty good faith
whenever he engages with a subject. He triggers the fuck out of the leftoids just by basically
existing as somebody who was once a radical leftist and now no longer is. And whenever I do
tune into his stream, I'm always having a laugh. Classic Game Junkie is one in a series of small
channels that I sub to where they basically describe the underlying programming code of
various video games. He tends to focus on like early-ish 3D titles. You can see Crash Bandicoot
there, you can see Mario Galaxy, where he basically describes the programming code behind
some of early 3D gaming's most innovative sections. If that sort of thing is up your alley,
then he's worth checking out. Conversations with Curtis holds a special place in my heart.
It's hosted by Paul Morgan Stetler, who played Curtis from the FMV game from the 90s,
Phantasmagoria 2, a puzzle of flesh. And the entire project of his channel has been about
documenting old 90s FMV games, a period of gaming history that has basically fallen by the wayside,
and showing love for this oddity that existed between the transition from 2D gaming to 3D
gaming where everyone thought for a couple years that FMV games, movie games, were going to be the
next big thing. They were not, and the games are all over the place in terms of quality,
but even when they're bad they're good because of hilariously overacted scenes. So if you liked
Phantasmagoria back in the day, if you liked Ripper, if you liked any of these old FMV titles,
this is definitely a channel you want to watch. Corbis, otherwise known as Soph,
you all know who this person is. She is basically the right wing's Greta Thunberg,
a young girl who makes partisan content on the internet, though of course doesn't have nearly
the institutional backing that Greta Thunberg does, because she's on the right, not the left.
She tends to get banned from pretty much everywhere for being way too edgy, so I'm
surprised her YouTube channel's even still up, and the majority of her content is not even posted on
YouTube. Counterpoints is a Burkean conservative, he's been watching me long before I even knew who
he was. He reminds me of a 2017 era Sargon. He mainly talks about Warhammer 40k, but he does
dip his toes into the political side of YouTube and Twitch, where he is one of the only conservative
voices over there. I've been watching Danfan for a little while now. She explicitly keeps her
politics out of her videos, in fact if you ask her she will not tell you what her political alignment
is. Her focus is on comics, manga, anime, and even though she does take her digs at terrible woke
shows, she does it from the point of view of discussing their bad quality, and she kinda keeps
politics out of the conversation. It's quite refreshing. She has a niche, but she does what
she does well. The Digital Blackface Podcast. This is a ridiculous and hilarious YouTube channel,
with some insane stuff. Funny, but definitely really far out there. And even though the content
on the channel is very good, this is one of those situations where the Twitter presence is bigger
than the YouTube channel. The fellow who runs it is Poe, another guy I met during gamergate.
A hilarious guy who has no problems talking about black culture and politics, being black himself,
and considering how funny he is on Twitter and his reasonably large amount of reach there,
his YouTube channel really should have more love. Demetri Monroe is a Sonic YouTuber,
and a very famous femboy. He is, like a lot of the entertainment type YouTubers that I watch,
politically unaligned but very anti-woke, and that comes through all the time in his video
essays. He tends to spend a lot of his time describing how leftoids, once they get into
positions of power in terms of translating anime or translating Japanese games, how they will
whitewash out what they consider to be problematic elements, and honestly make the anime or the manga
or the game in question a much shittier experience in English as a result. It's a topic that I'd love
to cover personally, but I just don't have time. Demetri does, so you should watch him.
Discordia is a friend of mine, I've always enjoyed talking to her. She works over at Sargon's Lotus
Eater's outfit, which basically leaves her with no time to post her own content, but it's always
been a pleasure seeing her on streams and bumping into her on on Kib's channel or whatever. I hope
we can do another tabletop campaign one day. Displaced Gamers is another channel talking
about the behind the scenes of video game code and how a lot of these mechanics work,
but unlike the previous one, this one deals with explicitly old games, so we're talking NES and
sometimes SNES games. Again, a niche topic, but very interesting to me. The DIY Doctor. Listen,
you're a fatherless millennial or zoomer, right? You never had a dad who would teach you how to,
you know, be a handyman, repair things around the house, that's okay. Go watch DIY Doctor.
Tells you all about how to do basic jobs and tools, you know, the normal stuff you got to
know to be an adult. Dylan Burns. I've spoken to Dylan a bunch of times. He is definitely a
progressive, much more further left than I am, but he's not a socialist. I tend not to agree
with his politics takes more than I agree with them. However, he is most well known for going
to Ukraine and becoming a war reporter. And you know what? Good for him, regardless of what you
think about him personally. It definitely takes stones to do this, to actually go into a war zone,
get footage and bring it out. He's going back soon, in fact, so I wish him the best. Now,
I know a lot of you guys don't like Econoboi and that's fine. I treat him like I treat a lot of the
other specialists that I've come into contact with over the course of doing YouTube. He's very
progressive and I tend not to agree with him politically, but when it comes to economics,
he certainly knows more than me. Definitely well educated in this field. And you can't simply
discard him by saying, ah, he's a lefty. I tend to find a lot of his stuff very educational.
Flamenco is absolutely hilarious. He is basically going to become the replacement Mr.
Medicker, Internet aristocrat. It seems like Medicker is not coming back due to his cancer.
Flamenco is cut from the exact same cloth. He has like a similar way of speaking,
a similar voice, even a similar sense of humor. He's just as autistic and he's just as hilarious.
Flamenco's streams and essays tend to be really, really funny. And you can tell that he is at
least somewhat effective because every time a breadtuber talks to him, they say that he is
an ultra fascist. He is as far right as you can go when really all he is is a troll.
Frozen Binary Studio was one of the first people that Scrump and I interviewed on Dumping with
Scrump. She was a big deal in the Dreamcast hacking scene until she got a job with Google.
And now, unfortunately, all the projects that I was interested that she was making
have all gone by the wayside. But she is slowly coming back to the internet again.
She got her Twitter account back, so I hope she gets back to it eventually.
Gammy is a small time politics streamer, bigger on Twitch than on YouTube.
She is kind of like a Conoboy in that she is clearly a progressive, and I don't agree with
her all the time, but also like a Conoboy, she is willing to speak out against the nonsense of the
socialist left. You can make deals and negotiate with welfare capitalist guys, but you can't do
that with socialists. Ghost Poli- Does Ghost still do his show? I guess he does. I used to watch
Ghost Politics like back in the day. Back when it was like Dark Razor Z and El Foxo Loco who were
posting clips of his shows where people would call in and troll him. I don't even remember still
being subbed to him. Ghost Politics is an experience. You gotta watch one of his shows
to really get it. Ghost is like half serious. He's half trolling. He's a right wing Texan
who's very pro capitalist, almost to the point of being an ANCAP in fact. He definitely does not
like the American government. However, a lot of his show is just devoted to trolling and having
callers call in and troll him. And that's honestly where the magic lies. Oh, Grumpy G-San. I'm still
subbed to him. This is an old man who used to wander around the Arizona desert and review anime
in the wilderness. He died 12 years ago. He was a big deal during the early internet. I kind of
forgot all about him. Haryan Gladev, or Gladiev, whatever. He is a libertarian who has really,
really, really wanted to talk to me. Probably about an opinion that I don't even hold anymore,
in fact. But that's okay. There are some really crazy dissident right people out there who you
should probably not give any consideration, but he is not one of them. He does not seem to be
somebody who has been completely brain rotted by conspiratorial thinking. Iron Liz is best known as
Linkara's former girlfriend. I've interviewed her a couple times. She's great. She's hilarious.
And right now she's working on turning Linkara's legendary comic, The Lightbringer, into an actual
comic. The first volume is already out and you should check it out. Tom Bahat is one of a
collection of guys that used to run with Medicare way back in the day, including Blackface Kermitt
and Latman Sun. I've talked to Latman some irregularly. He sometimes watched my content.
He's been on my show at least once. Haven't seen Blackface Kermitt in a very long time. And Tom
Bahat still makes his own content on his channel. These are people that I mainly just keep up with
from the old days. If you like Mega Man X, then JKB Games is somebody that you want to follow.
He is making a from scratch, completely new Mega Man X game called Mega Man X Corrupted.
It is in the style of the X one, two and three games from the Super Nintendo. And it is probably
one of the biggest fan projects that is nearing completion that I've ever seen. This is not one
of those pipe dream projects where after a few years the channel goes quiet. This guy has nearly
done it and it looks amazing. Justine Hoppt is an engineer who tinkers around with electronics and
makes her own devices. Most recently she made a rotary cell phone, which is absolutely hilarious.
And I'm sure every single hipster out there wants one. And yeah, it really works. She did all the
creation of the technology behind it. She did all the programming that goes into the tech,
all of it, hardware, software. She's very talented. And since I am a amateur tinkerer
myself, I've enjoyed seeing some of the things that she's done. Lady Decade reminds me of Larry
Bundy Jr, only just a female version. She does a lot of deep dives into obscure bits of old
video game history. We're talking beta versions of games or ROM hacks or like third world clones
and stuff. It's all stuff that's very interesting to me. Layman is a Canadian conservative YouTuber
who makes the occasional appearance on Twitch politics panels. He and his girlfriend Anna have
become decent acquaintances of mine over the past couple of years. I enjoy talking to them and I
hope that this channel takes off. LoftyPixels is I think most well known for being one of the
quartering's editors. And you can tell because he's made several viral clips. But they tend to
go viral on Twitter, not on YouTube. Nonetheless, video and audio editing, image editing, all stuff
he seems to know how to do. He's got a pretty snappy delivery in all of his jokes. And overall,
just a funny channel to watch. NotRub is basically a channel that archives all of Spoonie's lost
content. If you're a fan of the Spoonie one, Noah Antwiler, and you've noticed that his channel is
basically a desiccated husk with most of its content scrubbed off of it, NotRub has
archived as much as possible and uploaded it. This is like old reviews, old vlogs, stuff that
was exclusive to BlipTV and then was lost when BlipTV finally closed. He's got a lot of it here.
So if you ever wanted to go down memory lane and see when Spoonie was good, this is the channel
to go to. OhohoJohSama is a channel full of laughing anime girls. That's it. That's the
whole channel. I guess if you ever needed like a proper reaction video to post on Twitter or
something, you could come here and grab one. But that's all this channel is. I don't even know why
I'm subbed to it. Politics with Paint is another channel like Krauts and that it's a polnball
channel like Kraut and like Hoser and like a lot of these other politics channels. This is
all stuff that interests me personally because it has a focus on history and it uses polnballs.
You know what this is. You know if you like it, check it out. Rachel Richards is a viewer of mine
and is an anti-leftist trans woman. A lot of her content is vlogs about trans issues from a
non-leftist perspective, which by the way is kind of a refreshing perspective to see since the left
claims all trans people as their own. She hasn't done very much and she has one niche, but what
she does is done well. Ravignon is another person that I met through Kraut and he is probably one of
the only people that I've encountered that is both a socialist and actually somewhat honest.
It's a very rare thing. I've spoken with him privately a lot and we have some very rowdy
debates. He's helped me sharpen up a lot of my ideas especially ideas about the left and really
it's so rare to see an actual honest socialist who you know isn't evil that he's probably worth
following just for that alone. Raydude, this is a channel that is basically dead. It's fine though
because his claim to fame is that he made the legendary Newgrounds animation Link's Quest for
Ass back when I was in high school. And though his channel is mostly just talking about games
and doing some speedruns and stuff he also has a series of documentaries talking about the making
of that legendary animation which I found to be hilarious to watch. It was like I was back in high
school again. So much fun. If you remember the old days of Newgrounds you definitely want to check
this guy out. Riley Grace Rochon is another politics streamer who was cancelled and driven
off the internet by leftoids. She's been trying to become a professional lawyer I think for a
long time and the leftoids actually called I think her bar association to try to get her
career fucked up. Didn't work out but she's decided to take a break from the internet.
I hope she'll be back one day because she's very intelligent and this will be the channel that you
want to follow her on if she does ever return. Rose Mullet or is it Mulay I don't know. She's
another trans non-leftist who has been slowly making her name of herself in the online politics
space over on Twitch. It's honestly really refreshing to me to see trans perspectives
outside of leftist dogma. Also she does music too but I think most people are here for her politics.
And here's my friend Rose of Dawn. She used to do a lot of political content but she's since taken
a break from that. She is a non-leftist but she's also more explicitly pro right wing than a lot of
the other trans women we've talked about today. Which is by the way why Shinigami Eyes marks her
as red. But she has been a bit burnt out on politics recently so she's she's taken some
time off from that. Rosa Kotel is a vtuber, a snake vtuber that I follow and that I'm
kind of acquaintances with. And in fact I might as well just lump all the vtubers that I follow
in right now because I'm not much of a vtube person and there's tons of vtubers nowadays.
So I might as well just recommend to you the ones that I think are small and interesting. Rosa, Tomo,
bat at video games and vote for waifus. You know what vtubers are about? Cute anime avatars, cute
voices, playing video games. You all know why you're here. You're here to simp. You're here to
jack off. I get it. It's okay. These four are the ones that are the most interesting to me.
Shenmue fans! Pretty much is in the title isn't it? This is a channel for the Dreamcast sleeper
hit Shenmue. Has a cult following nowadays. If you like Shenmue you know what this is about. If you
don't, not for you. Side Scrollers is back! In fact they're they're live now while I'm recording
this. Side Scrollers was a podcast on screwattack.com headed up by Stuttering Craig.
Stuttering Craig has revived the side scroller's name for his new channel. Basically Stuttering
Craig built up ScrewAttack. He sold it to Rooster Teeth. He then went off on his own, restarted his
channel. He's doing his own thing and he's bringing side scrollers back. So good for him. If you like
the old side scrollers back in the day, I know my editor Dave does. He listened to that podcast a
lot on the bus going off to uh going off to college every day. If you liked it back then,
he's doing it again. Single Player Carl is another viewer of mine. He's another one of those guys
that met during gamergate. He's more prevalent on Twitter than he is on YouTube. But he is trying
to branch out into YouTube with some of his own content. As well as a program that he calls the
fried chicanery podcast. He's kind of like Poe in that he's a non-leftist black guy who talks about
black politics and culture. He's always really funny whenever I see him and he is worth a follow.
Sansol is one of those poor souls who used to be a breadtuber and has since broken out of their
orbit. Back when he was a breadtuber he uh he was actually quite hostile towards me. He has since
apologized for that. We've had a few conversations and he's definitely like uh my god I can't believe
how how dumb I was back in the day. He actually reminds me a lot of me when I was a communist.
Though I was younger than him when I was a communist. Whenever he describes a lot of his
time in the radical left he he frames it like that he knew deep down that none of this would
ever work. But he was kind of suppressing it because one he didn't like the current system
and two he wanted to keep all of his friends like Vosh and stuff. But then finally the contradictions
of the system became too great and he basically found himself at a crossroads where he could just
be a grifter and lie. Or he could you know pull the band-aid off start speaking the truth and it
would be costly for him and it was he lost all of his friends. Which is why his channel is much
smaller than it used to be. BreadTube absolutely hates him now in the same way that they hate
Chud Logic for for daring to leave them. Sophia Nowitz is just great. I first interviewed her
during um the George Floyd riots where she was doing on the ground reporting. Since she's local
to the area she went down there with her camera she was recording what was going on and she
described to me during that interview she had been kind of in a slump in her life and doing the on
the ground reporting invigorated her life again. And now she's like she she does do the twitch
streaming thing she does review games and she does like all the kind of game journo stuff
again from a non-hegemonic leftist perspective she's very much not part of the left. But when
there's an opportunity to do like real on the ground politics reporting she does that too.
I enjoy her streams, I enjoy her reviews, I enjoy her takes on twitter. She is the full package deal.
Stardust is cut from the same cloth as people like Chud Logic and Cherry and Flamenco and some
and Sansol. These are all people who are heavily engaged in the twitch politics sphere. They're not
socialists and they're really spicy. Though Stardust is a progressive she also has a very
good head on her shoulders. She's not afraid of admitting when she's wrong or when her political
side is fucked up some some way. She's not really a partisan she's not really ideologically bent and
she is one of the few people that I've met in the twitch politics space that I can honestly say has
a good faith conversation every single time. And she's also one of the only ones in that space
who's willing to talk to people outside of let's say the the leftist orthodoxy and she gets a lot
of shit for it. There's constantly conversations about is Stardust platforming people responsibly
and I've always told her she should just tell them to fuck off have the conversations you want to
have and I respect her for it so you should follow her. The Halfling formerly known as Paleo-Anglism
who was formerly known as British Knight. He's been watching me for years I've been on his
channel a couple times he's very close to being an AnCap and I do not agree with his politics at all
but unlike most radicals he's very polite and I can often have a good faith conversation with him.
Due to IRL stuff he has less time to make content than he used to but he is planning to come back
soon with something or other I guess we'll see. The Offensive Tranny is a female to male trans
person who is again presenting a non-leftist trans perspective on a lot of these trans topics.
He reminds me a lot of Blair White though obviously he's more masculine and Blair is more
feminine and Blair is also way more popular but he seems to be cut from the same cloth so if you
like that sort of thing you should check him out. Oh yeah the Snit Zone if you're Canadian you know
exactly what this is. YTV very famous Canadian television channel for children had a host for
the in-between cartoon segments that was a TV covered in purple goop whose name was Snit.
Probably one of the biggest things that any Canadian millennial remembers about the 90s
is Snit's antics and the fact that he's been revived and given his own YouTube channel is just
hilarious to me. The Britisher does primarily The Week That Was which is a pretty good replacement
for Sargon's This Week in Stupid. When I was banned a few years back he hosted one of my videos
My Weekly Sip until I got my channel back which is very kind of him. He is very much a classical
liberal type so if you're into Sargon's older stuff or if you're into me or V or somebody he's
definitely worth checking out. Then finally Warren Ray otherwise known as Bastiat. He is a
self-identified neoliberal he's probably the most high profile neoliberal in the twitch politics
sphere and he basically argues for normalcy. I have my problems with neolibs I'm sure we all do
but Bastiat's got a pretty good head on shoulders he knows what's going on. And there we are those
are all the channels that I'm subbed to that are under 100,000 subs and you guys should be checking
them all out. Of course this thank you for a hundred thousand subs video would not be complete
without actually thanking some people. There is of course my closest internet friends Sargon, Arch,
Vee, Kibz and Lilith. These five people have helped me immensely in more ways than I can count.
If you watch me you already know who they all are and I cannot thank them enough for everything.
There's also a number of other people who have given me a lot of help over the years too. The
efap guys rags mauler and fringy the tism guys baring dankula and the quartering adam friended
and psa sitch from the adam and sitch sunday show madri bread the let's player and pokemon challenge
youtuber taftaj a former sfo fangirl turned friend zaver somebody i've known for over a decade now
spooky minaris and denziel the borderlands crew see hoff manny otherwise known as harper one of
my most lasting friends that i met during gamergate though she's definitely not pro
gamergate anymore but that's fine singing reaper who has the unique distinction of being the only
red tube viewer i've ever met who is nonetheless not retarded there's kraut who i became friends
with while he was off the internet i realized that i was pretty much wrong about everything i
had said about him during the dumping with scrump days i apologized he forgave me and we became
pals and there's colink someone who is uh semi local to the area and who as long as we keep
growing here will be the first employee who is not one of my irl friends these are all people
who have helped me out over the years and i appreciate all of them there is of course a
special thank for all of my moderators both past and present as well as the people who both work
and i guess unofficially intern here at the channel my lifelong friend dave my girlfriend
naomi and dave's girlfriend dom don't worry there'll be more money soon i hope as long as
you keep growing thanks very much to everyone who's helped me out over the years and of course
thanks to you for watching i wouldn't have come this far without you i'm not going to cry like
mundane matt did over his uh his silver play button and i'm under no illusions that i'm
ever going to get to a million within my lifetime or otherwise but hey who knows it might happen
i guess i'll have to see all right everyone thanks for sticking with me for this uh
absurdly long thank you video i will see you guys next time i love you
