Are you tired of watching YouTube videos that SUCK COMPLETE ASS?
Well check out some of these channels!
Do you like interesting British banter about educational topics?
Well check out some of Jay Foreman's videos!
Learn about geography with mapmen!
Gain insight into British politics with Politics Unboring!
Explore interesting historical quips about London's transportation systems with Unfinished
London!
All these video series are served with a side of snappy editing and witty British humor.
Check it out!
Do you miss the old days of YouTube when animations, skits, and YouTube poops were all popular?
You know, the days before every YouTuber was forced to relentlessly fellate the almighty
YouTube algorithm in order to salvage the tiniest scrap of popularity in the rat race
to gain relevance?
Well you should check out some of AlienMyth64's videos where he basically combines all three
of those things.
Seriously, watch this guy.
Good content.
Funny content.
Original content.
Watch him.
Do you like watching animation reviews on YouTube but don't like stomach ulcers, high
blood pressure, and irritable bowel syndrome?
Then you should watch some reviews by The Real Jims.
He primarily reviews classic Simpsons episodes but also does Simpsons theories and is currently
reviewing all the Pixar films.
His videos have a concise and informative visual style and they're all really satisfying
watches.
He's been making good content for five years now and he still has less than 15,000 subscribers.
Probably because he doesn't scream at his audience with apoplectic rage about children's
cartoon shows.
So check out The Real Jims and actually, uh, not be pissed while watching animation reviews.
Are you a cynical sports fan whose sense of enjoyment has been brutally beaten down through
year after year of rooting for terrible franchises?
Well I invite you guys to check out the videos of Urinating Tree and share in the suffering
of your fellow lovable losers.
Urinating Tree chronicles and critiques some of the most pathetic franchises in all of
American sportsdom in brutally savage fashion befitting of the most sautéed and bitter
sports fan.
So sit back, relax, and take solace in knowing that there are at least a handful of sports
franchises as pathetic as yours.
This guy makes the most interesting and well put together videos I've ever seen in 10 years
of watching videos on this website.
So that's five good content creators that you probably haven't heard of.
I mean, go subscribe to them and support their content so that they can make more.
Have you seen any good channels that no one knows about?
Be sure to tell me in the comments below because I want to watch more good videos!
I have had it with these godawful videos!
I'm rich!
Rich!
Rich!
If you can actually see a fidget spinner in this image, there is a humongous chance that
you are actually colour blind...
you are actually colour blind...
you are actually colour blind guys!
We are currently giving away an inflatable ACE's close by so if you wanna be entered
into this giveaway, make sure you subscribe right now, leave a like on this video and
make sure you subscribe right now, leave a like on this video and make sure you subscribe
right now, leave a like on this video and guys you are actually colour blind.
If you are not subscribed guys, you cannot by entered.
So press that subscribe button right now, make sure you subscribe right now and smash
a like on this video leave a like on this video and guys guys if you want to get around here
subscribe make sure you subscribe right now we want to get a million subscribers we are getting so
close we are like 870 million subscribers we are getting so close we are like 37 million
fidget spinners and just subscribe for us press that subscribe button right now guys guys guys
guys guys guys guys we are currently giving away an iphone 870 million plus and 30 fidget spinners
plus 30 itunes and google plus playpads now if you want to be entered into this giveaway
make sure you press that subscribe button right now and smash a like on this video and smash
that subscribe button plus press like on this video right now guys right now and make sure
you spin that fidget spinners guys getting actually colorblind it's been a dream of ours
and if you just subscribe for us just subscribe for us just subscribe for us make sure you
subscribe if you are not subscribed guys press that subscribe button if you want to around here
subscribe a million subscribers 870 000 subscribers so if you subscribe just subscribe for
us it will help us out so much also smash a like on this video and smash a like on this video leave
a like on this video and it would bring the world to us guys guys guys guys guys right now right now
