In the past few weeks, like a hundred people have asked me to talk about Jack Murphy.
So here we go!
Jack Murphy is one of those masculinity gurus that seem to be a dime a dozen on the internet
right nowadays.
You know the type, these gruff, older, muscled men who might make video content or maybe
write a blog or something, instructing young men about the traditional masculine gender
role.
One version of this is a website called The Liminal Order, where for the low low price
of $100 a month, Jesus, he will teach you how to be a real man.
At the end of December 2021, he appeared on Sidney Watson's stream, where a few superchats
asked him about the cuck article.
Even though Watson genuinely didn't understand what was going on, Murphy still reacted poorly
to the reference, even going so far as to march out of their studio saying fuck you.
When the show did end, Jack got up, I made an attempt to apologize or to at least ask
what had happened and what had made him react that way.
He told me to go fuck myself, or he either said go fuck yourself or he said fuck you
again, I can't remember which, and then he left.
At that point, Elijah went to go and talk to him to see if the situation might be resolved
and that is when they went to go and get drinks.
Apparently, Watson's editor smoothed things over with him later.
Nonetheless, Murphy felt the need to go on Tim Pool's show and throw shade at Watson
that
The
cuck article in question has been mysteriously scrubbed off the wayback machine.
I wonder how that happened.
But you know what, it's still easy enough to find if you know where to look.
It's titled Cultivating Erotic Energy from a Surprising Source.
October 9th, 2015 by Jack Murphy Today I sent my adoring, loyal, hot girlfriend
of two years to have sex with a stranger from Tinder.
She is currently at his apartment, checked in with me via text, and is presumably sucking
and fucking her way to a good time.
I'm alone writing.
Couldn't be happier.
Um, alright dude.
All jokes aside, if you continue to read this article you can kinda see where he's going
with this.
I've learned over time how my natural disposition is to be dominant.
For submissive women, I'm practically an ideal.
I've had sex slaves, little girls, and tied them all up.
Feminists seek me out to fuck them like the patriarchy.
Jesus Christ dude.
Like yeah, I get it.
The whole LG thing is a kink about women who want to basically act like bratty children
and then get put in their place by their dominant daddies.
But if you're not somebody who's terminally online, this just reads really fucking weird.
The edge gets far from center eventually.
Excitement and novelty can wear off.
Even novelty becomes boring.
There are only so many approaches to sex, so many different ways of doing it.
Only so many different kinds of people and lovers.
For me, and those of us who like to push the edge, eventually the only areas left to explore
become things you can only do as an evolved couple.
You know, to me this actually sounds like you're a coomer who's become so desensitized
to regular sex that you actually need some crazy shit to get off.
You know Jack, no fat would probably do you some good.
The entire experience is regimented according to my rules.
I introduced her to the idea.
I pushed it.
I told her to go on Tinder and find someone.
On the day in question, I tell her when and where to do it.
She checks in with me via text.
I know where she is and I'm waiting for her.
She's not alone.
She is on a mission sent directly by me, and the entire point is for me to get turned on
in a way that wouldn't happen otherwise.
This passage is the core of the matter, and this is probably the one point he actually
has.
True enough, by the modern meaning of the word cuck, he's not actually being cucked
because the idea behind cucking is that the bull acts in order to humiliate the man, while
Murphy's describing a scenario that he has set up for her to play a role in, regardless
of her own will.
In other words, a cuck is a guy who consents to having a more dominant man fuck his girl
because he gets off on the feeling of being emasculated and degraded.
However, Murphy's situation is the opposite.
He's having a less dominant man fuck his girl in order to make her feel degraded and
to further establish his own dominance.
It's kind of like pimping in a way.
Even if a pimp fucks his hoes, nobody would call him a cuck when his hoes fuck John's.
But the problem with Murphy's behavior was probably best described by Sargon on his channel
when he talked about this event.
It might make Murphy an alpha, but it doesn't make him a man.
And I agree.
You might be the dominant one.
You might be in control.
But what do you think it does to the quality, the fabric of your relationship if you act
like a pimp and the girl that you're supposed to cherish acts like a hoe?
What makes this whole thing an actual story in the sense of Internet drama is that after
the Sidney Watson super chat, Jack Murphy repeatedly self-destructed in an attempt to
prevent this from going viral.
In other words, he went full Streisand effect.
The extra attention drawn to the article and Murphy's horrible reaction to it got the attention
of the Internet super sleuths.
I'm not going into too much detail because this is going up on YouTube, but there's a
pile of old pictures and videos where both his girl was fucking other men while he watched
and where he put a bunch of stuff up his own butt.
Now that's what you're into.
Good on you.
Do whatever you want.
I don't care.
But every time a new video or a new bit of info from his past dropped, he'd go on another
Internet meltdown at the height of it.
He was blaming everybody reporting on the event for being part of a revenge porn scandal,
which is a charge that does come with legal ramifications in a lot of places while also
filing DMCA claims everywhere he could to get as many YouTube videos and tweets taken
down as possible.
Murphy turned the liminal order into his own personal war room in an attempt to mobilize
his community against everybody who dared to speak about this.
Sidney Watson, Tim Pool, The Quartering, and everybody else.
Meanwhile, the Internet decided to start up a competing website, The Riminal Order.
And yes, all these links work.
There is a YouTube and a merch store and everything else.
I fucking love the Internet, dude.
Eventually, Jack Murphy dropped a passage where he came clean, admitting that it was
all done when he was short on cash and he was desperate after having lost his job during
a prior canceling event.
The context of that is that he used to work for a school board in some capacity where
back in 2018, some of his online Manosphere content caught up with him and he was let
go, a topic that he talked about on an older episode of Tim Pool.
There has been this ongoing tactic used, I would say, by both sides.
And I don't want to accuse either side of you of using one or the other, but we've seen
it a bit, where they dig up old posts or they accuse them of being something they're not.
And I think a lot of this false accusation stuff of calling people a Nazi or a white supremacist
has come from the left.
Today, I'm going to sit here with Jack Murphy, who is targeted by a campaign specifically
doing this, calling you a white supremacist.
A Nazi and no one associated with which one?
Well, there you go.
Once Lacey McCall had made these accusations for me, then they went digging through old
posts that I had actually deleted.
So they went to the internet archives, as it were, and dug up old stuff that I had written.
When I very first started blogging, completely anonymous, no pictures, pen name, everything.
My first thing I started writing about was sex and relationships.
And one of the things I was writing about were BDSM relationships, consensual adult sexual relationships.
In order to make ends meet, he did all of that crazy stuff and he now regrets it.
And you know what?
If Jack Murphy had said this at the start of the controversy, he probably would have
just slipped by.
He would have had a round of teasing.
And if he took his lumps without complaint, it would have been over and done with.
A true man would know this intuitively.
Instead, he complained and fought the people who dared to speak the truth.
And so he furthered his own destruction.
The smart thing to do, in fact, would be to use his experience to bolster his claims.
If he truly wants to be a beacon of masculinity to his audience, he should have said that
he went down this destructive road, that he tried the cucking and the porn and that it
ruined him.
He doesn't want the next generation of men coming up to make the same mistake.
If his job is to teach these men about masculinity, then this event is how you teach them.
Instead, he taught them the opposite.
There's a fellow I followed on Twitter for a while now.
His name's iHypocrite.
I followed him back during gamergate, and I kept re-following him out of habit every
time I got a new Twitter account.
I know absolutely nothing about this guy, only that the content he posts is sometimes
funny.
That's it.
One day, another one of these Jack Murphy-like masculine accounts posted this.
You need to kill the boy.
No more video games, no more little Japanese cartoons, no more fantasy football, which
is Dungeons and Dragons for jocks, no more large groups of men goofing around in dorms
and studio apartments, no more Full Send and That's Liddy, no more beer pong, no more
Drake.
The idea being, these interests are impediments to growing up, which is a common enough theme
among conservative masculine-centric spheres.
And you know what, fair enough.
After the post went viral, iHypocrite replied with, I love tweets like this because people
wouldn't get so extremely pressed if you weren't touching on something.
Also, fair enough, good point.
Lots of people got angry at the original tweet because they like their video games, maybe
a little bit too much, and they probably felt personally attacked.
I didn't feel personally attacked, but I do love my video games.
But here's where the fun begins.
iHypocrite received this reply, I don't think the people enjoying their hobbies are pressed.
This guy seems to be enjoying himself, and he attached a picture of iHypocrite from 2015,
where he says, this is me, I live in BC, I play PS3, dumb diddle dee, looking like the
quintessential beta soy boy.
Now I thought this was funny, the juxtaposition between this masculine orientation and his
past self.
So I retweeted it.
A grave sin.
I didn't say anything, I didn't comment, I just retweeted.
And iHypocrite blocked me for that.
And then he decided to devote a segment on his stream about me.
Geez.
And I always thought this guy was kind of a weasel, so when I saw that, I blocked him.
You know, I had no idea this guy knew who I was.
I'm not exactly SFO on Twitter, for obvious reasons.
And he plays off this entire rant like he doesn't know who I am.
Not to say that you should know who I am, but I have a feeling that he does.
Short fat otaku.
I'm gonna talk about this guy for a sec, and then wrap it up.
So this is him, I guess.
He's the the fat guy here, wearing the Five Nights at Freddy's t-shirt.
This screenshot is from my gaming channel.
It's at least two years old, judging by the old couch.
Probably older, judging by the relative lack of gray hair and Dave's beard.
And it's from Naomi's birthday stream, because she's wearing the birthday hat.
This is not a common image of me floating around, at least it wasn't before this event.
The most common image of me that can be found online is this one.
This is the one that is overwhelmingly used in hit pieces written about me, and videos
made about me, if they're not using my channel avatar.
In other words, before this all went down, if you didn't know anything about me, and
you wanted to talk about me and use a picture, this is the picture that you would stumble
upon on Google Images.
If you watch my tiny ass gaming side channel, that has none of the clout or reach that SFO
does, then maybe you'll find couch pics like this.
Yeah, I wonder why this guy would be a little bit sensitive about somebody pointing out
people in their perpetual adolescence.
Who's calling who sensitive?
Here, let's see how many people have got blocked on Twitter.
Oh, the list is empty.
I wonder why that could be.
I wonder why he would get so triggered over me laughing at somebody else's tweet that
he felt the need to launch into personal attacks on my appearance on an eight-year-old photo
of me.
What personal attack?
Where's the personal attack?
I retweeted it because it was funny.
It does sound like you're taking this a lot more seriously than I am.
Imagine the cognitive dissonance you have to have to think that you're going to make
fun of somebody because 10 years ago they were in almost as bad a shape as you're in
now.
You know what I'm saying?
How are you going to make fun of somebody's looks when that's what you look like?
And this is really the core of it, isn't it?
You said earlier that I was mad, but you know I'm not mad.
You know I'm making fun of you.
You just admitted it.
That's the real point here.
There was stuff that I cut out like comparing our reach on Twitter or comments about lolicon
because they just have no relevance to this conversation.
They're just side jabs to I guess show that he's totally not angry, but this is the real
point.
This conversation isn't really about the fact that you were once a soy boy and now you're
not or at least you claim you're not.
That it's the same either way.
What truly matters here is your inability to make fun of yourself.
Do you think I don't know what I look like or what my deficiencies are?
Do you think this picture isn't somehow me playing off of that for the benefit of my
audience?
Listen, I hypocrite.
We're on YouTube.
That means we're entertainers.
Sometimes that means we have serious discussions about real topics and hopefully provoke some
thoughts in our viewers.
Sometimes that means we act like clowns and make people laugh.
But what it always means is that we perform at the pleasure of an audience with the expectation
that we give them something.
Something funny, something interesting, something.
And in exchange for that, we get paid.
That's the job.
Sure, it bothers me that I'm fat.
I'm working on it.
But if somebody can get joy at laughing at the fat guy, that means that I've earned my
keep for another day.
And if that also means that I do a goofy voice or I strike a pose or I write a script or
I record a video or I analyze an idea, that is my job.
Why are you so angry that people make fun of the you that existed seven years ago?
And why are you so adamant about framing it as anything other than being mad?
Are you that insecure?
I mean, don't answer.
The answer is obviously yes.
And it's that insecurity that made me want to talk about the side story in a video about
Jack Murphy.
All of these people who talk the big masculine talk on the Internet, it does seem like when
you dig beneath the surface, almost all of them are actually insecure.
And yes, I can hear the right out objection right now.
It's what academic agent called the liberal need to pathologize and project.
But no, it's actually true.
It's even true for him, considering what he used to get up to in his now current hyper
traditionalist stance.
Masculinity, insofar as it's socially constructed, is a habit.
Sure, there is a biological component to it, but regarding that non biological component
of it, reading about it on the liminal order or listening to motivational videos can only
get you so far.
You have to do masculinity.
That is the fundamental flaw with the Jack Murphy's and the Mike Cernovich's of the
world.
Even when they might have something of value to offer in their writing, you learn it far
better by having habits instilled in you from your own father, assuming he's around and
he's a good parent.
And if he's not, though, that doesn't mean you're just doomed to a life of dysfunction.
The habits of responsibility, hard work and grit can be picked up from all sorts of places,
not just your parents and learning how to be a man while it is passed down from father
to son, at least to a point.
Once the son begins interacting with other men outside of his family and especially after
he leaves the nest, he will be figuring out most of masculinity through a pretty brutal
series of trial and error experiments.
And if you're a guy listening to this, that's how it will be for you as well.
In fact, if you were to learn about masculinity only through reading masculine theory, you
would likely come out as an exceptionally dysfunctional human being.
I think that's why we see stuff like masculinity gurus want guys to stop being so nice to women.
Yes, it's true you can't let girls walk all over you, but there is a space between being
a sociopathic asshole and a beta male soy boy cuck.
Like, listen to this shit.
Only effeminate males enjoy being around babies and puppies.
Child comes to me when it's useful and has some baseline human ability for character
building and teaching.
Dog stays away until it's ready to serve and obey.
OMG, it's so cute is absurd to those without a vagina.
This is not the mindset of a real man, it's the mindset of a fucking serial killer.
A well-rounded masculinity includes a space for being a husband and father, and those
roles necessarily require at least a few softer components.
And get this, any dude who talks about a great sex life with his wife is a degenerate in
a dog.
You're supposed to non-romantically love, cherish, and deeply revere your wife and mother
of your children.
Carnal pleasure is with your mistress, not your wife.
This brain-dead take also comes out of that same manosphere.
And I realized something when I first read it.
This is what I believed a functional adult relationship was when I was like 14 years
old.
That people who have been together for years develop a more mature, asexual form of love,
and that sexual desire was something that was childish and meant to be grown out of.
I don't think that way now, but isn't that what all of this masculinity guru shit sounds
like?
Everything I've talked about today.
It sounds like a teenager's idea of what being a man is.
The forcing your girl to fuck other men is alpha stuff.
The growing up means giving up what you love stuff.
The your wife and mother of your children should be pure of your carnal desires stuff.
It all sounds like your balls just dropped five minutes ago.
You've gotten that first hit of testosterone, and you think you know the score, but you
don't.
It's my belief that if you have to tell people you're a real man, then you're not.
If you have to tell people that you're an alpha, you're not.
You have to tell people that you're a high status male or high value or whatever else.
You're just not.
I've also heard that people should be able to tell just by looking at you.
And sure, I can see how that's true in some situations, but the thread that binds everything
in this video together is insecurity.
All of these people are insecure about their pasts or how others perceive that past.
They're insecure about their own masculinity, so they present the most shallow public face
of that masculinity, rendering it teenage and impotent.
One big quality of masculinity that everyone in this video has missed is security.
Security is what your family, friends and community need from you, and it's what you
can offer them, both security in yourself such that you can be trusted to be steady
and security for others such that you can assist and defend when times get tough.
Part of that security is rejecting all of this nonsense and performing the day to day
habits of building your masculinity.
I'm not going to sit here and tell you that I'm a real man or that I have all the answers.
I don't.
I'm certainly no alpha, but I'm secure in my relationship with Naomi and with my friends.
I'm secure in what I'm doing with my life.
And yes, I'm secure in the things that I enjoy in my downtime and the stuff that I'm
not all that secure with, like my weight, for example, I'm working on.
Maybe I'll succeed.
Maybe I won't and I'll die of a fat induced heart attack.
But I'm not giving up, and that's enough for me.
All right, my friends, that is the end of the video.
I know I waited probably a bit too long to talk about Jack Murphy, but I just don't
like talking about breaking news in that way.
I'm not an ambulance chaser.
I wanted to wait until I understood what was underneath the surface of the story, and I
think I did.
As always, I'm streaming on the gaming channel tonight.
Come drop in.
I'll see you there.
Have a good one, guys.
I love you.
