This video was made possible by Skillshare.
Learn what you want to learn with Skillshare for free for 2 months at the link in the description.
Imagine a patented apple.
Just like only Nabisco can sell Oreos and only Unilever can sell Marmite, imagine there
was only one company worldwide with the right to harvest apples.
That would be ridiculous, wouldn't it?
Now imagine a patented gene sequence.
Imagine a single company had exclusive rights to all usages of a particular section of the
human genome.
That would also be absurd, right?
Back in 1990, renowned geneticist Mary-Claire King made an announcement that shook the world.
She and her research team had discovered that somewhere in this section of the 17th chromosome
was a gene linked to breast cancer.
She didn't know exactly where it was, or what it was, or why it was linked to cancer,
all she knew was that it was there.
What followed was a race to find this so-called breast cancer gene.
Colleges, companies, and governments all devoted enormous resources to finding the gene that
could tell people, with relative accuracy, whether they would contract cancer years before
any other test.
With preventative mastectomies, survival rates for this type of cancer could skyrocket.
Then, in 1994, it happened.
A team of researchers from the University of Utah announced that they had found the
gene—BRCA1.
Soon after, they found another similar gene with nearly identical effects—BRCA2.
Females found to have a mutation in one of these two genes had an 80% chance of contracting
breast cancer in their lifetimes, but the good news was that you could test for it.
This was a life-changing breakthrough for the thousands found to have the mutation yearly.
Some of the researchers from the University of Utah saw the commercial application of
this and founded a company—Myriad Genetics—which soon patented the two genes, quite literally.
In their patent document is the full genetic sequence of the BRCA1 gene—21,328 characters
of G's, C's, A's, and T's that represent what is in the human body.
They patented something inside you—something not all that different than patenting that
apple.
Apple is, too, just a long sequence of G's, C's, A's, and T's.
The only difference is that it's longer.
Myriad Genetics, as the only company globally allowed to do anything with the BRCA genes,
had an absolute monopoly on testing.
If you wanted to see if you had the gene mutation that would give you a heads up on cancer,
you had to go to Myriad, and so it came at a price—up to $4,000 even though the actual
process of performing the test cost only a fraction of that.
This was almost certainly unjust, and so the ACLU took notice.
They, along with a group of plaintiffs, sued Myriad Genetics on the basis that their patents
were on non-patentable material—the human genome.
Much like you can't patent an apple because you didn't create the apple, the plaintiffs
argued that Myriad couldn't patent the genes because they didn't create them—nature
did—but Myriad was not alone in the process of patenting genes.
In fact, at the time, 21% of the human genome had been patented.
The district court ended up ruling in the plaintiffs' favor so Myriad appealed and
the case went to a federal appeals court that ended up ruling in Myriad's favor so the
ACLU petitioned for their case to be heard in the Supreme Court.
They agreed and on April 15th, the case for the Association of Molecular Pathology vs.
Myriad Genetics Inc. reached Washington.
In a stunning turn of events, all nine Supreme Court justices sided in the plaintiffs'
favor therefore virtually ending the process of human genome patents, but was it right?
Up to this point, Myriad has probably seemed like the bad guy, but consider this.
The individuals who founded Myriad were the ones that discovered the effect of the gene
mutation in question so shouldn't they be rewarded for their years of work?
That's really the question with all patents.
On one hand, patents drive innovation because they allow companies to monetize discoveries
that cost huge amounts to research and develop, but on the other hand, restrictive patents
and monopolies stop these innovations from getting to the people who need them most.
Without the ability to make money off of genetic testing, it can be argued that many companies
won't have the motivation to research genetic predispositions.
So that brings us to the critical question, what should be patentable?
There are certainly cases where patents on genetic material have helped.
In this age where editing genome sequences is cheap and easy, it's very possible for
companies to modify organisms in a way that make them true, original creations that can
be legitimately patented.
For example, the apple we talked about at the beginning could not be patented, but a
genetically modified apple, that's fair game.
In fact, patents on genetically modified food have existed for decades.
Golden rice is a much-lotted, yet controversial variety of genetically modified rice that
includes a high amount of beta-carotene which helps treat vitamin A deficiency—an affliction
that kills up to 2 million individuals yearly in developing countries.
As a crop that is cheap, easy to cultivate, and already popular in developing countries,
a fortified variety of rice can help millions yearly.
The rice does not, however, have much of a commercial application since the places that
need it are the places without the money to buy other treatments to vitamin A deficiency.
Nonetheless, by holding the patent, the owners are able to manage the distribution of the
seeds by giving them for free to any farmer who makes less than $10,000 a year while funding
the program with limited commercial applications elsewhere.
Although some companies have a more commercial focus.
93% of corn in the US is genetically modified and much of that comes from Monsanto.
Monsanto sells different varieties of genetically modified corn and other crops under different
brands just like you would any other product.
There's Smart Stack Rib Complete which is less susceptible to destructive insects, there's
Roundup Ready corn that isn't affected by Roundup, an herbicide that kills weeds, and
there's Drought Card corn which is tolerant to lower levels of water during dry years.
When a farmer wants to use one of these variants of corn they just go to a dealer and buy the
seeds like any other product except the difference between seeds and traditional products is
that seeds grow into plants which make more seeds.
If Monsanto allowed farmers to keep and share their seeds they would only be able to sell
their product once, so they don't.
Those who buy the product are required to sign an agreement to not save or share any
seed and those who do get caught and are met by a hefty lawsuit.
But this isn't really different than any other product.
This is their form of rights management.
When you watch a video on Netflix, in the terms of use, you've agreed to only use
the product for yourself just like the farmers agree to only use the Monsanto seed for themselves,
even though, with both products, it's rather easy to share.
Just like with patented gene sequences, there's the question of where the line is between
patents improving and harming the greater good.
If companies are not able to recuperate research and development costs, they won't research
or develop.
In a free market, farmers can choose whether or not to buy the Monsanto seeds given the
terms and, overwhelmingly, they do because the seeds make more money than they cost.
It's just simple math.
You should form your own opinion on patented genetically modified plants and seeds, but
it's indisputable that there are upsides that can be argued, though, what about animals?
In 1980, the US Supreme Court decided that genetically modified animals could be patented
if they were altered in a meaningful way from their original selves.
European patent law considers the same true.
In fact, you might already be eating genetically modified animals without even knowing it.
The company AquaBounty Technologies successfully created a variant of salmon that grows at
a faster rate and so they patented it—the Aqua Advantage salmon—and in 2016 it hit
the shelves in Canada.
Researchers have found the salmon safe to eat, but it is, of course, different.
If the genetically modified salmon were to be accidentally released into the wild, some
are concerned that their genetic makeup could be spread by out-competing the normal salmon—although,
in computer models it was concluded that the normal salmon would prevail since it has a
higher fertility rate.
In the US, the Aqua Advantage salmon has been approved by the FDA, but it cannot be sold
until labeling standards for genetically modified food are developed.
But just imagine the next step.
Genetically modified humans are coming and whether or not companies will be allowed to
patent their processes will have a huge effect on how commonplace human gene editing will
become.
The Myriad Genetics case only decided that patents on naturally occurring gene sequences
were not allowed, but the decision that allowed patents on genetically modified animals specifically
excluded humans meaning that as of now you would not be granted a patent for human gene
editing in the US, but there are plenty of other countries.
Most have not even considered this question.
If you imagine a world with patented commercial human gene editing, you are imagining a world
where you can decide if your child will have blue eyes or not, if they're tall or not,
if they're smart or not, if they are autistic or not, if they will have heart disease or
not, if they will have Alzheimer's or not, if they will have cancer or not.
The real question is not if it's ethical to allow patented human gene editing, it's
if it's ethical to not.
If you want to learn more about genetic research, there's a great course that I recommend
on Skillshare called An Introduction to Bioinformatics.
As you've heard before, Skillshare is a great source of over 18,000 classes about
anything and everything.
This specific course covers the rather interesting subject of bioinformatics which is the interdisciplinary
field combining computer science and genetic research building software to analyze genetic
information.
This one and a third hour course gives a great overview of the topic and you can access it
for free by signing up for Skillshare at skl.sh slash wendover2.
If bioinformatics isn't what you're interested in, you should at least sign up and look at
all their other courses because with so many, you're bound to find one you're interested
in.
Learn something new in the new year and sign up for Skillshare here to get two free months
of learning.
