Oh, what's this, Jack? Why is everyone mad at you? Why do you get heckled wherever you
go? And you know what? It's not just the hecklers. It seems like the world's governments
are finally taking notice of Twitter. India to Twitter. Comply with IT rules or face unintended
consequences. India's new rules, which were announced in February and which became effective
at the end of last month, are aimed at regulating content on social media and making firms such
as Facebook, its WhatsApp messenger, and Twitter more accountable to legal requests. They also
require big social media companies to set up grievance redressal mechanisms and appoint
new executives to coordinate with law enforcement. Back at the start of the year, Uganda decided
to take a swing at Twitter too. Ahead of the Ugandan election, we're hearing reports that
the internet service providers are being ordered to block social media and messaging apps.
We strongly condemn internet shutdowns. They are hugely harmful, violate basic human rights
and the principles of the open internet. Oh, internet access and social media is a human
right now. In fact, take that even further. When Nigeria decided to ban Twitter a few
days ago, nationwide, Twitter had a similar response. We are deeply concerned by the blocking
of Twitter in Nigeria. Access to the free and open internet is an essential human right
in modern society. We will work to restore access for all those in Nigeria who rely on
Twitter to communicate and connect with the world. Now, I'm not here to simp for Nigeria
or Uganda or whatever, but an essential human right, eh? This is a topic I did a video on
before, called Health Care is Not a Human Right. And just as a reminder, that video
wasn't actually anti-universal healthcare. I simply pointed out that universal healthcare
is a privilege that rich nations should provide to its population, but it wasn't a right.
Because a right is something that is inalienable, meaning that force can't take it from you
without killing you. This is why, for example, you have a right to free speech. If you're
standing on public property and saying whatever you want, people can hate what you're saying,
they can hate you, you might lose your job or something. But the actual physical action
of speaking, they must use violence on you to stop it. That's why a right is something
that is intrinsic to you. If you have a right to healthcare, that means that even if you
can't pay for the healthcare, even if the doctors don't get paid at all by anybody,
if they don't give you healthcare, even if they have a good reason not to, they're
violating your rights. A conception of rights that requires somebody else to take a positive
action for you means that they have the ability to compel your labor. This is why healthcare
is not a right, but speech is. But okay, Twitter, even though it's not, if you think that
access to your service is an essential human right, let's take a quick look at how you've
treated those rights over the years. In 2019, Twitter declined to confirm if people could
or could not post that transsexualism is a mental disorder. Now that's some pretty
inflammatory language, it's not something that I would say. But we did learn later that
no, posting this kind of language gets you banned. And if Twitter access is an essential
right, I guess transphobes don't have rights. Alright, Twitter has banned users for using
Elton John songs in video remixes. A number of Brexit party supporters were banned off
of Twitter. And although researchers say that many of them aren't behaving like genuine
voters due to posting at high volumes, short intervals and at odd times of the day, it
does turn out that based on its internal tools, Twitter is confident that the accounts flagged
by BuzzFeed news are those of real people in the UK despite their seemingly suspicious
activity. Nick Monroe was not allowed to post about threats against New Zealand's Prime
Minister. He was forced to delete his tweet, reporting that the New Zealand Prime Minister
had received a copy of the Christchurch Shooters Manifesto before it happened. Nick Monroe
would later be banned for his other tweets, including one where he says that he likes
it when his fans suck his cock. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey admitted to the US House of Representatives
in 2018 that they were unfairly filtering 600,000 accounts, but it wasn't politically
motivated. Twitter believes that this random person intends to build a time machine just
so that they can rape women from different time periods. This is a video of Pennsylvania
State Representative Brian Sims calling for protesters praying outside of a planned parenthood
to be doxxed. The video and Brian Sims are still allowed on Twitter. A Twitter executive
was revealed to be a British Army PSYOPs soldier whose job was to spread disinformation
on social media. Gordon McMillan, who joined Twitter in 2013 and is listed as the company's
head of editorial for EMEA, also serves with the 77th Brigade, an outfit formed in 2015
to conduct information warfare and develop non-lethal ways of conducting war. On February
4, 2020, Twitter decided that its users may not deceptively share synthetic or manipulated
media that are likely to cause harm. In addition, they may label tweets containing synthetic
and manipulated media to help people understand their authenticity and to provide context.
This was widely reported on as banning memes, since all of Photoshop falls under this rule.
Olinda Hassan, a policy manager at Twitter Trust and Safety, was caught on video stating
that Twitter was trying to get the shitty people to not show up. It's a product thing
that we're working on. Former Twitter employees have been charged with spying for Saudi Arabia
by digging into the accounts of the kingdom's critics. Twitter says that Trump's Thugs tweet
about Minneapolis protests violated standards by glorifying violence. And of course, I don't
think we need to go into the constant back and forth between Twitter and Trump during
the course of his presidency. Twitter is considering subscriptions amid an advertising slump. Subscriptions
to remember an essential right. These are some leaked backend shots from Twitter if
you'll recall from like a year or two ago. And you'll notice these tags placed on some
of these Twitter accounts. Permanently suspended, suspended, bounced, protected, bounced, inactive,
protected, compromised, trends blacklisted, search blacklisted, read only. Remember, Twitter
told Congress that they didn't blacklist people. And imagine being temporarily suspended, permanently
suspended or blacklisted from an essential right. This individual posted, Dear God, who
is the absolute boomer retard running your social media. But before she could post it,
Twitter asked her to revise it. And here's the questionnaire that Twitter forced her
to fill out. Why do you believe you receive this message to revise your tweet? Did your
tweet contain language that recipients of it might find offensive? Do you agree or disagree
with the following statements about your tweet? And strangely enough, which of the
following describes your race and ethnicity? Is Twitter saying that the status of this
essential right changes based on your race? The account always actions was banned, but
only after Trump retweeted them. They were your generic conservative Twitter account
where they posted videos of Black Lives Matter and Antifa protests getting violent. The White
House press secretary had her access to Twitter revoked when she posted about the Hunter Biden
email leaks back before the election. Twitter said that they don't permit the use of their
service to directly distribute content obtained through hacking that contains private information
may put people in physical harm or danger or contains trade secrets. Of course, this
wasn't applied evenly when it came to stuff like the Trump piss dossier a few years ago.
And of course, there's the fact that currently right now on Twitter, people are talking about
memes from Hunter Biden's laptop, which are surely leaked or hacked materials. But no
one cares anymore. The editor at the New York Post, one of the nation's largest papers
by circulation, was not allowed by Twitter to post one of their own stories that details
corruption by a major party presidential candidate, Joe Biden. Other accounts that posted that
article were also banned. Twitter considers US government websites to be unsafe. Bill
Cosby convicted for rape is still on Twitter. Twitter is developing an anti troll feature
called Safety Mode. It will automatically block accounts that are spammy, use insults,
strong language or hateful remarks. Vijaya Gadd, Jack's shield from Tim Pool during the
Joe Rogan podcast, has stated that Twitter has plans for political censorship on a global
scale. The National Archives, which creates copies of everything that a president says
publicly, has requested Twitter for an archive of Donald Trump's Twitter account. Twitter
has refused. Twitter once banned everyone who said the word Memphis on their platform.
Ramzan Kadriov, the Chechen leader who rounded up gay people and tortured and murdered them
in concentration camps, is still allowed on Twitter. The leader of the Islamic Republic
of Iran has openly called for genocide against the Jews on Twitter. Erdogan, the leader of
Turkey, announced his own ethnic cleansing on Twitter. Meanwhile, shitposting hero The
Hindu-Dindu, Brick, was banned for tweeting, Don't like being banned Twitter? Make your
own Uganda? Twitter has openly stated that they will ban people for tweeting at somebody
without their permission, and Twitter's terms of service directly state that you may
be banned for no reason at all. Even as other websites rise and fall, YTMND is dead, Newgrounds
is a shadow of its former self, most abandonware sites are gone, and GOG didn't really pick
up the slack. All of those random Japanese GeoCities sites with obscure information about
niche manga or games or anime disappeared into the bowels of the internet. But, like
plastic in the ocean, Twitter will be here forever. And it's a good thing! After all,
it's an essential human right. However, I think it's really important to notice exactly
who Twitter is extending this essential human right to. Which people are banned for minor
infractions or literally nothing sometimes? Which people can do the most heinous things
on and off platform, and yet their essential human right of access to this service is respected
no matter what? Answer that question and you will discover what type of human Twitter
considers to have rights. Ah shit, I forgot the most important one. You could do anything
on 2007 to 2012 Twitter. I showed people how to cut crack in the microwave and nothing
happened. Now I can't even call a fat bitch fat. Alright my friends, thanks for watching.
Yes, this video was a bit more low effort than the last, but I did want to get something
out today. I've spent the majority of my time preparing for the E3 stream happening
shortly. Shortly at least if you're watching this video on release. If you are, hit up
that Twitch channel in the pinned comment, and I'll see you soon. Alright guys, I'll
see you there at the stream. Thanks very much. Have a good one, and I love you.
