Let's talk about the Blizzard boycott.
If you haven't seen my previous video yet or don't know what's going on, please
check out the most recent Dumping with Scrum because that provides a kicking off point
for this one.
Blizzard released the blog post titled Regarding Last Weekend's Hearthstone Grand Masters
Tournament on Friday, October 11th at around 5.30pm at Blizzard's local time over on
the west coast.
This was after the offices had closed up for the week at Blizzard, and I personally think
they released it at this time specifically so that the fallout would occur over the weekend
when everyone was conceivably away from their desks, and they probably just planned to brush
it all under the rug by Monday morning.
My pal Jeremy over at The Quartering was doing an interview of Mark Kern, an original World
of Warcraft developer, when this statement dropped.
I'll leave a link in the description to that interview if you want to watch it, but
Kern stated that back when he worked for Blizzard, if there was ever any really bad news that
would not be received well and they knew it, they dropped it after hours on a Friday
night, exactly as they've done here.
It's a long statement, I'm not going to read it here, but I want to draw your attention
to a few things.
One is the length itself.
The common consensus in the community is that it's this unnecessarily long so that your
average reader will simply scroll down to the last page and gloss over the ending in
order to see this passage.
When we think about the suspension, 6 months for Blitzchung is more appropriate, after
which time he can compete in the Hearthstone pro circuit again if he so chooses.
And this is how Blizzard sees the issue, like it's a negotiation with another faction,
their players, over what is an appropriate punishment for one of their esports competitors
for bringing a political stance onto their platform.
Viewing it like a negotiation, Blizzard's response is to, well, negotiate.
They'll give Blitzchung's $10,000 back, cut his suspension in half, cut the suspension
of the broadcasters down to 6 months as well, here guys, we'll give a little, you give
a little, stop boycotting us, okay?
But let's take another look at the original footage that started everything.
I still have to ask why the original commentators
were punished at all.
They weren't involved in Blitzchung's decision, they saw the gas mask, figured out
what was coming and hid their heads in embarrassment.
In Blizzard's statement, they say casters help the esports viewing experience stay focused
on the tournament and our amazing players.
And remember that their purpose is to keep the event focused on the tournament.
That didn't happen here, and we are setting their suspension to 6 months as well.
Well, how could they have stopped Blitzchung?
Do they look like they were in any position to do so on the fly?
These guys shouldn't be punished at all.
But like I said, the statement's long, and its length hides this section tucked away
between the middle third's diatribes.
The specific views expressed by Blitzchung were not a factor in the decision we made.
I want to be clear, our relationships in China had no influence in our decision.
We have these rules to keep the focus on the game and on the tournament to the benefit
of a global audience, and that was the only consideration in the actions we took.
And to this, I say BS.
Absolute BS.
And we know this, Blizzard, because when those Western Hearthstone pros held up the Free
Hong Kong Boycott Blizzard sign during one of the Western tournaments, you refused to
punish them, and in fact invited them back to the next round of games.
If this had been the opposing viewpoint delivered in the same divisive and deliberate way, we
would have felt and acted the same.
Why did the official Hearthstone account on Weibo send out a clear message of, we will
respect the honor of China if you're supposed to be politically neutral, Blizzard?
This is why the Blizzard Boycott has ramped up rather than faded away, because the lies
are just so transparent.
Blizzard is pissing on us and calling it rain.
It's not just that, though.
Allow me to read this Twitter thread by Bluebell.
I have been keeping quiet out of fear, but as an English major and Chinese speaker, I
feel like I really need to point this out since I don't know how many people will
know enough to explain.
The Blizzard post seems like it was written by a Chinese non-native English speaker.
Before I go into this, I want to point out that the tone and language is all over the
place.
Some are more native English phrasings, others seem to be typical Chinese, which makes me
think there's some cobbling together here.
In Chinese, it's very common to use ellipses and space them out like this.
This just doesn't happen in English.
Unusually, this starts in the first person and uses casual contractions.
Paragraphions don't exist in Chinese, so using them in formal situations is a common
error.
On the structuring.
In Chinese, writing is difficult to add what an English teacher might call topic sentences
at the beginning and end of paragraphs.
This isn't conventional and sounds very heavy-handed in English.
In the same vein, headers containing incomplete clauses are rhetorical questions before paragraphs
are common in Chinese, but clunky in English.
Also, why are the Blizzard parts indented?
Doesn't it look like it was copy and pasted?
This header, OK, makes it obvious that there are two voices here, whoever wrote this and
whoever wrote the indented segment.
Copy and pasting Blizzard official statements is even weirder.
If there is an official Blizzard statement, why are we getting it in this wrapper?
We then get to this long section where the grammatical indicators become apparent.
Using when we think about instead of thinking or something else because think isn't really
the best word here, it's too personal for a statement, is another Chinese sign.
In Chinese, verbs don't take on different conjugations.
So using when we think about, which is kind of awkward and unfitting in English, instead
of looking back on or considering our, is a red flag.
In the same vein, why with regard to instead of regarding?
It's not wrong, just weird.
Also, in Chinese, there are no plurals, no dogs or cats, only dog or cat.
See, there is a consequence instead of the native English phrasing, there are consequences.
So why is the statement like this?
If it's not J. Allen Brack, the president of Blizzard, then who is it?
Why a non-native English speaker?
Why didn't PR edit this?
What's going on?
I'll add my own knowledge to this discussion, though it's definitely less than Blue Bells.
I used to know some Chinese, although it's been a decade since I've used it and it's
largely faded.
I've dated two Chinese women and travelled to meet one of their families.
And I have a number of friends in various Chinese immigrant social circles, from both
Taiwan and China, including two roommates throughout several years of university.
In my opinion, Blue Bells' analysis is spot on.
This statement has a lot of the quirks that a native Chinese speaker writing in English
as a second language would have.
Nothing really grammatically incorrect, just odd, coupled with the fact that even though
the announcement came out at 5.30pm on October 11th, it was actually dated for October 12th.
And where was it October 12th at that time?
Oh, in China.
Not everyone thinks that this was, bizarrely, a message posted from China, or for the benefit
of China, or with the help and encouragement of China.
Theories are abound right now, but they all point to Blizzard choosing to kowtow to China
for money.
It seems like to me that this was a statement designed to wallpaper over the issue, and
offer token concessions to the community because they don't actually intend to change.
The Weibo post is still up.
The Western protesters are still unpunished.
This is Blizzard saying, fine, now take this and shut up.
Naturally, the tweet delivering the statement has been ratioed into oblivion.
I suspect that the majority of likes are coming from either Blizzard employees attempting
to save their job, or radical leftist game journos who side with China because they're
ardent believers in communism and that Western gamers were just entitled racists for thinking
that Diablo Immortal looked like a flaming pile of garbage.
On the plus side, Mei has actually become an IRL symbol of Hong Kong freedom, with all
of that great fanart of her actually appearing in protests now.
I do hope this makes Blizzard feel the pinch from their Chinese paymasters, either to censor
the game or remove it entirely from the Chinese market.
Apparently the new Mei figurine was pulled from the Blizzard merch store at around the
same time as the first Mei leaflets were distributed on the ground in Hong Kong.
Yeah, they were heavily pushing this thing for months, but where is it?
It's gone.
Boy, this tweet aged well.
And as a quick aside, are those of you considering jumping ship to League of Legends as your
new esports game of choice as a form of protest?
Yeah, don't.
Riot Games is 100% owned by China, and in regards to the upcoming events they've already
preemptively censored everyone.
It's moments like this that I'm happy to be a weeb.
Japan, for all of its many faults, which I do not condone, at least has a cultural imperative
to not bend over backward to avoid offending Chinese sensibilities.
Unfortunately, for Blizzard, this whole situation isn't actually a negotiation between rival
factions of equal power looking for a settlement.
This is a consumer revolt and boycott of a corporation's products because of their
bad behavior.
Blizzard holds all of the power compared to average Joes like us, but at the same time,
we spend our money where we like.
It's not the same dynamic, and in this situation, their attempts to play the middle
will only serve to alienate more people.
Frankly, Blizzard's got a choice to make.
China or the West.
They can't have both markets anymore, and that's just that.
In their statement they talk about being a global company and how they have to provide
a product for many people with differing viewpoints.
Well, we've finally come to a crossroads on that.
There are two viewpoints that are mutually exclusive.
One is the West's view, of free speech, equal rights under the law, and the consent
of the governed.
The other is China's view, of censorship, repression, and state force.
You don't get to pander to both anymore, Blizzard.
You know that China's attitude on this situation is my way or the highway, so you're
instead trying to appeal to our liberal good graces by saying, listen, understand us guys,
we're a global company, there's other people with different views, there's diversity.
And frankly, we're tired of hearing it.
No, Blizz, it's our way or the highway.
Our spineless, middle ground fence sitting means you're with China and not with us.
And I want as many people as possible to understand, when Blizzard, or Riot Games, or the NBA,
or Apple, or anyone sides with China over us, this is what they're siding with.
Chinese dissidents are being executed for their organs, hospital worker says.
The prisoner was brought in, tied hand and foot, but very much alive.
The army doctor in charge sliced him open from chest to belly button and exposed his
two kidneys.
Cut the veins and arteries, he told his shocked intern.
The intern did as he was told.
Blood spurted everywhere.
The kidneys were placed in an organ transplant container.
Then the doctor ordered the intern to remove the man's eyeballs.
Hearing that, the dying prisoner gave him a look of sheer terror, and the intern froze.
I can't do it, he told the doctor, who then quickly scooped out the man's eyeballs himself.
Hong Kong's leader scraps talks with US Senator Ted Cruz because he refused to keep
the content of those talks private.
She seems to misunderstand how free speech operates, and also how freedom of the press
operates, says Mr. Cruz, a Republican Senator from Texas, and a vocal critic of China who
was stopping in Hong Kong for two days as part of a regional tour.
Miss Lam's cancelling the meeting is not a sign of strength, it's a sign of weakness.
It's a sign of fear of the protesters in the streets of Hong Kong.
A 31 year old man allegedly jumped to his death on October 10th.
I have censored the picture as it is extremely graphic.
There's no trauma or blood consistent with the fall, but instead there's unusually
placed bloodstains on his shirt, and his foot has been completely severed, lying several
feet from his body.
People on the ground in Hong Kong believe this man was executed by Hong Kong police,
and left here to cover up his death.
AI technology is being used in Hong Kong to face-track protesters for later capture, rape,
and staged suicide.
A Hong Kong taxi driver was paid 520,000 Hong Kong dollars to plow into protesters by a
pro-Beijing advocacy group.
The naked corpse of a 15 year old girl was found floating in the water just off Hong
Kong.
She was known to be a protester, and was arrested by the police on October 1st.
The Hong Kong police burned her body before it could be examined.
Another arrested protester states that sexual assault of female protesters that are arrested
by the Hong Kong police is commonplace.
I stated in my previous video that the West's moral cowardice in their dealings with China
will go down in history as an equivalent shame, or worse, than Neville Chamberlain's appeasement
of Nazi Germany before World War II.
I stand by that statement.
When we see the old 1930s German ads of American corporations proudly displaying Nazi symbols,
like Coca-Cola or Ford or something, we think to ourselves, how could they do business with
such obvious evil?
And now, with Blizzard and Apple and the NBA, we know for ourselves, I will never buy the
products of these companies again.
I understand that I'm a small fry, that likely their business in China will continue regardless
of anything that I or we do.
But if this situation is truly outside of my control, and the only thing I can do about
it is keep my own conscience in order, then that's what I'll do.
It's better than doing nothing.
So the next time Blizzard announces a new Overwatch character to be gay, the next time
they have Pride sweatbands on during an esports event, the next time they try to rack up social
goodwill for Pride Month or Black History Month or International Women's Day or whatever
it is, recognize that you are being played.
Tracer and Soldier 76 aren't actually gay in the Chinese localization of Overwatch.
Blizzard still bans guilds from Warcraft with the word gay in their name.
They still removed black characters from Diablo 3 in China.
Blizzard naturally would reiterate their corporate line of think globally in response to these
criticisms.
That they're a global company that needs to market to many different people with many
different ideas of what's acceptable.
Okay, I'll bite.
The reason that they use this logic on us is because they think we'll swallow anything
in the name of diversity.
The Chinese audience is just naturally bigoted against black people or LGBT people.
But that's okay, because they're people of color themselves, don't you see?
So their bigotry is acceptable because it comes from their culture.
So we, as good little cosmopolitan citizens of the world, need to adapt our worldview
to their sensibilities.
Well, I say no.
When you market to the entire world, you end up marketing to the lowest common denominator
of the entire world.
And we should be aiming to spread freedom, not appease tyrants in the name of cultural
sensitivity.
For all of the stories Blizzard writes about overthrowing authoritarian regimes and standing
up for the downtrodden, you'd think that, by now, they would have learned not to bow
down to one of the most repressive governments in human history.
Well, Blizzard, our cultural sensibilities, the cultural sensibilities of the West, require
that you no longer be a party to state oppression.
