So, there's this fantastic Wikipedia list descriptively titled Wikipedia colon unusual
articles.
I just remember it as that Wikipedia list.
It's a collection of hundreds of articles about unusual, unexpected, and unbelievable
subjects.
No matter what link you click, it's bound to be interesting.
For that reason, every week I'm going to click on a new link and teach you a little
bit more about our amazing world.
With that, let's find this week's article.
Oh, you know what, I know what this is, we're going to do this.
So believe it or not, there is still land on earth that's not part of any country.
Ber Tawil is that land.
This 800 square mile area between Egypt and Sudan is claimed by neither Egypt nor Sudan.
To understand why this is, we have to go back to 1899.
At the turn of the 20th century, Britain had a large and rapidly expanding empire across
the world.
A large part of this empire was in Africa where colonialism had taken root.
Britain held a complex level of authority in northeast Africa and through that they
got to decide that the border between Sudan and Egypt was going to be the 22nd parallel.
The problem with this border was that it made no consideration for the placement of actual
people.
It just put a big line in the sand and arbitrarily split up tribes and people.
In 1902, Britain decided to draw a new, administrative boundary that put into consideration the use
of land by various tribes.
That way, tribes wouldn't be living in one territory and grazing their cattle in another.
Fast forward 114 years and both territories are now fully fledged countries, no longer
under British rule.
The problem is, Sudan now recognizes the 1902 administrative boundary as the real border
while Egypt recognizes the 1899 border on the 22nd parallel as the real border.
What this means is that Bir Tawil is south of Egypt's border, so Egypt thinks it's
part of Sudan, while also north of Sudan's border, so Sudan thinks it's part of Egypt.
This doesn't really create many problems though since there's a whopping zero people
living in Bir Tawil.
There's not even any roads or anything, it's just 800 square miles of nothing ruled
by nobody.
This same border issue does create issues in other places though.
The Halaib Triangle is ten times bigger than Bir Tawil and instead of being claimed by
no country, it's claimed by two countries.
That's because it's north of what Egypt thinks is the border while simultaneously
south of what Sudan thinks is the border.
The two countries actually care about this piece of land because there are things.
There's a road, and sea access, and 1,000 residents.
Currently, the land is administered by Egypt, but let's get back to Bir Tawil.
In his 2014 book, Alistair Bonnet said that Bir Tawil is, "...the only place on the
planet that is both habitable and unclaimed."
The biggest unclaimed piece of land is the Mary Bird Land, but that's not considered
to be habitable land since, you know, it's in Antarctica.
There's one other area of technically unclaimed land on the Danube River between Croatia and
Serbia due to a similar border dispute, however, practically, the land, while on a map not
part of either country, is well divided administratively.
Therefore, Bir Tawil is the only place on earth where people might actually be able
to create a new country.
So what's stopping people?
Well, not much.
Scores of people have claimed the land as their own country, but if my video on how
to create a country taught you anything, it's that it doesn't matter if you think
you're a country, it matters if other people think you're a country.
No recognized country currently recognizes any claim to Bir Tawil, likely because nobody
has set up a government or permanent population in Bir Tawil.
While the land is habitable, there's no infrastructure to bring in supplies to support
a settlement.
With it being a desert and all, agriculture doesn't do so well so any prospective country
founder would need to build a road or airport to bring in food.
In addition, there really aren't any natural resources so it's unlikely that any country
established in the area would be self-sustaining economically.
However, if someone was able to set up a democratic government in the area with a permanent population,
it's entirely possible that they would gain recognition and there would be 197th country
in the world.
Or 194th.
Or 193rd.
Or it really just depends on who you ask.
