Another E3 has come and gone, and this one was probably the worst I've ever seen.
If you don't know what E3 is, well, I think I explained it in detail in my Politics of
E3 video, but the short version is, every year around this time, video game companies
come together in LA to hold a giant convention called the Electronics Entertainment Expo,
or E3 for short, where they show off what's coming down the pipe.
Or at least that's what it was pre-coronavirus.
Now a lot of it is just done online.
But when there's not a pandemic on, members of the press, as well as YouTubers and streamers
and anybody else who gets an invite, can attend this convention and play demos of games and
sometimes even interview developers.
For the rest of us who don't get to go to E3, it consists mainly of the press conferences.
Now a normal press conference in any other industry is really boring.
It's meant for the press, after all.
It's all about sales figures and projections and graphs that the Zoomer intern whipped
up because of the only one in the company who knows how to use a computer.
But a gaming press conference, that's a whole different story.
They're light shows with pumping music and giant screens where everyone's favorite developers
show up to discuss what their next project is.
And if you're really unlucky, you might get an awful dance number or a celebrity who knows
nothing about video games on the stage.
Yeah, you know, I don't need Elijah Wood woodenly delivering teleprompter lies about the new
Xbox.
You see what I did there?
This was not always the case though.
At one point, gaming press conferences were just like their boring mainstream counterparts.
That changed during E3 1995.
Now this was way back before the internet of today.
Most of us were reading up on E3 through special issues of Nintendo Power like I was.
But thankfully, somebody with a camera in the crowd recorded the whole thing.
After Sega had hyped up the release of their latest Saturn console with a price point of
$399, Sony's press conference consisted of just this.
$299.
Tom Kalinske of Sega was in the audience and said to his co-workers, oh shit at that announcement.
This was the beginning of the end of Sega and nearly the end of Nintendo as the PlayStation
took the top dog spot for a little while.
But more importantly for us, this began the transformation of E3 press conferences from
boring official numbers-focused events, mainly for corporate-facing audiences, into bombastic
shit-talking marketing roundhouses where new games, hardware, and price points are announced
to a lot of fanfare.
VPs of companies began to double as beloved figures by gamers like Phil Spencer of Xbox,
Todd Howard of Bethesda, and Reggie Fils-Aime of Nintendo, and overall the event became
consumer-focused, designed to generate hype among the fans.
E3 would remain in this ultra-fun state for approximately 20 years.
Players genuinely look forward to these events.
Personally, I still fondly remember Reggie showing up at the 2004 E3 to swing his dick
by hand.
People loved to get excited about these events, watch official streams of the conferences,
post on the internet about them from forums to 4chan.
Even when a company had a truly awful showing, like Sony's 2006 conference for example,
they at least turned into memes that we could all enjoy.
The point is, E3 was something special for a lot of us.
The last truly great E3 was 2015.
That was the one where the game trailer guys freaked out over Final Fantasy VII and Shenmue
Yeah, Sony won that year.
I'm bringing all this up because E3 2016 would mark a slow spiral of the event, and not necessarily
because companies would have no games or poor showings.
They certainly sometimes would have those things, but the important part of the conversation
is what they chose to replace the games with.
In the past, a company with not much to show, if they attended E3 at all, would either have
a shorter conference or fill it with fluff.
Nintendo in 2015 comes to mind, the Wii U was a dead system, so they filled the show
with stuff like skits starring puppet versions of Miyamoto, Iwata, and Reggie, or a delicate
look at the original hand-drawn level designs of the first Mario game.
And you know, this stuff is interesting, but it's not new game announcements.
Nowadays, instead of filling it with something that's interesting, they fill it with diversity.
If you watched this year's E3 with me on my twitch channel, you already know this,
E3 2021 was the worst E3 in the history of the event, with 2020 being the second worst,
2019 being the third worst, and so on.
And diversity, woke BS is a big reason for it.
Now it's not the only reason, another big part of it is the shift away to many events
streamed throughout the year.
Nintendo began the trend in 2013, with their Nintendo Direct events happening multiple
times per year, sometimes even once every two months.
Sony followed suit with the state of play, Microsoft with Inside Xbox, and now even smaller
developers are doing them.
In the past, game devs had basically two opportunities to get eyeballs on their new projects, E3
in June, and the Tokyo Game Show in September.
There were some smaller ones like GDC or whatever, but these were the ones that really mattered.
But hey, nowadays, Nintendo has a YouTube channel with 8 million subs.
They can stream their announcements whenever they want.
The convenience of the internet means there's no longer any need to save up announcements
for one giant event.
At the same time, Iwata's declining health during this period also likely made the idea
of digital-only events a lot more appealing, likely kickstarting this trend.
And of course, coronavirus certainly ramped it up.
With more and more small online events, the big ones like E3 either had to shrink in size,
like Nintendo going from several hours to approximately 45 minutes a pop, or padded
out with something.
And nowadays, that something is generally wokeness.
The two biggest culprits are E3 2020's Games for Change virtual convention and E3 2021's
Take Two interactive presentation.
In 2020, the activist group Games for Change held a virtual convention, meaning you'd
go to their website and click various auditoriums, which were a series of streams all being broadcast
at the same time.
And the whole thing was woke, pandering BS about the toxicity of gamers, how hard it
was for a minority in the games industry, you know the drill.
Anita Sarkeesian was even there, and I got banned from her chat asking why she hasn't
paid her employees.
Ah, those are good memories.
In 2021, Take Two interactive booked a slot on E3's official stream.
Take Two being a video game company, we all thought they had games to announce, but instead
we were treated to an hour-long Zoom call about diversity and inclusion, where again,
the talking heads from various activist groups talked about the toxicity of gamers, how hard
it was for a minority in the games industry, etc etc.
At least with Games for Change, it already sounded like something stupid from the get-go.
But Take Two is a video game company.
Where are the fucking games?
Like okay okay, Square Enix's presentation this year sucked balls.
They spent 20 minutes on Marvel games I didn't give a shit about, 10 minutes on Life is Strange,
5 minutes on Mobile Garbage, and 5 minutes on games that actually interested me.
But at least it was all games.
I might not personally like Marvel games, but somebody out there does, and that person
was watching that entirely too long demonstration of Guardians of the Galaxy jizzing their pants
the whole time.
Good for them.
I can at least appreciate that they showed games, even if I didn't like them.
But Take Two showed nothing.
They lectured to their audiences about diversity and inclusion.
Like even if you were to take the politics out of it, like let's say you were actually
pro-woke bullshit for some reason.
Is this the moment where you want to see it?
Maybe you're some pink-haired soy boy who really likes Take Two's games.
Maybe you want to see news in the new Red Dead Redemption or Grand Theft Auto or Bioshock
or something.
And you tune in and end up watching this.
Even if your politics align with these people, you're still going to be disappointed because
they're talking all politics and no games.
This year's E3 had a lot of flubs.
Xbox and Nintendo were the only ones who actually showed off games that gamers wanted to see.
Square Enix gave us a great meme in the form of
Chaos.
We must kill Chaos.
My quest is to kill Chaos.
Chaos will die.
I can't fucking stand Chaos.
He pisses me off.
Chaos won't escape.
Chaos killed my wife and fucked my dog.
Ubisoft presented Gay Dancers for Diversity.
The PC gaming show filled up more airtime with a stupid robot plotline involving the
E-celeb hosts than actual game reveals.
Capcom desperately tried to revive a failing Street Fighter esports scene.
Bandai Namco literally forgot to tell people that their event had ended.
Okay, we'll fight.
Okay, well, we've done it before.
Hold on.
Just a minute.
I'll be a little brother.
Was that it?
Now we're apparently watching Play For All?
Okay, that was supposed to have started seven minutes ago.
Okay.
What are you doing?
You're still watching these cucks.
What are you doing over at IGN?
IGN is Greg Miller, so that's why.
What are you doing?
You're still watching these cucks.
What did we get piped into?
Hey, Dimitri, what have you found?
Wait, is that it?
Wait.
Thank you, Red Eyes Black Dragon.
I appreciate the- That's it.
Good card.
Thank you for showing.
Wait, did it end without us realizing?
I'm streaming too.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Wait, no.
Is this the end of it already?
I'm streaming too.
Thank you again, Red Eyes Black Dragon.
Thank you.
That was it, bro.
Hey, Dev.
Holy shit.
It ended.
Should we do it?
That was it.
Okay.
Thank you for the sub.
I didn't realize it ended.
Where is it?
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Let's go.
Okay, this is officially the worst E3 ever.
But at least they all involved video games on some level.
These all contributed to E3 being shit, but nothing like Take-Two broadcasting an HR meeting.
Let's say you're a normie watching E3.
Well, okay, normies don't watch E3, but games are becoming a bit more mainstream.
Let's say you're interested in E3, but you don't have time to seek out all the OG conference
feeds like I do.
Let's say you just want to turn it on the background while you work or whatever.
Well, you're in luck.
The official E3 YouTube channel streamed all day for four days.
When the conferences actually happened, they would cut away to high-quality feeds of them,
but they filled in the in-between time with absolute garbage.
Get lectured at by the likes of Anita Sarkeesian, OK Boomer Girl, Egoraptor, and Drag Queen
Story Hour.
Remember 2019's Soy Wars Kid?
Act like it's so nonchalant.
You're making a Star Wars game.
I mean, I think from, you know, go clap and I'm going to stop you.
Keep it going.
They're making a Star Wars game.
Please clap.
It's like Tim responsibly socially distanced from everybody else, sitting on the most uncomfortable
chairs imaginable.
Listen in on Latinx or BIPOC folk describe their video game struggles.
When you're playing like a custom character creator in a game, the character will be black
but have very European-focused features, so it looks like the character's in blackface
and it's not a nice experience for you to have when you're playing the game.
I was literally playing a game yesterday where I created my own character and I literally
just disengaged because I don't like this character, she doesn't really represent me
and she looks weird and the hair is weird and it just feels off.
And that's a game that's recently just come out.
So we still have a lot of work to do in this space.
A lot of people online right now are declaring E3 to be dead and yeah, it's not looking too
good.
They're also declaring video games to be dead, but I don't know about that.
I do think that E3 is a shell of its former self, but its content hasn't died.
It's simply in the process of shifting location, kind of like how real learning no longer takes
place at schools or universities.
The Guerrilla Collective and Summer Games Fest events took place before E3 and while
they were kind of cringey and certainly had some woke talking points, guess what else
they had?
Games!
Over a hundred video games!
Some of the most interesting looking games coming this year were announced at events
happening before E3 even started.
I did a video a few weeks ago about my problems with the get woke, go broke hypothesis and
my main contention with it is that it's not a universal thing.
Wokeness is a heavy indicator that something is going to be shit, but it's certainly possible
to have something that's simultaneously good and still woke, especially when it comes to
video games.
A woke video game can still have good art and music and controls and level design.
The issue is that if something is bad, wokeness is often the cover up tactic.
If you don't like our shitty movie filled with queef jokes, you're a fascist!
But after seeing E3 this year, I think I have to tack on an addendum to that thesis.
The get woke, go broke phenomenon doesn't destroy talent.
It simply shifts it to a new location.
Disney might own Star Wars, but the people who made Star Wars good have moved on.
That does mean that there's a higher chance for Star Wars to be shit, sure, but it also
means that those people are now somewhere else doing something else, and there's a good
chance those new projects are good too.
Same with video games.
BioWare staff have all cycled out, and so Mass Effect Andromeda was a living nightmare,
but those people are now doing their own thing in different studios.
YouTube was once a community, now it's a TV channel, and Bitchute has taken up the mantle
of a fun, unregulated video site that YouTube abandoned years ago.
Awesome Games Done Quick used to be the premier speedrunning event.
Now it's filled with woke activist garbage, and jokes about, uh, trans dilator stations
for some reason.
I don't quite get that one.
But that doesn't mean that speedrunning is dead, it just means that the forefront of
the speedrunning community is taking place somewhere else right now, and the same goes
for E3.
E3 was once a fun event, but nowadays it's like the Zombie Simpsons.
That doesn't mean that quality itself has been destroyed.
The magic that made E3 what it was will resurface in some form somewhere else down the line.
Good games are still being made, they're just not being made in the same place.
Nannying progs will always attempt to take over communities others have built, but they
will never actually be on the advancing edge themselves, creating that new wild west, where
real innovation is happening, where real fun is being had.
That's us, and that process is already underway.
So if you ever despair at this commonly held notion that leftists are taking over everything,
I gotta remind you, it's always been this way.
The ideal has always been a shifting, moving target.
Human structures built to capture that ideal always end up decaying as it moves on, and
you just gotta start looking for the good stuff again.
It's out there.
Believe me.
Anyway, E3 still sucks, I'm gonna continue hate watching it until it dies, because I
personally love a good trainwreck, but there are real games that came out of E3 for sure.
I'm gonna stream a bunch of demos on Twitch shortly after this video drops, so hit up
twitch.tv slash game boomers if you're watching this on release.
And if you're not, hit it up anyway, because I stream there almost every night.
I'll see you there.
Alright, that about does it for me.
I'll see you later.
I love you.
