Why is it that Socialists seem to hate charity?
That's the topic of the video today.
I presume you already know that though, you're the one who clicked on it.
It sounds paradoxical in the face of it.
Why would the people who claim to advocate for the poor and the downtrodden working class
be against the idea of giving charity to that very same working class who need it?
Doesn't their desire to help stem from harm reduction principles and caring for the vulnerable?
Why would they be against charity?
As usual, this exchange on Twitter got me interested in the topic.
Chris Freeman is poking a bit of fun at Karl Marx by comparing the Marxist position of
reject the bourgeois ethic of individual giving with Marx's own tendency to beg for money
from Friedrich Engels.
If you watch my channel regularly, this should sound pretty familiar to you.
In an earlier video, where I dug down into the idea that Socialists are mad against God
for the crime of being, a quote of Jordan Peterson's, we discovered that what motivates
Socialists isn't actually a love of the poor.
At the end of the video, I read to you letters from Heinrich Marx, Karl Marx's father,
who chastised him repeatedly for ignoring his family unless he needed money from them.
Many Marxists follow in his footsteps, from his lifelong depression, to his tendency to
manipulate others, to his constant mooching off of everybody around him.
Where it was once his dad, it later became Engels.
Which is what Freeman is poking fun at.
But check out this reply.
What you read is solidarity, not charity.
This is stressed by many leftists, but you weren't paying attention.
You'll find that slogan, solidarity, not charity, all over socialist spaces, when it
comes to talking about helping the poor.
London's Young Communist League.
Last weekend we did another food bank collection for Hackney Food Bank.
Members of the public donated a huge amount of food again, and a great amount of support
for us was shown.
Solidarity, not charity.
The Christian Socialists.
At some point, churches are going to have to unlearn how they practice charity, so they
can learn how to practice solidarity.
Community Food Centres Canada.
A single meal or a hundred meals will not solve the hunger crisis.
What we need is not charity, but solidarity.
So let's ask the question, what is the difference between charity and solidarity?
Let's start with two simple definitions and then work our way down.
The practice of charity is the voluntary giving of help to those in need, as a humanitarian
act, unmotivated by self-interest.
There are a number of philosophies about charity often associated with religion.
Meanwhile, solidarity is an awareness of shared interests, objectives, standards, and sympathies,
creating a psychological sense of unity of groups or classes.
It is based on class collaboration.
It refers to the ties in a society that bind people together as one.
This all ties back to, for the 50th time, Marx's essay on the Jewish question, where
he critiques the liberal idea that individuals have the right to be separate from others
and live in their own private affairs, as he believed we were all connected by virtue
of economic transactions, therefore any exchange of goods or money meant that the other party
now had a stake in your behavior, therefore other people had a right to have their nose
in your business.
We've gone over that essay and this idea so many times on this channel, you've got
to know it by now.
Maybe at some point I should devote a video to discussing only this idea and how influential
it is over all of socialism, because it's one of those great linchpins that nobody knows
about.
Upon it rests not only charity not solidarity, but also Gramsci's idea that all cultural
products must be subverted to a socialist goal, or the justification of theft and collective
ownership, or the idea that compromise with the capitalist system will end with the absorption
of the compromiser into capitalism, or really, the rejection of all things liberalistic and
individualistic.
In the context of our topic today, this tweet is the best one I've found that describes
the difference between the two, in a casual sense.
I like the idea of moving from charity and into solidarity with each other.
If my people are suffering and vice versa, we are in direct relationship with each other,
we are each other's business.
On the surface this sounds caring, like we're all looking out for each other, but that phrase
we are each other's business suddenly takes on a very menacing tone the minute you think
of it in the context of privacy.
This idea that we're all connected and therefore the collective of humanity has a stake in
the individual's business is the philosophical basis for both classical fascism and the modern
surveillance state.
Solidarity is an individualistic act, it's when a person voluntarily chooses to give
up something of their own to help the less fortunate out of the goodness of their heart.
But solidarity isn't individualistic, not in this context.
Solidarity is a demand, justified by those eternal connections to each other that Marx
believed we all have.
If you have excess and your fellow man has need, it's not about charity, it's not
about individually choosing to help them and acting virtuously in doing so, it's about
solidarity, it's that your fellow man's need grants him a right to your excess out
of that Marxian connection, out of a sense of solidarity.
And this is how the more mainstream of socialism views charity, this isn't just some twitter
nonsense.
People who perform charitable acts might be good, or maybe they're just trying to maintain
their own station.
It doesn't matter in the end.
Charity, even with the best of intentions, perpetuates capitalism, and so socialists
oppose it.
Here's how.
On this topic, Marx wrote,
The social principles of Christianity preach the necessity of a ruling and an oppressed
class, and all they have for the latter is the pious wish that the former will be charitable.
The social principles of Christianity transfer the counsellor's adjustment of all infamies
to heaven, and thus justify the further existence of those infamies on earth.
The social principles of Christianity declare all vile acts of the oppressors against the
oppressed to be the just punishment of original sin.
The social principles of Christianity preach cowardice, self-contempt, abasement, submission,
dejection.
In a word, all the qualities of riffraff, and the proletariat, not wishing to be treated
as riffraff, needs its courage, its self-reliance, its pride, and its sense of independence more
than its bread.
The social principles of Christianity are sneakish, and the proletariat is revolutionary.
Similarly, Engels also wrote,
The English bourgeoisie is charitable out of self-interest.
It gives nothing outright, but regards its gifts as a business matter, makes a bargain
with the poor, saying, If I spend this much upon benevolent institutions, I thereby purchase
the right not to be troubled any further, and you are bound thereby to stay in your
dusky holes, and not to irritate my tender nerves by exposing your misery.
You shall despair as before, but you shall despair unseen.
This I require, this I purchase, with my subscription of twenty pounds for the infamy.
It is infamous, this charity of Christian bourgeois.
It's not just old socialists, either.
Benjamin Sheppard, professor at the University of New York, wrote the paper, Community Practice
as Social Activism, From Direct Action to Direct Services, where he defines the phrase
mutual aid as people giving what they can and getting what they need, which is quite
similar to Marx's, from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs.
Dean Spade, a socialist trans-revolutionary, meaning he's both personally trans, and
his revolution is trans, and law professor at Seattle University, wrote a 12-page paper
on the topic, too.
Solidarity, not charity.
Mutual aid for mobilization and survival.
And honestly, I could quote any line in that paper to get my point across.
Mutual aid is a more specific term for what socialists want to replace charity, though
it's also older than it sounds.
Kropotkin defined mutual aid as the idea that cooperation within a species is more important
to its evolution than competition, and that those instinctive feelings of solidarity towards
each other, what we would call nowadays as in-group preference, is the basis for mutual
aid.
Kropotkin's view was that an alternative economic system would have to be anti-capitalist
and anti-hierarchy, and would have to distribute goods through a decentralized network of voluntary
associations and also must fulfill the needs of everybody involved.
It's not hard to see how all this is bullshit, right?
Like yeah, that one paper from Spade points out various mutual aid efforts like the Black
Panthers and how they actually manage to collectively come together and help each other materially
when necessary.
And there's dozens of other examples like that.
It's not like these structures can't work, they absolutely can.
Do you help your family and friends when they're in a rough spot?
Sure, of course.
Same with church groups and clubs and on-campus organizations and unions and whatever else.
People are absolutely willing to help others they know, but that's just charity with
a different word.
It becomes solidarity instead of charity when it becomes mutual aid.
That's when you're helping people you don't know as if you know them.
Not that you help them a little bit, like you're giving to the poor, but that you
help them a lot because you know them personally.
You help them as if they are close to you when they are not.
And for most people, that's a hard sell.
This is why Marxist ideas and practice always involve force, because give what you can and
get what you need sounds nice on paper until you realize that it has no defense against
the free rider problem.
The idea that some people will simply take and not give back under the pretense of needing
much and not being able to give anything at all.
At that point, either the system collapses or the people in power begin to use oppressive
methods to ensure that the voluntary giving continues.
I want to make it perfectly clear here, I'm not against the idea of mutual aid.
If you've got some collective organization that you give your time to and help the poor
with, more power to you.
I've done it a few times myself.
But when people are explicitly rejecting charity in favor of mutual aid, despite the obvious
practical overlap between the two, they're sending a message that giving what is yours
out of the kindness of your heart is not enough because what is yours, you stole and
the poor have a right to it.
In giving, you are not being a good person, you are rectifying a wrong you committed.
It's not good, it's the baseline.
I know at least a few people from DGG also watch my content, post in the comments if
you do.
You guys remember this debate, right?
Leftist jumps in to debate and gatekeep Destiny from IRL activism?
This was in the context of Destiny using his platform to assist in canvassing efforts for
the mayoral race in his hometown of Omaha, despite having moved away to LA.
And an anarcho-communist who was still back in Omaha was extremely angry about his involvement
for a bunch of different reasons.
But listen to some of the rhetoric that this guy uses.
You don't think that any of the churches, you don't think that any of the church communities
around Omaha are involved in helping in any of the local soup kitchens?
Or involved in helping-
It's fucking transactional.
It's transactional.
So, so, wow, so it really, do you think, do you think that when a person, I'm just, I'm
super curious in your opinion, do you think that when a person is getting a meal to eat
that they otherwise wouldn't in a city like Omaha, do you think they care if the organization
giving it to them is doing it for some transaction with God or something?
No, we're not talking about the person receiving aid.
We're talking about the people that are giving the aid.
Who cares about the people that are giving the aid as long as they're doing it?
When I was volunteering for high school, I don't remember anybody turning down a meal
that we served or turning down a sandwich that we handed out because it was compulsory.
I'm saying that your charity that you were doing was charity.
It was, it was given from the top down.
Did the community request that your church come out and give them food or did they just
request food?
So then why do you have to make it a transactional approach?
I guess like the way that I look at it at the end of the day, yeah, we might just have
different values.
At the end of the day, for me, the more people that are getting fed, the better.
How much money have you spent on your efforts to mobilize voters or whatever it is you call?
When the other three major candidates running in this race want to publish all their figures,
I mean, I'll publish mine, but I don't see why I need to answer that question.
What you have spent.
I don't know why.
I don't know why I need to answer that question.
What's the implication?
How much food that could have provided?
I don't.
Do you really think it's like one to one like that?
Do you think that no money can be spent on political advocacy if there's like a hungry
person or you don't think that there might be more money that could be spent getting
somebody in office that might be able to address these problems rather than just buying a meal
for somebody?
I think we're better off not fucking waiting for you fucking libs to tie your fucking shoes
and get on the streets and do the fucking work.
If this is a video you remember, I recommend you go back and watch it again with some of
this knowledge about how socialists view charity.
It'll open your eyes.
The reason this guy sounded so nonsensical is because he genuinely believes that charity
perpetuates capitalism, that electoralism and liberal institutions have entirely failed.
And the only way to help people is through decentralized mutual aid structures that local
communities must build to replace the state with anarcho communism.
Broadly speaking, there are two leftist views of mutual aid.
The first view is what's held by that Omaha brainlet, where out of a sense of solidarity,
they reject both charity and the social safety nets of a liberal society believing that their
way is the only way to truly liberate people since charity presupposes the correctness
of capitalism while safety nets rely on electoralism, which will always be a failed system for socialists.
The second view of mutual aid is that the state itself should be its mechanism.
This view conflates the social safety net with mutual aid, making them one in the same.
It's from this point of view that we get the idea that you have a moral obligation to pay
your taxes because that's ultimately the same moral obligation that drives you to perform
charitable acts.
This view is at least a little more justifiable than the first one, because it is true that
poor people benefit from those programs, while the only thing that socialist bumble fucks
have ever built using the first system is stuff that is ultimately destructive like
Chaz.
This second view of mutual aid stems from Clement Attlee, the architect of the modern
British welfare state, who famously said, charity is a cold, grey, loveless thing.
If a rich man wants to help the poor, he should pay his taxes gladly, not dole out money at
a whim.
The problem with this point of view, though, is that it implies the government is responsible
for feeding, clothing, and housing you, and it's not.
You are.
Imagine thinking that charity, given from one person to another, from the kindness of
their heart, is cold, grey, and loveless, especially compared to a vast impersonal bureaucracy
run by government employees who only need to do the barest of the minimum to keep their
job.
This doesn't mean that I'm against the idea of the welfare state, but I do see it for
what it is.
It's not some grand moral project to which we should swear our undying allegiance to.
It's a practical solution to a real world problem.
We should not love our governments the way we love our families, even when governments
do good work.
And knowing that is what makes the UK's sacrifice for the good of the NHS rhetoric so eerie
looking at it from the outside.
The NHS isn't your mother, it's a bureaucracy.
It might be a good system, even a necessary one, but it's not a person.
Plus, imagine the moral implications of Attlee's statement.
Yes, Engels said that some people use charity as a way to make themselves feel better about
the state of the poor.
They paid a few bucks and now they expect the poor to shut up.
That's a fair criticism, but Attlee's statement creates an inverse situation.
If taxation is the only avenue through which the rich can fulfill his duty to help the
poor, then if a rich man has paid up all of his taxes and he sees a beggar on the street,
he is now under no moral obligation to give him anything.
He's already done his part, and charity is cold and impersonal besides.
What further good is there in helping?
It's a nonsense position.
In fact, it seems to be the case that charity is superior, at least morally, specifically
because it is done voluntarily.
It's not done because the person who is giving is guilty, like with solidarity.
It's not done as a part of building the post-capitalist utopia, like with mutual aid.
And it's not done out of the threat of state retaliation, like with taxation.
It could be done as a way to bolster the person's standing, sure, but there's still a moral
component deep underneath that.
Valuing being a person who does real charitable acts is not too far off from valuing doing
real charitable acts, at least on some level.
You could say no to donating, but the fact that you chose not to, that is where the extra
moral content of charity exists that isn't present in these other methods of helping
the poor.
The virtue is in letting go of what is valuable so that others might be helped, not holding
onto it for your own selfish reasons, nor having it demanded from you by somebody who
is self-righteous.
I've said many times in this channel that socialism is just institutionalized theft.
If you live in a society where it's normal to point at whoever has more than you and
call them a capitalist oppressor, a counter-revolutionary, a bourgeois, a kulak, and then use those
labels as moral justification to steal from them, the people living in that society will
train each other to belittle and hate and use their own victimization.
Eventually, society becomes a constant struggle of selfishness, where everybody owns everything
collectively so why not just take everything you see?
You already own it.
But charity begets compassion.
To see a person suffering, to watch as their suffering is alleviated by a simple random
act of kindness.
It's hard to hate a person you have compassion for, it's hard to take from others when
you know how they feel.
But it's easy to hate them and take from them if you feel like you've been victimized
by them.
Charity's got its problems, Engle's critique was at least kind of correct, but like with
all other socialist critiques, as they discover and describe real problems, their solutions
make things a million times worse.
We should have a social safety net, and we should have mutual aid organizations, but
we also should have charity.
If anybody on the left ever tells you that charity is bad, it's a pretty good sign
that they don't actually give a shit about the people they claim to advocate for, beyond
using them as pawns.
