Hello, I'm The Right Opinion, and today we talk about the 9,000 pound tuition fees.
Fuck tuition fees.
Off the top of my head, I can't think of a domestic policy that has been more of a waste than the current tuition fees.
If there was a single policy to perfectly symbolise how out of touch, while combining with that faux pas economic interest,
it would be the new tuition fees system, introduced so thoughtfully by the Cameron Clegg administration in 2010,
and with the new plans to increase it with inflation, I thought I'd batter this piece of shit policy once and for all.
Let me present to you a situation. The local council are due on money due to government cuts, and to deal with this they've raised council taxes.
Now, why don't they just raise it, and raise it continuously?
Obviously, because people won't be able to pay it, and therefore they could actually end up raising less money than they were before.
The other issue is if they take away too much money from people, then they won't have enough money to pay their other taxes.
It's about finding that balance.
The reason the 3,000 pound a year tuition fees work to a certain extent, was because there were a lot of people prepared to pay them.
Some would pay them immediately, whereas others would pay them in due course.
Needless to say, the government received money from it, and therefore they couldn't regard it as a terrible policy.
This government cannot find that balance with their current tuition fees.
One of the most insidiously counterproductive policies ever, which has gone under the public radar because it doesn't affect most people who read the newspaper.
The 9,000 a year tuition fees are a near joke, and I cannot understand for the life of me why anyone would endorse such a policy.
It has been estimated that nearly half the students will never be able to pay their student loan.
In fact, there's actually been a lot of estimations which calculate the British government will make less money through this system than the previous one.
Re-emphasizing the point that you can't make money that just isn't there.
And then there's this argument, oh, you only pay it back in small amounts, and after a certain threshold, it's not that bad.
When you have rent, taxes, groceries, travel expenses, and I could go on, every single penny wasted on damn tuition fees seems more impactful.
Subsequently, if people feel financially restricted, then they are less likely to invest money in local infrastructure and business.
I'm sorry, but this should be assumed knowledge from the fucking government. It shouldn't take some tosser on the internet to point it out.
This is near idiocy. They can't even guarantee they'll make the money from the more wealthy students, because let's say someone does a degree in medicine,
and then they decide to move to Australia because Australia offers better contracts to new graduates,
there is literally no guaranteed way of the British government getting that money back.
Given the dissatisfaction with the current health services that many health professionals have, and the scrapping of grants for health students,
I would not be surprised to see an even larger exodus in the coming years.
In the interest of money, which is quite ironic, they are pushing people away, and in effect, they actually may be making less money than if they stuck with the old system.
Oh, the irony.
We need to keep our best and brightest in this country, the people who are intelligent enough to be offered places in different countries,
because in a few years' time, they'll be the largest contributor to the economy.
But to do that, you have to keep them happy in this country.
The way to a man's wallet is through his heart.
If they are happy in a job, they will be more productive and therefore will contribute more, not just to the business that they are involved in, but to the British economy in general.
Tuition fees do not provide that motivation.
It's just another stress put onto students' lives, and it's not even fucking value for money.
Most students get 8 to 13 hours contact time.
I've heard of students who pass their assessments from just doing the lessons online and not even attending the lectures.
It's madness.
It's financially irresponsible, and these thoughtless actions that have already caused many talented people to move abroad
are only going to cause more people to move abroad if they then consider to raise them even further.
It's re—just—it's just stupid. Just stop.
Stop. The time has come to stop these tuition fees.
They're not affordable, and they're not making enough money.
You can't just expect something to give you back money.
You can't just charge someone if they can't pay it.
It's a joke.
So, there are my thoughts on tuition fees.
As you can tell, I really fucking hate them.
I honestly can't think of a reason why they are good, and even if they did succeed in making the government more money,
which they don't,
it wouldn't be in the best interest of Parliament to use them to essentially just push away all these bright young talents.
I mean, it's rather stupid, really.
Wow. I was proper on one tonight.
I'm the right opinion.
And I'll see you in the next one.
🎵
