The opening shot of Golf Civil War came in the form of a press release.
Published on a Friday in late October of 2021, the newly formed company, Liv Golf Investments,
with the backing of the Saudi Sovereign Wealth Fund, announced its commitment of $200 million
to establish 10 new marquee professional golf tournaments.
It also announced its new CEO, the brash Australian, the former world number one golfer, the shark
Greg Norman.
And it announced, well, little else.
Who would play, where they'd play, and exactly how these tournaments would be played were
details for a later date.
Instead, the release opted for platitudes and an ominous promise—that this was only
the beginning.
For other established sports leagues, it might be easy to write off the arrival of such an
overly vague and optimistic challenger.
The established leagues have the money, they have the TV deals, and most importantly, they
have the talent.
The PGA Tour, the most prestigious golf circuit in the world, however, is a little different.
While it has the money and TV deals, it doesn't pay for the luxury of keeping its talent locked
down.
Whereas most professional sports leagues pay their players consistent base salaries with
the occasional incentive looped into a contract, the PGA Tour only pays for winning.
For the world's very best, this works just fine—show up to a third or maybe a half
of the 40-something annual PGA tournaments, post a score good enough to land in the money
or even win outright, bring home the winnings, and cash in on the media attention through
endorsement deals.
But this creates a problem for those in the middle and back of the pack—elite golfers
in their own right, but golfers who are paying for their own travel, coaching, and accommodations
only to quite possibly finish outside the money if they don't play to their full potential.
All this is to say, the PGA Tour and its pay structure, along with its stuffy, hesitant-to-change
culture was ripe for a challenge—and they knew it as well as anyone.
The counter to the live announcement came from the tour's wary commissioner, Jay Monahan,
who sent each tour member a memo explaining they were sweetening the pot.
For the upcoming season, there'd be more prize money at tournaments, more money devoted
to the player impact program that compensates for their roles in boosting the tour's engagement,
and that there'd be an entirely new bonus fund for players appearing in 15 or more PGA
events.
If the carrot wasn't enough, there was also the stick.
Along with more money, Monahan also warned that if players defected to whatever this
new league was, they'd be banned from playing in the PGA Tour.
For one of golf's biggest names, and one of the PGA's highest earners, the carrot
wasn't enough, and the stick was just another example of an organization with too much power.
Following Monahan's counter, Phil Mickelson, the longtime fan favorite, the lovable lefty
who just so happened to be playing in the Saudi international tournament, took the time
in an interview about his future to point out that the PGA Tour's greed had reached
obnoxious proportions—that their hoarding of players' digital media rights worth millions,
among other things, was pushing players to look for new places to play.
While he didn't say that he had found a new place to play, the writing was on the
wall.
Secession was in the air.
Back in the States, the tour went on.
But at each stop, the tension built, rumors circulated on who was making the jump, and
ever so quietly, offers of guaranteed contracts in the tens of millions began making their
way to top players.
Then suddenly, as the golf world descended on the Riviera Golf Course in California's
Pacific Palisades for the Genesis Open, a bombshell article rocked the sports world,
nearly collapsing the Saudi coup before it even really took shape.
With his new biography on Mickelson available for pre-order, and the media buzz over the
mysterious Saudi Challenger building, Alan Shipnick felt the timing was right to pull
back the curtain.
Mickelson was, in fact, working with the startup Saudi League, having already recruited three
other top players to make the flip.
But of bigger consequence, Mickelson was aware of the bigger picture, too.
He called the league nothing more than sports-washing, he called the Saudis scary, and he made no
qualms about the fact that the move was about nothing more than money and leverage.
In the story's wake, golfers now had to make their intentions clear to fans and media—were
they so focused on the money they'd overlook Saudi Arabian atrocities like the money-obsessed
Mickelson?
Some stayed coy, alluding to or outright mentioning that they'd sign NDAs, effectively signaling
that they were likely deep in negotiations with Liv or had already come to an agreement.
But most, especially golf's biggest names who were rumored targets of Liv, went out
of their way to align themselves with the PGA Tour and to disparage the Saudi-backed
Challenger.
Before anyone really knew what it would be, the Saudi project seemed dead.
Mickelson stepped away from golf for the moment, and the world moved on.
Then, Greg Norman announced the Liv Golf Invitational—eight tournaments, five of which not halfway across
the world, but in the US, an eye-watering $255 million in prize money for a field of
only 48 players, and a format that had golfers only playing three rounds rather than four.
Essentially, it was a tour with convenient locations, lower stress, less competition,
and prize money that, on a tournament-by-tournament basis, would usually more than double what
the PGA Tour offered.
It was a tour whose leader was one of golf's most famous figureheads, it was a tour that
conveniently distanced itself from its Saudi Arabian roots in locations and branding, and
it was a tour that injected more money into the sport than anyone could have imagined.
For its part, the PGA Tour thought it was in the clear—they had already dangled the
carrot, outlined potential punishment, and after benefiting from Mickelson putting his
foot in his mouth, they simply couldn't be bothered—they had moved on.
Players, though, began to reconsider.
One by one, they decided that perhaps it wasn't too toxic of a public relations move to join
the tour, or that the money was, at least, more valuable than the image hit.
Dustin Johnson was the first big name to turn on his early promise to back the PGA, signing
for $125 million to flip allegiances and resigning his PGA membership.
Then, at the very first live tournament, the benefits of defecting became all the more
obvious as Charles Schwartzl, a lower-profile PGA Tour player who hadn't finished first
in a tour event in six years, ended up winning a cool $4.75 million.
Not long after, DeChambeau too countered his previous statements and joined the Saudi-backed
tour, then came Brooks Koepka and Cam Smith, two of golf's brightest stars.
Golf's Civil War, the one the PGA Tour thought it had already won, was a back-on, with the
Saudi side flipping the battlefield with nothing more than a massive influx of cash.
Live, however, is far from Saudi Arabia's first foray into professional sports.
This is World Wrestling Entertainment's 2022 schedule of pay-per-view events.
While WWE packs a non-stop calendar of TV shows and non-televised events, these specials
are the ones you hear about—the biggest moneymakers for the entertainment company.
They feature the biggest stars—Roman Reigns, Hulk Hogan, Brock Lesnar, John Cena, The Undertaker—and
the biggest plot points in the series' ongoing scripted narrative.
Correspondingly, they are rare.
2022 saw 17 across the year, just three of which occurring outside the US—September's
Clash at the Castle in Wales, while the two other international events were held in Jeddah
and Riyadh.
Searching through the company's quarterly reports, it's no wonder why.
Every few quarters, the media revenue attributed to the other category shoots up by about $50
million.
Dating back to 2018, the quarters when this happens corresponds exactly to when the company
hosts an event in Saudi Arabia—it even drops out when events were cancelled due to COVID.
This has led to an understanding that Saudi Arabia is paying the company about $50 million
per event.
Scanning down and to the right puts that into perspective—with a mere two per year summing
to a massive $100 million, these Saudi events are responsible for close to 10% of the annual
revenue of the world's 37th most valuable entertainment company.
And they've been popular.
After all, the scripted nature of WWE allows the company to guarantee it.
At the 2022 event in Wales, Clash at the Castle, many speculated that reigning champion Roman
Reigns would be set to lose to Scottish contender Drew McIntyre because the Scottish underdog
winning against the American champion is exactly what the European fans would want to see,
and traditionally, the entertainment company scripts their storylines to entertain their
fans.
But in this case, the customer was Saudi Arabia, and in order to guarantee the reigning champion
would fight up-and-coming star Logan Paul in Riyadh that November, a fight that was
sure to generate massive attention, Roman Reigns had to win in Wales.
But the drama outside the arena was far more real.
Three years prior, the 2019 edition of the same Crown Jewel event failed to air live
as scheduled in its host country.
There is still no official explanation for this, but there are plenty of rumors.
They go that the Saudi government was late on a $60 million payment for the prior event.
That part is corroborated in financial reports, and either to force their hand or in retribution,
WWE briefly cut off the fee to the Saudi local broadcaster.
Ultimately, the event did make it to broadcast in its host country with a one-hour tape delay,
but then WWE faced its own issues.
As 200 performers and personnel gathered for their 3AM charter flight to Buffalo, New York,
where the company's flagship Monday Night Raw show is being filmed, flight crew started
to announce delay after delay after delay with no real explanation for why.
One anonymous wrestler later testified in a lawsuit against WWE, stating that the doors
of the plane were blocked by armed guards and black militia attire, and that a crewmember
stated, it seems someone doesn't want us to leave the country.
The wrestler also said the company's senior director of talent relations told him that
the payment's dispute had truly occurred, that the fee was cut, and that the Saudi Crown
Prince was quote, very mad.
This interpretation of the events led many to describe it as a hostage incident—that
Saudi Arabia failed to allow the plane to take off, to get back at WWE.
Now, this testimony is only one small part of a larger suit alleging that WWE misrepresented
broadcast rights negotiations with the Saudi government to its investors, but despite their
best efforts, WWE could not get this lawsuit dismissed and settled for $39 million.
Not an admission of guilt, but at least an indication that it was too difficult to disprove
the claims.
Of course, WWE has vehemently denied rumors of this so-called hostage incident, claiming
that it was just mechanical issues.
Wrestlers, meanwhile, have been tight-lipped and vague when talking about it—potentially
wary to threaten their highly lucrative contracts with the company.
But in this case, the facts hardly matter to Saudi Arabia, because the public believes
it.
The country turned the spotlight on itself, and in return, a story emerged that only shaped
the uninformed's understanding of how the country, and its ruling royals, operates.
And it's hardly the only time this has happened.
In 2022, the second-ever Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, a stop on Formula One's globe-spanning
calendar, was overshadowed by a massive plume of smoke in the background.
This was visible during the Friday's practice sessions, but as on-track action finished
up for the night, reports emerged that this wasn't a simple fire—it was an attack.
More specifically, it was an attack by Houthi rebels who fight one side of the ongoing civil
war in neighboring Yemen.
Now, this conflict is widely understood as a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Iran is supporting the Houthi rebels, Saudi Arabia the former central government, worried
that a Houthi-led Yemen would function as a satellite state of Iran—an untenable proposition
given their massive land porter.
Therefore, the Houthis regularly undertake attacks on Saudi Arabia, as they did in this
case on an oil depot on the outskirts of Jeddah.
Immediately, a drivers' union meeting was called to discuss whether they'd forced
the cancellation of the race, and reportedly, the initial consensus was yes.
In the minutes and hours that followed, a rotating cast of team principals, Formula
1 executives, Saudi Arabian officials, and others came through the room, convincing drivers
of the strength of air defense systems around the track, and supposedly discussing the quote
consequences of the race not going ahead as planned.
Meanwhile, discussion erupted on social media, as pictures emerged from the endless drivers'
meeting, and much of it was over why the race would be threatened by a drone attack in the
first place.
In the end, after four and a half hours stretching into the early morning, drivers relented and
the race went ahead as planned, but once again, the spotlight shone on Saudi Arabia
and the picture wasn't pretty.
The Kingdom has been widely condemned for its role in what the UN describes as the world's
worst humanitarian crisis, in Yemen.
They've imposed an air and sea blockade on the country that has contributed to the
deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians due to famine.
According to Human Rights Watch, there is also a pattern of Saudi-led strikes on civilian
areas or on military targets in densely populated areas where civilian casualties are inevitable
—both of which are a violation of the laws of war.
The Saudi coalition has also engaged in so-called double-tapping, where one airstrike is conducted
then another is later done in the same spot on those that come to aid the injured.
But Saudi Arabia's repressiveness is not best defined by its war crimes.
After all, tragically, they are hardly the only nation conducting such attacks.
There is wide understanding that a number of developed Middle Eastern nations are repressive,
by Western standards.
Nations like Qatar and the UAE are known for the dissonance between their flashy, westernized
cityscapes and their limited human rights.
Both engage in widespread modern slavery, both severely limit women's rights, both
heavily restrict freedom of speech and the press, both have zero LGBT rights and police
forces that regularly abuse and torture queer people, the list goes on and on.
But even compared to this, Saudi Arabia isn't a league of its own.
Whereas Qatar and the UAE have laws on the books criminalizing homosexuality but rarely
enforce them, Saudi Arabia does—regularly punishing with prison sentences, lashes, and
even execution.
Whereas Qatar restricts access by women to certain venues and the UAE forbids women from
initiating divorce without court order, Saudi Arabia still operates under a strict guardianship
system where women must obtain approval from a male guardian for certain rights.
For example, women of all ages need their guardian's approval to marry, and once married
women are legally required to remain quote, obedient to their husband, even to the extent
of not refusing sex without a quote, legitimate excuse.
But the nation's brutality can't even be fully described in such a comparative manner
because a key tenet of it is the fact that Saudi Arabia barely has codified laws.
Judges sentence based on ambiguous and changing interpretations of Sharia law, which is based
on the Qur'an, but that means people are regularly sentenced, even to death, for ambiguous,
unprovable crimes leading to wide-scaled, institutionalized jailing and killing of those
who dare challenge the ruling royal family's reign in any way.
According to Freedom House's annual Freedom in the World survey, the nation is, by a sizable
margin, the least free nation in the world to be so wealthy.
That puts the nation in a unique situation from a branding perspective.
All of these nations, the other wealthiest in the world, get wealthy world things like
golf and WWE and Formula One.
And while far from perfect, these other nations are on balance far less repressive than Saudi
Arabia.
Therefore, when people's primary exposure to the nation is through wealthy world entertainment
franchises, it's only natural to assume that Saudi Arabia is similar to the UAE or
United Kingdom or UK.
But Phil Mickelson, at least, recognized just how problematic the Saudi regime was when
he noted their role in human rights abuse and the murder of Jamal Khashoggi.
And the PGA Tour proved well-aware, too, as time and time again, they've brought up
Saudi Arabia's role in 9-11 during their public battle against Liv for hearts, minds,
and golfers.
But money simply proved too much for Mickelson in 2021, and in the summer of 2023, the PGA
Tour found itself in the same position as the golfer.
On June 6th, the PGA Tour announced something that not a single one of its players saw coming.
It was merging with Liv.
The two leagues would quit poaching one another's players, they'd drop the lawsuits and counter-lawsuits,
and the Saudi Public Investment Fund would be the exclusive investor in the merged tour.
It was a complete shock.
It was bigger than golf, bigger than sports.
Following the announcement, Commissioner Monaghan, who had railed against the atrocities committed
by Saudi Arabia, offered a statement trying to justify the deal while 9-11 families, golfers
who had turned down tens of millions on principles that Monaghan had outlined, and the wider
world quickly called him and the tour hypocrites.
Monaghan was a hypocrite, but ultimately, from a business perspective, he was likely
right to concede.
In the coming days, it became clear that Monaghan had understood this for a while, telling tour
employees that they couldn't compete with a foreign government with unlimited money
in a private meeting, and started the process of negotiating some months earlier.
The merger was at once indefensible and inevitable, because neither money nor profitability were
the reason for Saudi Arabia's entrance into professional golf.
Liv, with hardly a TV deal or any real path to profitability, would simply outlast the
PGA Tour.
With an estimated $50 million spent in legal fees and $100 million spent on bigger purses
and player bonuses, PGA Tour reserves had begun to run dry by early 2022, and the only
recourse was to give the sovereign wealth fund what it really wanted—a seat at the
table.
With every additional overlap between professional sports and Saudi Arabia, global media speculates
on what the nation's intentions truly are.
It's not money, at least not now, as they're spending far more than could ever return to
develop their profile of professional sports.
It's also not the short-term image effects, as often suggested, since for as much as Formula
One or WWE or Liv imply a level of legitimacy for the nation, they also highlight its repressiveness
and regressiveness.
It's only natural—the nation is repressive and regressive, so when you bring international
cameras and journalists an attention that can't be stymied by intimidation, arrest,
and imprisonment as domestic equivalents can, inevitably the world is going to hear about
the nation's issues.
And when the global consensus is that legitimizing Saudi Arabia through sports is a bad idea,
stories or even rumors proving that point are only going to be amplified further.
But it's ultimately quite tough to evaluate decision-making in an absolute monarchy.
At the end of the day, maybe Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman just really likes sports,
or maybe he just wants fun events for him and his wealthy friends, or maybe there's
not much strategy at all behind this foray into professional sports since even the billions
being spent on it are a paltry sum compared to the scale of royal family wealth in Saudi
Arabia.
Perhaps the most cohesive explanation, though, is that this isn't some short-term branding
exercise.
The Kingdom isn't expecting the world to think positively about it just because they
put on some decent golf.
Rather, this seems one small part of the nation's massive reorientation.
Saudi Arabia is trying very, very hard to set itself up for a post-oil era.
In doing so, it's trying very, very hard to become a place like Dubai—a diversified,
modern, service-based Middle Eastern economy as integrated with the world as Singapore
or Sao Paulo.
It's trying to end its era of isolation and become a player in international affairs
as the era of insularity funded by oil exports draws closer to a close.
This is a practical necessity for the ruling family, since the tolerance of their grip
on power has been undergirded by the prosperity brought to the nation during their reign.
If this prosperity fails to maintain into a post-oil era, so too might the monarchy
itself.
As part of this, genuine reform is happening—many of the nation's most repressive policies
are no longer, but mostly the most visible ones.
The indiscriminate arrest, jailing, torture, and execution of dissidents and activists
still occur.
The absence of democracy is still unchanged.
Saudi Arabia's are dominating the conversation about Saudi Arabia, but they're also creating
conversation.
They're not necessarily supposed to be immediately and directly effective at rebranding the nation.
Rather, they're part of the long game.
WWE or Formula One or professional golf just embed themselves with other parts of the wealthy
world naturally.
Saudi Arabia, as it makes its transition out of insularity, needs to force it.
They're faking it until they make it.
So the question asked every time they make an additional encroachment into sports is
whether it's right to help Saudi Arabia fake it before they've made it—before
they've genuinely turned themselves into a place that respects human rights.
Sports executives constantly argue that the order of operations is right—that engagement
with Western culture will propagate Western principles of human rights—but through this,
these executives are making a massive gamble on whether they'll land on the right side
of history.
Because the other option is that their executive bonuses are being based on their culpability
in branding the nation as a place that respects human rights without them actually doing so—because,
after all, the best possible future for Saudi's rulers is that they get to continue their
autocratic ways while being perceived and treated by the Western world as a normal place.
The world has problems.
In many cases, because power is concentrated and held by a small number of individuals
who happen to be the same people who are best able to profit from problems.
But despite that, these same problems get solved by the actions of those who have devoted
their lives to solving them.
If you're worried about the threat of AI or pandemics or nuclear bombs or global wars
or climate change, you truly can make an impact in solving these problems by doing what you're
already doing—working.
You'll work an average of 80,000 hours in your career, so our sponsor, 80,000 Hours,
is a nonprofit dedicated to solving these problems by helping people like you change
their careers in order to do good.
And they're focused on making this actually feasible—they've done over ten years of
research and synthesized it into their career guides and other resources like their podcasts,
job boards, and they even offer one-on-one careers calls with their impartial advising
team.
These elusive jobs that pay well, make an impact, and are fulfilling are out there—they're
just a little harder to find—so that's what 80,000 Hours is here to help with.
Their focus is to help you help others.
So if you want to make your 80,000 hours of work fulfilling and impactful, start by joining
their newsletter and you'll get a free copy of their in-depth career guide sent to your
inbox.
Just click the button on screen or head to 80,000hours.org slash wendover.
