Haha, hey look at that, SFO classic.
Well we're talking about my demonetization today.
And frankly this is probably a video that'll get me laughed at by any detractors or hate
watchers that happen to be around, but I don't care, it's not for them.
It's for those people who watch me and like me and care about me and find the things that
I have to say interesting.
It's for those people that I say I love to at the end of not every but most of my videos.
So here it is, we can talk about it.
Your channel is no longer eligible to monetize.
This is not just taking all the videos and making them have yellow monetization symbols,
this is I cannot turn on monetization for the entire channel.
It's all gone.
The reason is harmful or hateful content.
As always the learn more there link brings you to a very unhelpful page where they tell
you about their terms of service, but it's purposefully so vague that I have no idea
what I did.
I have some idea about what I did, but we'll get to that.
I can reapply on October 31st, 2020.
And so fair enough, that is a month without getting paid.
That's not great.
Outside of the normal 30 day wait that this sort of thing happens for, I do happen to
know people who have an in at YouTube and so they ask what this was about.
However the report that came back from them was equally vague.
That it was a justified demonetization, not a mistake, for the purposes of harmful or
hateful content.
They didn't say what specific video triggered this or what changes I had to make.
However I was informed that for the first time in my channel's history my stream was
featured on YouTube's front page.
That was the stream where it was me, Arch, Lilith, and Scrump talking about the Trump
Biden debate.
And Scrump was drunk, dumb, and said the n-word a few times.
So frankly that was probably it.
Thanks Scrump, I appreciate it.
So I deleted the video, or the stream, the streambod, it's gone now, and I put up a couple
videos since the demonetization, and I realized that like, YouTube, YouTube still runs ads
on these videos.
I'm just not getting my cut, they just take the whole thing.
And I don't entirely mean to yuri post here, but it is demoralizing.
I consented to YouTube taking a portion of the revenue from my work because they provide
this service, and I get the rest.
I did not consent to do it for free.
And whenever I made a video, knowing full well that I wouldn't be getting paid for it
no matter how good the video was or how many hits it got or how many people liked it, um,
I realized I didn't want to do it, which is why you haven't seen much from me on this
channel since the demonetization.
And in case you guys haven't realized, um, I'm a real pussy, I don't know if you've noticed.
Like, I've lost friends to Trump Derangement Syndrome, and I've had to, you know, talk
about it a bit and be sad for a few days.
I've been maligned and misrepresented and ignored by people that I thought I was on
good terms with, I've been backstabbed and betrayed, I've had to deal with toxic people
from a variety of different communities, saying shit about me, making videos about me, writing
articles about me, and I can't pretend that I simply shrugged it off and went on with
my day.
Every time it happened, I had to stop for a bit.
Sometimes just an hour, sometimes an afternoon.
Not too long.
It's not like I was devastated for years and needed to save space, but I had to sit down
for a minute because generally when I interact with somebody, I assume that we're friends
until we're not.
I think it's a healthy way to do things because I want to invite the best parts of other people
forward and not the worst parts when we're interacting.
And that's not a process that I intend to stop.
But it has made it harder for me to deal with things when something goes wrong or something
falls through.
I don't think I'm capable of just shrugging it off.
Some people can.
Some people can be told that something bad has happened and here's what they have to
do and they can go off and do it.
I'm the type that has to sit there for a while and think about it, I think.
I got the first word back from that backdoor appeal this morning and it pretty much took
my afternoon out from under me.
I didn't seem to be capable of doing any real work.
I didn't seem to be capable of even having a positive attitude.
I just didn't want to do anything because it felt entirely hopeless.
Let's be honest, guys.
It's not hopeless, but I'm in a bad situation right now for sure.
This is not nothing.
And I'm not going to pretend that I'm completely feeling better.
The outlook is just as bleak as it was when I first found out about the news.
My chances of getting re-monetized are the exact same, but I guess before I can actually
get back to work, I just need to sit around and suffer for a little bit.
Maybe that's just my personality type, you know?
That probably makes me weak.
In any case, what's actually happening is I'm going through that backdoor again with
some modifications to the channel.
I changed a few of the spicier titles and thumbnails in the backlog.
I removed the offending stream where Scrump said his gamer words.
However, if they still come back and say no, there's still hate speech, I don't know what
to do.
I can wait it out for 30 days and do the normal appeals process, but there's no guarantee
I can come back.
I can ask the people that helped Dankula, because I know that he was demonetized for
years and he got it back.
But again, there's no guarantee that'll help either.
And really, the hardest part is the waiting.
If I was told that I'm just fucked, and there's no more monetization on this channel and it's
never coming back, I'd be like, okay, I'll start a new channel.
I'll just start a new channel right now.
Fuck it, you know?
We'll move on.
We'll do something else.
I know we have 90,000 subs here.
I know that probably, at best, one third of you would follow me over to the new one.
But you know what?
We'll rebuild.
But right now, until I get the word, it feels like a waste of time to put energy into a
channel that I might not even use.
That being said, I did reserve what I thought was a pretty funny name for it in Devonatized,
because why the fuck not, right?
So if I do have to move somewhere, it'll probably be here.
The whole short, fat otaku name came from 2009, where my friends and I made anime reviews.
Like that guy with the glasses, channel awesome, AVGN-styled reviews from that era of the internet.
And ever since I started doing political content on it, the name really never fit, did it?
I still like to watch anime sometimes, but that's not the focus of the channel anymore.
And my name is Dev, so Devonatized seems like it's a pretty good name.
So please consider subbing to that channel, I mean if we get a few thousand there I'll
probably use it for something anyway, because why not?
But I might end up needing to do a political analysis over there, if the re-monetization
efforts don't come through.
And of course, as always, there's ways to support the channel in the description of
this video and every other video, so if you feel like the content that I make, or made,
but I'll still make it somewhere, is worth your time and your money, then you can donate
there.
I will support this channel in the meantime, because that's the question, isn't it?
Like I said, I don't want to make videos, I just don't.
Not while YouTube's running ads on them and I'm not getting paid.
I will not support that kind of theft of my labour.
So I might just start streaming on the channel.
It might be a case where I simply run Streamlabs and stream every day, and we talk about the
news and we kind of go over some funny things maybe, and then at the end of the day, I take
the stream down.
Because again, I will not have YouTube run ads on any of my content unless I am making
at least part of the money for those ads.
So until this is settled, I think I'll be streaming.
I think that's the plan.
I know there are some of you who subbed who did not sign up for this.
You like the scripted videos, you like the pre-recorded videos, you're not here for a
stream.
I understand.
I'm sorry.
But it doesn't feel right for me to make videos and not get paid for them.
And I don't want to do the shilling thing.
I don't want to do the Raid Shadow Legends thing.
That's not for me.
I always told myself I wouldn't do that and I won't do it now.
I am not going to hawk a product at you that I don't use myself.
And most of these products I don't use myself.
So until monetization comes back, this will be a streaming channel.
And if it does come back, then things will go back to normal.
I hope you're not too disappointed.
I hope you won't leave over this.
And thank you very much for sticking through this with me.
I really do appreciate it.
I love you.
