So, Dave and I spent a bunch of time with Saints Row, the reboot, on stream yesterday,
featuring our blue-skinned, non-binary, genderqueer, Groose replica.
Yeah, that's zur right there.
And you know what?
It's as bad as everyone's making it out to be.
If you weren't along for the ride with us, I'll just quickly confirm all of those viral
posts about how bad the game is right now.
There's this clip from another streamer, where the opening of the game is just the main character
cringily swearing up a storm like the game is written by a 40-year-old sex pest who is
role-playing as a child who just discovered that they can curse in private and their parents
won't hear them
Insanity!
You didn't get a bonus.
And...
Excuse me.
You would never believe...
Oh...
Yeah.
I'm guessing there might be some music playing right now, if you...
I turned off the live music.
There might be some music right now.
I don't know.
Probably is.
Yeah, this is actually how the game starts.
Though I will say, if you choose the British voice, she says Codswallop, which is kind
of funny.
There's this clip about how character models just glitch out or T-pose constantly.
Yep, this is actually how the game looks.
However, I will add the most egregious thing we encountered was that not a single finishing
move ever actually worked.
The targets would ragdoll or glitch out as our big blueberry just clumsily swiped at
the air.
No, I go!
And you're dead.
Oh, yeah.
You're dead!
And you're dead.
And you're dead.
And you're dead.
And you're dead.
We didn't get one finisher to work in that entire stream.
There's pictures of placeholder alerts popping in, and not only does this actually happen,
sometimes the wrong alert appears, or there's no alert at all for something that really
should have one.
There's clips like this, where how you can no longer hold up or shoot or rob from the
shopkeepers anymore.
Yes, the friendly NPCs can no longer be hurt and barely even react to having a gun pulled
on them.
As far back as Saints Row 1 on the Xbox fucking 360, they had an entire mechanic where you
could rob stores and take clerks hostage, getting free money and equipment in exchange
for a shit-ton of attention brought down on you, but that's just not an option anymore.
And speaking of the older games, after playing the new one for a while, it really looks like
they just stole the movement animations from Saints Row 3 and attached them to their new
models, sometimes with really janky effects.
I understand that in a game like God of War Ragnarok, they're reusing some of the same
animations, but that's only a couple of years later in the same engine.
The other Saints games are a decade old, what are you lazy fucks doing?
There's written reviews out there describing how the actual heist missions don't involve
you doing an actual heist.
Instead, you complete the setup phase by taking surveillance photos of security cameras and
at entrances at the target facility, only to be forced to wait in the car while the
rest of your gang straps on ex-presidents masks and goes inside to commit the crime.
And yeah, for a lot of the game's action, you actually are relegated to getaway driver
and amateur photographer.
In fact, unlocking the game's fast travel points are done by going to a specific scenic
location on the map and taking a selfie.
There's complaints that all of the old Saints Row humor has been neutered, and yes, it's
all true.
The garage where you tune up your car, rim jobs, has been renamed to Jim Rob's, because
the owner is named Jim and he's a capitalist and he charges you way too much money.
The restaurant chain, Freckle Bitches, no longer features a pig-tailed ginger in a bathing
suit serving you food, but instead has been centered to FBs, with a short-haired woman
in a chef's frock.
You actually are criminals because you're trying to make rent and pay off your student
loans because fuck capitalism and fuck money and we all want to live on the commune.
That's not a joke like everyone on Twitter thought it was a few months ago, that's
actually in the game.
And that is probably the worst part.
The glitches are bad and I hate the just-patch-it-later mentality that's infected AAA gaming for
the past decade, but what's far worse is that Saints Row is just neutered at this point.
The well-worn path of woke Karen millennials hijacking a franchise and subverting it by
stripping away all its edgy humor and in its place trying to appeal to Gen Z's awful
sense of comedy, with constant self-referential quips and Marvel references and that god-awful
segment where your character is depressed and you need to mash buttons to make them
get out of bed and shamble over to the freezer to eat a single frozen waffle they can't
even toast?
Yes, that's actually in the game too.
This isn't funny, it's not interesting, it's not entertaining, and it's not fun
to play.
It's just cringe.
To sum it up, the Saints Row reboot is about a game of hipster, law-breaking gangsters
who hate capitalism and want to tear down the system because they're in debt due to
their own bad life choices, and in order to actually play out this socialist fever dream,
your part in it is that you can't actually rob stores or kill store owners, you've
got to sit in the car and watch the AI play the game, and when you are the one fighting
it's a buggy mess.
Yeah, this is pretty on par for 2022.
So the question must be asked, why?
Why take a beloved franchise and subvert it and burn it to the ground, creating a game
that nobody likes and nobody wants?
Yeah, yeah, if you've watched my videos recently you know the answer is Gramsci.
We don't gotta go down that rabbit hole again.
But let's have a more practical conversation this time, less about political theory.
If the developers are so scared of their own past identity that they have to neuter everything,
even the most tame of sex puns, then why even bother?
They've gotta know at this point, with how many times a subverted property is completely
self-destructed, they're not going to make much money on this.
The writing's on the wall now.
Everyone knows that if you release a buggy, unfinished mess, and then try to hand-wave
it away with being woke and sassy on Twitter towards your own fans who are complaining
about the problems, it's not going to end well for you.
Why would you purposefully and publicly set yourself on fire like this?
And of course, there are also retards coming out of the woodwork claiming that Saints Row
was always woke and anti-capitalist.
Motherfucker, the Saints became the CEOs of a mega-corporation that ruled over a dystopian
city.
Twice.
It's the An-Caps' dream.
Oh, and then in Saints Row 4, they became the overlords of a galactic empire.
But let's not talk about Saints Row 4.
Actually wait, it's no longer the worst one in the series anymore.
Maybe we've judged it too harshly, not knowing what was coming next.
But the Progs always try to either whitewash the past, like with dumb shit articles like
Saints Row was always woke and hurr durr durr I'm in danger of choking on my own tongue,
or if they can't do that if it's just too much of a stretch, they'll tell you that
the old works were bad or problematic.
Those old 80s and 90s movies and games you like were bad because they've got titties
and sex jokes.
The current political climate has outgrown the old Saints Row games.
The developer of Saints Row agrees with Anita Sarkeesian's take on their game!
Hey wait, this was back in 2014.
If Saints Row was always woke, why was Anita complaining about it 8 years ago?
It really makes you think.
Well, guess what?
You didn't back down to criticism that your game feels like a soulless husk, with all
the fun cool things from before ripped out and replaced with corpo-wokeness, and I have
a feeling it's not going to turn out well for you.
The stock price of the developer is already tumbling in response to massive fan dissatisfaction.
And though there's no real data yet on how much this piece of shit sold, I'm willing
to bet it's not much.
I told this story on stream yesterday, but the TLDR is, but when I was at GameStop buying
my copy, the guy there said he had only one unclaimed PS5 copy left.
The rest were all preordered.
I asked him, damn, are there that many preorders for this game?
And he said no, actually, there's almost no preorders.
But corporate only allows them to order so many copies of a game on release day based
on how many preorders they get, since that's how they judge popularity.
And he had only one copy of the game to sell, because he had almost no preorders.
He had more display cases of the game on the shelf than he had total copies for sale
in the store.
And just in case you think you can forget about Saints Row and just fall back to Grand
Theft Auto, nuh-uh, think again, GTA 5 has been released and re-released more times than
Skyrim at this point.
We've been playing the same fucking game since the PS3, but finally Rockstar has announced
GTA 6.
And guess what?
It's going to have a female Latinx protagonist, and it's going to scale back all those pesky
racist and sexist jokes.
Man, does everyone want to lose money nowadays?
Where is the money?
Maybe this is purposeful.
Maybe this is part of the socialist subversion, where you literally destroy the system from
the inside by poison-pilling the company so hard, they financially collapse due to their
own suicide.
I guess that's one way to stick it to the man.
Jason Schreier, resident middle-aged gamergate butt-buddy, proclaimed this series of events
as a triumphant victory.
Rockstar Games cleaned up its frat boy culture, becoming a kinder, more progressive game dev
company.
And now it's time to clean up Grand Theft Auto.
Hey, numbnuts.
The reason we fuck around in GTA is because we can't fuck around in real life.
Most of us aren't getting into a shootout with cops, or railing hookers and then killing
them to get our money back.
Uh, hopefully.
And you know what?
It's pretty fun to do that shit in a video game.
It's fun to play as someone that we're not, in the confines of a game where no one's hurt.
And no, online virtual rape doesn't count.
The graphics are so good, this attack is eerily realistic, but this is virtual rape.
Why would anyone want to play as Twitter's main character?
We want to escape all of the woke shit, not dive headfirst into it.
You know what?
I don't even actually care about the Latina playable character.
In fact, that would even be a shit-ton of fun, if they make the game as raunchy as the
previous ones.
Imagine doing all of the over-the-top sexual stuff you could do in other GTA or Saints
Row games.
You fuck hookers, objectify dancers, ogle at bitches walking around the party with their
tits out, but you play as a girl.
That would be awesome.
Harness that raw tomboy energy, dude.
In fact, that's what made the original Hey Ash Whatcha Playin' episode kinda funny.
Yeah, Ashley Burch is a woke wine-ant nightmare nowadays, but back then she was a spunky tomboy
objectifying other women.
And that shit's pretty cool.
Listen, progressives, you're not gonna like this, but objectifying other people, guys
and girls, is fun.
Normal people like to do it, and they like to have it done to them.
People like to be seen as sexually desirable in a fun setting.
And a girl who does it to other girls?
Ten out of ten.
You want to call that problematic?
Great, fine by me.
Doing something that is taboo and unacceptable makes it even more fun.
Anyway, that's my short review.
Saints Row sucks.
Don't buy it.
You can keep streaming it if you want to keep watching it, but it's a dumpster fire.
Don't hold your breath for GTA 6 either.
In fact, just stop caring about new games.
Aside from Nintendo and the occasional indie release, and of course Elden Ring, every new
game sucks now.
And that's pretty bad, but there's literally 40 years of video game history sitting back
in the past you can enjoy.
Enough video games have been released that if you never played a new one for the rest
of your life, you would not lack for entertainment.
So fuck it.
Stop giving these people money until they smarten up.
