Welcome to our year-end review, part two.
If you're tuning in for the first time, this is a special episode during which we
give you one headline from every country in the world from the past year.
The caveat is, hopefully, it's a headline you hadn't heard and has little to do with
the C-word.
We did this last year and we organized countries by population size, counting down from largest
to smallest.
This year, we are doing a count-up organized by the Human Development Index, which is a
number between zero and one determined by the United Nations, based on a series of metrics
including education, longevity, and earnings.
We are halfway through the list and will end with a country that has the highest HDI in
the world.
If you haven't watched part one, we suggest you do that too, where we explain the HDI
breakdown in detail.
If you're joining for part two, thanks, because it means you like part one.
Without delay, here's two.
Distancing themselves is something that a Dutch organization is trying to do with Astrid
Romer, a poet from the former Dutch colony of Suriname, after it awarded her with a prestigious
literary prize earlier this year.
Recently, she made controversial statements supporting murderous former president of Suriname
Desi Buterce, and the Dutch organizers of the award chose to forgo the ceremony honoring
her and simply gave her the cash prize with little fanfare.
Romer, like any real poet, is sticking to her words.
Back underground we go, this time to Petit Mustique, which is part of St. Vincent and
the Grenadines, where a human skull was unearthed on this remote, rugged island in 2003.
And this year, researchers at the University of Oregon may have uncovered why it was there—skeletal
abnormalities show the female likely had leprosy, and this isolated part of the Caribbean was
probably used to keep people with the disease away from the public—something that many
have speculated, but this finding actually supports.
The skull dates back 200 years, and is possibly the earliest case of leprosy recorded in the
Americas.
There is also some speculation that Tunisian president Kayis Said's appointment of a
female prime minister may have been a way to calm critics who say he's overreaching
his power in the Arab Spring's only remaining democracy.
Before Najla Boudin-Ramadanhay's appointment, Said had already suspended Parliament, seized
power, and fired the previous prime minister, and because Ramadanhay doesn't have a lot
of political experience, her trajectory could be challenging—but she is already making
history as the first female prime minister in the Arab world.
The Maldives have the unenvious position of exemplifying climate change's already dire
effects on low-lying nations, where 30% of the country's annual government budget is
being spent on adapting to climate change.
Developed nations have agreed to spend $100 billion to help vulnerable countries adapt,
but Maldives' speaker of parliament wants more—he's asking that rich nations also
pay reparations to help the others deal with the consequences they're already suffering,
and likely didn't cause.
Islands in the Caribbean continue to bet big on tourism, especially countries like Dominica,
which offers citizenship by investment through properties like the six-star resort of Secret
Bay.
For the fifth year in a row, Dominica was named the best country for second citizenship
by Professional Wealth Management magazine.
The second home citizens have primarily come from Africa, but with a new non-stop flight
from Miami running, that could potentially change with Americans starting to look south
for another home and passport.
Added bonus, Dominican residents now get visa-free access to China.
When we say coral reef, you probably say, ugh, that's because a lot of news about
the ocean's critical habitat for fish species is generally bad, and that could have been
the expectation after tropical cyclone Winston caused more than $1.4 billion in damage to
Fiji in 2016 and pummeled the island's reefs, but they've bounced back in a big way as
young coral colonies have taken off, much to the delight of researchers, residents,
and likely the colorful fish that have found a new home.
Also in repair are more than a handful of the 130 precious historical artifacts that
were destroyed in the harbor blast in Lebanon that killed 200 people.
While the objects pale in comparison to human lives, their historical significance remains
important, and that's why the British Museum granted $29,500 in restoration funds to help
repair some of the more critical glass vessels, which are nearly 2,000 years old.
Here on the northwest tip of Africa, an ongoing conflict between Algeria and Morocco might
leave Spain in the cold.
Spain gets about half of its gas from Algeria, which pumps it through a pipeline in Morocco.
Morocco depends on Algeria for about 10% of its gas, and Algeria suspended this pipeline
to both countries to upset Morocco in an ongoing territorial dispute.
It turns out, this may affect Spaniards the most, and we'll still be able to get gas
through alternate routes, but at much higher prices.
Moldova is running out of gas too.
At the end of its contract with Gazprom, Moldova declared a state of emergency when
the Russian energy company raised its gas prices and slashed supply.
Accused of using gas as leverage, allegations have surfaced that contract renegotiations
involve discussion of political issues regarding Moldova's separatist region of Transnistria
and its connection to the EU.
Associated with the EU but reliant on Russian resources, Moldova frequently finds itself
in the unenviable position of sitting between east and west.
From unenviable to regrettable, a mafia fugitive did himself in by appearing on a YouTube cooking
show in his adopted home of the Dominican Republic.
Though he never showed his face while flashing his Italian culinary chops, Mark-friend Claude
Biart's tattoos gave him away to the police.
A member of Italy's largest mafia, who fled Europe when accused of trafficking cocaine
into the Netherlands, Biart led a quiet, unassuming, and, in hindsight, too comfortable life in
the city of Boca Chica.
An apocalyptic scene unfolded just off the coast of Azerbaijan as a column of fire blasted
out of the Caspian Sea.
While the Caspian is dotted by various offshore oil rigs, the assumed culprit for the flare-up
wasn't a leaky Soviet-era pipeline, but one of the region's infamous mud volcanoes
sparking the blast.
Dubbed the Land of Fire, Azerbaijan is home to major oil reserves and hundreds of these
mud volcanoes—many of which are active today.
What happens underground is also of interest in Saint Lucia, where the Caribbean nation
is taking the first steps towards harnessing geothermal energy.
Currently, Saint Lucia relies primarily on diesel generators for power, so any alternative
that would alleviate high energy costs is welcomed, especially one as green as geothermal.
The next step is figuring out viability—a project that will be greatly aided by a $22
million grant made by the World Bank to explore the potential of the energy source.
In Ecuador's most famous islands, Darwin's arch died of natural causes.
Just a kilometer or 0.6 miles off the coast of Darwin Island in the Galapagos, the arch
was a popular destination for divers and photographers.
Ecuadorian officials said that the bridge was brought down by natural erosion.
Year by year, though, erosion is becoming more of a threat and less natural, as volatile
weather and warming waters are intensifying the process that created many of the earth's
arches in the first place.
Another troubling trend came to a head in China.
Birth rates in the world's most populous country hit an all-time low since the country
began tabulating the figure in 1978.
Infamous for its one-child policy, China has began easing restrictions on family size since
2015, as dropping birth rates began to worry state officials.
This year's low watermark, though, hints that the problem may be beyond policy and
expected demographic shifts as the country develops, and more so a function of rising
cost of living and financial insecurity pushing potential parents to hold off.
Birds too are adapting to changing material living conditions.
A study of 77 non-migratory birds undertaken in Brazil has shown that each species has
become smaller in stature over the past 40 years.
This finding, in species confined to remote areas of the Amazon, has allowed researchers
to conclude that the shrinking is in response to the one major alteration in their environment—temperature
rise.
While the researchers haven't come to a consensus, it's hypothesized that the birds
are slimming down because they simply aren't required to generate the same body heat as
in decades prior—humans are doing it for them.
A decision made by Colombia's Congress gave Vicê, often referred to as African-Columbian
moonshine, its well-deserved moment in the sun.
Recognizing the liquor distilled from sugarcane by generations of African-Columbians as a
piece of the country's ancestral and cultural heritage is an honor, and for many, an opportunity.
This notoriety, experts believe, will provide an opportunity for distillers to capitalize
on the product, giving it the chance to follow the same trajectory as Mezcal in Mexico and
to create generational wealth locally.
While other parts of former Yugoslavia threatened to fall apart, North Macedonia celebrated
2021, as the year marked the 30th anniversary of its peacefully established independence.
A military parade through the capital of Skopje and celebrations across the country marked
the occasion.
While independent for decades, integration into the West has been a winding road as disputes
with Greece saw the country relinquish its original name, Macedonia, for its current
moniker.
Another milestone was reached this year when Joe Biden became the first US President to
acknowledge that the Armenian Genocide was, in fact, a genocide.
In Armenia, and across the Armenian diaspora, the news was welcomed with a tepid response
not because of the 106 years of separation from the event, but because the declaration
is, of course, merely a declaration.
Many see the statement as a symbolic gesture designed to test the relationship with Turkey,
who has yet to qualify the historic atrocity as a genocide.
A move that may have large repercussions caught the eye of free speech advocates worldwide
when Thailand's government banned the dissemination of news that quote, causes public fear.
The government framed the mandate as a move to limit the dangerous spread of disinformation,
but critics see it differently.
The ban, which allows the government to block individuals' internet access, conveniently
materialized just as criticism with the government's slow rollout of vaccines hit fever pitch.
For Peru's conservative right, there's been no escaping fear-inducing news in 2021,
as a narrow election saw the swearing in of Socialist President Pedro Castillo.
The rise of the rural teacher-turned-politician caught the world off guard and certainly didn't
sit right with the country's established power brokers, who immediately contested the
result and whose supporters harassed election officials.
Only months in, Castillo's presidency is barely holding on as his approval rating has
plummeted, and a possible move to impeach hangs in the balance.
A world record also hung in the balance this year, as spectators along an Antiguan harbor
anxiously awaited the appearance of Jasmine Harrison's rowboat on the horizon.
She and her boat eventually pulled into the waters of Antigua and Barbuda, the nation
that marks the finish line of the Talisker Whiskey Atlantic Challenge, and Harrison became
the youngest woman to row the Atlantic solo—a 70-day long odyssey that saw her thrown overboard
twice, and her medal tested constantly.
Moving to the end of their own odyssey is the Scythian gold.
This year, a Dutch court ruled that the trove of Crimean treasures dating back to the days
of the Silk Road rightfully belonged to Ukraine.
On display in 2014, when Russia annexed the peninsula, the fate of these cultural artifacts
has been in limbo for years before this ruling.
Russia has criticized the ruling, while Ukraine has labeled this another recognition of the
world's condemnation over Russia's seizure of the peninsula.
In Saint Kitts and Nevis, the story's apiculture.
Now, if you aren't a former G.O.B. champion with an expansive vocabulary, you may not
recognize the place nor the practice.
All the same, the Crimean nation of 50,000 joined an international effort to help launch
and support local beekeeping businesses.
If properly executed, the initiative will create additional jobs, bring local honey
and wax products to market, and help protect biodiversity by keeping pollinators, well,
buzzing.
West of where a bulk of bees is set to soon buzz, Mexican politicians and activists battled.
After much debate, it was announced that Mexico's 150-year-old Columbus statue was
to be replaced by a statue of an indigenous woman.
A reasonable decision at surface level, and one that recognizes two oft-overlooked groups
in Mexico, women, and indigenous people, some see the move as political posturing by Mayor
Claudia Chabon, one that wins her positive PR without actually helping the plight of
indigenous Mexicans or women.
From statues in metaphorical hot water to those physically under it, Granada announced
the completion of a renovation to its underwater sculpture park.
The repairs and cleaning of already existing sculptures were part of the project, but the
most exciting bit was the new 82-piece installation celebrating Grenadian culture.
Since its creation in 2006, the park has offered habitat for marine wildlife and served as
an important tourist draw—the renovation aims to maintain that positive momentum.
Though hard to imagine, things are getting more complicated in a country with two names
and three presidents.
Calling it a quote, existential threat, one top American diplomat flew to Bosnia-Herzegovina
to coax Bosnian Serb leader Milorad Dodik to lighten his separatist rhetoric that, if
acted on, would potentially nosedive the nation and destabilize the region.
The epicenter of ethnic violence in the mid-1990s that took painstaking negotiations to quell,
a separatist move like the one Dodik threatens would set the region back decades.
If nothing else good came of it, the pandemic offered zoo animals a well-earned rest.
In Sri Lanka, where zoos closed in March of 2020 and have only briefly opened since, animals
have taken the newfound peace and quiet to deeper relationships and spend a lot of time
in bed.
The result was a baby boom, as some species—the black swan and white peacock—made it in
Sri Lankan zoos for the first time ever, while others such as lions have accelerated their
output in lieu of nosy onlookers.
Perhaps the world could have used a few more nosy onlookers in the Seal of Oman this year,
as noted not-friends Iran and the US offered wildly different accounts as to what really
happened when Iran seized an oil tanker just off its coast.
Cuban officials claim that the US had taken their tanker before their successful naval
assault reclaimed the ship, while the US officials say that it was a Vietnamese tanker that Iran
had seized.
Regardless of who's telling the truth, this most recent rift offers a reminder of just
how rocky the relationships between the two nations remain.
Cuban officials wouldn't be fooled twice this year.
After the largest protests in 30 years caught them off guard in July, the government made
sure to stamp out the next protest before it even started.
As news spread of a potential pro-democracy, freedom of expression demonstration, the state
didn't let noted protestors leave their homes, arrested congregators, and released
media claiming that protests were an attempt of regime change by the hands of the US.
One European country has proved especially welcome to Afghan refugees, and it's one
of the continent's poorest.
Albania, bolstered by a country familiar with and receptive to immigrants, pledged to take
in as many as 4,000 Afghans.
The nearly 700 that made it to the coastal nation were put up in beachside resorts.
Albania is likely just a year-long stop for refugees as they seek to secure visas to countries
that offer more opportunity, but Albania has made it clear that they're more than welcome
to stay should they want to.
Michael B. Jordan understands first-hand the baggage that comes with a name.
Perhaps that's why the actor was willing to change the name of his new rum brand, initially
called Juvert, once Trinidad and Tobagoans took offense to his trademarking the term
that refers to the opening of their famed Carnaval.
Labeling the act as cultural appropriation, thousands from Trinidad and Tobago signed
an online petition to protect and respect a word that means so much to their culture.
The coca de mer, a palm tree that produces the world's largest and, subjectively the
most inappropriate seed in the world, only exists in Seychelles.
In fact, the tree only grows on two of the archipelago's 115 islands while the rare
seed, sold mostly to bemused tourists, fetches up to $260.
Beloved by islanders, heavily regulated by the government, and yet still endangered,
Seychelles is taking a new approach to conserving the tree by putting seeds in the hands of
locals.
Those interested in growing the tree on their property can apply for the honor and must
prove they have enough room and the right soil for the palm to take off.
Sending mail to the Chagos Archipelago became a bit more difficult this year.
Recognizing Mauritius' sovereignty over the chain of islands that's now one of Britain's
last and most controversial colonial holdings, the UN's postal union decided it would no
longer recognize postage stamps issued by the British Indian Overseas Territory of the
UK.
This move adds ever so slightly to the pressure on Britain to leave the chain and represents
another baby step towards returning home for Chagossians forcibly relocated to Mauritius
decades ago.
Cristiano Ronaldo couldn't wait to get home after a controversial call in Serbia cost
him and his country important World Cup qualifying points.
However, throwing his captain's armband down in disgust as he exited the pitch unintentionally
did a world of good for a six-month-old Serbian boy with spinal muscular atrophy.
Added to a charity group who then auctioned off the armband, Ronaldo's frustration resulted
in a $71,000 haul—money which went directly to the six-month-old's treatment.
In Kuwait, things aren't looking quite as dire for those nearing the other end of the
age spectrum as the country's legislator reversed a ban on employing expatriates over
the age of 60.
Struck down because it had no legal basis, the ruling serves as just a respite for the
nation's expat population, who have been leaving by the thousands as the state continues
to push for the development of its domestic workforce through its years-long Kuwaitization
project.
A more substantial legal ruling was recorded this year in Malaysia, as the country's
highest court ruled that the Islamic provision that banned same-sex acts was unconstitutional.
LGBTQ advocates have called the ruling historic, as the country experienced an uptick in homophobic
sentiment in recent years.
This ruling, though, does not legalize same-sex acts, as a civil law from Britain's colonial
era banning those is still on the books.
Costa Rica earned some well-deserved national attention, but the country was named one of
the five winners of the Earthshot Prize—a global sustainability effort spearheaded by
Prince William and Kate Middleton.
Financed largely by taxes on fossil fuels, Costa Rica has handed more than $500 million
to landowners over the past 20 years to protect forests and watersheds.
The effort has largely reversed deforestation in the country.
While the prize money is nice, the international recognition serves as a proof of concept for
other nations, and a pat on the back for forward-thinking Costa Rica.
Forward-thinking was the praise Georgia thought it might reap when the country broke ground
on its, quote, hyper-modern Parliament building a decade ago.
Today, though, it sits empty, and its glass windows meant to signal government transparency
gather dust.
Done in by its distance from the capital and the new political regime's distaste for
it, the building was abandoned in 2018, then put up for sale through May of 2021, when
the government finally gave up on finding a buyer.
As Georgia gave up on its governmental greenhouse, Oman announced their aim to build a massive
green hydrogen plant.
Oman's following the forward-thinking theme by working to smooth an impending economic
transition as 85% of the country's GDP is generated from oil and gas—resources which
the country is quickly running out of.
Powered by wind and solar, it's hoped that the $30 billion project will be producing
and exporting renewable energy at full capacity by 2038.
In the very same year that Barbados ended symbolic ties with the Queen of England and
became a republic, the nation's most famous export, Rihanna, became a national hero.
Well, technically the artist, entrepreneur, and proud Bajan has been a national icon in
the country for more than a decade, but this year her legendary status became official
when the new republic's prime minister designated her a national hero.
Already an ambassador for the Caribbean country, and recently named the world's richest female
musician, it seems that Rihanna's reign just won't let up, and Barbados is all the
better for it.
At the other end of the Caribbean, three Cubans survived 33 days on a barren Bahamian island
before being rescued by the US Coast Guard.
After capsizing at sea, likely in an attempt to flee Cuba, the three washed up on one of
the least hospitable Bahamas, surviving on coconut water, conch shells, and rats.
After receiving brief medical attention in Florida, the resourceful survivors were handed
over to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
This isn't the first time the Bahamas have found itself as the meeting point between
Cuban defectors and the US, as a similar rescue took place a few islands over, not months
before this one.
The Bahamas have hardly been the focal point for dangerous American migrations, though.
It's been a record-breaking year for Panama immigration officials as a whopping 70,000
migrants from around the world have passed through the Darien Gap and into the country.
Such incredible numbers making their way through the undeveloped, densely forested, and crime-riddled
route with no formal roadways has pushed Panamanian and Colombian officials to begin regulating
the number of entrants into the Darien Gap—potentially a first step in making the journey safer for
the desperate migrants.
International collaboration was the context that informed an embarrassing development
in Bulgaria.
Led by the US Army, the NATO military exercise called Swift Response brought together 7,000
paratroopers from ten member nations for some joint practice.
Swift Response, though, quickly became seriously regrettable when American soldiers accidentally
left the training zone and barged into and cleared out a Bulgarian sunflower oil factory.
The factory has since filed a lawsuit while the US Embassy, for its part, has apologized
for the mistake.
Netflix further expanded its reach when it greenlit the company's first feature-length
film shot in Uruguay.
The company's VP of Latin American Content has hailed the project as an exciting opportunity
to highlight the creative talent in the country.
While it's unlikely that viewers will recognize names when the credits roll, the film, named
Togo, will fit right in in the current cinematic canon as the crime revolves around street-level
drug trafficking and organized crime.
Following the appearance of mysterious metallic monoliths across the American West and in
Romania, a similar structure appeared in southwest Turkey, but this one came with a message in
ancient Turkish—quote, look at the sky and you will see the moon.
Residents didn't have to wait long on an explanation as to the origins of the structure
and its innocuous truism, though, as only days after its discovery, President Erdogan
used the monolith as a background when he announced the country's new space program
and ten-year vision, proving the monolith's function as an eye-rolling gimmick.
By overlooking tradition at the Tokyo Olympics, one sprinter, rather than running for her
country, ran away from it.
Accusing her coaches of negligence before being pulled from her event and pressured
to return home to Belarus, Kristina Sayu-Muskaja fled to the Polish embassy where she was granted
a humanitarian visa.
The incident exemplifies the mounting pressure on Belarusian public figures under the country's
increasingly authoritarian government as she joins a growing list of athletes, coaches,
and high-profile Belarusians that have faced job loss, arrest, or imprisonment when voicing
discontent with the government in the past two years.
State overreach is also the fear in Russia, as the Moscow Metro has implemented a new
method of payment at over 240 stations called FacePay.
As the program's name suggests, Moscow commuters can now leave their phone and wallet at home
and simply smile for the camera to board the train.
In a country where governmental transparency is hard to come by and facial recognition
has been allegedly used to identify protestors, FacePay has human rights groups and dubious
citizens concerned by the project's potential ulterior motives.
In another former Soviet state, government officials made a statement as to where their
current allegiances lie when they kicked out an outspoken US-Russian dual national.
Receiving a letter notifying he was barred from entry into Kazakhstan, Gene Bunnan, who
founded a victim's database to track the incarceration of Uyghurs in western China,
serves as an example as to how closely Kazakhstan has come to align itself with China, not only
turning a blind eye to what the US and UN have come to define as genocide, but now seemingly
helping to quiet dissent within its own borders.
While some bonds are strengthening in Central Asia, others in the Pacific are beginning
to crumble.
The result of a vote on the new Secretary-General for the Pacific Islands Forum was the last
straw for the tiny Micronesian country of Palau, who announced they'd be leaving the
organization.
The coalition long had an informal tradition of rotating its Secretary-General position
between Micronesian, Polynesian, and Melanesian politicians, but the election of a Cook Islands
politician was a break from convention that left Micronesian nations like Palau and other
small island states that would follow their lead, feeling slighted and voiceless in the
organization's proceedings.
Trophy hunting of large carnivores is banned in Romania, but that didn't stop Prince
Emmanuel von Unzerlichtenstein of Austria from shooting the country's, and potentially
the European Union's, single largest brown bear.
While the Prince had authorization from the Romanian government to hunt a female nuisance
bear causing problems for a small farm town, he managed to bag the massive 17-year-old
Arthur, whether by accident or intentionally, is under investigation.
In another mountainous Eastern European country, construction crews put the finishing touches
on a state-of-the-art highway that cuts through rugged Montenegro.
Rather than celebrating, though, residents are beginning to ask questions about the road's
one billion dollar price tag.
The road only connects a few small communities, including the town at its terminus, Matasevo,
home to a population of 15.
An early Belt and Road project built by Chinese crews, Montenegro's finances are now seriously
strained by the road that really doesn't serve much of a purpose.
The people of Brunei are hoping for more sage decision-making from the new CEO of the
nation's largest financial institution, Bank Islam Brunei Dar Es Salaam.
Hij Nouriani will be the first female CEO of the bank that manages $10 billion of assets
and has expanded across Southeast Asia and into the Middle East in recent years.
After naming three women to top positions in 2019, the move follows an empowering trend
at the bank in the traditionally conservative country.
In Argentina, a 30-year-old confirmed an age-old maxim—if it's too good to be true, then
true, it usually is.
Searching for an explanation for a momentary Google outage, Nicolas Corona found that the
domain google.com.ar had expired, and that he could buy it for a modest $2.60.
The Argentine quickly scooped up the domain that, if everything broke his way, could be
worth millions.
The domain didn't prove a golden ticket, though, but a mistake as Google's ownership
hadn't lapsed, but in the end, Corona came out of the situation a few dollars lighter.
And a country that's been in the headlines for all the wrong reasons in the past few
years has emerged a more positive story.
Rolls-Royce and Qatar announced a multi-year, multi-billion dollar partnership aimed to
foster green technology companies.
The partnership will build two campuses, one in each country, create an estimated 1,000
jobs, and hopefully provide the resources and facilities for sustainability-oriented
startups to take off.
Prosecc and Prosecco are two different types of wine with two different names.
Almost how different the names are, though, has Croatia and Italy at loggerheads.
Croatia has sought to trademark the name of their Prosecc with the European Commission
under the assumption that consumers would be able to differentiate it from Italian Prosecco.
Italian wine aficionados think differently, and are fighting the move on account of potential
confusion.
Italians also see the effort as an attack on Italian products more broadly, as Prosecco
is a denomination of controlled origin—a wine that only comes from a specific region.
The world's largest mammal, the blue whale, only feeds in a few specific regions—one
of which is off the coast of Chilean Patagonia.
Unfortunately for the endangered species, the water is also teeming with fishing vessels
working the busy salmon farming industry, with up to 1,000 boats a day passing through
the feeding grounds.
This traffic has led to a handful of fatal collisions between boat and blue whale.
With the regional population estimated to be only in the hundreds, conservationists
are scrambling to figure out a compromise that gives the whales a bit more room.
Bahrain is keen on finding a bit more room, too—so keen, in fact, that the archipelago
nation announced plans to expand its landmass by 60%.
The island-building initiative will enlarge Bahrain's footprint, construct five new
cities, and, the government hopes, attract billions in foreign investment.
The project is set to build out tourist attractions, a sports city, and a commercial zone.
From sports cities to sports washing, it was a big year for professional athletics in Saudi
Arabia.
Despite its high-profile, highly controversial takeover of Newcastle United, the country
also announced a partnership between Gulf Saudi and the Asian tour that'll keep a
Saudi stomp on Asia's preeminent Gulf circuit and provide prize funding for a decade to
come.
While a quieter development than the Newcastle deal, many denounced the move as another attempt
to move conversation and attention away from the country's human rights record with glitz
and games.
Issues with human rights records will be impossible to miss if the Chinese Fudan University is
to follow through with building a campus in Budapest, Hungary.
Many of the city's population oppose the project, and the city's mayor has called
it an instance of, quote, Chinese influence buying.
Residents are becoming increasingly creative in their pushback, recently renaming nearby
streets Uyghur Martyrs, Dalai Lama, and Free Hong Kong Road.
One car skipped the streets entirely on its way from the Nitra Airport in Slovakia to
that in Bratislava—instead, the prototype flew the 35-minute route.
For Klein Vision's aircar, it was the 142nd landing, but an important first too as the
car successfully transitioned into normal car mode in just minutes.
While behind on the timeline that science fiction authors envisioned, flying cars are
slowly coming around with Klein, Hyundai, and GM leading the way.
Portugal's parliament pushed into the future of labor when it passed progressive measures
to protect its increasingly online workforce.
In response to the shift to working from home, new laws bar employers from contacting employees
during off-hours, allow parents of children under eight to work from home without bosses'
approval, and require employers to pitch in on employees' electricity costs.
The move comes in response to the pandemic, but also as an effort to protect Portugal's
reputation as an attractive place for digital nomads to set up shop.
Finding the remains of a different sort of nomad in Latvia cast doubt on previous theories
as to the dramatic decline of Stone Age peoples across Western Europe 5,000 years ago.
DNA analysis of a hunter-gatherer showed the man died of the plague, making him the earliest
victim of what was thought to have caused the mysterious population decline.
Analysis, however, also showed that the strain he carried didn't spread easily, and caused
milder symptoms than iterations that would follow.
Now, rather than plague, scientists are looking at climate change as a catalyst.
Successful Spanish YouTubers are making like wealthy bankers and professional athletes
before them, and running to the hills of Andorra.
One Spanish creator called Andorra the quote, Silicon Valley of YouTube, as the country
has quickly developed into a creative meeting place, luring in the like-minded with light
taxes, relative anonymity, and less stringent lockdown policies.
The move has been a boon for Andorra's sputtering economy, and a real loss for Spain's, where
local media has gone so far as to call Spanish YouTubers relocating unpatriotic.
A sputtering economy, many feel, would be the result should Poland pivot away from coal.
Currently, 70% of the country's energy comes from the non-renewable super polluter, and
coal companies and miner unions hold serious political power.
But Poland's appetite, and the massive strip mine on its border, are running Czech wells
dry, or at least so the Czech Republic accuses.
Citing European environmental laws, the Czech Republic has sued Poland, setting off a wave
of conspiracy theories across coal country.
Conspiratorial might seem like a good way to describe Lithuania's defense ministry
calling for citizens to throw their Chinese-made cell phones away.
The request, though, comes after the nation's cybersecurity center found that the Shomi
Corp, a Chinese phone maker, have censored technology built into devices that track 449
terms, including the likes of Free Tibet and Democracy Movement.
The finding comes as relationships between China and Lithuania sour over Taiwan.
One internationally recognized state, one defiant self-identifying state, two UK military
bases, and one UN buffer zone to keep the peace hint at Cyprus' geopolitical complexity.
Things didn't get any simpler in 2021, when Turkish President Erdogan announced that in
celebration of the 47th anniversary of Turkey invading the island, the country planned to
resettle an abandoned and formerly Greek Cypriot tourist town.
Celebrating an invasion with a different sort of invasion has received poor marks from the
US, the UN, and Greek Cypriots.
While heated geopolitical relations and politicians' hot air pose a threat in the Mediterranean,
so too does literal heat.
Greece, particularly vulnerable to climate change generally, and especially heat waves,
has decided to begin to name the extreme bouts of heat.
Categorizing heat waves is tricky, but any standardization will allow the country to
better systematically respond to temperature upticks and communicate the danger.
2021 marked the end of the Free Latifa campaign, as the movement hatched three years ago finally
saw its vision come to fruition.
Princess Latifa was captured by her father, Dubai's Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum,
while trying to express a little self-determination and leave the United Arab Emirates.
She had hardly been seen in the past three years, but it seems her confinement came to
an abrupt end as an Instagram photo showed the princess traveling in Iceland, and a verifiable
statement quoted her saying she could now, quote, travel where I want.
Italian motorcyclists and golfers can now, within reason, travel where they want to,
and do so in style.
The historic Italian car company, ESO, is relaunching with a young backer from the famed
lineage leading the way.
Catching the company up with the present and charging it into the future, Ferruccio Lamborghini
and team are launching a motorcycle and golf cart that are modern, stylish, and sustainable.
Both vehicles are completely electric.
A scarecrow of the seas may help to save lives of thousands of seabirds each year, thanks
to researchers in Estonia who help develop a buoy with googly eyes.
The device floats above small-scale fishing operation gillnets, which can be lethal to
diving seabirds, and deters them from coming near.
In fact, scientists found it reduced the congregating birds by about a quarter, who are turned off
by eye contact and erratic buoy behavior.
Another sort of deterrent is the addition of Malta to an international gray list kept
by Financial Action Task Force—a watchdog organization meant to monitor money laundering
and terrorism funding.
In recent years, the island nation's low tax rate for foreign companies has attracted
substantial banking and investment, but that also makes it ripe for abuse.
It's the first European Union nation to be listed, and could potentially affect the
upward trajectory of Malta as wealthy investors look to alternate locations, given its now
tenuous nature.
One of Europe's wealthiest people, and the Czech Republic's richest man, Peter Kellner,
was tragically killed in a helicopter crash while heli-skiing in Alaska, along with four
additional passengers.
Kellner was estimated to be worth $17.5 billion, and his death follows a string of recent fatal
high-profile helicopter accidents, including Kobe Bryant and French billionaire Olivier
Dussault.
On the coast, France and the United Kingdom finally settled some post-Brexit bickering
over fishing.
France wanted the British government to issue a number of fishing licenses to small French
boats so they could continue harvesting in British waters, and the Brits stalled, citing
a number of technicalities from the French side.
The issue simmered to a threat of trade sanctions level, but cooler heads prevailed, an agreement
was met, and 83 fishing licenses were assigned before it reached a boiling point.
Another agreement was reached in Spain, but this one pertains to many people's go-to
source for the day's headlines—Google News.
Banned from the country for six years because Spain required Google to pay a central fee
to media organizations for use of their stories, the new law now allows Google parent company
Alphabet to negotiate directly with publishers for content.
Now, more than 1,000 Spanish media organizations can be sourced for news from a single smartphone.
Speaking of smartphones, it may have gone unnoticed in your Apple-happy world, but South
Korean manufacturer LG announced its departure from the phone market.
Once ranked only behind Apple and Samsung for smartphone manufacturing, the company
has had a series of bad reviews and technical rollouts, prompting it to shift its focus
to other areas, such as connected devices for home, robotics, and artificial intelligence.
LG joins Ericsson and HTC in the cell phone graveyard.
Smart is also the way to describe Amazon's accountants.
The company had a record-breaking 2020 in Europe, hauling in some $50 billion, but it
managed to pay zero in corporate taxes to Luxembourg, home to its European headquarters.
Of course, it's all legal, but when a company not only doesn't pay anything, but also
declares losses which result in tax credits to the tune of $63 million, there was some
definite eye-rolling and belt-tightening from policymakers looking to benefit from the boom.
The government in Slovenia is running an alleged crusade against culture, with Prime Minister
Jénez Jensa replacing the heads of several arts organizations in what some are calling
a shift to more conservative approaches.
Jensa, who had served twice in the role prior to being ousted for corruption, named new
leaders for the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary History, and Moderna Galleria,
and he continues to terminate leases from arts organizations that rent space from the
government.
He denies that it's an orchestrated movement, but for many, it's hard to paint over the
facts.
Low government limitations have led to a hot streak of gambling development in Liechtenstein,
one of the world's smallest countries, now home to five casinos.
That may sound like a so-so number, but it puts it per capita above Monaco, Macau, and
Las Vegas' Clark County.
One reason?
The gambling tax rate is lower than in neighboring countries, and the government there hasn't
set caps on the number of casinos that can be built.
Five more are in the pipeline, which means the foreign investors largely responsible
for them are betting big on the future.
Tensions are rising between Japan and the tandem of China and Russia.
While they've been escalating for years because of Beijing's increased presence
on islands controlled by Japan but claimed by Russia, they hit a new high when a ten-ship
Chinese-Russian flotilla circumnavigated Japan's main island this summer.
China and Russia say it was merely a diplomatic exercise, but Japan is worried a threatening
presence mean it will need to increase defense spending and be more on guard.
Spying seems to be a trend, but the United States told Israel they don't want to play
that game.
Daily spyware maker NSO Group was placed on an American blacklist after it was reasonably
confirmed that the NSO's signature product, Pegasus, was used by foreign governments against
dissidents, journalists, diplomats, and clergy members.
The blacklisting means, among other things, that NSO won't be able to buy components
from US companies for its products—something Apple is ensuring after suing the group this
year as well.
Austrian tourism officials want to encourage viewing of the country's nude sculptures
and paintings that pepper museums, but social media platforms' censorship policies have
made their promotion difficult.
So, Vienna did what anyone trying to get around the no private parts policy would do—they
opened an account on the adults-only app Onlyfans.
Many of the works are critical to national cultural history, and now they're free to
promote the exhibitions without that fuzzy bar.
2021 wasn't all spying, censorship, and general contention—there were positive developments
too.
United States-based dictionary.com named allyship its word of the year.
Originally added to dictionary.com in 2021, allyship rose in popularity during the Black
Lives Matter movements across the world, but its definition makes clear that its applications
are even farther reaching.
One says, quote, the role of a person who advocates for inclusion of a marginalized
or politicized group in solidarity but not as a member.
More word searches means there's certainly more of this going on.
This is a story about the good guy winning, but this time, it's a lobster.
A Canadian grocer noticed that no one was purchasing a certain carrot-colored crustacean,
but on top of that, it was being picked on by other lobsters in the tank.
After several weeks, he bought the lobster himself and donated it to the Toronto Aquarium,
where it was discovered his strange hue was a one in 30 million genetic mutation.
Pinchy, the lobster, avoided the plate and now has a more permanent, public home.
In an effort to speed up the development of more homebuilding in New Zealand, to combat
the 30% increase in housing costs and shortage of inventory, officials are cutting red tape
and making it easier for developers to address a housing crisis so dire that it's drawn
international attention.
Specifically, they're changing some density regulations, allowing for up to three homes
of three stories on one site, versus one home of two stories—a move that some predict
will erect 48,000 to 106,000 new homes in the next five to eight years.
Expansion is something that a Belgian farmer accidentally did when he moved a several hundred
pound stone seven feet into France.
The historic markers delineate the borders between the two countries, and a team of Frenchmen
who patrol the remote countryside verifying the positions noticed the errant stone.
Luckily, the farmer wasn't charged with violating the international treaty that certifies
the border—a crime that could have resulted in a territorial war instead of a slap on
the wrist.
To the north, the United Kingdom is rapidly trying to make up for centuries of contributing
to climate change.
To that end, it launched the world's most powerful tidal turbine off the port of Dundee,
creating enough electricity for 2,000 homes, and Rolls-Royce announced the development
of 16 smaller, cheaper nuclear power plants to electrify one million homes.
Britain is already one of the largest wind energy producers in the world—not bad for
the country that started the Industrial Revolution.
Have you ever heard of Grab or a SPAC?
In this story, we have both.
Grab is a Singapore-based super app that offers everything from ride-sharing to banking in
one tap.
SPAC is a special purpose acquisition company—an investment strategy in which a larger company
merges with a publicly traded shell company in order to exploit going public.
Grab signed a $39.5 billion merger deal with a US SPAC, which brought the company public
on the NASDAQ stock exchange on December 2nd.
That makes it the largest ever deal of its kind, and means we should pay attention to
both SPACs and Grab ASAP.
Finland has a lot going for it, including being named the happiest country in the world
for the fourth consecutive year.
But one thing it can't nail is labor retention, and, in fact, one study shows a major reason
foreign students leave Helsinki within their first year of graduating is the language barrier.
These difficulties prompted the mayor to suggest transitioning the capital city to
speaking English primarily—that may help employment, but TBD on happiness.
We've talked a lot about ways to create green energy.
Another way to fight climate change is by consuming less meat, and Denmark is leading
the European Union in this effort by giving $90 million to farmers who produce plant-based
foods over the next five years.
The country eats a lot of pork, but the sale of plant-based foods there has increased by
$8 million in two years.
Things might not fly, and they might not be the only thing on the menu anymore, either.
Just to the southwest, officials in the Netherlands unveiled a plan to reduce the country's
livestock by one-third over the next 13 years, but it's for a different reason—there's
too much poop.
The country has over one million cattle, chickens, and pigs—the highest density in Europe—and
can't quite contain their waste without polluting important waterways.
Farmers, naturally, are pushing back, even though the multi-billion dollar plan intends
to pay them to essentially exit the industry.
Maybe they can jump on Denmark's plant-based paddy wagon.
Also planning for the future is the 2032 Olympic Committee, and specifically, Australia.
It was announced that Brisbane will be the host of the Summer Games in ten years, and
what's notable about this election isn't the place, but the process.
Instead of expensive, competitive, and often corrupt bidding wars pitting cities against
one another, bids are now submitted and then reviewed behind closed doors by selection
committees—in this case, the best mate won.
In Sweden, Magdalena Anderson won but wasn't too happy with her first day on the job, so
the Swedish Prime Minister resigned just 12 hours in because the Junior Green Party also
quit, throwing her coalition into chaos.
She indicated she'd lead a social-Democrat single-party and was re-elected a week later,
becoming the first female Prime Minister of Sweden—for a second time.
The second time was not as successful for a criminal in Germany, whose first crime involved
a burglary in 2012.
He got away with that one, and a bite of sausage, which left behind some DNA evidence that the
police held onto.
Fast forward to today, when he committed a more violent crime, and the genetic residue
linked him to the decade-old heist through an international information sharing library.
However, the statute of limitations expired, and he's gone free—proving there's no
bite out of crime this time.
So, we're five from the end, and the truth is a lot of headlines you missed are about
the way these recent, more developed countries are adapting and attacking climate change.
Iceland started operating the world's first direct air capture technology, which turned
CO2 into rock, but perhaps more quirky is that the country also performed the world's
first double arm and shoulder transplant to replace the limbs a man lost in a work accident
more than two decades prior.
Progress on the micro- and macro-level is something to high-five about.
Now a quick disclaimer before this next story—the UN lists 189 HDI scores, and while a vast
majority of those scores correlate to countries, the UN makes sure to acknowledge their list
is a compilation of, quote, 189 countries and UN-recognized territories.
We've now arrived at the only territory on their list, and while technically not a
country, we figured the more news the better so we've gone ahead and included the Chinese
territory of Hong Kong.
Disney Plus finally launched in Hong Kong in 2021, and while much of the streaming service's
content provides a needed escape from the chaos and confusion that's embroiled the
Chinese territory in the past few years, one omission from the Simpsons catalog hints at
just how inescapable the tension has become.
Noticeably absent was episode 12 of season 16 that has the Simpson family visiting China,
and specifically Tiananmen Square, and while minor for plot purposes, its disappearance
signals the increasing reach of government censorship in the traditionally independent
city.
The Swiss are notoriously on time, but they were late to join the same-sex marriage party.
The country finally approved a marriage-for-all initiative with two-thirds voting in favor,
becoming one of the last Western European countries to do so.
Switzerland, known for neutrality, is slow on inclusivity issues, and didn't allow
women the right to vote until 1971, so this, though sluggish in adoption, is a cultural
win.
It also took a while for Irish authorities to come down on enforcing the European Union's
three-year-old General Data Protection Regulation, which is a comprehensive data privacy law.
But they served META's WhatsApp with a $270 million fine for not being transparent on
how it uses people's data across the company's platforms.
Many tech companies' headquarters are based in Ireland, where corporate tax rates are
low, so there may be more cases like this, which of course is being contested by WhatsApp,
to come.
And finally, it feels appropriate to end on a note that reminds us about the scale of
humanity.
In Norway, a large meteor lit up the summer night sky for five to six seconds before,
in all likelihood, crashing into a densely wooded area about 40 miles or 60 kilometers
west of the country's capital.
Some people reported a strong wind created by the pressure from it, and while it may
take years to find its physical remains, the blazing meteor, for a fleeting moment, captured
the attention of thousands of onlookers—a rare instance of singularity in an ever-individual
world.
Of course, the news doesn't stop with Norway, nor does it end with the end of the year,
but you don't have to wait for us to highlight interesting stories that may have fallen through
the cracks.
Sign up for Morning Brew for free today, and they'll deliver these stories straight to
your inbox each and every morning.
If you're interested in business, tech, or finance, or you're simply trying to clean
up a morning routine that has you endlessly scrolling through social media, then Morning
Brew and its informative, quick, witty newsletters are for you.
It's certainly for me, too—look no further than my story from Portugal.
All the information I needed to outline Portugal's unique work-from-home legislation was available
in a quick three-minute read put together by Morning Brew.
Of course, Morning Brew doesn't just provide fodder for YouTube or content—it keeps me
informed on the everyday going-ons, from the main points on Biden's most recent statement
on the pandemic to important statistics on America's current birth rate and its future
impact on the economy.
The newsletter is completely free, it takes less than 15 seconds to subscribe, and you
can stay on top of the news by clicking the button onscreen or following the link in the
description below.
