Hey guys, Dev here.
I'm a bit sick, everyone here is right now, but I think I'm well enough to get through
doing this video.
For our first new Indefensible video since September, we decided to just dip our toes
into the waters of Gamergate at first.
There will be more investigative videos in the future, but for now I think it's important
to discuss where we are and what we should be doing.
Everybody remembers Internet aristocrat's self-destruction on his way out of Gamergate.
I know it's a bit old, but I'd like to address a few of his points.
And to be frank with you, the whole Gamergate thing is depressing.
It was the opportunity to finally kick the teeth in of social justice warriors and tumblorettes
and draw a fucking line in the sand and push back against all these hypersensitive cunts.
And for a while it was working really, really well.
All you had to do was attack.
Now I'm going to use an analogy here.
I understand there's a major difference in scale, like millions of orders of magnitude
difference in scale, but the basic social mechanisms are identical.
When you have, say, a nation undergoing social upheaval, the social structure is generally
made up of elites at the top, running government and society, and the mass of common people
at the bottom, living within a social system that does not benefit them.
This division is primarily class-based, but is commonly, but not always, also racially
based, gender-based, religious-based, or ethnically based.
When commoners rise up against social power, there's three ways for it to end.
One, the elites come down hard on the people and their strength ends the revolt.
This generally leads to more oppression than before.
Two, reformation.
The people work within the current system and fix it to be more fair and just.
Three, revolution.
The people determine that the old system cannot be reformed, and they must build a new one
to take its place, and in the case of a nation, this often requires armed conflict.
However, when the commoners are unwilling to take option three, even when option two
has been exhausted, like we've recently seen in Egypt during the Arab Spring, for example,
inevitably option one is what will happen.
Now, let me reiterate, Gamergate is obviously not a cause worth taking up arms for, nor
would any good actually come of it if some deranged lunatic did actually do that.
However, the social structure and the forces within are still the same.
When Internet aristocrat says, all you had to do was attack, he's saying, keep up option
two.
Eventually.
But it won't.
All a corrupt government has to do to avoid non-violent protests is to hole up behind
their walls, and all a corrupt publication has to do is circle their wagons.
We have proven journalists to be corrupt, and their bosses would rather protect their
corrupt employees instead of step up and do what ethics would require of them.
We have proven entire publications to be corrupt, and they simply wear it as armor.
You cannot just keep attacking and expect the system to suddenly see the reason in your
point of view and reform itself.
Your just keep attacking mentality seems more like something from a 4chan raid designed
to troll everybody rather than actually doing something constructive.
For Gamergate, option three, that is, tearing down the old system and building a new one
in its place, is our only course of action, with special emphasis on building a new one
in its place.
It is not enough to just drive Gawker bankrupt or run Destructoid out of business, though
that is an important step.
Despite what naysayers may be throwing around, we are doing just that.
There's an article on Clocked that talks about traffic numbers of the relevant websites
in greater detail.
Alexa numbers for these publications since Gamergate began do show a lot of decreases
in activity, but also some increases, leading many people, most famously Angry Joe of all
individuals, to believe that Gamergate is having no effect of the traffic of these sites
and is largely a violent, misogynistic vocal minority.
Even though a statistical analysis, run by Chris von Svalve, has shown that Gamergate
is most likely a movement made up of over 150,000 individuals, with only a dozen or
so of them actually sending violent or threatening messages.
The discovery of which got him sent death threats by people opposed to Gamergate, by
the way.
However, the Clocked article describes in detail how using Alexa numbers, the way most
of us have been thus far, pro or anti, is flawed.
I'll let you read it yourself, but basically the bounce rate of these websites, that is,
the people who immediately leave a site upon opening it up, has been rising consistently,
for all publications since Gamergate began, while the numbers of consistent readers has
been steadily decreasing.
To me, this sounds like more and more people who are getting clickbaited into reading an
article on Kotaku or something are noticing where that link brought them and immediately
are leaving.
So yes, we are hurting them, they are losing money, and we are succeeding, and it's necessary
that all efforts regarding the boycott of these unethical publications continue.
Now at the risk of alienating a lot of you, this is why I believe in social justice.
Not what Tumblr or Twitter thinks social justice is, not what SJWs or SRS cultists scream about.
I promise you, when somebody's Twitter profile says social justice warrior or social justice
dog or whatever, they don't know what social justice is.
Social justice is, in essence, the process of reform and revolution.
It's when the common people realize the elites have set up a social system in which commoners
are exploited and elites are advantaged.
This can be nationwide, this can be within a small community, it can be within a subculture.
That is the mechanism by which social justice is achieved.
And this is what Gamergate is doing.
Remember my criteria from earlier in this video?
There is a social system in which a group of elites are privileged, and they all help
maintain each other's privilege.
The game journal pros list seems to fit that bill.
The elites are largely divided from us among class lines.
But with most game journals and developers within the elite group being able to afford
living in the more expensive urban centers in North America, with many of them being
trust fund babies, they are also divided from us along lines of race as well, most of them
being white.
Tearing down their ivory tower and building a system more equitable to all is the core
tenet of actual social justice.
In fact, this is what Smash the Patriarchy originally meant.
Second Wave feminists knew they couldn't simply smash the patriarchy without constructing
a more equitable system to take its place.
But Third Wave feminists are only interested in the destruction, completely leaving the
reconstructing out of it.
This is how I know that when people like Maya Kramer show up with their cuties killing video
games merchandise, or when Lea Alexander and whoever else talks about gamers being dead
or over, they fundamentally don't understand social justice.
Because they're only interested in the killing, in hurting other people, in tearing things
down.
They don't recognize that feminism requires building anew as well.
They glorify destruction and spurn any reconstructive efforts that would lead to lasting equality.
In short, Gamergate is actually performing the actions that social justice and feminism
require for a social revolution to take place within the subculture of gaming.
And I think this is the main reason why we have received so much pushback.
The establishment, the elites, the journals and the developers talk all day about social
justice but don't actually do anything about it.
And when us, the common people, the people without class privilege come along and try
to do actual social justice, they fight us, because they know in terms of actual social
justice, they're the oppressor.
Internet aristocrat was right about just one thing.
We can't be like them.
We can't simply tear down and not rebuild.
However, rebuilding an entirely new framework takes time, energy, and frankly money.
I don't know what you expect when you say this.
Go look at the people who are prominent figures right now in Gamergate, and see how many
of them have Indiegogo campaigns, how many of them have Kickstarter campaigns, how many
of them have Patreons, how many have ad revenue on their fucking videos.
Everybody's making a buck.
Do you think people should just build a completely alternate system of games journalism and travel
to events and report on news all for free?
No.
The truth of it is we must all pitch in.
It is not enough to boycott Gawker and Destructoid on RPS and Gamasutra.
We also need to frequent sites with actual ethical standards.
Everybody's talking about TechRaptor right now due to the Pinsauf interview.
NewsNosh and NicheGamer were held up at the beginning of Gamergate as being some of
the only websites willing to even allow discussion of it.
Do you want to see these sites grow in size and staff and viewership to be the new replacements
for the old corrupt publications?
That takes money and patronage, man.
BasedGamer is another great example of this, of people within Gamergate coming together
to create a Rotten Tomatoes-style aggregator, something that games journalism desperately
needs.
On one of IA's streams, of which I was a part of actually, Milo said to all of us
that people within Gamergate should consider creating an independent body to judge the
ethical practices of all games journalism publications on an annual basis, similar to
the one that exists within the mainstream media.
It is not enough to tear down the old systems.
We also must build their replacements.
And it's not enough to simply wish for it to happen.
We have to be willing to do it by our own hands.
Speaking of Angry Joe, his video was actually pretty fair, but there are a few things I'd
like to talk about.
He mentions early on that you can be for ethics in journalism and not be a part of Gamergate.
You can be for gaming ethics, I have been for gaming ethics, TotalBiscuit has been for
gaming ethics before the creation of the Gamergate hashtag, and we will be after.
You can be for gaming ethics without self-identifying with a stupid hashtag on Twitter.
I suppose that's true, in much the same way that you can be for gender equality and not
be a feminist.
This is mostly a semantic point, but I've always thought semantic points are actually
very important, because use of labels shows how we see the world.
A feminist, by the dictionary definition, is somebody who believes in gender equality.
Therefore, if you believe in gender equality, you are a feminist.
A person who believes in gender equality, but says I'm not a feminist, is technically
a feminist by definition, but wants to avoid being associated with a political group called
feminism.
I think Angry Joe is in this camp.
He believes in ethical journalism.
He thinks corruption is bad.
By that definition, that makes him a gamergator.
But he says he's neutral to gamergate.
His ideas on the topic align with gamergate the philosophy, but he has no desire to be
part of gamergate the political movement.
I know some people have seen this as cowardly or whatever, but I think it's fine.
I think this actually describes the vast majority of gamers.
And Joe, I'm a fan, and as much as I like your videos, I gotta correct a few things
you've said here.
Zoe Quinn, a female developer, her angry, jealous boyfriend fucking put all their dirty
laundry on the internet, just completely fucking doxxed all of her information, and accused
her of sleeping and cheating with numerous guys, and she confirmed it as well, sleeping
with a few other people.
Aaron didn't actually doxx anybody.
He put up their relationship drama, sure, and it's within his rights to do so no matter
what anybody thinks of it.
On a personal level, the Zoe post described a person who was emotionally abused in their
relationship, describing the abuse he suffered at the hands of his abuser.
Like you said, that's ultimately not our business, but when you go to a subreddit like Raised
by Narcissists, where children describe how their parents abused them, that's also not
anybody else's business, but people willingly provide their story.
Victims of abuse often find some comfort and healing in recounting their story.
However, Aaron didn't put up Zoe's address, a real name, or her porn pics, or anything
like that.
Other people did a whois on her website to see who it was registered to, and somebody
on 4chan spent the 10 bucks and bought her porn pics legally.
Saying that Aaron did that is just inaccurate.
Individuals within gamergate are largely left-wing and anti-authoritarian, which goes
to show just how far gamers were pushed when they all went flocking to the right-wing press
to receive actual coverage of gamergate, since those publications were the only ones willing
to tell the entire story.
It's no surprise that left-wingers will generally stick around left-wing publications to get
their news, but when left-wing authoritarians in charge of these outlets begin assassinating
their own left-wing anti-authoritarian fanbases for not falling in line, they drove them right
into the waiting arms of far-right extremists.
Gamergate became so viciously polarized, not because of right-wingers like Adam Baldwin
or Milo.
It was because the left tried to eat itself.
Asking for proof of unsubstantiated claims isn't a bad thing.
This photo is not a conspiracy theory, dude.
Brianna talks constantly about being forced to leave her house when she didn't actually
go anywhere, and that's something you just sort of hand-wave in your video.
Any name in gamergate, big or small, including myself, rejects the harassment of these people
whether done in our name or not.
But you act like questioning some of their more outrageous claims is tantamount to a
conspiracy theory when it's really just good practices.
Anyway, Joe, I doubt you'll see this, but if you end up watching it someday, don't
take this as an attack on you.
I think your video is mostly pretty fair, and I recommend everybody else go see it if
they haven't already.
I'll end the video off with this.
Eric Kane wrote an article entitled What Gamergate is Actually About, that I think best describes
what gamergate is, and in doing so highlights exactly where gamergate needs to go.
According to him, gamergate is not entirely a consumer movement, nor is it entirely about
ethics.
It's not a hate group, it's not about anti-SJWs, and it's not about conservativism in video
games either.
Rather, it's about a toxic relationship that's formed between the video game press and gamers
themselves, one that's been bubbling and brewing for years, not months.
This is the core of the issue.
Gaming is fundamentally a meritocracy.
Nothing matters aside from how well you do at the game.
Even if somebody sends you a slur over Xbox Live because you're a girl who's wrecking
their shit, at the end of the match it'll be you at the top of the scoreboard, not them.
Even in development it's a meritocracy.
Women have been part of some of the best games to ever come out in the past 30 years.
Nobody took a look at Mega Man or Bayonetta or Castlevania or Street Fighter or Mario
RPG or any of the other billions of games that women have worked on and said, oh wow,
those games are worse because women help make them.
No, nobody gives a shit.
It's based on the merit of the game.
The current elite at the top of the social structure, the journalists and developers
in their clique, they're left-wing authoritarians.
They ultimately want the gaming space to be run not on meritocracy, but rather on their
autocracy.
They don't care about getting women into games, they care about getting their women
into games.
They don't care about giving exposure to indie devs, they care about giving exposure
to their indie devs.
This has been proven time and again with biased coverage, illegal blacklists and rigged award
shows.
Eric was right.
There's a toxic relationship between the people who play games and people who report
on games.
And it's been building up for far longer than Gamergate's been around.
The toxic relationship began because gamers value competition and merit, while the journalists
wanted to control the message we receive with an iron fist instead of simply allowing merit
to bubble to the surface.
Just as I would tell somebody being abused in their relationship that they need to escape
from their authoritarian partner and find a safe space to heal, all people who play
video games need to leave these publications behind and rebuild our safe space where we
can freely be gamers again.
Because make no mistake, they're trying to take that from us.
They commonly say, oh we don't want to take away your games, we just want to diversify
games.
Don't believe them.
Diversifying games is good, and there are games that have been improved by its diverse
cast.
But this isn't their goal.
As soon as they got even the smallest semblance of a foothold, they moved to try and get games
like HuniePop kicked off Steam due to their subjective, sexist idea of what offensive
content is.
Diversifying games is good, and they talk about it, but it's not their goal.
Their goal is banning games they disapprove of.
But this is the future of Gamergate, abandoning the corrupt publications, boycotting them,
spreading the word about their practices, and rebuilding gaming again from the ground
up with new developers, new journalists, new ways to talk about games, ways that benefit
all of us, not just the privileged few.
Anyway, I know this video has meandered quite a bit, it's our channel's first real posting
on Gamergate in months, and I wanted to cover a number of topics that we sort of missed.
Camera's working on a more investigative style video discussing The Escapist, which should
be out in just over a week or so, so I hope you'll stick around and check it out.
Because I'm a shill, feel free to check out our other videos we do as well.
I hope you like them.
And I hope you liked this.
See you later, guys.
