You know, the notion that people must buy a product to defeat their cultural enemies,
regardless of the product's quality or their personal enjoyment of it,
is probably the greatest marketing gimmick ever conceived.
And really, regardless of the political slant of the product itself, or its audience,
everyone's doing this sort of thing now. I mean, it takes no time at all to hop on the internet
and find at least somebody who's angry about Joker getting a whole bunch of Oscar nominations,
considering how baselessly demonized and vilified that product was.
And even though it wasn't an incel movie,
the incel community did definitely embrace it and kind of push it as its own.
On the flip side of that, we have something like Ghostbusters 2016,
which was so bad that the next Ghostbusters movie is going to completely skip it
and continue from the original Ghostbusters canon.
People like AVGN, who's generally pretty apolitical,
even he came out and said,
no, I refuse, and received a massive backlash as being this hateful gamer man baby,
even though that's probably the single most inaccurate description of James Rolfe
that I've ever heard, regardless of what character he might play on the internet.
But despite the movie being a complete pile of shit and also being a financial failure,
people online, even to this day, still defend it because, hey, it's part of their team.
Ghostbusters 2016 was a glorious gift to fans.
And the new director is a bitter dude, bro,
who's going to make a steaming pile of shit and call it a masterpiece.
This is the thing.
It wasn't a glorious gift to fans.
It was a glorious gift to you.
Maybe you were a fan of the original Ghostbusters.
Who knows?
But very clearly, most of the fans didn't like it.
They didn't watch it.
It made no money.
People voted with their wallets.
But more than that, see what this person's done?
At least in terms of this conversation,
they've pinned it all on the fact that this movie had to be a success.
Now, unless she has stock in the production company or something, it actually doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter to me if I like a movie that no one else likes.
I can still like that movie.
I can still go and rewatch it whenever I like.
It isn't, or at least it shouldn't be,
a social or political statement to just enjoy the media that you like.
But that's what it is nowadays, because everything's political.
And if a movie or a TV series or a game or whatever becomes a financial success
and it also pushes your politics,
then that is one step closer to victory and the great culture war.
But more importantly, it means that you can't ever simply sit down
and enjoy something on its merits.
You're always looking at it through a lens.
And frankly, it becomes kind of tiring.
I think this attitude can best be summed up by this next clip.
And you know what?
You probably know what I'm going to play.
In fact, here, here, pause the video, put in the timestamp,
this timestamp right now where you paused it, and then tell me in the comments,
what clip do you think I'm about to play at this timestamp?
Come on, be honest.
I don't want anyone cheating.
But yeah, here we go.
Don't ask questions.
Just consume product and then get excited for next products.
Of course, of course.
But here's the ideological reason why that meme has received such backlash.
If someone posts this, what they really mean is,
I hate if there's women and minorities in my movies.
That's actually not what they said.
And it's actually not what they're complaining about.
But because to you, consumerism is just another wing in the culture war.
That's how you view it.
When somebody has a legitimate complaint against a movie or whatever,
it's no longer legitimate to you.
It's just politics.
It all gets boiled down to politics.
The quality of these things doesn't actually matter, just the power behind it all.
Which is why I absolutely love the fact that the caricature of this consuming culture warrior
has been immortalized in the face of my dear friend, Moviebob.
The 38 year old consumer.
This is probably the funniest Wojak that has ever been made out of all Wojaks,
to be honest, at least to me anyway.
I know it's meant to be like a meme and you could like map it onto other people,
but this really does hit home with Moviebob specifically, doesn't it?
I mean, he's definitely one of those failed that guy with the glasses type.
So he definitely prioritizes his video reviews on YouTube,
even as he talks about the progressive communist ethnostate in space
and how he should be roaming the stars right now if it weren't for those rednecks.
However, there's definitely something to this here regarding political views
focused around being vindictive towards people who were mean to him in high school.
It's kind of strange because the radical left seems to be made up of two types of people.
Generally, you have the people who are victimized by bullies in high school
and they have since become middle class, like insufferable middle class,
almost like they're Karens or wine moms or something.
And so basically they're bougie socialists who are looking for a way to be a victim,
even though they're straight and white.
So they talk about the rich all the time,
you know, the people who actually made it somewhere through their own hard work.
Then the other half are the bullies themselves.
They also end up falling into this camp as well.
These would be like the Zoe Quinn and Anita Sarkeesian types.
You can tell that these people back in school,
they were probably like the queen bitch of the playground,
bullying and making fun of people.
And now those same nerds and gamers that they've bullied,
they've come back with in their 20s and 30s to fuck with
on either the political stage or on the media stage.
And you'll notice that I talked about primarily women in those two examples,
and that's for a specific reason.
And no, it's not misogyny.
You get articles like this, for example,
We're not unicorns, we exist.
How the fake geek girl concept inspired the geek girls are real project.
This is a very long, very boring article about how women who are into comic books
and movies and video games and other things that generally only men
would have been into in the early 90s.
Well, they do actually exist.
And you know what?
Yeah, I know.
I think we all know.
When I was young, they were quite rare.
You know, nearly every boy played video games at some point,
but the number of girls who played video games,
you can count on one hand in my town, at least when I was a kid.
But nowadays, you know, gamer girls are everywhere.
I'm dating one.
But this whole article talks like these fake gamer girls or whatever,
that they don't exist and the very concept of them is sexist.
And I'm just like, no, I've met them.
My best friend has actually been in the clutches of several of them
over the course of his life.
Like he ends up dating a girl because she talks about being very into video games.
And then after she's got her claws synced in, she's very clearly not into them at all.
And then it's like a multi-year project to get him away from her
because she's basically destroying his life.
I've seen that happen multiple times in my friend group.
You can't tell me this type of woman doesn't exist.
And this example isn't anything nerdy or related to video games,
but it's still the same example and you get my point.
This person here poses and says they want a photoshop done
and they're wearing a kiss t-shirt.
And then the person in the reply says, your five favorite kiss songs go.
Next reply is you're a moron lol.
Oh, you like music?
Name every song ever.
And you know what?
It's fair.
Like if you're part of a demographic that doesn't necessarily normally like something,
but you actually like it, then you get quizzed on it constantly
because people think that you're being a fake fan for attention
or trying to get a guy or just to get some kind of social clout or whatever.
I can see how that'd be really annoying.
At the same time, there are women who do this.
There are men who do this.
Like how many times has a man lied to get into a girl's pants?
At least in hookup culture, that seems to happen quite a bit, doesn't it?
And here's a funny little comic about the same thing.
You know, there's a nerd girl here who likes an anime
and she ends up getting quizzed by the guy
and then she reveals her power level at the end of the comic, you know?
And it's like black women like anime.
Stop quizzing women on nerd stuff.
But then the other point of view is that guys don't just quiz nerdy women on this stuff.
They quiz each other all the time.
Nerdy guys definitely have nerd offs or they get into in-depth discussions
about the things that they're very, very passionate about.
But it seems to be only the women that take it as a personal attack
that their interests are, well, being taken interest in.
Aside from just a surface level of that's cool.
If this is something that happens to guys regularly in these spaces and no one bats an eye,
you can't suddenly call it sexist because it also happens to women when they show up.
And I do mean when they show up, because there's definitely a shared suffering
that seems to go with being a gamer or being a nerdy guy.
At least if you're my age, maybe not so much if you're like a teenager nowadays,
because I think that's thankfully been weeded out.
And you know what? It's a good thing it's been done away with.
But when I was a kid, even though most boys had played video games,
the ones that were really into them, they were the nerds.
And they were the ones that were bullied.
They were bullied by the girls and they were bullied by the guys.
And so when you had your little clique of video game loving friends,
you did have to self police a little bit.
You know, there was definitely like a loneliness and an introversion
and almost a type of victimhood that being a gamer, at least when I was a kid, came with.
You know, now I'm starting to sound like, you know, gamers rise up.
The Joker movie was our Bible in cells, the whole thing.
Right. And that's not where I'm going with this.
But if you don't think that at one point in time, maybe that Super Nintendo or whatever,
back in their basement was their only source of solace to get them through the school years.
If you don't think that happened, then it seems like you don't understand the,
to use a social justice term, lived experiences of a lot of young men.
And at some point, and I'm not sure when this happened, but at some point
that suffering became part of the identity.
These are older memes, but they do check out and they definitely tell a story.
A story of what these guys had to do to basically get by, at least when they were younger.
And you know what?
Some of them are unfortunate enough that they're still doing it now,
but there's a shared suffering in it.
I recall quite vividly to be a gamer in the early nineties.
You couldn't simply just play video games, though that was the primary thing you had to do.
There was also this idea of, well, I got bullied and all my friends got bullied.
And those people who are growing up now playing video games and not getting bullied for it.
Yeah, they've got a better time of it, but they also don't understand how good they have it.
It almost feels like they're taking that gamer status or that nerd status and they're running
with it without suffering to get it the way that we had to.
And you know what?
There's definitely a feeling like this among the LGBT crowd as well.
Gay teens and lesbian teens growing up now
do not have to suffer nearly as much as they did when I was in school.
That's obviously a good thing at the same time.
However, if being discriminated against is part of your LGBT identity,
then what do you do when LGBT people appear
that have not actually experienced being discriminated against?
I don't know.
Maybe that's where radicalism comes from.
Maybe that's where inter-movement conflict comes from.
I'm not sure.
But my point is, it's not simply sexism when guys try to weed out the fake gamer girls
because they exist.
They can ruin friendships.
They can ruin people.
And I'm not saying this is unique to women.
Men ruin women all the time.
But this is one of the ways in which women do it to men.
And so they know this and they focus on it.
And this all relates back to the consumer because the consumer
seems to have completely forgotten that this is the case.
They don't consider their hobby to be a unified community.
They consider it to be a political activist movement.
And that's why to them, weeding out potentially toxic people
is considered to be gatekeeping, especially if that person's a woman.
And I want to make it absolutely clear, I'm talking very broad strokes here.
Obviously, there are women involved in video games even before I was born,
but those were definitely the exception and not the rule.
Yes, women have been involved in the creation of comic books since then.
Yes, women have been involved in the creation of comic books,
of science fiction, of movies, of video games,
since the inception of all of these mediums.
But again, exception, not the rule.
This image is from long before gamer game.
However, it's definitely still relevant.
Could probably use some updating just to at least add some new years on it.
A history of women and video games throughout the years.
From 95 to 2005, LOL look at the loser in his video games.
Yeah, pretty much.
And then, why won't anyone give me attention?
The cake is a lie XD.
So that's them trying to spout off the most surface level memes to try and get into the group.
Girls can play games too, you know.
I'm a girl gamer.
Girls are just as good as guys, pretty much.
And like, up until this point, things are fine.
You want in, you want to play video games, that's fine.
Go ahead and play them.
If you want into a pre-established community,
follow the pre-established rules of that pre-established community and you're golden.
It's fine.
But then suddenly, video games are sexist and video games must cater to our needs.
All of this is pretty much exemplified by the oh no comic.
You do not fit in here.
Okay, we will make our own place.
Why are you excluding us?
Oh no, that is pretty much how it works.
It's tough being a pariah, even in a minor sense, like just socially or something.
But it also means that you're outside the bounds of the culture,
so you can discover new things, invent new things, create your own place.
But the consumer is somebody who has taken that status,
and they've probably legitimately earned it.
Throughout their own lifetime of experiences.
And they've turned it political.
And they've twisted it away from what it was once all about.
Which was the game or the movie, the passion, the hobby, the human connection, the fun.
And now it's all about politics.
Now it's all about support Ghostbusters 2016 or else you're a bigot.
Now it's all about only incel dude bros liking Joker.
We have finally managed to consistently and effectively commoditize human passion.
Only it didn't come from the hyper corporatist right-wing of politics
like frankly I thought it would, but it came from the left.
It came from the left in their all-encompassing desire to win the culture war
and wield the power that comes with that victory.
So it doesn't matter how bad Captain Marvel 2 is going to be.
You have to buy those movie tickets to defeat the alt-right.
You don't have to enjoy that movie, you just have to consume it.
