It's morning again in America. Today, more men and women will go to work than ever before
in our country's history. With interest rates at about half the record highs of 1980, nearly
2,000 families today will buy a new home.
Yep, that's us. You're probably wondering how we ended up in this situation. How did
he do it? How did Donald Trump win the presidential election? It's been one whole year since he
did it, and it still doesn't even feel real. I mean, you're telling me the guy who shaved
Vince McMahon's head and got stunnered by Stone Cold Steve Austin at WrestleMania just
a decade ago is now the elected leader of the most powerful nation on Earth? Now, there
are lots of theories out there trying to explain how Trump won. Theories about Russians, collusion,
neo-fascism, populism, Democratic Party incompetence, exploitation of an antiquated electoral system.
But I'm not going to talk about any of that. Now, before I get into the video, I've got
to give you guys full disclosure. This is not a political video. This is simply a video
analyzing and discussing one man's rise to political power. I understand that the man
I'm discussing is perhaps the most controversial figure of the 21st century so far, but I don't
really give a shit. So you can go ahead and scorch that comment section all you want about
political arguments. You'll just be wasting your time, because this is not a video about
politics. This is a video about memes. This is a video about MEME THEORY.
So at this point a lot of you are probably expecting a video discussing how meme magic,
the cult of Keck, 4chan, and the formation of the alt-right caused Trump to become president.
Now that's not what this video is about either. I really hate to say it, but Pepe didn't cause
Trump to win the election. 4chan didn't cause Trump to win the election. I know it makes
a really fun narrative to pretend that's what happened, but it's just too far-fetched. The
reality is that 4chan is not single-handedly powerful enough to swing an election. Poll
is the driving force behind 4chan's political aura. The board averaged a population of around
130,000 users in the months preceding the election. Now assuming all of those users
are of voting age, and all of those users voted for Trump, which are two pretty lofty
assumptions, that's 130,000 votes on Trump's side. So how do you account for the other
62 and a half million? I mean obviously it's absurd to think that spamming pictures of
frogs can impact a presidential election. Memes are just silly pictures on the internet
after all, and there's no way that something as insignificant as memes can have that much
influence.
Or can they?
You see, when most people think about memes, they think of only just that, silly pictures
on the internet. That's not exactly true. The definition of meme extends much further
than what most people think. The word meme was first coined by Richard Dawkins as a combination
of the English word gene and the Greek word mimea. Essentially a meme is just an element
of human culture that gets reproduced by people sharing it. It's a misconception that memes
have to come from the internet, or that they have to be image templates. Memes can be anything
and they can come from anywhere. Memes can be words, spoken or printed. They can be events,
people, faces, characters, both fictional and real. So if memes can be basically anything,
what's stopping just anything, say a piece of lettuce with a pencil stuck through it,
from becoming a meme? Well, that's where you come in. People decide, and they do it subconsciously.
The most important determining factors in separating memes from ordinary things are
exposure and repetition.
Anything has the potential to become a meme. This is evident in the extreme variety of
memes today. The big meme of the week is seemingly random. However, one of the easiest ways to
understand why memes become popular is to quantify their prior exposure and repetition
through mass media. There's a psychological phenomenon known as the mirror exposure effect,
where people develop preferences for familiar things. Basically, if you repeat something
enough, people will like it. This single principle is what allows brands, icons and memes to
become so widespread. Memes are simply conceptual viruses. Most memes just lay dormant in the
back of people's minds before becoming popular. Maybe it's a cheesy earworm from
a popular song. Maybe it's a zany one-liner from a sitcom. Maybe it's a dumb character
from a childhood cartoon. Like a virus, a meme spreads further if many people become
exposed to it early on. Soon after, a random event triggers the meme to spread. Suddenly,
everyone around you is talking about this meme. You see it show up more and more until
finally you're using it yourself. You have been infected through repetition, and now
you will inevitably infect others. Memes do not spread on their own. They cannot spread
on their own. And just as a biological virus is powerless without a host, memes are powerless
without their host, which happens to be the human brain. Once again, psychology is at
work here. The reason memes exist, spread and influence our culture is that we enjoy
them on a psychological level. Memes are exceptionally appealing to us because of how our brains
understand. Schemas, heuristics, and chunking are all major psychological concepts dictating
that human thought is heavily operated upon the representation of raw information through
small manageable pieces. We understand concepts better by packaging them into familiar bits.
Our brains do this automatically in order to efficiently store information. Memes are
socially generated concepts that reflect our psychological methods for information processing.
Through a meme, it is possible to compress a complex issue, narrative, or emotion into
a single image or phrase. Simply put, a meme is the fastest way to put an idea in someone's
head. So now that we've defined memes and how they work, let's go back to the main question
of this video. How did Trump use them to become president? In order to answer that, we must
first consider how anyone becomes president. In order to become president, one must first
meet the minimum constitutional requirements in addition to becoming an expert on both
international and domestic politics, law, history, and debate. It is paramount that
an aspiring president first spends decades serving in public office or the military slowly
building their reputation, credibility, and experience all while working their way up
the ranks until they're either a US senator, state governor, or military general. It is
only at this point when an American politician can even attempt a presidential campaign and
gain any sort of traction whatsoever. From this point, they must engage in up to 18 months
of arduous strategizing, traveling, fundraising, marketing, and debating in order to persuade
enough people to vote for them to become the nominee of one of the two major American political
parties. And at this point, you just have to hope and pray that half of the voters like
you more than the other guy. And finally, after all that struggle, you can become president
of the United States. Going into 2015, Trump met the bare constitutional requirements.
Maybe we're gonna have to approach this from a different angle. So fuck all this dumb shit
for nerds, how does anyone really become president? Well, in order to achieve the most powerful
position of political power in the world, with no prior political experience, we have
to approach the challenge from a top-down perspective. If you've ever gone to school,
you're probably familiar with the multiple choice test. Now normally, you gotta study
all the material on the test in order to answer the test questions and bubble in the
correct answer choice. But technically, the first two steps aren't necessary in order
to get a good grade. For a multiple choice test, passing the test only really requires
you to bubble in the correct sequence of letters in order. And for this reason, it's possible
to average a 25% on a multiple choice test, even if you know 0% of the information. Just
choose A every time, and 1 out of 4 of your answers will be correct. For a true or false
test, the odds are even more in your favor. By choosing A every time, you'll average
a 50% despite knowing 0% of the information being tested. Now obviously, schools are caught
on to this, which is why 50% is still an F. However, in a two-party electoral system,
50% is usually enough to win you an election. So let's apply this logic to a presidential
election. In order to become president, you need to follow these steps. Step 1, become
easily recognized by the public. You have a much better chance of winning if a bunch
of people already know who you are. Since 1980, almost all presidential elections have
been won by a candidate that was already well known by the American public. Step 2, run
as a Democrat or a Republican. Democrats and Republicans have won every single presidential
election since the Civil War. In order to become president, you must become the nominee
for one of these parties. Step 3, have about 50% of the voters vote for you. Partisan politics
have become an epidemic. You could host the most clumsy and awkward campaign ever, and
about half the voters will still vote for you because you have a D or an R next to your
name. Weak candidates can use this to their advantage. Since 1980, the winning president
has almost always won with close to 50% of the popular vote. Sometimes they won with
less than 50%. And in order for a long shot like Trump to have any chance of becoming
president, he was going to have to rely on all of these steps. And he did it using memes.
Donald Trump started out as just another wealthy New York City businessman. So what
made him different? Well, Trump just really liked to put his name on stuff. I mean, he
really liked to put his name on stuff. Trump made it clear from early on that his strategy
as a businessman was not to build luxury apartments, but to build himself into a brand. There actually
isn't that much separating a brand from a meme. They're functionally identical. Both
condensed big concepts into a single name or image. Brands are basically just corporate
memes. And it just so happens that Trump was in the perfect position to become a living
meme. Trump is a verb meaning to defeat by doing better. Coincidentally, Trump's own
name succinctly represented the power, prestige, and dominance associated with a wealthy New
York businessman. In 1978, Trump commenced the construction of Trump Tower, a 58-story
luxury skyscraper in Manhattan. The location of Manhattan is important because Manhattan
is the financial and cultural center of New York City, the biggest city in North America.
Manhattan is home to globally renowned landmarks, Times Square, the Empire State Building, the
World Trade Centers, and now Trump Tower. Trump put his name on one of the biggest landmarks
in the heart of New York City, leaving millions to wonder, who is this Trump fellow? In order
for a meme to spread, it must first have a means of spreading. Today, basically every
meme gets spread through the internet. Everyone in our society is connected to the internet,
which makes it the fastest way for ideas and memes to spread. In the 1980s, mass media
was very different. Instead of the internet, almost all Americans got their information
through network television. NBC, CBS, and ABC. And it just so happens that all three
of the major networks had headquarters located in Manhattan, just a few miles away from Trump
Tower. New York City was the center of mass media in the United States, and it would be
this media that would transform Trump from businessman to celebrity. Donald Trump, as
I say, is just 33 years old. He now has an apartment for sale in a new Trump building
called the Trump Tower. Starting around 1980, Donald Trump began to make appearances on
national television. First it was just a few interviews. Then it was cameos. Donald Trump.
Ads. Entire television programs centered around Donald Trump. From the perspective of the networks, they were just
exploiting an easily available resource. Donald Trump was inherently interesting to the American
public. Look at this right here on the street! It's Donald Trump! What are you, morons?
While most billionaire business tycoons try to avoid the spotlight, Trump reveled in it.
Americans just kept seeing this bold, confident man on their television sets over and over
again. The focus wasn't on who he was, but what he represented. You didn't have to know
anything about Trump to recognize that he was rich, tough, and successful, just by the
way he acted on television. Trump embodied the spirit of capitalism that was rampant
in the 80s, and many Americans admired and idolized him as a symbol of wealth and power.
Trump stayed consistently relevant in the American public for 20 years after that. He
had truly become one of the most recognized men in America.
You know, that's his appeal to me.
Uh-oh! You frickin' moron! You just got di-
So by now in our story, Trump had completed the first step in becoming president, becoming well
recognized by the general public. Now he was ready to actually run for president, which he had to do
as either a Democrat or a Republican in order to have any chance of winning. But which party would
give him the best chance of winning? Trump's party affiliation history is actually quite
interesting, and few people are aware of it. Starting in the 80s, Trump was actually regarded
as a Democrat. In 1987, he registered as a Republican and remained that way for about a
decade. Then in 1999, he joined the Independent Reform Party, where he tried to run for president.
That's right, Trump actually launched an exploratory campaign for the 2000 presidential election,
17 years before he became the most controversial political figure in the country. He ended up
dropping out before the primaries due to party infighting, but it's interesting nonetheless.
Then starting in 2001, he was a Democrat again. You identify more as a Democrat or a Republican?
Well, you'd be shocked if I said that in many cases I probably identify more as a Democrat.
Until 2009, when he registered as a Republican again. Now, an average observer would look at
this data and call Trump a flip-clopper, a figurehead that can't make up his mind on
issues. But that's not how I see it. Something's up here, and it becomes apparent when you compare
Trump's party affiliation to the president's party through time. Trump's party position has
almost always been contrarian to the acting president, and I believe that this was an
intentional strategy. Trump appeared to be playing towards a theory in modern politics called the
Political Pendulum, not since George Bush in 1992 has one party won the presidential election three
times in a row. In fact, every president since then has been elected for two terms and then
succeeded by a president of the opposing party. Trump was seemingly positioning his political
affiliation to give himself the greatest advantage if he were to consider running for president. So
after Barack Obama was elected president in 2008, completing the Democratic Party trifecta of the
presidency, the Senate majority, and the House majority, Trump's choice became clear. He had
to run as a Republican, and this ultimately made the most sense for Trump and gave him the best
chance of winning. Trump was aging, and so were his admirers from the 80s. I've been now around
long, you know, I think of myself as a young guy, but I'm not so young anymore. Older people tend
to vote Republican, so all Trump had to do was give them what they wanted. At this point, Trump
was well known by the public, and he had his political party. Now all he had left to do was
his biggest challenge yet, getting enough people to vote for him. The year is 2009, and the world
has become a very different place since Trump first entered the public eye. The once friendly
mainstream media had become politically charged and divided. The rise of the internet provided
humanity with a tremendous gift and a debilitating curse. Information was more accessible than ever,
yet truth seemed harder than ever to find. Americans have become more politicized, cynical,
and distrustful than ever before. Celebrities now faced unprecedented scrutiny from the public,
with one slip-up having the potential of becoming national news. As you can see, Trump had quite the
uphill battle ahead of him, but luckily for him, one other thing had changed since the 80s. Memes!
Thanks to the internet, memes now had more influence over people than ever before, and if
Trump knew one thing, it was how to make good memes. If you look back in recent history,
presidential legacies are remembered most fundamentally through memes.
Because people have got to know whether or not their president's a crook. Well, I'm not a crook.
Tear down this wall. Read my lips. I did not have sexual relations with that woman.
And we use these little memes from the past to judge their whole reputation in the present.
Two of the most fondly remembered presidents of the 20th century are Franklin Roosevelt and John F.
Kennedy, and unsurprisingly, they have been responsible for two of the most recognizable
quotations of all time. That the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. Ask not what your
country can do for you. Ask what you can do for your country. Both of these presidents were very
skilled communicators, so they broke their language down into memes to make their speeches
more memorable and impactful. But FDR and JFK also had something else in common. In order for
a meme to spread, it must have a means of spreading, and both of these presidents utilized
new methods of technology in order to spread their messages. FDR was the first president to
regularly address America using the radio, and for many Americans listening to FDR speak with
his own voice in their own homes established an unprecedented new connection between the president
and the public. There's a reason why FDR was the only president elected four times in a row.
Americans really trusted him, and much of that trust was built upon not the content, but the
means of his communication. Similarly, JFK became the first television president. During the 1960
election, a key turning point came during the first televised presidential debate in history
between JFK and Richard Nixon. Kennedy used the televised broadcast to his advantage, appearing
much more confident and photogenic than Nixon. 70 million Americans watched the debates, and most
of them left with the impression that Kennedy had won, momentum that Kennedy used to narrowly win
the election. Once again, the means of communication made the difference in the election. So just as
FDR used the radio and JFK used the television, Donald Trump used Twitter to give himself an
advantage over other candidates. That's right, Trump's Twitter. Donald Trump's Twitter is his
greatest weakness, but also his greatest strength. Donald Trump's Twitter opens him up to the most
tremendous amount of scrutiny that any presidential candidate has ever had to face. Trump's tweets are
unfiltered, uncensored, and unsubstantiated. Any controversial thing he says puts a big giant
glowing target on his back visible to the entire world. So considering all of this, how could Trump's
Twitter possibly give him an advantage? The answer is means. Twitter is an exceptional site for the
spread of memes. The fundamental mechanics of Twitter as a social network facilitate the viral
spread of information. In order for Trump to rebrand himself as a politician, he would have to use
Twitter to spread his messages as efficiently as possible. Twitter would allow Trump to deliver
words from his brain directly to the American people. And there are two things that spread
furthest on Twitter. Controversy and memes. Donald Trump was about to take the site by storm with
some controversial memes. All of the pieces were in place for Trump to begin his presidential
gambit. Trump had his audience, his direction, and his vehicle for a hostile takeover of American
politics. Now was the time for action. Nobody was prepared for what Trump was about to do. Maybe
that's why they were so shocked. Maybe that's why they were so mad. You had to be a little mad
to realize what Trump was doing. Trump was about to rise to political power, and he was about to
do so through the dark arts of weaponized memes. Only the dankest minds on the internet had
theorized their existence, but nobody thought that anyone in power would actually be mad enough to
use them, much less a presidential candidate. Most people just see memes as harmless fun,
and most of the time that's just what they are. But memes have a dark side. Just as they have the
power to build people up, memes have the power to tear people down. Howard Dean was a guy who
ran for president in 2004. He was a good candidate who was pretty much ahead of his time. Dean had
pioneered the strategy of using the internet for grassroots fundraising. Dean used this strategy
to become a clear Democratic frontrunner heading into the Iowa caucus, and then it all came crashing
We're going to South Dakota, and Oregon, and Washington, and Michigan, and then we're going
to Washington DC to take back the White House!
This one soundbite, a tiny innocent slip-up. This was enough to destroy Howard Dean's entire
campaign. All that preparation, all the years grinding and working his way up the political
chain, all the strategizing, all of Dean's policies, his platform, his entire political
agenda, none of it mattered. Howard Dean's campaign was completely destroyed by one little meme.
Trump was well aware of the capacity for memes to destroy a candidate. He understood how the
American media worked, being a subject of it for 30 years. He recognized their capacity to eviscerate
the public image of any candidate, and he knew how to avoid that fate. Donald Trump was ready
to become president, and here's how he did it. Now, the first order of business is to blame
everything on the guy before me. We start in March 2011. Trump had previously teased a run for
president in the 2012 election, but ultimately decided against it despite being one of the
highest polling candidates. Trump decides to attack President Obama about the validity of
his birth certificate. Beginning in July, Trump brings his political rantings to his Twitter
account. Trump's comments are highly controversial and draw heavy media attention. Through this
experience, Trump sacrifices his relatively clean public image to liberals and the political
establishment while endearing himself to hardcore conservatives. Trump initiates his transition from
celebrity to political figurehead. Trump continues his criticism of Obama in the 2012. During this
year, he witnesses Mitt Romney run a squeaky clean campaign in which he keeps controversy to a bare
minimum. Romney runs one of the most bland and cautious campaigns in recent history up until
his infamous 47% comment. Over the course of the 2012 election, Trump would double down on his
anti-Obama crusade, slamming the president on almost every opportunity. Trump didn't let up. He
didn't let up for more than three years. Once again, this was all part of his transition from
celebrity to politician. And on June 15, 2015, Donald Trump announced to the world that he was
running for president. He spoke for over 45 minutes, but only two things stuck out. I will
build a great, great wall on our southern border, and we are going to make our country great again.
And as you would probably expect, no one took him seriously. Everyone laughed at him. The things
Trump said were just so ridiculous and ridiculed he was. Trump got ridiculed in the news, ridiculed
on talk shows, ridiculed on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube. Overnight, Trump became a national pariah.
Many would have called Trump's debut a total disaster, but it wasn't. Donald Trump had actually
made one of the greatest presidential debuts of all time. Why? Because it got people talking. On
every news network across America, on your Twitter feed, on your Facebook feed, everyone was talking
about Trump. They saw his big, bold logo. They questioned building a wall, and they debated
making America great again. Through his debut, we can perfectly observe the duality of Trump's meme
strategy. Offense and defense. Let's start with his first meme. Build a wall. It's offensive. It's
controversial. Controversy leads to attention, and attention leads to a viral meme. And then we have
the opposite kind of meme. Make America great again, which is perhaps the most effective
campaign slogan of the 21st century. It's a meme that is inherently defensive. It relies on
supporters rallying around it and spouting the same message to more and more people. These two
memes were the building blocks of Trump's campaign. They gave him attention. They gave him
support. But most importantly, they gave him a clear direction. Politics are complicated. A lot
of Americans get mad about politics, but very few Americans actually understand politics. Most
Americans just don't have the time to research politics. Some Americans are just too lazy, and
some Americans are just too stupid. Many politicians struggle to communicate their platform
to anyone short of the most advanced observers, because their messages are just too complicated.
As a result, they're ignored and forgotten. Trump understood this. His solution was to use memes to
communicate a simple message to as many people as possible, because after all, a meme is the fastest
way to put an idea in someone's head. Donald Trump began his celebrity status as a media darling. He
was about to become their worst enemy. For the next 18 months, Donald Trump would throttle the
media with an endless stream of controversial bits, quips, and memes. Because they asked me
what I'd do, and I said, I'm gonna bomb the shit out of them. Look at my African-American over here.
And I watch our police and our firemen down in 7-Eleven, down at the World Trade Center. Autism
has become an epidemic. Every news channel in America essentially became Trump TV. The media
wanted desperately to tear him down, just as they had done with Mitt Romney and Howard Dean. But
Trump was different. Both Romney and Dean had a single controversial moment that drew all of the
media's focus. Trump gave the media a new controversial moment every week. The media
couldn't fixate itself on a single problem, and the problems just sort of faded into the background.
The only common denominator was Donald Trump's name, and Donald Trump would milk the media for
five billion dollars worth of free publicity. Furthermore, by baiting the media to focus on
petty, self-made controversy, Trump overshadowed his most glaring weakness, his total lack of
political expertise. NBC, CNN, and even Fox News were all trying to destroy him, but little did
they know they were actually playing right into Trump's advantage and spreading his memes further
than campaign advertising ever could. There was no turning back. Trump was sacrificing his entire
public image, his whole legacy, for a shot at becoming president. Trump was all-in, and the
media called his bluff. Game on! In order to become president, Trump had to first become the Republican
Party nominee. He entered a field with 16 other Republican candidates, the largest field of any
party in American history. You'd think that this would provide Trump with a huge struggle, but once
again, it actually played into his advantage. Thanks to the extremely disproportionate amount
of media coverage on Trump in both news broadcasts and televised debates, Americans viewed the whole
Republican primary process as Trump versus the field. Even though the other candidates were real
politicians with real political experience, they simply couldn't get their brands out there to the
people because Trump soaked up everyone's attention. Since there were so many Republican
candidates starving to share airtime with Trump, no one could get adequate coverage. They all just
kind of tripped over each other. And heading into the Republican debates, only a few candidates even
posed a threat to Trump. And if you thought that these veteran politicians would humiliate Trump
in a real political debate, then you'd be wrong again. Trump shut down all of them with simple
name-calling. But not just any name-calling, Trump eliminated his competition with weaponized memes.
The weakest person on the stage by far is Jeb Bush.
And we don't need a weak person being president of the United States, okay?
You're gonna have to get out there yourself, Jeb.
Weak. Weak, pathetic people. Low energy is a better term.
Don't worry about it, little Marco. Little Marco, little Marco.
Now you look at Kasich, I have never seen a human being eat in such a disgusting fashion.
It's disgusting. Do you want that for your president? I don't think so.
But it's not what you said in the op-ed. Breathe, breathe, breathe.
Lyin' Ted, I call him Lyin' Ted. He holds up the Bible and then he puts it down and he lies, okay? Lyin' Ted.
You may think that this is completely ridiculous, and that childish name-calling could never supplant
real political argumentation, but the results speak for themselves.
You've called women you don't like fat pigs, dogs, slobs, and disgusting animals.
Your Twitter account. Only Rosie O'Donnell.
I know it wasn't.
The Iowa caucuses took place on February 1st, 2016. Even at this early point in the race,
five candidates already dropped out because they couldn't gain any sort of traction
over the oversaturated field. And in the Iowa caucuses,
Donald Trump earned more votes than all but one candidate. This wasn't a joke anymore.
This was for real. These votes counted. The voters were validating Trump as a serious candidate.
His strategies were working. After the caucuses, three more candidates withdrew from the race.
On February 9th, Trump won the New Hampshire primary. Three more candidates withdrew.
On the 20th, Trump won South Carolina. He was now the clear front-runner in the race.
Jeb Bush, who many political pundits viewed as an early favorite, dropped out of the race
after just three states elections. By mid-March, just two other candidates remained. And on May 3rd,
Ted Cruz dropped out of the race, leaving Donald Trump as the presumptive Republican nominee.
Trump didn't just defeat his opponents. He crushed them. Donald Trump won the nomination
with the largest margin of victory in the history of the Republican primaries.
He took a struggling and divided party and united it under a single platform.
Donald Trump was THE Republican candidate, and he had just one more challenge separating him from the presidency.
You guys know the story after this. What followed was one of those brutal and divisive elections in American history.
Both candidates engaged in what was essentially meme warfare. Clinton's email servers versus Trump's pussy grab.
Racist Donald versus Crooked Hillary. Legend has it that at some point the candidates talked about
actual political issues, but historians still dispute this. Anyway, at the end of the day Trump
had better memes than Hillary. Make America Great Again is just so much more of an impactful
campaign slogan than Hillary's. What was hers again? Love Trump's hate? It literally has Trump's name in it.
That can't be right. Maybe it was America is great because America is good. The hell does that even mean?
Oh, I got it. Her real campaign slogan was Pokemon go to the polls. On November 8th, 2016,
Americans Pokemon went to the polls and elected Donald Trump President of the United States.
And you can complain all you want about it. You can call the system rigged. You can say he cheated.
You can riot in the streets. You can call everyone who voted for Trump a racist, sexist, homophobic,
transphobic moron. You can do whatever you want, but it won't change the fact that Donald Trump,
a man with no formal political experience, used memes to get elected to the most powerful
political office in the world. And sure, he might have trashed the rest of America to do it,
but you know what they say, the end justifies the memes.
This sounds like political presidential talk to me and I know people have talked to you about
whether or not you want to run. You've said though that if you did run for president you
believe you'd win. Well, I don't know. I think I'd win. I tell you what, I wouldn't go in to lose.
But hey, that's just a theory. A meme theory. Thanks for unsubscribing.
Thank you.
