Answer? Me. There, I beat you to it.
People throw the word grifter around a lot, so I figured it's probably best to actually
talk about what it means. From a historical point of view, the root of the word comes
from graft, which appeared around the 15th century in botanical context. You know, like
grafting plant shoots and such. Through the botanical influence, by the 19th century,
the maximum amount of soil you could dig up with a shovel or a spade in one scoop was
known as that tool's graft. And shortly thereafter, the act of digging was known as
grafting. This later generalized to any kind of hard work.
By 1865, graft was considered a slang term for obtaining profit or advantage by dishonest
or shady means, especially bribery, blackmail, or the abuse of a position of power or influence.
The shift from honest hard work to dishonest tactics that nonetheless still may require
hard work to pull off is also attributed to the term's origin in botany. Grafting techniques
of that era often created excrescences in the plants, an excrescence being a distinct
abnormal outgrowth of a living organism that is malformed or diseased in some way. The
implication is obvious. While a graft may require as much effort as honest work, it
is not actually honest work. By the turn of the century, grift was considered a diminutive
form of graft, which is commonly done in the English language by replacing a word's
vowel with the letter I. A grafter was considered to be somebody who engages in political corruption,
and a grifter was a small-time confidence man or a carnival swindler. And while grafters
usage in this way has fallen out of popularity, mingling with its botanical and hard-working
variants, grifter has remained to the present day. It currently refers to a person who is
willing to say or do anything to make money, but not in a positive, hard-working context,
but rather in a negative, dishonest context. They have no problems with lying, cheating,
or stealing. They will say things that they explicitly know to be false, or they will
completely abandon the idea of consistency in their pursuits. To be a grifter, it helps
to be a sociopath, but it's not exactly necessary. You just have to know how to manipulate
people and to make them think they want to give you their money, at least long enough
for them to actually give it to you. Boy, I knew that English degree would pay off one
day. Hit up my subscribe store if you want to help me pay for it. Unless you actually
consider me a grifter, then I guess it's okay. But that's the rub, isn't it? If
I were a real grifter, and as part of the grift I was trying to create a reputation
based on honesty and voluntary action, I would say things like, here's my donation, Lynx
guys. You don't have to donate if you can't afford it, though. Who knows if I'm being
compassionate towards my viewers, or I'm just cultivating an image of compassion in
order to get paid without actually meaning it. Who knows what level of the game each
of us are playing at? And the truth is, you can't really know. A perfect grifter will
never let you. Nowadays, if you hang around political YouTube, you'll notice the terms
grift or grifter tossed around quite a bit. There's a commie channel called The Serfs,
fitting name considering that's where their ideas lead, that really seems to love those
terms. Let's analyze a few examples. It's simultaneously hilarious and rage-inducing
that anyone threw money at this grift, said in reference to the Lincoln Project, which
is an organization that appeals to the broader left and Democrat voters for donations in
order to combat Trumpism from a rightist position. They did so by supporting Republicans that
— while they were anti-Trump — were still not Democrats or leftists. Are these people
grifters? I mean, maybe. They did take money from left-leaning sources who were too dumb
to think beyond orange man fascist, and never really made it clear where that money was
going until they started endorsing anti-Trump Republicans. Just a friendly reminder that
the free marketplace of ideas is a complete grift, said in reference to Dave Rubin blocking
them over some Twitter trolling. I don't really know about Dave Rubin being a grifter,
although Joe Rogan seems to think he is nowadays. Kanye was the wrecking machine, but I actually
think, I think in the grand scheme of things, Candace is much bigger. I really believe that
in terms of —
Why?
Because I think she could be a direct line to all of the political parts of this if she
decides to go that route, because I think she could, I think she could run for Senate
or —
What?
Yeah.
You said you watched the podcast I did with her.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah. I watched, I don't know, maybe at least an hour and a half of it or so.
Okay.
Yeah. Why?
Why what?
I don't know. Why are you saying it that way?
I mean, I don't want to name any names, but there's a bunch of people that do it blatantly.
You see them, and I've even seen them switch teams, and you see them switch teams, and
I don't buy their rationalizations when it comes to ideology. What I think is what they're
doing is they're switching teams because they realize there's an in on this team.
Right.
And they can just say, this is the problem with the team I used to be on, those fucking
losers, and they're really Benedict Arnold, right? And like, they probably have as much
of an affinity to the ideas of one side as they do the other side. They just go all in
on one side to get acceptance from the group.
Will you go on Joe Rogan's podcast, and will you have Libertarian presidential VP candidate
on your show before the election? Will I go on Rogan's podcast? I asked him, and our PR
people asked him about a bajillion times to go on for my book. We did not get a response
as far as I know, so I don't know what happened there. A little weird for me to say that publicly.
I don't know what happened.
Even if you disagree with the way people feel about so many different things, it doesn't
mean you can't be their friend. It doesn't. And I'm telling you, we got it wrong. Here's
what's important. What's important is whoever that person is, they got to be sincere. Now,
as soon as you feel like someone's a grifter, you got to cast them out. You got to cast
them out, because they got to figure that out on their own, and they got to apologize.
That's cool, man. You got, listen, you can be wrong, but you have to be honest. And if
you're just bullshitting, then I can't hang out with you.
And I got to say, it is kind of funny to see Lance regurgitate a repainted, so much for
the tolerant left style argument. So your platitudes were utterly meaningless and you
were a grift all along, thanks for clearing that up, said in anger out of Andrew Yang
supporting Biden over Bernie. So is making moves out of political pragmatism a grift?
Because that's literally what you and every other breadtuber and nearly every other leftist
ultimately did when you decided you were riding with Biden a few months later. I think it's
probably funniest to juxtapose these two examples, though. The joy of being a leftist is wearing
your values like a badge instead of a grift in response to Tim Pool's assertion that
some moderates are afraid of speaking about their values publicly due to the far left.
And your woke grift is tired when Paul Joseph Watson talks about the dominant religions
of countries most likely to stone gay people to death. I'm sure you've noticed by now
the obvious, what stands out like a sore thumb when I put these two tweets together. According
to Lance, it's a grift when it's somebody he disagrees with politically, but it's wearing
your values like a badge when it's a fellow lefty. Nowhere in that extended definition
of grifter that I armed you with earlier in the video did I say that its definition
is somebody you personally disagree with, and yet that seems to overwhelmingly be the
way that radicals use the term. Most of Joe Rogan's top viewed interviews are grifters.
Now you may disagree with Alex Jones, Ben Shapiro, Jordan Peterson or Steven Crowder,
but are they really grifters? Ben Shapiro and Jordan Peterson seem to genuinely believe
what they say, even if you might disagree with them. While Alex Jones and Steven Crowder,
on some level, though obviously not entirely, are exaggerating some of what they say for
comedic effect. When people take sponsorships, sell products, or plug their patreons, is
the only criteria for them being a grifter whether or not the accuser agrees with their
point of view? Not if the creator thinks they're telling the truth, not if they actually provide
the good or service they're selling, but is it really all just politics to these people?
Sargon is an excellent example. These accusations are a dime a dozen. Lol, Sargon is such an
unbelievable grifter. Alright, let's see what they're talking about.
Joe Biden likens Ted Cruz to Nazi propaganda's gerbils for helping Trump spread big lie about
election fraud. That's mad. That's mad. Biden not even in office yet, and he's already calling
Trump and his administration Nazis. Trump can't even speak back on the allegation because
they've torn out his tongue. Unreal.
This is genocidal rhetoric. This is terrible. It is awful, awful what the Democrats are
doing right now. And the thing is, with so much power, you would think that they would
have some kind of grace, but instead they've gone into full-on vicious absolutely crush
our opponents mode, and that's quite terrifying. And it shows that it is the left that has
been the problem. It is the way that they operate in politics. They are not tolerant.
And the problem with not being tolerant is it means you can't run a democracy.
What is so objectionable about this clip? Okay, you may disagree with what Sargon's
saying. If you think he's wrong, fair enough. But clearly he believes it, and clearly he's
speaking to an audience of people who also believe it. So if he's delivering the product
they're paying for, how is it a grift? This is like a radical Christian saying that an
LGBT YouTube channel, catering specifically to people interested in LGBT ideology, is
a grift for delivering a product they're advertising that people actually want. Here's
a lengthy criticism of Sargon from the now-defunct subreddit of ChapoTraphouse, and it's clear
that they're trying to turn I disagree with Sargon politically into some blanket statement
about his character and his business. This is a man who dropped out of college to scam
people out of a video game Kickstarter and use that money to run a five-year right-wing
grifting project that consists of him shitting on feminists while calling himself a classical
liberal. Not only is this factually inaccurate, Sargon refunded the money and posted the receipts
last I heard, it's also one of the most try-hard things I've ever read. Right up there with
lol I have more subs and views than you, internet clout totally matters you guys. Let's take
this caption, remove all of the personal attacks and statements of political difference, and
see what criticisms actually remain. Nothing he's said ever provided an idea, concept or
solution to modern problems. He's never said anything useful besides SJWs bad. He's never
provided a radical idea that can change the world, unlike Ruder Bregman and Richard Wolf
on the left, or Jordan Peterson and Andrew Yang on the right. Nothing he's said has provided
valuable discourse, etc, etc. It basically boils down to two points. One, Sargon has
never proposed a solution to the problems he points out, and two, all the problems he
points out are SJWs bad. Even for back when this was written, I don't think this was the case. But
nonetheless, if you are legitimately an anti-SJW individual selling anti-SJW content, and your
viewers are all anti-SJWs looking for that content, how is this a grift? When a radical calls
somebody who's in the mainstream center, you know, the Liberals, the Conservatives, grifters,
they're generally not saying here is a person lying, cheating, and stealing, saying things
they know to be false, being hypocritical in order to get paid. Instead, they're saying,
here is a person presenting ideas I think are false, and because I'm obviously correct about
everything, they are taking money from people for reasons I don't approve of. Let's swing back to
the serfs for one final chuckle. Anybody who says they're a socialist but isn't comfortable forming
a worker co-op, or is a progressive who extols the virtues of worker rights and refuses to let
their workers unionize, is a grifter. Why yes, I do agree, Lance. This is why literally everybody
laughed when Vosch said his business did not have to be a worker co-op, including myself. Check out
my old Eat the Rich video on that topic if you like. Now, I don't believe the serfs are grifters.
They might say a lot of dumb shit all the time, but I actually think they probably believe it.
However, who knows if they're actually living it. In general, if you're a radical, you're also more
likely to be a hypocrite. Yes, the number of male feminists who are forcefully respecting women with
their penis is truly astounding. Yes, the number of cult leaders and mega church pastors who live
hedonistic lives seems to be basically 100%. And yes, progressives and neo-socialists who spout
rhetoric about wanting the workers revolution, while exploiting everybody around them as hard
and fast as they can, just seems to be the thing that BreadTube does. This realization was the
center of the most recent debate between Vosch and Destiny, where PhilosophyTube was raking in shit
tons of money online, keeping her income private, when a common lefty line of thought is that the
expectation that incomes are kept private is one way that bosses keep workers in line by preventing
them from comparing their pay, all the while encouraging people way less well-off than her
to go on rent strikes and other stuff like this. If it sounds hypocritical, that's because it is.
And Vosch defended her in such a way that he basically revealed himself to be somebody not
interested in truth, or even socialism at all on some level, but only raw power. No, really.
There was so much of that shit that I fucking turned down.
So you've turned, okay, good. And you've turned down, and I for my part have turned down
every sponsorship. Why? It's not a part of my aesthetic. I don't want to. Okay, wait, then
don't make those things the same. Don't, don't, wait, wait, don't compare that to me.
Okay. You're on a lower level there. Okay. I intentionally, no, no, no, no, no, hold on,
hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. I intentionally have foregone money that I could use otherwise
because it is in accordance with my principles. Okay. You're not doing it because it doesn't fit
the aesthetic that you sell on your YouTube channel. That comparison to me was insulting
because I don't not take certain sponsorships because of my aesthetic. I do it because of my
principles. Those two things are very different. That's what upset me. Do you understand?
When I said, when I said aesthetic, I suppose you wouldn't buy me saying as a lefty,
I don't like the idea of doing legwork for corporations to advertise products that I
don't give a fuck about, but you would say that's walking back because what I actually believe is
that it's purely an aesthetic flourish and me flushing it out. Now that I realize you've been
made upset by my language is the thing is, is what I would say is I wouldn't believe you. I don't
believe that. I don't buy that. Okay. I know, I know you don't because you've assigned me so
little charitability. No, it's because the first response is the most likely to be honest. And this,
there are plenty of like higher order things that could be fucking with our ability to understand.
Yes, that's true. Right. Okay. So if you acknowledge that and you're a moral
anti-realist, so there is actually no choice of the matter, which theory of truth is right.
Then you also acknowledge that any empirical statement I make is also arbitrary.
I mean, I think it would be arbitrary in so far as we would have to disagree on like the meaning
of truth, but I think that most people have subscribed to the idea that truth means something
that could be empirically verified. If a person disagreed with that, I would have to kill them.
There's no truth that there nothing is objective. Nothing is true. Or it's all relative to what
someone wants. Yeah. Everything. But I do think you can make an empirical statement about the
world. Well, that depends on you. Wait, yes. The morality of the Holocaust depends on your
subjective- No, not morality, whether it happened. Oh, whether it happened? Sure. If you have a
different definition of truth, then yeah. But if a person- And you can't say that they're wrong,
they're just- Oh no. Well, I don't have to say that they're wrong. All I have to do is convince
them. Well, right now you are basically saying that. I would disagree with them. I would try
to convince them off that point. Yeah, you would disagree with them, but you have to acknowledge
from this, you know- Yes, I acknowledge that. I've always acknowledged that. Yeah, it's about
power. So you're in a state of complete nihilism about the world. No one's position is more
justified than another. No, I care about things. Inherently, no. Correct. Wow. Okay. So you're
literally incomplete. So actually right now, if I wanted to, I could flip a coin and if it lands
heads or tails, I'm correct about this issue. And you have no way to refute what I just said.
Empirically, no. But I could argue that that's dumb. Wow. Well, it doesn't matter. I mean,
if you just acknowledge all you do is just scream at people to make you feel good. Wait, yeah,
wait, wait. No, I don't, wait. I don't scream at people. So you don't care about truth in the
world, I guess. Wait. Yeah, I do. I care about my truth in the world. Yeah. You care about how you
feel. Yeah. Yes. Because all moral positions are downstream of our subjective emotional preferences.
How many times do I have to refrain this? No, no. It's just, it's crazy to me hearing you say it.
Like two plus two equals four, right? There are multiple theories of truth. Something can be true
because it's actually existing in the world, right? Which is probably what you view truth as.
You know, the cup is red is true if it is actually, okay. There's another theory of truth. It could be
something is true if and only if it makes me feel good, right? My question to you would then be,
well, which of those theories of truth should I adopt? It depends on which moral system you
subscribe to. If you subscribe to a different one and that causes me harm, I could just like
kill you. So you acknowledge that theories of truth are moral statements. All of thought is
just power grabs between people who can decide subjectively whether or not their positions are
better than others. That is all power grabs. Unironically. Wow. In some cases. The truth of
whether the Holocaust happened, a power grab. Yes. And this. The thing on like mob rule,
I don't believe, I can't believe that you think that. There's no way that you do. Do you not feel
I've applied a consistent standard where I think it's more moral to just submit yourself to the mob
than it is to just kill everyone who comes for you? If I submitted a consistent standard,
I don't think it's fair for you to accuse me of being in bad faith. It is consistent. Maybe that's
how people feel when they argue against me and I'm consistent in something. Maybe you genuinely do
believe that. I guess it's possible, but I'll be super serious in the future. Cause I, cause I can
think of a lot of scenarios that are really sweats to me where fucking black dudes have been lynched
by white people thinking they were in the right where saying that like, well, well, but then you
even said that earlier, maybe the black guy should just submit himself to get arrested and then they
can hash out a court. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. If people are coming to arrest the
black guy, then yeah, I think that he should submit to arrest rather than gunning down a bunch
of unarmed white people. Not to submit to arrest, but like a mob of white people approaching him.
It really depends on the context there and how legitimate the lethal threat is. And this. Let's
say that there are 10 people. Okay. They're gathered on the beach. And unfortunately today
there is a lost soul. Okay. He's a hundred meters out. This guy is fucked. And none of the people
on the beach, they're not good enough swimmers to go get him. Okay. Now let's say another guy
walks by. Okay. This guy is called Chad marks. Okay. Some people call him Charles marks. Okay.
This guy is a fucking state champion swimmer and he walks by and he sees that kid out there.
Do you think that that guy with his additional means with all that he has available to him,
do you think that it would be just as morally neutral for him to stand by and watch that person
drown as the other 10 less capable people on that beach? Could he simply say, I mean, I don't have
like an obligation, but that would be good if I did, but like, I mean, I could just sit here and
watch it happen. I don't think it's bad. It's just morally neutral. If I sit here and watch him,
if he has the means otherwise, I should go out and save the person. Okay. Why is that dis analogous?
Okay. Because if that they decided not to do that thing, if they decided to abstain,
it would cost a person their life. Whereas in the case of a lefty opening a business,
their decision to open, it would not add any negative utility to the world.
So in that case, we're, we're talking about for a lefty, it's either you abstain and you have
nothing or you participate and you have nothing assuming you don't do extra battery. Okay. That's
not really material to the swimmer. If they abstain, you have a death. And if they participate,
you have that's not at all material to the participation and abstinence in these two
examples met very different outcomes. Well, participation in a morally righteous way,
and the swimming one could result in saving somebody's life participation in a righteous
way. And the economic sense could be you opening a business that improves the material conditions of
multiple other workers and families. I think those are comfortable. I think that'd be great.
Okay. Abstinence in one sense is you just stand by and you watch a person drown an abstinence,
which is negative and abstinence. And the business sense is you just stand by and you
watch another business open up and exploit workers, which would be neutral, but the death
is negative. How is that? Okay. I never, ever, ever want you to say again that like capitalism
is negative or business owners are bad because you understand my argument enough. I guess not
because you've bit the neutral bullet on basically every single actor in a capitalist system.
I I'm sorry. If there's some irreconcilable difference that we're not going to resolve here,
then we might as well not waste an additional hour on it. If you acknowledge that when a lefty opens
a business and let's say pays market rates, same as everyone else, and the workers are treated
fine, really middle of the road, as hard as that is to abstract, all you are doing in a purely
empirical sense is giving local workers an additional choice, an additional place that
they could sell their labor to an unethical institution, unfortunate, but you are not
compelling or mandating or directing any direct harm. If you didn't do that, there would be no
benefit. But if you have the means to know, if you have the means to act in a way that's in
more accordance in more, no, if you have the means to act in harmony with your principles,
then for you to do less, I genuinely think that your perspective on this issue has been tainted
or corroded in some way by the people that you've argued on. If it's been tainted or corroded by
anything, it's by the fact that I went to a Jesuit high school and what a part of what we taught,
I guess, was like that you should live your principles.
If you still have any delusions about whether or not Vash believes what he's saying, or really any
other breadtuber who parrots his rhetoric, I hope this puts them to bed. This is what a grifter
actually is. When you openly, nakedly say that truth does not exist beyond what you can twist
people into believing, that winning is more important than being correct, that the appearance
of being anti-corporate is more important than living your principles, there is no more clear
example of a grifter than that. The problem with the grifter worldview that Vash espouses
is that eventually reality will snap back. It does not matter how many laborers or scientists
or engineers that Soviet commissar Vash browbeats into submission, if you don't adhere to objective
real-world truth at some point, you're gonna get Chernobyl out of your nuclear program.
You can scream that two plus two doesn't equal four as much as you want, but the mushroom cloud
forming over the ruins of your project does not care. And while that is an extreme comparison,
this sort of thing happens all the time when you ignore the truth. What happened to Ethan Ralph,
Andy Warsky, Mr. Medicker, Channel Awesome, Game Grumps, or any other YouTube channel or
online personality that ignored the truth in favor of grifting, hoping their popularity would allow
them to skate on by? They're all shadows of their former selves, and that will be where Vash finds
himself sooner or later. The reason grifters have to keep leaving town eventually and move on,
is because the people they swindle inevitably catch up to them. The act of grifting makes
enemies of your own audience, the very people that pay you. You can't run away from that forever.
The clapback will come for Vash and the rest of BreadTube in due time. And just like it did with
Ralph, with Warsky, Medicker, Channel Awesome, and Game Grumps, I will be here with a bucket of
popcorn, laughing my ass off about it. Thank you for watching my friends. If you enjoyed this
video, please feel free to share it around and do all of the other algorithm-positive stuff that the
engagement metrics like, I don't know. Sub for more, or hit up my Patreon or Subscribe star if
you want to keep it coming. And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every
single day. So, I'll see you tomorrow. I love you.
