Hello, everyone. How's it going? This is a bit of a different video today.
We're going to be talking about the Project Veritas Exposing Google
Political Bias video that came out on June 25th.
Now, those of you who don't know,
this video has basically been banned from the entire Internet.
They won't let you talk about it on Facebook or Twitter.
It's certainly not up on YouTube. You can't talk about it on Reddit.
The only place you can find it, in fact, is on Bitchute.
And that's where I'm watching it now.
Also, you can't even upload parts of it or clips of it to YouTube to talk about.
You can talk about it on YouTube because Tim Pool and V and others
have talked about it on YouTube, but you can't upload clips of it or images.
I don't even think you can upload audio of it.
So here's what we're going to do.
We're going to watch this video.
You may follow along.
And when I pause to commentate, you will see a timestamp.
Make sure to be watching it on Bitchute.
It's pretty easy to find there. So.
Let's begin.
OK, I skipped ahead to one minute and fifty six seconds,
just because the first two minutes of the thing is basically
like a trailer or a teaser for what's inside of it. So let's go.
I personally don't think it's Google's place
to be preventing what happened in 2016.
People voted. People voted for Trump. Trump won.
People didn't want Hillary.
It's not Google's place to put a president into power.
So, yeah, it sounds like Google was all for free speech
until it swung against their way.
They definitely enjoyed the benefits of it when progressivism was on the rise.
But now that centrism and even rightism is on the rise, they want to stifle it.
They want to control everyone online.
This is almost like an emperor has no clothes situation.
Everyone was willing to play the game with Google and with Facebook
and with Twitter. But as soon as Trump won, all bets were off.
The way this woman talks,
it sounds like she really does live in that Southern California bubble,
doesn't it? Like she's she's talking about fairness
as if it's something that everyone agrees on, like it's a settled issue.
Like, oh, who would disagree with my idea of fairness
helping marginalized communities like obviously that's fair, right?
My subjective definition, that's obviously what's correct.
And everyone should listen to it, right?
It's almost like she hasn't ever left her bubble.
So she has no idea.
She hasn't even conceived of people objecting to her or why they might.
What good reasons they might have for objecting to her definition of fairness.
And moreover, again, it's not really Google's job to do any of this.
Use A.I. to tweak algorithms for fairness, for your idea of fairness
regarding marginalized communities.
It's it's insane. It's insanity.
So so basically exactly what we've all been saying this whole time.
They have no problem with suppressing speech and putting forward
their subjective ideas if it prevents Trump, if it prevents Brexit,
if it prevents Gamergate, probably.
I'm sure there are some people in Google who are still crying over Gamergate.
This is not the place of a private company.
Hold on, we got to try this.
We got to hold on a second. Let's go.
Here we go. Google,
google.com. Women can.
Women Canada soccer, women cancer, women can fly, women can do it.
Women canvas shoes, vote, do anything, be drafted.
OK, men can have babies.
Men can get pregnant and babies now.
Yeah. Jesus, it actually actually works port inappropriate predictions.
How about fucking all of them?
So hold on, hold on.
Algorithmic unfairness specifically refers to things that are true,
but they don't like politically.
So the whole 12 percent, 51 percent statistic.
You know, that's algorithmic unfairness, it's the truth,
but that's not the world as they want to see it, so they're going to censor it.
Is that what we're talking about here or the whole male CEOs thing?
Why there are a lot of Jewish people in the one percent?
I wonder if they're applying algorithmic unfairness to things that that do not
benefit these minorities or these protected classes like like male suicide
or something, are they going to show more pictures of female suicides
just just to equal it out?
I mean, probably not.
Product intervention.
See, I remember
some people were talking about how like selling your data isn't a big deal.
You know, what does it matter if Facebook and Amazon and Google,
you know, install cookies onto your computer and track what you're doing
and track your purchases and sell that data to other companies?
What does it matter?
Well, sorry, I'm still a little bit sick.
Well, it matters because you have to be able to
freely think.
And if you have an idea
and you know, it's maybe it's like a half articulated idea
and you want to go look it up
or you want to see if somebody else has an idea
or you want to post it on a form
or you want to maybe search up some terms related to the idea
and see if you can figure a few things out and get to the bottom of something.
If Google actively fights against you, because that's an idea
that they have not approved or that they explicitly disapprove of.
That's social engineering. That's actively.
I mean, I don't know if it really qualifies as
infringing on your rights because they're a private company
and they do have rights themselves.
But it's certainly social engineering.
And I don't think I have to say this, but but that is a bad thing.
That's frankly, it's an evil thing.
If Google understands that there's a set of ideas
that if they remain unarticulated, they they become weak
in people's minds and they can easily kind of steamroll them
with with collectivized thought or with propaganda or whatever.
And if they can prevent people from properly articulating those ideas
through censorship and they and they have the willingness to do that.
That's evil. That is pure evil.
And it's and frankly, it's it's anti-democratic.
We can't be evil because we have defined ourselves as good.
Holy fuck. OK.
This is why every single independent news or political channel on YouTube
is is getting throttled in place of of CNN and MSNBC and ABC and others.
I mean, I did that video yesterday where I kind of showed that
there was Bloomberg with 111 hits in 52 minutes,
and I blew past that in about 10 minutes on that video.
So it's very clear what they're choosing for trending.
It's not actually trends.
I think we can kind of see this to be true.
For example, compare Christ Church, the Christ Church massacre
and how social media responded and the news media responded.
Compare that with the attack on the ice facility just a couple of days ago.
Christ Church was all over the news, all over the mainstream media.
It was on Google and YouTube,
but only sources that were, say, roundly condemning them
and also blaming the entire conservative sphere.
And frankly, the centrist and center left sphere as well
for Christ Church blaming everything under the sun.
You got video games, you got 4chan, you got memes, you got the Internet,
you got everything but the SJW is blaming it all on everything.
The whole Christ Church thing.
And that's what was pushed.
That's what was pushed to the front page.
Those videos from those networks are pushed to the front page.
That was the allowed opinion on Twitter and Facebook.
But compare that to the ice facility attack.
People are praising that guy for his terrorism.
Doesn't seem to matter.
No one's getting banned for it.
Videos aren't getting taken.
Videos of people praising him, they're not getting taken down.
The media is largely silent.
Nothing is getting pushed.
And when the mainstream media does talk about it,
they don't mention Antifa, even though he was a member of Antifa
and he talks about Antifa in his manifesto.
And all of that is, again, what Google pushes on YouTube and other places.
It's obvious who these guys play for.
Holy shit, they actually have people are programmed.
Really, is that remember Google?
Google's Google's catchphrase was, don't be evil.
Programming people is pretty much the definition of evil.
That's incredible.
The the complete disdain they have for the legitimate government
of their own country is wild.
The representatives of the people, they don't care.
They want to fuck the people.
They don't want to be accountable to them.
Oh, my God, I can't believe I have to say this.
It's not Google's place to prevent Trump 2020.
If you OK, if you want Trump to not get elected again,
put forward somebody who can actually beat him.
That's it. That's how you win.
It's not through all this social engineering bullshit here.
Here you want to beat Trump?
Put forward Tulsi Gabbard.
There you go. Stop being cucks.
Democrats, stop being cucks.
Put forward Tulsi Gabbard.
She's the only one who's going to beat Trump.
Everyone else is a loser.
Hold on a minute. That can't be true.
Hillary Clinton's emails.
Yeah, nothing.
How about just like Clinton emails?
Clinton emails.
Well, there's a few things.
Data set.
OK, well, maybe, hmm, I don't know what Trump's
emails. No, nothing for Trump's emails either.
I don't know about this one.
Yeah, see, it's it's one thing to put forward
a preferred point of view.
It's another thing entirely to delete points of view,
because like the first one's bad enough.
The second one is abominable.
I think about it this way.
OK, you have preferred speech.
You know, you can say whatever you want,
but the government or whoever prefers that you would say this.
But you can say whatever you want. OK.
At least then you have the choice to take in their in their view,
the less optimum route.
You still have the choice as a free person.
However, when you only have the choice to do what they want,
that's compelled speech.
That's a very different situation.
I know that this isn't strictly that.
You know, this is not like you can't search for Hillary Clinton's emails.
You very obviously can.
It's just not going to auto complete.
So it's not straight up compelled speech,
but they are kind of shepherding you in that direction.
It's like it's like the first baby steps leading to compelled speech,
which is absolutely terrifying.
I did a video on this.
This is unfortunately not true, but it's a very popular misconception.
Even even Senator Ted Cruz in his grilling of somebody at Google
after this video came out, even he repeated this.
It is not the case that Section 230 requires them to be impartial.
And there's actually an amendment
coming forward from a Republican that wants to make it so.
And hopefully they do.
I have to admit, I haven't seen this,
but I think I'm too small to be affected by it.
You know, my videos might get 10, 20, sometimes 30,000,
maybe six figures.
If it's if it's a really good one or one that goes viral.
I've had that happen a handful of times, but it stayed around that that point.
Maybe they still think that I'm an anime channel.
You know, the name Shortfire Otaku kind of kind of lends itself to it.
Maybe I'm flying into the radar. Who knows?
Oh, my God, Dave, Dave Rubin has right wing.
I mean, if anything, he's like slightly right of center.
Tim Pool is definitely not right wing.
He's center left. He's like me.
I'm a center lefty, too.
I think for them, the Overton window has shifted so far
that right wing is just whatever is not them.
OK, that that that that that's a meme.
OK, that's a meme.
Um, I do have to say this about 1984 at this point.
Read another book just like Harry Potter.
Read another book.
So there we are. That was it.
Um, I don't know if there's much else to say, my friends, like.
This is all stuff we knew was was happening,
but it's something else to hear it straight from the horse's mouth.
It's kind of like with CNN member Veritas did, I think,
back during the 2016 election.
They got somebody from CNN to laugh at the idea of ethics
and talk about how their business and they're they're there to push Hillary.
That was a Veritas leak as well.
And we all knew that was the case.
But again, it was important to hear it from the horse's mouth.
And that's what this is.
I think it's going to get worse.
I think Google is going to crack down through YouTube
is going to crack down on all of us.
They will probably eventually come for me.
I know I haven't shown a single thing from the actual video.
I've only talked about it, but they'll probably still find a way.
This will be up on Bitchute, though, as always.
And frankly, at this point, we just have to hope that
that Trump can do something before he's he's voted out.
Like if Google has their way, it won't be Trump in 2020.
So something has to be done about this.
This is this is quite literally destroying the Internet
and not just the Internet, but also American politics.
And on a more personal note,
it's destroying the reason why I wanted to be a YouTuber in the first place,
because I actually believed in the platform
and in the idea of directly communicating with an audience.
Google is literally fucking everything and everyone
for their own personal benefit.
And it's got to stop.
I don't know if there's anything more to say than that.
It's got to stop.
I thank you very much for watching.
Thank you very much for supporting me.
If you feel like supporting me financially,
there's SubscribeStar at SubscribeStar.com
For a one time tip, there's always PayPal.me
and as I like to commonly point out,
I have a gaming channel called Game Boomers.
I stream on it every night, twitch.tv slash Game Boomers,
and I upload the the stream archives to YouTube.com slash Game Boomer.
Any one of those things where there's donations
or supporting side projects or supporting even just SFO generally,
they all help me out.
So I've got another video coming out a little bit later in the week,
and I'm probably going to go start working on that right now.
In any case, I'll catch you later. I love you.
