So recently, or at least recently for me, y'all know what kind of a slowpoke I am,
an audience member at a Dave Chappelle stand-up event bum-rushed the stage, hoping to attack
the comedian.
It didn't end well for him, but YouTube goes very hard on showing violence or saying
curse words during the first minute of any video, so I'm going to have to hold off
on actually describing that event for a little bit.
I don't know why that stuff is fine later on, maybe it's because YouTube's censors
only have time to watch the first minute before they lazily check the box saying it's
all good and move on?
Yes, I'm currently talking about you, Mr. YouTube Censor, who's got the unlucky job
of manually confirming my video from monetization today.
How are you doing?
Did you get enough coffee?
I wouldn't want to be in your shoes, dude.
I know what kind of videos you've got to confirm next.
Maybe now is the time to go back to school, you know, you've been putting it off for
like seven years, pursue that dream job, it's got to be better than being the corpo lap
dog for two bucks above minimum wage, you know?
Anyway, this all started with the Dave Chappelle Netflix controversy.
Netflix had paid Chappelle for six comedy specials.
The fifth one, called Sticks and Stones, came out in 2019 with a secret epilogue called
The Punch Line.
In it, Chappelle said that during one of his previous performances, he made jokes at the
expense of trans people and a trans woman in the audience, Daphne Dorman, laughed loudly
enough to actually disrupt the performance.
They ended up talking after the show, where Dorman thanked Chappelle for normalizing transgender
people by telling jokes about them.
This new friendship culminated with Dorman being the opening act for that very same Sticks
and Stones show.
Two years later, Chappelle's sixth comedy special, The Closer, came out.
In it, he described how, after Dorman's association with him, she received an extreme
amount of online harassment for defending Chappelle's comedy and associating with
him in any capacity, and that harassment eventually led to her suicide.
Yes, the trans activists, so concerned with ideological purity, so distrusting of the
subversive nature of comedy, and so very personally aware of the high suicide rates and fragile
mental states of trans people, bullied a trans woman to suicide because she associated with
their political enemy.
This is why, when these people shriek, trans rights, trans lives matter, you're literally
killing trans people, I just don't care anymore.
Because they don't care.
They don't hold these things as values.
They have no problem violating trans rights, devaluing trans lives, and leaving trans corpses
in their wake as long as they're the ones doing it.
Political transness claims dominion over the trans individual.
She is theirs to let live and theirs to kill as it suits their interest.
If she dies without their consent, then the enemy may have killed a person, but more importantly
to them, the enemy has stolen from the ideology.
Oh, and by the way, political blackness interacts with Black Lives Matter in the same way.
Hey, Mr. YouTube Censor, if you're still here, don't worry.
I understand why I'm not getting any money for this one.
I don't take it personally.
You're just doing your job.
I'm still correct though.
In any case, I found myself at the point where I just don't care if the mainstream calls
Dave Chappelle transphobic.
I don't believe he's transphobic.
I believe that they are more transphobic than he is, in fact, despite his jokes, because
unlike them, jokes are all he's got on his hands.
Like, listen to this.
This is a clip from that Netflix walkout.
We need to say it's not okay.
This hate conversation was not their intention.
We understand that jokes are jokes, things are things, but at the end of the day, if
it's promoting hate and it's promoting discrimination, you are directly a cause of it if you're allowing
it to happen and you're not doing anything about it.
And that goes for anyone in this country, specifically people of power in the entertainment
industry.
It's that same totalizing.
Everything is political.
Everything must exist outside of our hegemony worldview.
That walkout ended up going nowhere though, even though it was highly publicized.
And when it came out, the people were fired over this whole shit show.
It wasn't necessarily because they walked out.
It was because they burst into a board meeting demanding to be heard.
And it was because they leaked Netflix's private information on the closer to the press and
protest.
By the end of all of this, Chappelle came out of it smelling like roses.
He wasn't canceled.
And I genuinely think that we've now reached the hump, the limits of woke overreach.
We're cresting the wave.
Chappelle got through it.
Elon Musk got through it and won.
And it turns out he's actually a secret 2016 year anti-SJW bro.
Other people who would have been canceled two years ago nowadays just say fuck off and
ignore it.
Nobody is phased anymore by being baselessly called racist or fascist or whatever else.
Every wokeoid tactic is failing right in front of everybody's eyes, in public, live on display.
The culture is slowly but finally breaking free of the shackles the left has put on it.
And of course, some people are naturally enraged by this series of events, which is where that
attack on Dave Chappelle comes in.
A 23 year old is charged with trying to attack Dave Chappelle.
Attacker armed with knife and replica gun tackled comedian during Netflix gig during
set about how the woke brigade tried to cancel him over trans jokes.
Ladies and gentlemen, make some noise for hip hop history.
Thank God that was clumsy.
He's back there getting stomped.
Where did it come from?
It was a it was a trans man.
Was that Will Smith?
This dude charged the fucking stage over Chappelle's trans jokes and then his security kick the
shit out of him.
Hey, you can't claim that Chappelle's transphobic.
He just helped transition this guy into a pretzel.
Look at his fucking arm, dude.
He's being wheeled out of place on the stretcher and they just have his family guy ass twisted
snapped arm locked into place.
Holy shit.
So the fellow who did it, it turns out he's actually a rapper.
And on his soundcloud, he posted a song he called Dave Chappelle.
No joke.
Walk straight into the boat.
You know, when they gave to me.
Yeah, I don't know if you could tell through all that fucking mumbling, but he said walking
straight into the bowl, referencing the Hollywood Bowl, the venue that Chappelle was performing
in when the attack took place.
And despite everybody seeing it, despite all the videos, despite his fucking arm and everything
else, despite the rap song providing premeditation, he still pleaded not guilty.
How in the fuck?
And no, that wasn't the same person as this individual whose tweet of Dave Chappelle,
you're next come from my trans homies again, and I swear to God went retroactively viral.
Come on, guys.
That doesn't even look like the attacker.
I will say, though, scrolling through their feed makes me wish they were.
This person is cancerous as fuck and can use a few years in jail just to be off Twitter.
Here's the thing.
Comedy was always meant to be the release valve for society where you could say edgy,
even heinous shit.
You could make gay jokes and black jokes and trans jokes and Holocaust jokes and whatever
the fuck else you wanted, because part of recognizing and celebrating differences is
banter between individuals with difference.
Part of putting the past behind us is bantering about that past.
And either you banter in a friendly manner or you fight as enemies.
When a society cannot tell racist jokes as a method of normalizing difference, then they
will commit racist acts out of ignorance of that difference.
One of the greatest comedy shows of all time, what some even call the best there ever was,
is Eddie Murphy's Delirious from 1983.
And the jokes in it would make a Prague shit with rage if they ever went back and watched
it.
Eddie Murphy has since disavowed it multiple times, most recently in 2019.
It is funny, though, to see his disavowal from 1996.
Just like the rest of the world, I am more educated about AIDS in 1996 than I was in
1981.
I think it's unfair to take the words of a misinformed 21-year-old and apply them to
an informed 35-year-old man.
I know how serious an issue AIDS is the world over.
I know that AIDS isn't funny.
It's 1996, and I'm a lot smarter about AIDS now.
People were making its current year arguments 25 years ago, and although this is a statement
with contents that any 2022 wokeoid would accept, it was made in 1996 using the same
its current year logic during an era that Prague's nowadays view as being insufferably
racist.
Anyway, many people would say that Delirious was the height of comedy, and while there's
since been great comedy, nothing has quite topped it.
That's a common opinion.
And yet it was raunchy, edgy, and even dark sometimes.
It was not for the faint of heart.
And that's okay.
Does anybody remember Hannah Gadsby's Netflix comedy special Nanette?
No?
Nobody?
Does anybody even know who she is?
The only reason I know about her is because Nanette, despite getting high critic scores
on Rotten Tomatoes, is considered god-fucking-awful, and you don't even need to go and watch
it to know why.
Lord knows I wouldn't subject you to that shit.
Look at the synopsis of the specials we've discussed today.
The closer begins with Dave Chappelle joking about COVID-19 and the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.
Sticks and Stones begins with Chappelle joking about some celebrity news.
In Delirious, Eddie Murphy talks about kids who could afford ice cream from a passing
ice cream truck, and how they would mock kids who couldn't afford it.
In Nanette, Gadsby deconstructs the nature of comedy and its conventions by having her
audience undergo the same tension in which marginalized people suffer on a daily basis.
Oh boy, sign me up.
It was clear to anybody with a brain that Nanette just sucked.
But one part of the weekly Twitter news cycle back in like 2018 is how dumbfuck journalists
kept trying to prop it up.
Kind of like how recently they kept publishing pro-Cowboy Bebop live-action articles.
Bill Maher's stand-up comedy's past, Hannah Gadsby represents its future.
How?
By being not funny?
If you look at what both performers have served up as examples of their personal best, it's
hard not to be embarrassed for Bill, as well as anyone else in comedy who feels more kinship
with him than with somebody like Gadsby.
The Tasmanian comics Nanette, which shifts from a typical joke-driven stand-up special
into an explanation of why she's quitting comedy, delves into her personal biography
as a lesbian woman struggling to express her authentic self as a student of visual art
history, who scrutinized Western art painted mainly by straight white men that she unquestionably
accepted as masters because of their reputation.
Why would this make me embarrassed for Bill Maher?
If anything, it makes me embarrassed for Hannah.
People paid tickets for this shit, strapped themselves in for a night of fun, and turned
around and got a demoralizing lecture.
Of course, as the net continued to bomb, back in 2018 we kept seeing more articles pop up
on the topic.
How funny does comedy need to be?
Eight signs.
You're watching a post-comedy comedy.
Post-comedy, by the way, is the deconstruction of comedy.
In other words, it's not there to be funny, it's there to preach at you.
You got suckered into it, chump.
Now you gotta listen to this Karen tell you about how hard it is to be a lesbian in a
first world country.
Now some post-comedy can be a little bit funny, depending on your mood.
I'm fine with extremely dark comedy, and some of those eight signs are absolutely part of
dark comedy.
Like the grim plot movers, real human bodies often in pain, and existential dread.
And of course they have reversing expectations in there because fuck you, I guess.
But post-comedy is kind of like dark chocolate.
It's good in small amounts, but you can't have too much of it or else your heart will
die.
I have to refer back to Antonio Gramsci once again.
Seriously guys, read this man's writing.
Gramsci's contribution to the communist movement was his theory of cultural hegemony.
He believed that the bourgeoisie maintained capitalism not only through violence in the
realm of politics and coercion in the realm of economics, but indoctrination in the realm
of culture.
The culture of a given nation was therefore a product of the ruling class, legitimizing
their rule, such that values of the bourgeoisie became the common sense of the nation's working
class.
In other words, Gramsci believed that the normal values that a society is built upon
that grew organically out of the traditions that were passed on through generations.
Instead, he believed that it was an ideology enforced by the ruling class, taught by the
ruling class, to benefit the ruling class.
Gramsci therefore believed that a socialist revolution could only happen if the socialists
created, propagated, and eventually enforced an alternative culture that would eventually
become hegemonic and displace the old traditional one.
The revolutionary working class, as the socialists envisioned them, could not only seize the
means of production in an economic sense, nor could they only implement a dictatorship
of the proletariat in a political sense.
They also had to create a culture that would make people want to revolt and want to participate
in these new structures after they had taken hold.
Gramsci considered intellectuals to be the class that produced cultural hegemony.
Schools by necessity indoctrinate youth into something, so Gramsci believed that they should
indoctrinate them into socialism rather than capitalism or religiosity or any other kind
of ideology.
Entertainment, by necessity, has to appeal to some kind of value system, so Gramsci believed
that it should appeal to socialist values over any other set of values.
Hegemonicism, by necessity, had to report events with some kind of bias since nobody's
truly neutral, so Gramsci believed that it should present events in a way that benefits
socialism.
Even though Gramsci would ultimately be killed by the Italian fascists, his theory of cultural
hegemony was nearly identical to the fascists' totalizing worldview, and the theory would
later be adopted by the Soviet Union for use both at home as well as abroad in their Active
Measures Demoralization campaign.
So the purpose of all of this is to create media that demoralizes you, that makes you
hate yourself, your home, your friends and your family, your culture, your country, your
civilization.
There may even be good reasons for this hate too.
None of these things are perfect, everyone's got flaws, and you certainly shouldn't just
go on doing bad things because it's traditional.
You shouldn't go on letting yourself be worse than you could be because you've always
been this way.
But demoralization isn't critique for the purpose of improvement, it's deconstruction
for the purpose of replacement.
It serves to make you hate yourself for your faults, to the point that you desperately
wish to be somebody else, rather than strive to overcome those faults and become the best
possible version of yourself that you can be, to benefit both you and those around you.
This conversation is far beyond Dave Chappelle at this point.
But I think this is what's at the center of all of this stuff.
All the awful woke infiltration of media from movies to shows to games to comics that is
preachy unlike anything we've seen in 50 years.
And all the cancel culture shit for people who don't comply, who speak out against
what they view as obvious political subversion, or hell, who don't even care about politics
at all, they just think that what they're watching is bad.
It all relates back to subversion and hegemony.
The creation of an alternative culture to supplant the old one.
A culture that will consider a socialist revolution to be a moral necessity, rather than the evil
that it obviously is.
People like Dave Chappelle are way more common than anybody realizes, due to the steady and
slow establishment of this new hegemony.
And thankfully, these people are also becoming more vocal as we slowly break away from this
new hegemony.
If you're in this camp, you should also be more vocal in whatever small way you can
too.
The more we unshackle ourselves from this garbage, the more we're going to see attacks
like this happen, I think, as people watch all of their subversive efforts over the past
decade begin to crumble away, as liberalism and individualism begin to reassert itself,
they're going to get more desperate, and there's probably going to be more political
violence before it gets any better.
Buckle up kids, it's going to be a wild ride.
