Welcome everyone to another video where I talk about a certain meme youtuber.
Today, we're gonna talk about Graham the Christian, aka CowbellyTV,
aka the next big threat to memes, oh my gosh.
Well, what do I think of him?
I don't really think he's that bad of a channel.
So if you don't know about this guy, what he does is basically just post meme compilations.
That's all.
There's not really much else to it.
He just takes popular Twitter and Instagram posts and narrates them using a text-to-speech bot.
There's nothing really interesting or unique or nuanced about this channel,
other than the fact that it's been blowing up in popularity over the past few months.
If I could pick one word to describe this channel, it would be generic.
Nothing really stands out.
The editing is really simple.
There aren't any wildly brilliant or groundbreaking ideas here.
It's all been done before.
And I think that if this channel wasn't as popular as it has recently become,
then no one would really care.
But the fact that this channel has become so popular has made it a bit of a target as of late.
I've seen lots of people in my comments recently requesting that I expose this guy,
but I honestly don't have that much of a problem with his videos.
Yeah, I know I said I wouldn't talk about Behind the Meme again,
but I can hear you pinheads just slamming your faces into those keyboards
to spew out those angry little comments.
So hear me out here.
I'll reiterate this point yet again.
My issue with Behind the Meme was his false sense of purpose.
He marketed himself as this golden source of meme education
when he didn't have the knowledge or skills to back it up.
People bought into it at first, but later they grew to see him for what he really is, a fraud.
And now Behind the Meme's channel is kind of dead.
Did I kill him?
That's hard to say, but the bottom line is that he has lost his credibility
with the majority of his audience.
And that's something that you can't really get back.
In the case of CowbellyTV, this guy's content is also pretty mediocre,
but at least he doesn't try to portray himself as anything more than that.
He literally calls himself a meme stealer in his Twitter bio,
and I don't really see a problem with that.
Now, of course, I don't personally like the content
for the same reason that I don't like the Me IRL page on Twitter.
It's all just reposting other people's work.
And both of these channels play the same role.
They act as utilities, not personalities.
I can guarantee you that no one subscribed to this channel for its original content.
Channels like this provide a very specific purpose,
wrangling all the popular memes circulating Twitter and Instagram
and posting it all in one place for easy consumption.
Sure, there's nothing really admirable about it,
but I can't really complain about it either.
This channel is basically the equivalent of all those Vine compilation channels
that were blowing up last year.
But now that Vine's been shut down,
the only memes left to compile are Twitter and Instagram ones.
And I think the reason this channel has become so popular all of a sudden
is that the Vine audience ran out of new Vine memes
and trickled down to the next best alternative.
Man, I miss Vine.
Does anyone else miss Vine?
It was finally becoming good, and then they had to shut it down.
Anyway, back to Cowbelly.
I feel like the dude's just capitalizing on an obvious market here.
I gotta give him props.
Someone was gonna make bank on a channel like this,
and he just happened to be the one to think of the idea first.
His success has already sparked a boatload of imitators
combing Reddit and 4chan for material to post in compilations.
These videos are really quick to make,
and you can basically pump out three semi-engaging videos a week.
And when you do that for two years straight,
the YouTube algorithm is gonna reward you by spreading your videos far and wide.
That's just how this site works today.
Don't hate the player, hate the game.
Meanwhile, I'm just here spending three months on a video
just to have it instantly demonetized.
You know what?
Fuck this.
I quit.
Unless you guys give me free money and buy 10,000 t-shirts.
Maybe then I can make as much money as Cowbelly does for reposting memes.
Because that's all I care about.
Money.
Not good content.
Money.
So give me your money.
All right, that's about all I have to say.
But I can't help but feel that this video is missing something.
Oh right, complaining about normies.
Yeah, the dude's a total normie.
If you just look at his Instagram selfies,
then you'll notice that he's the physical embodiment of Chad.
He's got the Jacob Sartorius haircut and everything.
So yeah, fuck you Cowbelly.
AKA Graham the Christian.
AKA Chad the Meme Thief.
I do not like you because you have more subscribers than me and I am jealous.
So yeah, make sure to suck my balls,
smash that unsubscribe button,
and report this video so it gets demonetized
and forces me to get a job at McDonald's.
Fuck YouTube.
