Gather around, kids. Today I'm going to explain to you some dumb internet nonsense,
something that you'll never need to know or learn about if you just log off, but is
nonetheless floating around the more deranged online spaces.
This won't be on the test, any test. This is entirely useless information and will occupy
valuable brain space from now until the end of your existence. You have a large but finite
number of thoughts you're able to think before you die. And fair warning, you will
be wasting a few of those precious neurons on this topic if you keep watching.
So what is code switching? Otherwise known as code mixing or language alteration, code
switching began as a term used to describe the behavior of multilingual people when switching
between two different environments that also necessitated a switch in language, which carried
with it a switch in mode of thought.
The first time the term was ever used was in the 1951 anthropology book, Language of
the Sierra Muac, a study of the languages of California's native tribes. It was used
there to describe the common practice of those people in the modern era switching language
mid-sentence when talking amongst people who knew both languages. Sometimes these language
switches can become languages of their own, pulling from both parent languages and being
partially understandable by their parent speakers, like Afrikaans or Tagalog. Code switching
also refers to the practice of changing tone or dialect while changing language. A great
example of this personally is my old college roommate. He was from a pretty rich family
in Taiwan. When he spoke English with us, he was pretty down to earth, but when he spoke
Chinese to his parents on the phone, the words and tone of voice that he used made him sound
like a snobby rich kid.
But most commonly in the West, code switching is used to refer to the tendency among black
Americans to switch between African-American vernacular English when in a casual setting
to a more formal and more white-sounding accent and word choice when in professional settings.
Of course, within progressive circles, this means that when white people code switch,
they're being racist. The first time this became a terminally online discourse cycle
was back in 2019, when AOC code switched between the voice that she commonly uses in interviews
and a very overemphasized Latin accent when saying Spanish words.
Liberals when a white person code switches. Dude, that is seriously racist, man. What
the fuck? Liberals when AOC code switches. Dude, that's totally okay. She can do it.
She's a Latina.
Innuendo Studios is someone with a huge amount of deep lore behind him that I'll have to
cover one day. Now's not the time. But he is a leftoid through and through. He said
in response to this whole thing, white people code switch all the time. They dial up and
down southern accents. Slang, vulgarity, working class dialects. Don't say code switching
when you mean to say, why is it okay for Latina to talk like a Latina, but not for
white folks to do it as a joke? Somebody replied to him with, he's pretty much just interpreting
code switching as deliberate racial parodies. That's going to spread like wildfire now,
isn't it? And he said, it's an extreme version of values neutral governance. If it's okay
for you to talk like a Latina, it should be okay for everyone to talk like a Latina.
This 2019 discourse was the first time I'd ever encountered the concept of code switching
and it was pretty interesting to me. So I decided to look into it. Innuendo Studios
is drawing a line between code switching and talking like a Latina. But if the rest
of this video is anything to go by, yeah, it literally is just talking like a Latina
in this case. Also, yes, of course anybody can talk like a Latina, you fucking segregationist.
Used in the terminally online culture warrior progressive kind of way, code switching refers
to jumping between two cultural spaces or communities and adopting different codes in
order to operate within them. These codes, they're kind of like masks that you can wear.
You're restricted by your demographics and adopting the wrong mask is cultural appropriation.
To use the AOC example, she's a racial minority. So if we follow progressive morality, she
can adopt the Latina code as part of that minority, but she can also adopt the white
code since she lives in a white dominated culture. And in order to access white institutions
and white spaces, she has to assimilate herself into whiteness. The more extreme racial activists
on the left consider this to be a capitulation to white supremacy and that these institutions
should be made explicitly non-white by privileging not only non-white people, but non-white codes.
This is why you often see stuff about how certain positive behaviors like hard work
or punctuality, they are white behaviors because they're white coded and therefore our society
views them as positive only because they're white. This renders all people who actually
perform these behaviors as white regardless of their actual race.
Do you believe that you have a different relationship with the social and political systems in society
based on who you are? You are a white, I'm assuming, I'm assuming middle-class Asian
American.
He must have misspoke, right?
White presenting, I should say.
You know what, dude? Mad props for the double down. Call him a fucking cracker, man. Fucking
go for it, dude.
I'm white presenting?
Wait, wait, wait.
What the what?
I can be white presenting Asian.
What the heck?
Let me rephrase that. Let me rephrase that.
Can you look at me right now? This is what, you know.
I can simplify that for you. I can simplify that for you if that upset you.
To be white now doesn't simply mean to have those genetics. It can also mean to be white
coded even if you're black.
If you have a problem figuring out whether you're for me or Trump and you ain't black.
Which gets us into the codes themselves. Coding is progressive speak for describing
a person who adopts the qualities of a demographic without actually being a member of that demographic,
often with the implication that we should treat this person as if they are a member
of the demographic that they're coding themselves as, even if they aren't.
Of course, this concept fell flat on its face years before it was ever popularized with
popular transracial activists Shaun King and Rachel Dolezal. These people were laughed
at by the right wing and decried by the left wing as weird racists back during the internet
of five to seven years ago.
But in today's progressive terms, why wouldn't they just be black coded? Oh, I forgot because
whites can't code switch. That's racist. That British person who tried to transition
to being a Korean proved that.
Now coding doesn't have to refer only to behaviors but also to stereotypical features.
In other words, coding gives progressives a way to be racist. Appealing to stereotypes
before that was just racist. For example, you wouldn't say that this Arab woman has
dark skin and wavy black hair and other features that are common to her race, because if you
did that, you'd be racially profiling her, you bigot. But instead, you can simply describe
her features as racially coded and hey, problem solved.
This is just so ridiculous. In both cases, you'd be describing the physical features
that are common to a group of people. However, when you do it, you're stereotyping and you're
a racist. But when they do it, they're just describing features that are racially coded.
This conversation gets especially cancerous once we start talking about fictional characters.
Starfire is a common example. She's an alien with orange skin and wild untamed orange hair.
Black activists in the comic scene have been screaming for years that Starfire is black
coded, and that the more recent iterations of the character where her hair is straight
have been whitewashing a black character and therefore racist. Their argument relies almost
entirely on stereotypes of what black women should look like. An argument that would make
you a racist if you made it. Also, it's just factually wrong. As per her creator, Starfire
was based off of Iris Chacon, a Puerto Rican model from the 1970s, who had that exact red
hairstyle and orange California tan. Even some of the outfits she used in her photo
shoots were partially adopted as Starfire's superhero costume. But nonetheless, the progs
scream and cry about how racist it is if you deny that Starfire is black coded. You might
ask, why don't they just go for actual black characters that are commonly seen with Starfire,
like Cyborg and Bumblebee? They're both heroes, they're both positive black representation
for young black comic readers. Why would you fight over Starfire when there's already
actual black characters? The answer's obvious. Cyborg and Bumblebee's blackness is indisputable,
and therefore it's inconsequential. There's no argument to be had, no other interpretation
any reasonable person could come up with. There's nothing here to go viral, no hill
to die on, no virtue to signal. Nobody blinks an eye when you say that Cyborg is black coded,
because he's fucking black. But saying that Starfire is black coded? That's how you get
clicks on the internet. There are other non-human characters that progressives give the black
coded treatment to, but that conversation almost always plays out the exact same way.
So let's move on to queer coding. What's queer coding? Well, it's when a platonic heterosexual
friendship exists, and therefore gay people demand that they're gay. A great example
of this is Frodo and Sam from Lord of the Rings. Frodo and Sam aren't actually gay
in canon, they're simply good friends. But because their relationship is queer coded,
in the online LGBTQ community, in the gay canon, they're a couple. Authorial intent
doesn't matter, they will subvert and take away your spaces after all. The argument that
they commonly give for this is that in the past, to write about openly gay relationships
meant that you might get thrown in jail for obscenity. There's probably some truth to
that, that some characters would have been written to be more open about it had their
authors lived in a different time. Hell, even in the 90s, though they wouldn't have
been thrown in jail for it, on Deep Space Nine, Garak was censored from being bisexual
by the studio, which was the writer's original intent for that character. But for Frodo and
Sam? No. Tolkien was a devout Christian. Remember that whole thing with Spider-Gwen a couple
months ago, where people were transvestigating her as having large hands and wide shoulders,
and that haircut and the trans flag in her room meant that she had to be trans? It turns
out she wasn't. She was a cis woman, just a trans ally. But everyone's favorite stalker
brainlet, Quinton of Quinton Reviews, stated, even if she isn't canonically trans, I think
it's starting to seem pretty likely that her arc in the film was written as transcoded.
And I feel that's more important. This is the common lefty media analysis take nowadays.
What the actual story is doesn't matter. What the author originally intended can be
ignored. What matters is the coding. What politics can we overlay onto this media in
order to claim it as our cultural space? Here's the most cancerous one of all. Minor coding.
Yes, that is exactly how it sounds. When an of-age character has certain qualities that
are coded to be underage. Anime is full of these. Short, cute women in their late teens
or their 20s or even their 30s. Where, if you happen to mention that you like these
shows online, a ton of weird culture-warrior-obsessed progs will burst out of the woodwork to shriek
that you must be a pedophile. I remember when Elon Musk went viral for liking pictures of
Death Note's Misa Amane, a character who ranges between 19 and 24. And these Twitteroids
were out here saying, I'm sorry, but if you're like 50 years old, like in this,
you are a pedophile. Why? Not because of Misa's actual age, but because she's minor coded.
Here's another example that went viral when during this person's list of role-playing
tips for online RPs and tabletops and stuff like that, one of them was, don't lewd minor
coded characters. A minor coded character is a character who is considered an adult,
but exhibits so many child-like traits that it doesn't matter if they're an adult
or not, and thus they promote pedophilia and child porn. Typical traits of a minor
coded character include 1. A child-like appearance. The 1000-year-old dragon excuse, if you will.
2. Child-like hobbies. If they play with toys or exhibit other child-like traits, this is
a red flag. 3. Their height. Any girl under 5'7 is basically a red flag for being minor
coded, since that's the common height for children. Common height for children, jeez.
That's right, lads. If a girl character is under 5'7, she's minor coded, even
though the average height of a real-life woman is 5'4. This person got fucking destroyed
for this ridiculous take, the idea that adults acting childish promotes pedophilia. I guess
I promote pedophilia because I act childish every day. Uh, don't clip that. Again, like
the black-coded thing, there's tons of examples of this shit. They're easy enough to find
online, so let's move on. Now, Dev, you might ask, we're just talking about TV shows
and movies, who cares? Well, watch the Gramsci video already. But also, more importantly,
this doesn't stop at media. They actually treat real people like this. Cosplayers who
are of age, short, and flat-chested have been harassed for posting pictures of themselves
because their adult bodies apparently promote pedophilia. This person was demanded to provide
proof that they actually had small boobs so that they could be allowed to draw artwork
of their own characters who were also flat-chested. This person genuinely believes that the existence
of petite people promotes pedophilia. Here's a picture of an of-age Japanese model. Again,
flat chest. Apparently, according to progressives, if you find her attractive, you're a pedophile.
And finally, my friend V went viral with this take back during the ugly woman in video games
safe horny thing, posting not even a racy picture or anything, nothing underage, nothing
weird, just a random attractive woman's face. And this was called vaguely pedophilic. That's
right guys, if a woman is attractive at all, you're a pedophile now. Why? Because attraction
itself is obviously minor coded. Old people are ugly, young people are hot, therefore,
if you're attracted to any hot person ever, you're a pedophile. This sort of thing does
also happen to black people too, not just black characters, where if a black person
doesn't behave according to black stereotypes, they're white coded or they're whitewashed
or something. But I hate to say it, I guess I'm just kind of used to that level of retardation
at this point. I'm used to watching progressives shit on black people for not acting black.
I'm not used to the age thing though. And that brings us into the age gap discourse.
Have you ever noticed how progressives freak the fuck out whenever two of age people get
into a relationship if the age gap is too large for them? This conversation went viral
and boy it will make your head spin. I got called Jeffrey Epstein by a child because
I once dared to say that it's not grooming for a 21 year old to have sex with someone
in their thirties. Sorry to say, but the dude is kind of right. That age range is very much
a yellow light. Some are certainly mature enough to engage in sexual intercourse but
we have different standards. Pro tip, if you're in your thirties, don't fool with post miners.
Post miners now guys. That whole extended adolescence thing has gone a bit too far now,
hasn't it? You've heard of those pro-pedophile leftists? Well guess what? Meet the leftists
who are so anti-pedophile that they don't want younger adults fucking other adults.
People in their twenties are legal adults. If we can join the army, drink and take drugs,
pay taxes and have a job, then by god we can date people who are older. There is nothing
wrong with requiring a test in order to be licensed to engage in sex. My whole point
is that the post miner age range has tons of stunted development people, especially
neurodivergent people, and this protects them from older predators. So, while this is an
obviously retarded moral standard, it's still not even one that they hold themselves. Hey
all, I recently became the owner of a kid fur age regression chat room. It's for everyone
and anyone looking for a chill space to air your little or middle space feels. Marked
eighteen and up. If this guy believes that post miners, people who are over eighteen
but still relatively young, in their twenties, that they can't consent with older adults
in their thirties or more, why is he running a kink space for them? He is specifically
describing kinks that stunted development people have. This guy is violating his own
fucked up morality that normal people don't even adhere to. That's probably the most
retarded age gap discourse that I've seen. But it's not the only one. I've seen people
calling pedophile over thirty year olds dating twenty two year olds, forty five year olds
dating seventy nine year olds, Tom Cruise's age gap in the latest Mission Impossible sixty
one and forty one, and nineteen year olds dating twenty two year olds. Yes, for real.
All of these fucking people are totally cool with newly turned eighteen year olds immediately
spreading their asshole on only fans for less than the price of a fucking McDouble because
sex work is empowering, while at the same time morphing into Chris Hansen the minute
that a twenty three year old minor coded post minor woman identified uterus owner goes
on a date with a pedophilic twenty nine year old straight white male.
Anyway, that's the end of my saved up collection of cringe on codes and code switching. Most
of this stuff is people's natural puritanical tendencies bubbling back up and filtering
through the progressive repression. Basically, when someone is talking about codes, they're
trying to convince you of something that isn't, but looks like it is. That character is not
actually black. That woman is not actually underage. That person is not actually trans.
Those friends aren't actually gay, but they want society to treat those things as if they
were the case. Why? For some of them because it's good for their politics. For others
because it's good for their fetishes. And yet for others because they're fucking insane.
