Earlier this summer, I picked up NASCAR Thunder 2004 from a local flea market for seven dollars.
This game is regarded by NASCAR fans as the best NASCAR console release of all time.
A game that has not been topped more than 17 years after its release.
When I played it, I was astounded at the amount of content and gameplay variety available in a 2003 game.
Naturally, as we evaluate older media,
you have to excuse a certain level of crappiness due to the technical limitations of the era.
For example, a movie from 1982 is going to have significantly worse special effects than a movie in the present day,
so it's not really fair to judge older works along modern standards.
But just as we can forgive old media for their limitations, should we punish new media for a lack of progression?
Imagine taking a time machine back to 2003 and telling NASCAR fans,
this game right here, this is as good as it's gonna get. It's all downhill from here.
They would have thought that an asteroid must have wiped out the human civilization in 2004,
because how could it be possible that despite the exponential growth in processing power,
and with the video game industry earning record revenue,
not a single company has managed to make a better game nearly two decades into the future.
I feel like NASCAR Thunder represents a disturbing trend in video games as a whole.
In general, the last decade of games has been profoundly disappointing.
I want to clarify here that this is not my individual opinion,
rather the general consensus that I've perceived from the gaming community at large.
I feel like everyone entered the 2010s with such optimism.
So many of us were eagerly anticipating how the next-gen technology was going to completely transform the way we experienced our favorite games.
Half-Life, Fallout, Halo, Call of Duty, Mass Effect, World of Warcraft, Madden.
These franchises brought us some of the greatest games of the 2000s.
Little did we know just how hard all of these beloved series would fall off a cliff.
I polled my audience on Twitter what they would prefer if they could only play games from one of these decades,
and remarkably, 45% of respondents chose the 2000s.
This means that nearly half of all people would be willing to give up the entire 8th generation of consoles and a significant portion of the 7th gen.
They would be willing to give up better graphics, better performance, most online multiplayer games, most of the games on Steam,
most games on the App Store or Google Play, the most popular indie games, seamless DLC and patches,
cloud storage, fully integrated competitive lobbying, VR, Xbox Kinect, Raid Shadow Legends.
They would be willing to give up all of this to go play Wii Sports and Club Penguin.
Despite all of our next-gen technology, many people feel that the games today simply aren't as good.
So with that being said, what happened to video games?
The first and most obvious reason for this is the deterioration of game design.
15 years ago, you'd go to the store, purchase the game and own the finished product.
Then, somewhere along the way, companies figured out how to make players purchase the same game multiple times.
Nowadays, game studios have become all too comfortable rushing out broken, unfinished products and just patching in the rest of the content in the years after release.
Couple that with charging for DLC, microtransactions and pay-to-win mechanics, and consumers end up spending more for less.
This issue has been discussed to death here on YouTube because it's inherently
unsatisfying to pay full price for a game and not have it resemble a finished product until long after you've stopped caring.
This is a trend that's undoubtedly emerged over the past decade because if you released a broken game in the 2000s,
people just wouldn't buy it. But even worse than releasing broken games is releasing broken games with no intent on fixing them.
This has been a disastrous consequence of licensing at exclusivity.
And no other developer symbolizes this problem more than EA Sports.
Some of you today may find this hard to believe, but there was once a time when EA made great sports games like NASCAR Thunder 2004.
However, in just five years, EA went from releasing the best NASCAR console game of all time to one of the most
universally hated games in the genre. What happened? Well, starting in 2003, EA bought out the exclusive rights to the NASCAR license.
Prior to that, you had the NASCAR Heat and NASCAR Racing franchises all producing quality games alongside EA.
The competition forced these developers to release great products. After EA bought out the license,
they no longer had any incentive to outdo their competition, and the series slowly but surely deteriorated.
A similar outcome happened to the Madden and FIFA franchises, with the only difference being that EA is still holding them hostage to this day.
Couple that with 2K's recent string of duds, and we have entered a disturbing reality where there are practically no good sports games on the market.
These games used to be an integral part of every console generation, and now they just seem to exist to fill shelf space.
And due to the monopolistic nature of these licensing deals, it's unlikely that this trend will change anytime soon.
Players will just keep buying the same mediocre game every year because if you want the newest game from your favorite sport,
there are literally no other options.
Even without exclusive licenses, the overall selection of games over the past decade has felt rather limited.
It's a phenomenon I call the death of the simple game.
When I was a kid, I spent dozens of hours playing games like ATV 2, Midnight Club 3, Burnout 3.
These were all what I consider simple, good games.
Solid, fun titles that didn't necessarily set the world on fire with innovation, but were still nice to have in your library.
These were games that you could pick up and play for a couple of weeks and eventually revisit once a year or so.
Unfortunately, pretty much all these franchises died with a decade, and the 2010s were left with what felt like a huge void in good middle tier games.
It seems like most games these days are created to fit one of two extremes.
Either a crappy phone game you can play on the toilet, or a grandiose open world multiplayer battle royale with a 40-hour
cinematic story and epic cutscenes.
I believe the shift towards the latter can be attributed to by far the most successful game of the 2010s, Minecraft.
The meteoric rise of Minecraft led to a cataclysmic shift in what players expected out of a video game.
The amount of unique gameplay possibilities was virtually unlimited,
and it was not uncommon for players to dedicate hundreds, if not thousands of hours to this single game.
The same is true for Minecraft's less respected, but equally popular cousin, Roblox.
Previously, games like RuneScape and World of Warcraft would draw similar levels of dedication,
but they didn't come close to the immense mainstream popularity that Minecraft and Roblox continued to hold to this day.
All of the time spent on these two games is time that would have been shared among dozens of those smaller, simple games from the 2000s.
Unfortunately, this has made it difficult for studios to justify creating simple games,
because why would someone pay for a new game when they can just stick to the unlimited gameplay variety in a game they already own?
This all but forces modern publishers to release lazy free-to-play games riddled with microtransactions,
or haphazardly shove in as many bells and whistles as possible to create what is more often than not a disappointing and incoherent mess.
It's so dense. Every single image has so many things going on.
Another far-reaching consequence of Minecraft and Roblox is that they have forced every other game to prioritize online multiplayer,
which has, in turn, killed off local multiplayer.
Some of the most fun I had as a kid was playing Nintendo DS games on the bus before school.
The DS let you wirelessly connect to local multiplayer rooms without an internet connection,
and the best part was you could play games like Mario Kart without even owning the game yourself.
In my opinion, this was the peak of not just local multiplayer gaming, but handheld gaming, yet another genre
I used to really like that has gradually deteriorated over the past decade. Now don't get me wrong,
I don't hate online multiplayer.
My most played game of all time is Team Fortress 2, which is a strictly online multiplayer experience.
However, I'll be the first to admit that playing against random strangers online is simply not as fulfilling as playing alongside your friends and family
whom you see every day.
This has always been an essential part of what makes video games fun, going all the way back to the days of arcades.
To be perfectly honest, the ability to play with anybody from around the world will always be impressive on a technical level,
but the experience doesn't compare to the simple pleasures of just going to a friend's house to play Guitar Hero.
The harsh reality of online multiplayer is that it's very impersonal.
Ironically, despite having the potential to connect us with an infinite number of people,
online multiplayer has left us feeling more isolated than ever before.
Most of the time, it just feels like you're playing against very good CPUs.
Except they can trash talk you and call you bad for making a single mistake.
With friends, it's all just casual banter,
but with strangers, getting constantly flamed can turn a fun game into an incredibly frustrating experience.
Because of this, it's not surprising why online multiplayer games tend to carry the most toxic communities.
And as more studios shift away from local multiplayer in favor of online play,
it's no wonder why games are starting to feel less fun in general.
Speaking of which, the past decade has led to a significant portion of people who no longer engage with games for fun.
In many aspects, video games have become serious business, both literally and figuratively.
In a literal sense, the business of video games is seriously booming.
Recently, the gaming industry has become really good at making money,
and the money-making process has made things less fun for consumers and really not fun for developers.
The ever-increasing thirst for profit has corporatized the business at large.
Gone are the days of scrappy, passionate developers working to make their games the best that they can be.
Modern-day devs toil feverishly to meet impossible deadlines and end up creating products that both they and their audience hate.
Back in the day, this practice would manifest itself in the form of tacky, licensed shovelware,
but some of these games ended up being pretty good.
At least shovelware was far easier to avoid than the predatory business models currently infesting games today.
Modern-day games are designed to be more addictive than fun and will not hesitate to take more of the player's money at every opportunity.
For today's game companies, the only high score they care about is their profit margin.
It doesn't matter if games are good as long as they produce revenue.
However, the business of video games now extends far beyond the publishers.
Players can now go into business for themselves by making money from playing games on Twitch, YouTube, or as an esports competitor.
Ladies and gentlemen, the dream of every kid growing up in the 2000s is real.
But just like everything else, it wasn't at all what we expected.
As it turns out, playing games out of obligation rather than leisure is a great way to suck all the enjoyment out of whatever you're playing.
This leads to highly uncomfortable situations where people like Wings of Redemption force themselves to be publicly humiliated on a regular basis
in a game they hate because it's the only way to pay his bills.
I'm already playing a game I don't want to play to get views.
I really wish I weren't here right now.
As for competitive play, there's no shortage of people who completely burn themselves out trying to grind out an extra dozen elo points.
When winning is the only thing that matters, the experience starts to quickly unravel when you inevitably lose.
I'm done making League of Legends videos.
With more and more games introducing competitive laddering systems, more people end up taking the game way too seriously.
Look how mad you're getting over a game.
In either case, the end result remains the same. The game gets less fun.
Calm down, man.
It's just a game.
It's not just a game.
That's my life.
Since when did video games get so stressful?
It seems like you can't even talk about video games anymore without the whole conversation devolving into a bitter argument about the nature of society.
I miss the days when people would fight over whether the PS3 was better than the Xbox 360.
Nowadays, everything has to be shoehorned into some hackneyed political movement.
Gamer game. And yeah, yeah, I get it. All art is political.
It is absolutely vital that we dissect the socioeconomic themes of Shrek's Swamp Cart.
But what you may not realize is that most people play video games as a means of escapism.
Believe it or not, there are people out there in the world who don't have it so good.
And video games provide them with a brief reprieve from all of their problems.
So you may have to cut these people a little bit of slack if they don't want to dedicate their only moment of peace to
militant political activism.
However, the past decade has shown us that militant political activism has now become inescapable.
And if you don't use your platform to spread awareness about John C. Calhoun's toenail, then you don't care about the world's problems.
We live in an age of impossible expectations.
Everyone wants the best solution in the least amount of time and anything less than that is considered a failure.
This mindset applies to video games as well and has the debilitating effect of killing games before they even have the chance to succeed.
As soon as the hype train gets behind an upcoming title,
that game is doomed to a monsoon of ridicule if it falls anywhere short of perfection.
Back in the day, there was hardly any information about future game releases.
The first time you'd even know about a new game would be when you spotted it on the store shelves.
Everyone would play the game first then come up with their opinions about it later.
Nowadays, a game gets announced and you have a deluge of YouTubers, streamers, journalists, and forum posters all hyping it up months or even
years before it comes out.
Many people now make up their minds about a game without even playing it, all because their favorite YouTuber said that it sucked.
This can end up truly warping the public's perception of a game.
No Man's Sky was absolutely buried in hate after its lackluster release shattered the hype bubble.
And even though it has slowly but surely rebounded to a solid game,
many players still write it off for failing to meet their initial expectations.
So many new releases end up dead on arrival.
Just look at the disastrous launch of Artifact, a game that was instantaneously hated from the very moment it was revealed.
You can actually pinpoint the second when his heart rips in half.
And...
Now!
In a vacuum, Artifact is nothing more than an unremarkable card game,
but because it was attached to the prestigious Valve lineage of gems, this game was doomed to fail from its very premise.
If Artifact came out from any no-name developer, it could have gone down as a perfectly average game.
But when people have the expectation of your company releasing innovative masterpieces,
average doesn't cut it.
Great expectations make disappointment and inevitability.
This is why many of the most successful games over the past decade were barely promoted until after they were already on the market.
Compare that to a platform like Kickstarter, which has become notorious for churning out disappointment after disappointment.
The main issue here isn't necessarily that these projects were mediocre or behind schedule.
The true problem with sites like Kickstarter is that they generate massive hype for products that don't even exist yet.
Is it really justified to feel bamboozled when you agreed to financially back an intangible product because a bunch of people hyped it up on Reddit?
Social media has effectively homogenized everyone's opinions.
Public perception is now inexorably skewed by the circle jerk.
Speaking of circle jerks, the modern era of online communication has also contributed to the rise of the fandom.
This is a topic I discussed in my Rick and Morty video that just as easily applies to video games.
We now occupy an age where otherwise good games can be tarnished by an obnoxious fandom.
The immersive nature of video games can spawn some of the most obsessive fans of any media type.
Fans who worship their favorite game like it's a religion.
It's fans like these who arguably contribute to the deterioration of game design in the industry by continually throwing money at new titles regardless of quality,
thus rewarding companies for predatory business practices.
However, for every mindless fanboy, the internet has created an equal and opposite stubborn contrarian.
The 2010s were unprecedented in the amount of cynicism and disillusionment within the general gaming community.
Contrast this with the 2000s when it seemed like every gamer was giddy with naive optimism.
Technology was progressing before our very eyes and there was so much to be excited about.
Just look at E3, what was once a whimsical wonderland where gamer dreams came true.
These days, E3 is basically treated as a giant cringe compilation.
It seems that as the games themselves have become less fun, gamers have had to seek out entertainment from other sources.
You pop this piece of crap in and what do you get? Well, I'm done making League of Legends videos.
YouTube critics like the angry video game nerd made an entire generation of gamers realize that deriding bad games could be just as fun as enjoying good games.
As it turns out, it's a lot more compelling to watch someone tell you why a game sucks rather than why it's good.
On YouTube, there's a market incentive to ridicule games as much as possible.
Nobody ever makes a video about a game being decently adequate,
but when a game misses the mark, all the biggest commentators come out and blast it.
Nowadays, everyone is aware of the circus that is Yandere Sim,
but how many of us can actually name a single other game in the genre? I know I can't.
I've never played a single anime related game in my entire life,
and yet my whole perception of the genre is negative because of a single eccentric story that's been blown up by YouTube commentators.
Online discourse puts the negativity bias on steroids, and it has without a doubt contributed to the prevailing cynicism of the past decade.
Sometimes it feels like people these days are actively rooting for games to fail so they can participate in the festival of mockery.
Twenty years ago when a game flopped, nobody really cared that much.
But when studios release a bad game now, they get absolutely hammered for months on end.
So with that in mind, if you're a game studio planning your next release,
why would you even want to risk provoking the online mob by attempting anything new or innovative?
The best course of action is to just play it safe by releasing bland,
formulaic crowd pleasers that most people will forget about before the end of the year.
At least then you avoid a flaming PR disaster, even if it does induce a perpetual state of mediocrity.
What makes this even worse is how relentlessly nitpicking games is now being treated as some kind of cool personality trait.
It seems like no matter what game you play these days, you'll encounter some jaded contrarian calling you dumb for liking it.
This elitist gatekeeping was nowhere near as prevalent in the past, as back then, nobody really cared what video games you played for fun.
Now they're treated as an indictment against your entire personality.
At least that's how it feels when you enter any comment section on the web.
The last decade has seen gamers become irrevocably polarized, so much so that it's impossible to tell what they really want anymore.
For so many years, gamers had this myopic obsession with graphics and realism,
to such an extent that they would weigh graphical fidelity higher than any other design aspect.
And now every game has amazing graphics, yet seem to be lacking in all other areas of design.
Graphics are better than ever before, while gamers have never been more miserable.
If it's not fun, why bother? Turns out that gamers, much like any other consumer base, don't really know what they want.
And now that most of us have been thoroughly put off by the uncanny valley mannequins of modern-day games,
we've actually seen studios moving back to the low poly cartoony aesthetics of the 2000s.
Gamers will complain about a franchise like Pokemon failing to innovate and releasing the same game over and over,
even though across practically all genres, sequels, remakes, and remasters continue to sell consistently well.
And I don't exactly see everyone rushing out to go buy the most experimental avant-garde titles at all times.
So you want a realistic down-to-earth game
that's completely off the wall and swarming with magic robots.
Ultimately, if you have a formula that works and makes money, why would you have any reason to change it?
Similarly, if you already have a library of games you enjoy playing,
why would you go out and buy a new one that you probably won't even like?
And that brings me to my final point about why modern games just don't feel as fun to play.
There is so much gaming content today that simply didn't exist 20 years ago.
People these days will spend hours playing a game, then hours watching YouTubers review games, then hours watching Twitch streamers play games.
None of these things are particularly bad on their own, but combined they can burn people out on new games faster than ever before.
After a while it all becomes a bit exhausting.
The market is so saturated with gaming related content that it's hard for anything to stand out.
At some point it's difficult to justify spending time caring about any new games because so many good ones already exist.
The sad truth is that most of us just can't get that excited about new games anymore.
In the 2000s we got to see major strides in technological progress year after year.
Stuff we take for granted today like online play and HD graphics used to be mind-blowing achievements back in the day.
But now that the current paradigm has fulfilled most of its potential, innovation as of late has felt much more marginal in its progress.
Once something becomes advanced enough you can only do so much to improve it further.
The differences between a PS1 game and a PS2 game are immediately clear.
But are PS3 games really that far off from PS4 games? In terms of specific game design,
many of the most compelling gameplay concepts have already been done.
I mean for the past five years the most popular games have all been different spin-offs of the battle royale game type.
Overwatch is just TF2 mixed with League of Legends. Valorant is just Counter-Strike mixed with Overwatch.
Pretty much any new game that comes out today is directly comparable to something that already exists.
It's for this reason that the 2010s have seen an unprecedented trend in players preferring to stick with older titles like TF2 and Melee.
These games feel like the ideal versions of what their successors have attempted to replicate.
Older games are also much more likely to have active modding communities who only seek to further perfect these already great titles.
Modders can often perform amazing feats with no budget deadlines or expectations.
Melee's community-created netplay is a free service that functions better than Nintendo's own dedicated servers for Smash Ultimate.
Which, by the way, you have to pay for. If you had to pick between these two options,
which would you honestly choose? And with all that being said, have video games been on a downward spiral?
I'm not going to sit here and tell you the answer because just like any video game out there, it's subjective.
But if you want my opinion on the matter,
I don't actually believe that things are as gloomy as the majority of internet commentators would have you believe.
Not every game is going to be a masterpiece. That's what makes each masterpiece so special.
It's important to understand where games go wrong,
but we should also give credit where credit is due and not discard an entire body of work for minor infractions.
Our favorite franchises from the 2000s may have fallen on hard times,
but just like in every other decade, new ones will inevitably rise up to take their place.
I feel like gaming is in a highly transitional state right now.
Much like when video games transition from arcades to home consoles, there's a lot of chaos and uncertainty in the industry.
So is the whole business just doomed to crash and burn and bury itself in the New Mexico desert?
Most likely not, because as much as gamers like to complain and ridicule the games they play,
we all know they're just going to buy the next one anyway.
Even though it may seem like everyone hates games these days, people wouldn't get so frustrated if they didn't love games deep down.
At the end of the day, everyone's just trying to recapture that feeling of total immersion in a virtual world,
or at least any feeling besides the jaded, disgruntled cynicism of the real world.
Not every game will help you accomplish this, so consider yourself lucky when you find one that does.
Anyway, in conclusion, Pokémon GO was the most fun I had in any game from the past decade,
and I rate NASCAR Thunder 04 an 8 out of 10.
Bold, brazen, audacious, unapologetically defiant, these are the words I found in my thesaurus,
which are necessary to describe the new Emperor Lemon Downward Spiral Signature Collection.
Two years ago, Teespring unceremoniously removed my original design for trademark infringement.
Well, guess what, you bunch of idiots? How about I remove myself from your entire website
and start selling my stuff anywhere else?
Emp was seriously pissed off, and for a moment there I thought there was going to be an incident,
but luckily that didn't happen.
Oh, you want to talk about trademark infringement? I'll show you trademark infringement.
I'll give them the greatest trademark infringement anyone's ever seen.
You know, these designs are quite similar to the ones they have at Doh! No!
Battented Downward Spiral. Old family recipe.
The new, totally not trademark infringement collection is now available at crowdmade.com
slash emplemon or in the merchandise shelf beneath this very video, you lucky bastard.
To be honest, I don't even think Emp is doing this for the money.
I just think that he's really bitter about Teespring and wants to stick it to him.
Oh, what's that? Teespring? Yeah, sorry, never heard of him. Must be an inferior brand.
Why don't you go ahead and head over to crowdmade.com slash emplemon
and get yourself a fabric print that won't wash out in a month.
Did you juice yourself? I know I did.
Hey yo, Cam's the name, Gamemaking's my game. Do you like RPGs?
Because whether you do or you don't, frick you!
Go to Kickstarter.com and check out the game away from home.
You malnourished soy boy c-
Shut up. It's not just a game. It's my life. And I can't just-
Shut up. It's not just a game. It's my life. And I can't just let him think he can comment-
Shut up. It's not just a game. It's my life.
And I can't just let him think that he can comment and ruin my life like that.
