So I've been working on a long-form Bolsonaro video, and in gathering up various sources
and articles and tweets, I've noticed a trend developing among both the radical left
and the alt-right, though the radical left seems to be currently the larger culprit.
Why is there so much hatred towards people who consider themselves centrists or classical
liberals?
Here's Margo Pez, the founder of Esther, a Patreon alternative that sees Patreon somehow
as far-right, and bills themselves as a progressive, lefty alternative.
Wondering what happened to SubscribeStar, I hope nobody with the wrong opinions signs
up to your service.
I'm not a fan of the centrist fanbase Beto has, but I support his call for an end to
this unjust system.
She's talking about Beto O'Rourke, the center-left option currently filling the Democratic
Party's power vacuum after the collapse of the Clinton machine.
The fact that he's explicitly not a radical seems to be what Margo's complaining about.
And what about Kyle Kalinske on the same topic?
Beto apologized to Ted Cruz for saying that Lion Ted was an accurate nickname, and he
livestreamed himself at the dentist.
Even putting his super-centrist voting record aside, I don't think he'll be the Democratic
nominee.
Why is his centrist voting record a problem?
Surely that would mean he has an ability to meet his opponents in the middle and compromise
in order to get real work done, right?
Here's a tweet from Anarkofak, a disabled trans woman libertarian socialist YouTuber
who's trying to spread radical theory.
I'm surprised there's no pronouns in that bio.
Universities are not full of radical leftists.
They're overwhelmingly full of liberal centrists.
People on the right are just so reactionary that they mistake the mild progressivism of
liberal centrists, such as supporting LGBTQ rights, as radical leftism.
I think by your own self-identification, you are not an accurate judge of what is and isn't
a radical leftist.
And at the expense of exposing myself, and by extension you, as an old person, simply
supporting LGBTQ rights is what your average university student did 15 years ago, back
when I was at university for the first time.
And there were a small minority of religious conservatives, ever shrinking, ever outraged
at the on-campus support for the gays.
But as I said, that was 15 years back.
Canada and the US have since legalized gay marriage.
Legal roadblocks for LGBTQ people are either gone or in the process of disappearing.
We supported those rights back then because there was a need for legislative change.
But now?
The activist class was faced with a choice.
Either shut down and disperse, or lurch ever more radically to the left in order to invent
new causes to continually justify their existence.
And whenever you lurch more left, centrists start to look an awful lot like the far right
that you hate.
I've had those three tweets linked to me by viewers of the channel, but just for fun's
sake, let's do a quick scroll through the use of the word centrist on Twitter right
now and see what we can find.
Pretty cool how the only way this shutdown doesn't end with the complete political
annihilation of Trump and the Republican party is if a lazy corporate centrist media skews
the narrative into somehow being the Democrats' fault for not compromising and that's exactly
what we're seeing.
The media's been lurching left along with the SJWs, but I guess since they're not
keeping pace, they're centrists now, eh?
I only take criticism from Marxist feminists.
I truly don't give a fuck about some centrist liberal's opinion, especially not through
CC.
After all, liberals get the bullet too.
This isn't fact checking, it's a weird centrist mind exercise.
This is in response to a fact check of a recent Donald Trump speech.
It wasn't all good for Trump, but it was worse for the Dems.
As it turns out, pesky things like truth and facts qualify as a weird centrist mind exercise.
Responsible centrist.
What about apartheid?
The fact that you would compare border security in the face of violent militant cartels to
apartheid simply because a wall is involved and that you would somehow pin that insane
fantasyland justification on centrists is mind boggling to me.
But it's not just Twitter nobodies that hold this view of politics.
Like I said earlier, the media's radicalized itself leftward as well, and the demonization
of centrists can be seen in some of the rhetoric they push.
For example, in the 2016 election cycle HuffPo article, more evidence that centrist solutions
can't save us.
The presumed presidential nominee of the Democratic party is expected to embrace standard democratic
initiatives like raising the minimum wage, investing in infrastructure, closing corporate
tax loopholes and cutting taxes for the middle class, along with newer ideas like providing
incentives to corporations to increase profit sharing with employees, and changing labor
laws to give workers more collective bargaining power.
These ideas, while worthwhile, will not reverse our multi-decade descent into equality.
Nor does it seem likely that the philosophy of Hillary Clinton's advisers will resonate
with the voters who have lost so much ground during this process of decline.
They call it inclusive capitalism, and that's a formulation which would not have been out
of place in conservative Republican platforms of recent decades.
Do you see what this guy's saying?
Inclusive capitalism, meaning capitalism with a safety net and a mechanism to get the poorest
of the poor on the board, like a healthcare system or a student loan system, is not radical
enough change.
To me, that's about as far as we should be going, but that's why centrists are
demonized.
If it's not radicalism, it's simply a waste of time.
But not only is centrism considered a counter-revolutionary force, it's also a pie-in-the-sky idea
that will never actually exist, apparently.
Stop whining, centrists.
Bipartisanship is a myth that never existed.
Everything is an eternal revolutionary struggle, comrade.
All hierarchies are corrupt with power.
All relations between individuals or group are always a form of combat.
The difference between 2013 and 1963 is that in the earlier period, liberals and conservatives
were found in both of the two parties, which still reflected the geographic realignment
that had produced the Civil War.
The Democrats, still based in the South, had their conservative Southern and Midwestern
members, while the Republicans, still the Northern party of Lincoln, had many liberal
members.
So both parties had traditionally conservative and liberal wings, and likely were able to
come together on multiple issues in the past?
Isn't that the very nature of bipartisanship?
Politics is civil war by bloodless means, ballots rather than bullets.
For one side to win, the other side has to lose, and for one side to win, it needs to
mobilize enough support to roll over a bitter and determined opposition if necessary.
This is the analysis of somebody unwilling to compromise.
If you don't give an inch, then yes, either you steamroll your opponent, or you get steamrolled
yourself.
But it only has to be that way if you are stupidly, suicidally stubborn.
Take the current government shutdown over the funding of the wall, for example.
What if the Democrats actually decided to stop being petulant children and presented
Trump with a deal?
Something like, say, we'll give you the wall if you give us Obamacare.
That would be actual compromise, not one side simply crushing the other.
Each party would walk away with something that they want, something they can show to
their constituents and say, look, we can actually get work done sometimes.
But if you come from the postmodernist school of thought where everything boils down to
a simple power struggle, it's no surprise that you think centrists and their silly ideas
like compromises are unrealistic.
Another core tenet of centrism, horseshoe theory, that the radical left and the radical
right have more in common with each other than they do with the center left and center
right, is also, predictably, something that the media has in its sights.
And just as predictably, they describe it as the tool of fascists.
Let's put an end to horseshoe theory once and for all.
Accusing the left of fascism only helps the real fascists.
Well, no, I wouldn't accuse the radical left of being fascists.
I'd accuse them of being tyrants.
Fascism is a form of tyranny unique to the right, but that doesn't mean that the left
can't also be tyrannical.
For centrists and for right-wingers, horseshoe theory is a convenient chunk of heavy iron
to toss in the faces of left-wing opponents, but its very convenience should be treated
with suspicion.
Everyone loves to hate the left, but hating the left isn't a good way to fight right-wing
extremism.
On the contrary, the conflation of alt-right Nazis with a supposed alt-left gives people
like President Donald Trump and former Breitbart chairman Steve Bannon rhetorical cover to
slime their critics as the real fascists.
Perhaps even worse, claiming that the left is especially prone to fascist tendencies
allows folks on other parts of the political spectrum to ignore their own complicity when
actual fascism crawls out of the mud.
And here is the core problem.
Actual fascism has not yet crawled out of the mud, and your hyperbole does not make
it so.
Trump, for all of his faults, is not a fascist.
Bolsonaro, for everything he's done since taking office, and we will talk about that
on the channel soon too, is still not a fascist.
Steve Bannon is not a fascist.
Politicians that you disagree with are not simply fascists.
For example, people called Brett Kavanaugh a fascist back during the nomination.
Nobody on the left cared that it was a grossly inaccurate statement.
Nobody cared that Kavanaugh considered, for example, Roe vs Wade to be a settled matter.
He was just a fascist, because all people that aren't radical lefties are fascists.
And that was that.
As anybody with a brain could have predicted, Kavanaugh's actions since the confirmation
have been characteristic of your average center-right conservative.
But should you bring his name up to an SJW, they'd act like he's been personally leading
right-wing death squads every day since he took his seat on the court.
The real reason the radical left demonizes centrists as being part of the radical right,
and vice versa, I might add, is because when viewing reasonable centrist positions through
their ideological lens, they see opposing stripes of radicalism.
Here's one final example.
It's good that Dan Hodges is a centrist and would never push a far-right agenda.
The poster is being sarcastic, and he includes three Dan Hodges quotes that he sees as far-right
as a way to discredit the idea of centrism.
The quotes read,
There's not too much that's factually wrong with these statements.
Maybe the first one is a stretch, equating ISIS with all Muslims, but the other two are
spot on, 100% accurate.
However, one of the radical left's core tenants right now is Islamic apologia.
When somebody, anybody, is not willing to be an Islamic apologist, if instead they recognize
the danger that Islam poses to the kafir, the non-believer, if instead they want individual
Muslims held accountable for their repulsive actions, even if those actions are permitted
under Sharia law, the radical left sees them not as a rational centrist, but as a fascist,
a Nazi, a member of the dreaded alt-right.
But that's not how the world works.
The core ideology of the left has shifted so far into the territory of radicalism that
to them, all centrists look like the far-right.
And so the very concept of centrism itself becomes a joke in their eyes.
They see no centrists, only Nazis.
And when somebody proclaims themselves to be a centrist in their own defense, they simply
view the word as a synonym for Nazi.
There can be no compromise with these Nazis in centrist clothing.
The only option left on the table is war.
And while it's a war that the radical left will never win as they continue to radicalize
even further and leave large swaths of the voting populace behind in their wake, it's
also a war that none of us will ever win.
What we all understand to be compromised in order to find the best possible solution,
they view as an immoral collaboration with a hated enemy.
The increasing demonization of the centrist is just a symptom of the radical left's, and
the religious rights before it, unwillingness to compromise with those they see as tainted,
impure, unclean, and unfortunately for society, that's almost everybody.
As long as the left is unwilling to put aside its unending brinkmanship, come to the table
and hammer out an agreement that nobody likes, everybody can live with, and allows the government
to get some real work done, we are all going to suffer.
