I'm in a real gay man's dilemma. Do I get Botox for my whole to reduce fissures slash
allow me to bottom more but take on the risk of shitting myself in public?
You know, I had some hopes of this being a serious YouTube channel one day. I was talking
about a name change to something that's more suited to my current analytical style.
I did that video examining why leftists tend to hate charity. I've got our video coming
down the pipe describing the three forms of fascism and what lands in my lap today
but Botoxing your butthole. As always, this ain't getting monetized so please toss a few
dollars my way.
I think the first thing that I need to ask is if you're getting fucked so much that you've
got anal fissures, maybe the first thing on the list is to, you know, take a break from
the gay sex, not inject Botox into your asshole to loosen it up and keep the good times rolling.
How deep is this Botox going legitimately asking as a medical student just in the sphincter
to make it relax. It's generally done if you get a lot of fissures. Oh, it's generally
done like this is some kind of common procedure most normal people get no big deal. Jesus
Christ. I don't like to bottom because of the fissures I get every single time. I know
I get torn up and it's the worst like what the fuck guys do you not use lube? This sounds
like they're fucking animals that have barbed dicks. I'm way too tight to get more than
a finger up there. Then why are you doing it? Jesus forget about that that degeneracy
gay sex is icky angle that I'm sure a lot of my audience is currently feeling right
now. There's also a practical conversation here. There's ways to loosen up before you
get into taking cocks in the ass man. You don't need to fly hole first onto the thickest
shaft in the room. And just in case you think this is about say two loving monogamous gay
men in a closed relationship who are having some sexual problems that require medical
intervention that sometimes happens to straight couples to like the dicks too big or whatever.
Nope. This is just about being a degenerate. It's more about healing things below. I'm
not doing shit for a top. Yep, this guy doesn't give a shit about who he's having sex with,
which might be one of the reasons why he's having this problem. You know, in an age of
monkey pox being spread by promiscuous gay sex, and the data is finally conclusively
in on that one, by the way, guys, it's not that incidental contact with sweat or pus
or saliva that happens during sex sometimes that is spreading monkey pox right now. Rather
monkey pox is being spread specifically through semen. You think that the gays would tone
it down, not tear it up. Literally. Alright, let's give this guy the benefit of the doubt.
For those wondering, Botox paralyzes muscles and if used on the sphincter will help it
relax and allow fissures to heal more easily. Also, I get Botox in the top of my head and
neck to help with migraines. It won't make your hole look 10 years younger. I already
passed. If you have a fissure, doctors can give you a compound prescription ointment
that increases blood flow to the area. Do not use hemorrhoid cream. It does the opposite.
Jesus, imagine that conversation with your doctor. Yes, sir. I love getting ass fucked
so much. You got to prescribe me some anal cream. But Botox can help relax the sphincter
speeding up healing. If it causes incontinence, you will tighten up in two to three months.
So yeah, literally choosing to shit yourself in order to have sex. I appreciate the discourse
and how vulnerable people have been sharing their struggles with bottoming, fissures and
IBS. The ridicule and vitriol I've received exemplifies the stigma around this. Do not
be ashamed. You are not alone. Thank you for the overwhelming love and support. Dude. Okay,
let's put the promiscuity thing aside for a minute. If I personally ever had any sort
of medical problem like this, none of you would ever know about it because I know what's
appropriate to post on social media and what's appropriate to keep within my private life.
It is proper that there is a barrier between your public and personal spheres. Not everybody
needs to know everything you've ever done. In other words, TMI buddy. Moreover, the reason
you're getting ridiculed is because what you are saying is ridiculous. Like I'm kind of
a comedian, right? Not a very good one, I guess, but I don't mind doing goofier videos
sometimes or telling jokes or making a fool out of myself on stream. I do that sort of
thing more on the gaming channel than here, but I'm still not purely serious 100% of the
time. I know my job. I'm fundamentally an entertainer and my content has to be either
interesting or funny to get you to watch it. I can absolutely picture a series of jokes
on stream where I talk about injecting my asshole with Botox in order to increase the
amount of anal sex I can have and exactly how fast the chat room would be scrolling
in response. They would be laughing at me and that's the point. The joke is that I would
sound ridiculous, but I'd be doing it as a joke. You're actually out here saying this
shit seriously. How could you be anything other than a laughing stock, dude? Here's
the worst part about this whole topic. This actually isn't the first time that Botoxing
your butthole has gone viral. Nope, the internet's seen this one before. Vice.com, March 29th,
2017. Anal rejuvenation is making works of art out of American butts. From skin tag removal
to tightening procedures to anal Botox, how a new class of doctors is making bottoming
its top priority. Alright, I'm a fascist now. You won me over. I just wanted to play fucking
video games. In 2010, Tom went to see a surgeon about getting skin tags removed around his
anus. As a sexually active gay man, this wasn't just a routine cleanup, more like
a fresh coat of paint on a bed and breakfast with frequent visitors. Ultimately, the surgeon
he saw not only removed them, but took internal hemorrhoids and anal dysplasia or precancerous
cells along with them. Jesus Christ. I don't know if it works like this, but when you have
so much anal sex, you start to get cancer. But Tom said the surgeon was more aggressive
than he needed to be and didn't consider that his butthole was also a sexual organ.
It was horrific, the 48-year-old said. I was on the sofa for three months in horrible pain.
It was six years ago, and I still can't have anal sex comfortably, which has destroyed
50% of my sexuality. I can't explain the emotional toil it took on me. About a year ago, Tom
found Dr. Evan Goldstein, the founder of Bespoke Surgical and a leading practitioner in the
burgeoning field of anal rejuvenation. I told him, look, if I can't get fucked, at least
make my butthole look pretty. And he did. Goldstein said his private practice really
started booming about five years ago when patients started asking for more lickable,
playable holes. And just in case you're curious, people are dropping up to $25,000 a shot on
Dr. Goldstein's anal botox. That's a lot of money you could have saved by not fucking
yourself into physical ruin. I feel the same way with women who get plastic
surgery in their vaginas. Like, chill the fuck out with that. Unless you've got Cthulhu
down there, I don't think anybody actually cares. But for some reason, getting vaginal
re-sculpting and reshaping and whatever the fuck, that seems to be on the rise too, and
that's just as ridiculous. Unrelated to either the 2017 Vice article
or the recent viral tweet by, uh, Sloppy Scorpio, is this article on TheBody.com, which bills
itself as the internet's HIV slash AIDS resource. Now, I've been told many times over the years
that considering AIDS as a gay disease or whatever is bigoted, and fair enough. But
if that's the case, why the hell does an AIDS resource site have so many articles that
focus on gay sex? Anyway, the article is titled, Is Anal Botox
a Miracle for Painful Bottoming? And I'm just here thinking, dude, if you've got AIDS, maybe
you just fucked it up a bit too much. Maybe your sex life should just be over at that
point. But finally, after many wasted hours trying
to get to the bottom of this story for this video, we can finally drill down to some core
nugget of truth. Specifically in the preamble of this article before the anal botox bit.
I got my first botox injections two months ago. As an expressive 32-year-old gay man,
I've been flirting with the idea of preventative facial botox for a few years now, crossing
the threshold of 30 years old, had ignited a deep existential dread, and I decided to
pull the trigger after a friend told me he could get me a lofty discount. Needless to
say, I'm thrilled with the results, though you could never tell because my face is frozen
and I plan to keep it that way. Thank you very much.
The author of this article, Bobby Box, is certainly a handsome man who appears to be
doing well for himself, at least based off his TikTok account. Same with that sloppy
Scorpio dude at the beginning of the video. Same with a lot of the guys featured in my
previous monkey pox video. But they all have the same basic attitude. You can smell the
extreme fear of getting older, wafting off of them. This existential dread, as Box says
in the article. I've seen many porn stars, OnlyFans women, and prostitutes all say the
same thing on the female side of the conversation. They all inevitably ask, though very rarely
publicly. When the looks fade, then what? Red Pillars already have a pre-set script
for that conversation with women. The beauty of youth fades, so you need to find a man
who has some value and have children and build a life for yourself. Something that will persist
for the entirety of your life, not just the early years. And fair enough, that's one
very common and very successful way to do it. You don't commonly see men feeling this
way, though. At least not like this. Of course, men feel the ravages of time as well. I'm
sure one day I will be middle-aged, looking in the bathroom mirror, wondering what happened
to the person that I was, pining for those younger years. That happens to all of us,
at least a little bit. But you can save off that existential dread by being a responsible
father and an attentive husband. Or by building a business that others can be lifted out of
poverty and wage slavery into. Or by devoting yourself to a charitable cause and making
your community better. Or by working in your job in an honest manner and applying yourself
diligently and establishing yourself as a person to trust when things go sideways. Or
how about all of these things? At least, as many of them as you can manage. Meaning is
found in voluntarily taking up responsibility, and it's meaning that staves off existential
dread. It will be the meaning of a well-lived life that is your final companion on your
deathbed. If your life is so fucking empty that you need to inject Botox into your face
because you're afraid of getting old, and Botox into your butthole because the only
thing you have to look forward to is meaningless sex, well, that sounds like a terrible life
to me. And if you're the type of weird person who just happens to find that sort of thing
truly fulfilling, then all the power to you. But do you think it's these guys? Do you
think the person who writes about turning 30 and getting Botox to cope with it really
loves his life deep down? Yes, these people are ridiculous and disgusting and hilarious,
but when you peel the layers back, you find that they're also insecure and desperate
and sad. This isn't even a gay thing in the end, it's a nihilism thing. Though there's
clearly a lot of overlap there, the gay men in monogamous responsible relationships with
well-rounded careers and lives likely do not suffer from quite the same existential problems
as these guys. Anyway, I have no idea how to end this video, so don't fucking Botox
your butthole. Bye!
