Two brothers come up to me, aged 7 and 8, with an unexplained, aggressive look in their eye.
And the younger one pushes me to the ground, kicks me in the stomach, and just says,
GAY.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time.
And as I begin to record this lovely voiceover, we are 24 days into Pride Month,
the delightful time of the year where LGBT individuals have a chance to celebrate their identity.
Now, by the time this video is released, it will probably be mid-July earliest.
Anything before that will probably be a miracle, and I'll have to find a way to celebrate.
But given my track record of how to celebrate, I might open myself up to suggestions.
But yes, it's Pride Month, and I assume most of you guys have the memo for what happens.
Now, the community has a very significant online presence, and it's perfectly natural that many people
may take the hopefully supportive atmosphere to talk about their experiences, or even come out themselves.
YouTube, in spite of its rocky relationship with the LGBT community for many justified reasons,
provided one of the greatest, most personal mediums for creators to have unique moments that would not be captured on the television,
making the individual the direct owner of their creation.
Managing to create content more personal, and with personal content comes personal problems.
One of those prevailing problems was sexuality.
The internet is a hotbed for social outcasts for many reasons,
and YouTube was a platform for those to converge in a place where they didn't need the socially accepted qualifications to go places.
This led to a real platform for the LGBT community, with one of the real staples being coming out videos.
Coming out videos are pretty self-explanatory.
They involve one individual coming out as LGBTQ to friends, family, or even you, the audience.
It was a meaningful experience for both creators, who may have felt isolated in their moment of vulnerability,
and audiences who may be looking for that guidance on how to traverse these scenarios themselves.
YouTube's importance is undeniable.
However, it's not every day a highly popular, reputable public figure decides not just to come out,
but to come out in a way that deals with it in an incredibly introspective and detailed fashion with multiple social statements.
However, the individual that I have designed to cover today has done just that.
The individual is Daniel Howell, also known from the YouTube duo Dan and Phil.
Howell is a bonafide YouTube unit.
He has been on the platform since 2009, and really does represent the wholesome online come up that many people like to visualize regarding the website.
His style definitely represented the syndicate of sketch YouTubers that were sprouting from the fertile earth at that point.
But make no mistake, Howell was his own creator and definitely represented the Brits well on that side,
capturing the irony-tainted cynicism that is signature to much of our humor.
He's also content that has aged incredibly well.
In this video, he basically predicts or recognizes stan culture.
And of course you have to follow them on Twitter, but it is important that you at reply everything that they say within the first 12 seconds of them posting a tweet,
because otherwise you're just gonna be lost in the crowd, so you need to be right on the mark,
just replying to absolutely everything they ever say.
And at this point, it is important to remember that you do have to be interesting.
If you're boring, then they just won't care who you are.
So, you know, read their MySpace interests, watch their Tumblr posts, and you know, write down a list of what you think they're interested in,
so you can at least pretend you have similar interests.
Nonetheless, in spite of the very idiosyncratically British tone, this received appreciation from across the globe,
and his channel proceeded to gain a strong amount of traction.
He continued to work with his compadre, Phil Lester of AmazingPhil, and created some very entertaining sketch content
that continued to thrive for a good few years, increasing production values, furthering the creative vision,
working on new channels such as their epic gaming ventures, and moving even beyond YouTube, most notably to their show on BBC Radio 1.
The fact that at a time where YouTube still wasn't quite at its level of cultural magnitude,
a pair of British lads could use that content to gain a spot, and arguably the most iconic British radio station,
should be a real testament to how significant they were in the landscape of YouTube.
However, when you have all that fame dropped in your lap, you sometimes find it difficult to express who you really are.
Content will always be reflective of an individual to an extent, but at the same time, it's not going to tell you who the person behind the camera is,
and people start to theorise, for various reasons that we'll break down in a bit.
Dan even entertained a purposefully bizarre fanfiction, which in hindsight I think was meant to be a bait and a switch
for those who wanted to find out more about him and Phil's relationship, perhaps even taking a shot at those same theorists.
Dan had no interest in going. His friendship with Phil was personal to him and not something he wanted to share with family and friends
who would mean well but insult with every word of comfort.
I always received the impression that many of Dan's videos were just meant to be ironic takedowns masqueraded in fan popular content,
and I'm kind of there for it. Nonetheless, the questions remained and persisted, and at a point, Dan just kind of went quiet on the content front.
Now, unlike Phil, he was not necessarily known for his incredibly regular uploads, and when you get this deep into your career,
sometimes it's therapeutic to take a break, and it wasn't like he fell off the face of the Earth, so no one was really ready for what he was about to drop.
What dropped was a video in which Dan came out. However, it was more than that.
Throughout the video, Dan revisits his past and the history, the experiences that shaped him, how these things had grown to interact with him
as he had progressed with his career and developed as a public figure, and how they had continued to affect him for better and for worse.
These sort of expectations people had placed onto him, and how they had ultimately led up to this moment.
Hello internet. However, it's a bit more than that. We're going to be going into a bit of a deeper philosophical dive today,
and trying to break down the various aspects of coming out videos, their difficulty, their challenge, and sometimes their weaknesses,
but we'll also be going into why they're important, why they matter, and why, with respect to all of these conditions and factors,
I feel that Dan Howell really did something else with a type of video that is often overlooked in the cultural impact they could have.
I'm going to be showing some clips to try and capture the energy of his video, but if you want it done justice, go and watch the whole thing.
So, without further ado, I suggest we get into it.
In the list of things that identify a person, one of the most important for other people to know is their sexuality.
For if sex is the primal force propelling all of these humans forward by their hips, they have to know, are we gonna fuck?
So the first question I should put to you is, why come out?
Now I don't mean generally here, I mean in the fact that you would make a video with regards to coming out to your audience.
I mean on principle, it's a fairly simple answer, at least it used to be, that you want people to be aware,
but as a creator you immediately have to face some nuances that reflect your channel.
Who do you want to be aware? What sort of awareness are you raising?
The easiest solution is to have people aware when they are introduced to the brand.
If they want, they can look up a creator and find out their sexuality,
and that forgets one of the main purposes why someone comes online,
particularly if they see YouTube as an escape from the troublesome real world.
You immediately hit a fairly tough catch-22 as a small YouTuber.
In Dan's instance, he was a face cam YouTuber, so anyone who knew him could immediately identify him,
and that could lead to more real life problems, and without having an online life that's remotely sustainable,
that would be dangerous on his behalf.
Now although in his coming out video he makes it clear that there were people who didn't know,
he also shows that the animosity these people reacted with typically deterred him from being public about his sexuality.
I was six years old, running around the playground, pretending to be Sonic the Hedgehog or something,
when two brothers come up to me, aged seven and eight, with an unexplained aggressive look in their eye,
and the younger one pushes me to the ground, kicks me in the stomach, and just says,
Gay.
This was the first time I ever heard that word.
Well, I don't know what the heck gay means, but apparently it means people kick you on the floor, so that ain't good.
This one little shit who I won't name was one of the school bullies, and he loved the word gay.
He had it in for me, and I have no idea why.
You know me, Mr. Winnie the Pooh meets Slender Man.
Well, when I was ten, just Winnie the Pooh.
I didn't do nothing to no one ever, and yet this guy used my pacifism as a punching bag,
where any group situation was an excuse to single me out, call me gay for some reason,
and then make everyone else exclude me because they were scared of him.
So for a year, I literally had no friends, and this is when the bullying at school really stepped its pussy up.
The things people used to say offhand to me in a corridor were now said loudly in classrooms, where everybody would laugh.
People used to sing songs about me being gay on the bus, while my fellow nerds sat around me,
just stared awkwardly out of the window, not wanting to get involved.
People shouted things out during GCSE exams in front of the whole school,
and the low-key pushing became punches.
People used to wait for me after school just to throw things at me,
once a guy put his hand around my throat and pushed my head against a coat peg in the locker room while everyone was watching,
and just slapped me for five minutes.
Therefore, when creating his original content, it would have been a risky move to also have a sexuality public due to the real-life implications.
In society as it is, people work from the assumption that an individual is straight,
and therefore when someone is not straight and keeps themselves from the audience for the sake of self-protection,
if they do manage to expand their channel and grow out their content,
when they feel the shackles of approval from certain social figures alleviate,
it feels like given people's assumption of heterosexuality,
there is this burden, that feeling that you're not being as open with your audience as you could be.
Here I am, age 27, and my sexual preference is seemingly still a vague, debatable, confusing, impenetrable mystery.
Equally, once you've established a clear relationship with your audience,
you become hesitant to alter it by releasing a coming out video,
because you don't know if your brand is ready to take on a message like that.
There's no shame in not coming out to your audience, remember that.
Sometimes it can even be just based on technicality.
There's an amount of videos that I've wanted to sit down and make just personal and talking to the camera,
yet I've always felt restraint when trying to make any video because honestly,
I don't think it'd fit well within what I normally do.
It's a difficult leap to make for multiple reasons that we'll indulge in, in a bit.
So I'm only telling a few people on the internet right now,
it's not like one day I'm gonna get so many followers that random strangers in my family might see it.
For many people, social status is what might change their position on coming out,
but even then, someone might be hesitant to,
because even if they have overwhelming support from their audience,
they may have pivotal family members they still would like to remain on good terms,
or they feel they have a sensitive relationship for.
We are not entitled to know someone's sexuality.
So this is something you have to be clear on, because if you're not,
how are all these other people that aren't you going to cope?
Sexuality is a general fact, that it can be very useful to know about a person for several reasons,
but we can't force people to disclose that either.
We don't know this person's life story, what they've been through,
if they haven't told people, if they'll lose their job, if they're in danger.
There are so many reasons someone might not be open about it.
We can preach the message that being out is good,
but aggressively speculating or trying to out someone is really bad.
They might not be gay, in which case we're just harassing someone and probably stereotyping,
and if they are, there's going to be a reason why they haven't talked about it.
What happens there will always be someone's own business,
and there may be justified reasons for why we haven't spoken about it.
But that's not the question we're trying to completely decipher here.
So although making people aware is a possible answer for this question,
at the same time there are many concerns surrounding it that might deter someone.
There has to be some more reasons, right?
Okay, let's look back at the assumption of heterosexuality.
That's an interesting one, because although many may assume such naturally,
we also have stereotypes, and in the instance of Dan,
although people weren't going to necessarily out him,
there were many people who created hypotheses around his identity
and why he had been relatively ambiguous about it.
But I'm pretty sure no one that knows me thinks I'm straight,
so I don't really need to come out as much as just clarify what the hell is going on.
And let's make that abundantly clear.
The absence of heterosexual behaviour is not evidence for homosexual behaviour,
but when people start making assumptions about your private life,
you feel the need to clarify,
because you don't want people misconstruing these sentiments that may be hard to read.
In all fairness, it might be better for some of these people not to read into these things at all.
But that's what people do, that's what our audiences will do.
When people use art to express their feelings like Dan did,
many committed fans want to use the art to look into their mind
and find out what feelings they truly have.
The nature of interpretation is fairly innocent and natural,
until people start carrying that through to your personal life and assuming relationships,
and so in this instance you might be motivated to give them directly information
that they can assure themselves with, to avoid any misconceptions.
So a coming out video can clear up possible misconceptions, right?
Well it doesn't necessarily mean that coming out is going to clear everything up,
particularly in the case of someone like Dan,
you could very easily tell that coming out might actually complicate people's ideas of relationships,
such as his one with Phil, another guy who has been relatively quiet on his sexual preferences.
This in the past has led people to hypothesising about their activities,
and now one of them has come out, the threat that people might try and use that as evidence to prove that point
hasn't really gone away.
Now I don't know Phil, but regardless of any assumption about his sexuality,
or even sexual activities could legitimately follow through to his social life if he is actively pursuing relationships,
so when dealing with these situations, it's important to be sensitive to the discussion at hand.
So when all these opportunities came for Dan and Phil, we were really excited,
but I was also scared as people clearly knew I wasn't straight, and I hadn't told my family that.
None of my old friends knew about this, and what me and Phil had was hours and personal,
yet some people were trying to get access to it for their own satisfaction.
It was no longer a few people on the internet, no big deal, so I just shut down.
Here's the thing, I'm somebody that wants to keep the details of my personal life private.
So is Phil.
I know lots of people these days, thanks to social media, want to share and monetise every aspect of their life,
and then as soon as something changes, suddenly it's this huge drama because everybody got invested in the story of your life like it's a soap opera.
I don't want that, I want to do certain things without an audience, I want to be spontaneous, I don't want to feel afraid to take risks,
I want to enjoy totally fucking something up and not have to post a public statement about it,
and if anyone thinks people really have to share these things about their life, you need to rethink your position.
However, in spite of how daunting it is, having a fanbase might also be a great reason to come out about these experiences,
particularly if your content typically may underline your own struggles.
It means that it is very possible that you have attained subscribers and viewers who encounter similar struggles and feel the way you deal with it resonate with them.
If their idol comes out about their own experiences, then it may be genuinely helpful to many people who are having trouble deciphering their own identity.
Nonetheless, it's still a tightrope as you don't want to promote your own experience as definitive,
you still want people to come to terms with themselves on their own basis, because no two people are completely the same,
even if they do have some degree of shared experiences.
And if anything motivated me, it's the idea that I can help someone else, because that's basically my whole career, isn't it?
Admitting to shit that I've been through so you will feel better about yourselves, there we go, you're welcome.
I have a platform and a following of millions of people, many of whom I know have been through exactly what I have,
and if I tell my story, as painful and flip-floppy and flawed as it is, I know it will mean something to someone,
as every time someone speaks openly about sexuality, it saves lives.
So, we've kind of covered all these sporadic reasons for coming out.
For the larger YouTubers, I'd say these are probably the more prevailing reasons, and obviously there will always be many minor reasons too.
And all of the reasons today that I've spoken about are still reasons to come out, they all just come with numerous amounts of reservations,
and therefore it's definitely important that an established creator takes them into account when making a video,
which is exactly something Dan intended to do.
But there are still more hurdles that you face, which is what we'll discuss now.
It seems absurd in a way that once you decide that you want to come out, you need to consider how to come out.
On principle, it should not be the most complex information to deliver, and it's someone's own life, they should decide how to do it on their own terms, and not suffer for it.
For creators who may craft their content around LGBT issues specifically, then it's normally not a difficult challenge, because it fits into their content.
Coming out videos are unique in a way that typically, once again with reservation, they can only be done once.
You can't create a series of coming out videos, and you certainly don't want to be seen as exploiting a genre specifically designed for people who may be experiencing those issues.
Speaking casually, you have two options, you either make it an announcement, or you make it a statement.
An announcement will obviously have less impact, but sometimes that's what we want.
If it's not a message you feel completely compatible with the main tone of your channel, or if you don't feel comfortable in pulling something off like that, then it's nothing on you, but there isn't too much to add here.
So what we're going to be focusing on this part is the latter, making it a statement, which although much more powerful, comes with its own implications.
As a creator, these sorts of videos are never easy, because of the cultural hype surrounding coming out videos.
Even if you're a small channel, it's very possible that a coming out video, if done with impact and emotion, might blow up and gain international attention.
Now I know what you're thinking, isn't that great? Why wouldn't anyone want that?
Well if your channel isn't an inherently LGBT focused channel, then having one video that's going to do incredibly well yet doesn't fit in with your regular brand might bring across a load of attention that won't sustain itself.
It's not right, but it's how YouTube works. For anyone who is experienced knows this will yield multiple problems.
Firstly, it will give you a spike in subscribers who came for that kind of content, yet will inevitably lose interest when you don't continue in that direction,
and thus may unsubscribe, killing your momentum. This will also yield in a decreasing amount of interest from remaining subscribers,
which could impact the way that YouTube promotes your account, that's restricting you to the content that you might want to make,
and probably driving a lot of frustration as you have to continuously watch your subscriber count drop.
For many YouTubers, it's never really about the actual total subscriber count, it's about the trend.
Now although it seems harsh to look at these things from a business perspective, if you have a message to tell an audience, even if it's a more intimate or personal one,
you still have to keep in mind that you might be constructing a channel, and you don't want to completely shift the attention onto this one element that may not fully represent you.
Now over the last few years, we have seen more and more YouTubers who have, in the past, used their content as a fairly thick veil to their personal lives,
peel back the layers and reveal a more intimate, personal side to them.
Maybe because the original personal charms of bedroom blogging are gone, and people need new foundations to relate to these creators,
but whatever the reason is, the cultural paradigm has definitely moved towards an expectation of openness.
On top of this, the increasing acceptance of those who wish to come out from their audience has steadily grown,
and people with large and dedicated fanbases can hopefully feel more at ease being honest with them,
though it does depend on the genre that you're in of course.
Now as a larger YouTuber with an already established fanbase, a fairly simple video about your sexuality isn't going to be defining.
I mean, you don't even have to make a video to get the message out once you're a big enough public figure,
but that clearly wasn't the point for Dan.
To make a video like Dan's for a YouTuber is to make a statement, so he had to underline it with a sense of narrative,
and intertwine it with a serious issue while offsetting it with his classic brand of humour.
It's no surprise the video took so long to complete.
Even with the size and security of his channel, these factors were all things that Dan clearly wanted to take into account.
When I think back to the reasons that we make coming out videos, one of the points I didn't touch on is to develop a character,
and why wouldn't I say that on principle?
Well it's because sexuality itself doesn't directly define character,
but at the end of the day, if we acknowledge the label that comes with it as a social status,
then a lot of implications through experiences do come along that will define people, that will affect them.
Dan touches on these a lot in his video.
This experience, coming from a childhood hearing the word gay meaninglessly thrown around as an insult at home and school,
in music, on TV, to then realising I'm actually kinda gay, to then very specifically being attacked for it, was traumatic.
The world was clearly telling me if I ever wanted to be accepted by anyone, or in my particular environment, survive,
I couldn't be gay. I was afraid of it. Literally homophobic of myself.
I'm talking Pavlov, Sunken Place, North Korea level mind alteration that made me terrified of and repulsed by this part of me.
I think that's a really unique detail to his content, there's this lack of egoism to what he makes,
and plenty of people have gone on diatribes about how we can all be happy and accept ourselves,
but sometimes these speeches come across as very pandering,
because they're done without the perspective of what the issues really are,
and just telling someone that they can be happy, as glorious as it is, is only a part of many people's picture.
Howell takes these issues head on, identifying them in a detailed fashion, but then expanding them in a way that relates to a lot of people.
Now let me make it clear, this isn't the first time personal experiences have been touched on,
there's a great video regarding coming out by Katzen, and fantastically creative in its own right,
but equally I think the multifaceted narratives that Dan's video constructed,
tied together by an interaction between actions and consequences, private and public,
and the subsequent social messages that he actually promoted, really took the concept to a new level.
The great thing about Dan's videos is that he never seems conceited with what he creates,
it always feels like he's working on something new, even when he doesn't have to,
and on a video with such a social statement, that's important.
I think the fact that Dan took the effort when, on principle, the announcement could have carried it alone,
is a real testament to who he is as a creator.
As videos go, this was a tonal masterpiece.
This tale was just some of the stuff relating to sexuality, we all have a whole sob story if we wanna tell it,
but I just wanted to explain the journey of how I got to this point, and overcame the obstacles that tried to block this path.
And now, I've arrived.
So when it comes to how these videos created, he definitely got it right,
but there's one more point that has to be acknowledged, which really pushes the video over the top in my opinion.
The penultimate part of his video is concerned with labels,
now initially I felt confused as to why he had inserted this part towards the end,
after what had kinda felt like a moment of closure.
However, he really did justify it with arguably the point that pulled this whole video together,
and revealed the underlying message to me at least, judgement.
Throughout the video, Howell makes multiple references to the sort of judgement that he was subjected to,
on the basis of those labels, and circumstances that no one could ever truly really know about other than him.
Judgement is inevitable in many ways, but it manifested into behaviour that ultimately led to a lot of personal struggles,
whether that was the intent or not.
And this leads him to his final section, fear, where he really manages to speak to everyone.
In the past, people have had to come out with the hope of acceptance for who they are.
This video changed that, it flipped it.
It was a message of why you should accept people for who they are,
and not ostracise or exclude them for elements of their identity that are beyond their control.
Dan turns the narrative on his head and puts the responsibility much more squarely on other people.
The story he tells is of a lad who strives for acceptance in a community that has given those behaviours labels with negative connotations
due to the deviation from the social perspective of normality.
Eventually, this comes in a weird circle with him realising that there is nothing really wrong with being different,
both finding that difference and acceptance in multiple aspects of his life, his content included.
As mentioned, Dan's content did really connect with who he was as a person,
so a coming out video would certainly keep in line with this evolution,
as it's likely that a lot of the struggles that he experienced and channeled due to his sexuality were embedded in the content that he made.
There is so much controversy around this issue and others,
but if we all just calm down, respect each other's experiences and try to just be nice, reasonable people,
which is a lot to ask, let's be real, it's quite simple.
If you want to use language to express your honest feelings and identity, that's great,
and other people should respect what you say.
Likewise, if you hate labels and you just want to be a formless blob, that's fine too, no one should force you.
The only thing that isn't cool is telling other people what they should or should not identify as,
because that ain't your problem or your business, bye.
This video was not just an important video for a multitude of reasons,
but it was an important continuation rather than a diversion from what he creates.
With all the context around his identity in the previous years, it leads him to find a moment of strength in great vulnerability,
and with that in mind, I think HAL really reinvigorated the coming out video in many ways.
For too long, there is this constant concern that many people have that these types of videos will be commodified
for the YouTube machine, given YouTube's own track record, and this video blasted any hashtag proud to be video out of the water.
In the first part of my analysis, I set out basic reasons why someone might make a video,
to make people aware, to clear up misconceptions, to help others who may be in a similar predicament,
and to provide development to his own character.
Dan covered all these, and more, and this is not to say that other videos aren't important in their own right.
Less than a couple days later, Eugene Lee Yang came out in another video that was a strong statement of self expression,
but I don't think I've watched a coming out video that just felt so right, and I don't know how to express it like that.
It struck the balance between personal and universal, it allowed him to present new pieces of himself,
while not necessarily binding his personality to his character.
It was a cathartic moment that many have been anticipating, but even then, it defied expectations.
It was a mutual experience for him and the audience, and I'm trying not to sound preachy.
And of course, I know that's just my opinion, but I know that a lot of people feel the same,
and that's equally important, when we watch figures online retelling their stories, when we invest ourselves in them,
we want to be confident that what they're saying is the truth, because we may be encountering the same struggles that they went through,
and we may be looking to explain it in a way that can help us understand ourselves.
The fact that Howell took so much time to explain in detail these feelings and using them to convey messages was a real favour,
he genuinely didn't have to, and I have little doubt that he has just helped a lot of people.
I'm so glad I failed, for so many reasons.
For the people in my life, for the future I would have wasted,
the most important being that I thought I was trapped in a situation forever, when in reality, the entire world I lived in and my life changed completely.
I thought it was hopeless, when in reality, there was so much to hope for, and that's it.
Time changes everything.
In the lives that we have, we can try anything we've dreamed of.
I want anyone that's ever felt like this to realise you are never trapped.
There is always hope. You just need to believe in yourself and get to the other side.
For anyone who doesn't know, might be the odd couple of people, I'm gay,
and I've never really been one to make a coming out video in such a way for multiple reasons,
mainly because I'm a guy who comments on YouTube affairs, and I've always perceived it as feeling out of place with the rest of my content.
It's never been who I am.
I'm also someone who doesn't like to integrate too much of his personal life,
but I still put the information out there for those who want to know,
because at the end of the day, I really had trouble accepting myself,
because my demeanour didn't exactly conform to the gay stereotypes that had been presented to me while I was growing up,
and when I finally deciphered it at the ripe age of 18, I felt like I'd lost so much time,
and I wouldn't wish that on anyone.
That doesn't mean that I think everyone should just jump straight in the deep end,
but I think that at a time when so many people were exploring their sexuality,
I was just sat there like a lemming waiting to be attracted to women.
I really could have used a few hints.
You can't change the past, there's no point in being bitter about influences other than catharsis,
but even then it'll wear you out.
The best thing that we all can do is know the challenges, know what put us there,
and provide the insight to help others traverse it on their own terms.
Since starting my channel, and uploading videos of course,
it's really neat to have people reach out to me in similar places,
and saying that me talking about my experiences resonated with them,
and how it helped them come to terms with various aspects of their life, sexuality included.
It's never really an effect I considered until people started telling me.
You always feel like your experiences are so isolated, but so often you're not alone.
People's sexuality will always be their own story,
and that's a story they are under no obligation to share.
When someone decides to be open about it, it can make a real difference,
and therefore both as someone who's been on the giving and receiving end of this dynamic,
no pun intended you freaks,
it gives me a greater appreciation for a video like Dan's.
Throughout the years, since 2009, Dan has represented a quintessential YouTuber in many ways,
making content with the sort of sincerity that subverts the mainstream entertainment genre,
while still producing some great comedy, often underlying strong messages.
With this video, none of that really changes.
I mean sure, due to the seriousness of the topic, it's obviously marginally less laugh out loud comedic,
but nothing will alienate his audiences that have come to know and love him.
It builds on his character, and many of the relationships fans might have had with it,
and to see such a mainstream person do this, it will instil a lot of confidence in people lacking it.
At the same time, he's created a video that could have been a fairly casual upload,
yet delivers something incredibly meaningful, adding a lot of new value
to a long-standing bastion of a community that can sometimes seem completely lost.
He'll have created a lot of new fans through this as well,
because even if you're not wholly familiar with him,
the fact that he touched on a lot of relatable experiences made it highly accessible.
It's a great video, for multiple reasons, but it's an important one too,
with a familiar, yet transcendent message.
To anyone watching this that isn't out, it's okay. You're okay.
You were born this way, it's right, and anyone that has a problem with it is wrong.
Based on your circumstance, you might not feel ready to tell people yet,
or that it's safe, and that's fine too.
Just know that living your truth with pride is the way to be happy.
You are valid, it gets so much better, and the future is clear.
It's pretty queer.
Acceptance, from people, for people.
Unless they like pineapple on pizza and then they can get f***ed.
I had to finish it on a joke, didn't I?
Ruining everything, as always.
Anyhow, I'd love to give a big shoutout to my editors.
I'm sure they have once again done a fantastic job.
I'm envisioning it right now, and I love it as much as ever.
I want to give a big thanks to my Patreons.
Fantastic, fantastic people.
I need to give a special shoutout to some very special Patreons.
A $50 Patreon.
We've got the face of Team Rocket, thank you so much.
Somehullerblue, you're a real veteran, mate.
Jewelangel1, thank you.
Again, lots of love.
And Bowright, a new bloke, so fantastic.
And then at the $100 tier, Adam Michael.
Wow, that's just $100.
Brandon Junk, thank you.
Long-standing Patreon.
I don't think we've even ever spoken yet, just incredible.
These people have that sort of face, so thank you guys.
And EveningSteal, another long-term supporter of the channel.
They recently actually, it was the last couple of months, they upped their pledge.
You know, I'm genuinely endeared by that.
When someone does that, you know, going one step above
feels like we're moving on up in the world, my friends.
And hopefully that's what we'll be doing.
Obviously, if you want to reach me, you can get in touch with me on Twitter, Facebook, and Discord.
I'll be leaving links to those in the pinned comments.
I do not have too much else to add.
Just want to thank you guys for the support, as always.
It just genuinely makes a difference.
Hopefully, now I'm out of university, we'll be on an open road.
So, until I'm driving down that open road, I guess I'm the right opinion,
and I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching!
