When people look back on YouTubers and ask themselves who have been the most influential creators on the platform,
there are many individuals that I'm sure come to mind, people who are relevant now, and people who used to be relevant,
whether it's PewDiePie, Smosh, Shane Dawson, Nigahiga, Ray William Johnson, Fred, The Annoying Orange, and so on.
Many creators, past and present, have had a significant cultural impact.
However, when speaking to people about their childhood, one name that seldom seems to come up is
Toby Turner, or Tobuscus, or Toby Games, despite the fact that I'm sure a huge number of people have watched at least one video of his,
two of his channels have amassed over 6 million subscribers each, which is certainly a feat not to be overlooked.
Yet I feel that his story is one that is often overlooked, one that is heavily integrated in the culture that we discuss today,
and one that we can perhaps learn a bit from, and maybe seek to explain how Toby Turner ended his career.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time, and bless your face.
I'm sure not everyone is aware of who Toby Turner is, but for a basic rundown, he is one of the original creators on the platform,
who began his craft in 2006, and 12 years later is still going. As mentioned, however, it's not with the intensity that he used to,
after he probably made a fat stack of cash in his time, or at least enough to keep him going, I can't look into a man's bank account.
He ascended to his peak around the turn of the 2010s, particularly encompassed by the success of his literal trailer series.
On top of this, he also had a gaming channel, in which he would achieve even greater success in terms of subscribers,
in spite of a marginally lower view count. Generally, if you ask someone involved with YouTube what has been their most recent experience with him,
chances are it'll be the allegations, in which Toby Turner was accused of sexual assault.
Now, at the time, this was created in a Tumblr post by an individual named April Fletcher, and this information isn't wholly relevant right now,
but I am going to bring it back up in the future for why it is important.
Turner had three successful channels, have made videos that are pretty much iconic in many people's childhoods,
and had so much media branching out in so many different directions, he almost seemed set to succeed.
I was rewatching a video in preparation by FootofaFerret, in which he runs down the brief history of our good friend Toby here, and he says this.
So it does indeed beg the question, what the hell happened? Even I'm not entirely sure yet, but by the end of the video, I'm sure we'll have a bit more of a definitive answer.
Turner is still uploading content to this day on his channel, mostly more commentary, facecam oriented, and talking about various random topics that interest him,
some topics more trending, others more spontaneous or personal to him. Given the fact that I don't think there's really too much else to summarise in this situation,
we're running ahead of schedule, so without further ado, I suggest we get right into it.
I think we should open up with a fairly uncontroversial statement. Toby Turner is a talented musician.
There is no doubt in my mind about that, he started his Tabuscus channel in 2006, and it did decently, in fact it did fairly well, particularly for views.
Turner's music always had a very distinct style in its delivery, Turner is a guitarist, he's clearly no Van Halen, or else Daddy Derek would have probably wanted his signature,
but he didn't need to be, and that's the first thing we need to talk about when it comes to Turner as a creator. Nothing he made was profoundly musically expert,
but it didn't need to be. The thing is, back in 2006, YouTube existed on its own terms, its content creators didn't have state of the art camera work,
and I know I've spoken about this before, but if it's a premise, it can't be ignored. Turner's stuff was relatively simple at the time, but it was cute,
it was mildly amusing, and Turner could do funny voices.
A lot of people tend to point to the Don't Taze Me Bro as one of Turner's earliest successes, but I'm not sure I entirely agree with that,
and I'd actually say that a far more representative video is the quaintly named Falcor the Urinator, which is essentially a song about his dog and how it pisses,
which, you know, fair enough. I feel that as a video, it was a snapshot into what Turner was about to create, and how mind-blowingly successful he was about to become.
You see, the word meme didn't even begin becoming popularised until the early 2010s, and even then it was a very gradual ascension to the sort of notoriety that it has attained today,
but with all this considered, the phrase meme is just a label. Memes existed before the word meme existed. Nowadays memes are much more seen as general concepts,
and we tend to pick up on the most random people, but I think one of the things I'd argue about Turner is that he really did make his music in a very meme-y fashion.
If you go back and look in the comment sections, you'll see numerous people quoting very iconic parts of the song, because they had something unique about them that made them so inherently quotable.
What was that exactly though? Generally I think it was because as a musician he was also a storyteller, which you know is kinda hard to recognise when you're distracted by the numerous jokes,
and maybe this was equally born out of his skits, where he would create an arc, even if it was a fairly irrelevant one.
But that's what a lot of his music represented, that arc, with a load of punchlines in between, which often yielded from the lines before, thus delivering some sort of comedic emphasis.
Combine this with the melodies, and the very awkward timing, it seemed to create something humorous and memorable.
He would also find comedy in the very simple notion of being literal. Even in his Falco video, you can see that style.
You're relating on the carpet, Napa-nating on the pee pad, to-a-nating the sofa.
Typically this would contrast a very simple formula, bringing energy and epicness to something mundane.
The song is about a dog who takes a piss and chews up sofas, but suddenly it's become this huge song about the dragon from the never-ending story.
Turner also enjoyed relative success from his remixes, even though they probably didn't give him the greatest persona, and they didn't really necessarily build character.
They're really only worth noticing from the point of view that they showed Turner's very intuitive nature to the prevailing trends.
On the about page of his extremely outdated website, it describes him as a viral marketer slash actor, instead of, you know, a YouTuber, which I found rather interesting.
But he definitely is very sharp on the direction of trends and working out how to turn them into something that people wanted to see.
The remixes themselves weren't really anything particularly groundbreaking in their quality,
but he knew how to put them out there, and he knew how to make it look appealing to the viewer, so you can't fault him for that.
One thing that Turner was always credited for was his clickbait, which I personally don't think is anything on the level of people like Ray William Johnson,
but his titling was pretty good and always knew how to mould itself into a prevailing trend.
It's also important to note that in spite of his videos doing incredibly well for views, he didn't gain too many subscribers from it,
mainly because at this point, as a creator, although he definitely had his own brand, he hadn't really integrated anything personal into it that would make people come back consistently for his content.
It's a very interesting concept, which is personality. When you subscribe to someone, you typically want to see more of them.
Turner, at that point, had created a very diverse range of content that people were watching mainly for its own virality,
which isn't the same as someone subscribing to some twat ranting about whatever YouTuber talking bare shit of reasons, and giving some opinion to it.
Virality doesn't translate into long-term success. Unless you really carve out a niche that only you can fill, for example, like bad lipreading,
it's very hard to kickstart a brand. What Turner was doing at this time was something that hadn't quite defined him as the creator that he would soon become.
It was also the case because back then there were fewer users on the platform, fewer people who actually had accounts, so with all that considered, he still did alright.
Towards the end of 2009, he was the 73rd most subscribed comedian on the platform, on the grand total of 73,456 subscribers.
Oh, how times have changed. But nonetheless, that's still a fraction of what he was about to obtain, and he really did need something to identify his brand with.
A lot of his videos were fine enough, but they were fairly sporadic in their tone, and that identifies a problem that I'll probably talk about later.
For now, we see Tobuscus in a reasonable position. He's doing well for himself. He has a second and third channel, in which he is enticing many of his current viewers into.
At that point, the third channel was just called Toby, but it appears that he never decided to use that one beyond a couple uploads, and then transferred the status of the third channel onto Toby Games.
This led to a good dynamic interaction. Another YouTuber who had a similar setup was Shane Dawson, who I've spoken about before.
He also had three channels, but there was more divergence in how these two characters used their channels, with Turner making the second channel more dedicated to vlogs, with the third becoming his gaming channel.
Going back to 2010, Turner wasn't the most successful creator on the platform, but with a ruthless scheme of tapping into the most popular pulse, and some fairly iconic ideas he was about to be.
I think it's time we talk about Phase 2.
It is the turn of the decade. The world is changing, and Turner had definitely established something, but he didn't necessarily have that game changer that defined his brand on the Tobuscus channel.
He was doing well, but he could do better. We've all been in that position.
On the 8th of December 2009, Toby Turner uploaded a literal trailer for the film Clash of the Titans.
It basically represented his brand of humour that we'd seen before, but in a form of commentary on a film preview.
Generally, I think this one was a bit more focused on the literal side, but it still represented the inception of something, and demonstrated why Turner had such a talent for the application of this idea.
You see, Turner had a great hold on what's our brand narrative cohesion. The idea that you can maintain a flow of a video like this, insert the jokes, elicit the audience response, while not having to stop the video and say,
guys, look at my joke. Alongside this, the musical nature of many trailers complimented his very melodic style.
His content never had too much of an overbearing personality, and therefore his literal trailers tended to be that perfect balance of something additional without detracting from the source material.
It was a transformative experience that didn't lose sight of the content that draws people in, because that is the balance of that sort of content that you need.
People will inevitably click on a video for a topic or a concept, and decide whether they want to stay for the sake of what the YouTuber is providing in addition to it or not, or if they are providing something wholly original.
And this idea of the literal trailer was something that Turner was able to brand as much more quintessentially his.
However, this video didn't initially take off, not like some of his other content at least, and other videos that had come out about that time had performed better on his channel,
a couple months after, and it had done decently, but nothing was going to necessarily blow up.
But like the ruthless viral marketer he was, he probably knew that he had something. Maybe he received an optimistic fan response, or maybe he just had an instinct.
So like any trooper, he did a few more, and they did well. They didn't blow up, but they were a good enough indication that he might be onto something here.
At the time, he was also doing something known as commercial parodies, which were another good way to really make the most of his comedic timing, and the funny voices he could use.
It's the sort of content that's pretty casual, but really summed up the mood of YouTube back then.
There were a lot of parody channels that could do that low-budget satire. Nowadays, it probably wouldn't fly too high, but I can see the appeal.
Farmville! From milking cows to putting chickens in coops, this game pushes the limits of the imagination backwards!
Here's a taste of the action.
Now, I want to talk about narrative cohesion back here, because the parody series, although short-lived, did outline something.
Toby definitely had a nature to make more mature jokes. Not necessarily sexual, but jokes that you'd have to be somewhat knowledgeable to fully appreciate.
Play Mafia Wars! Duh! If you thought Farmville was exciting, get ready for a ride into the carpal tunnel.
But because they aided the narrative, or they worked in the context of the video, whether you saw them as a joke or not didn't matter. You could still relatively understand.
It also helped that this delivery was quite fast, because it didn't linger on the punchlines. Each video was on its journey, and the jokes were almost like the pit stops.
They enhance the experience, but they don't define it. At the same time, a lot of the jokes that Toby tended to make typically refer to some sort of general human condition, which is always welcome.
But there's only so many punchlines behind the sort of Facebook games, and eventually he moved on from these, even though the views they pulled weren't fairly respectable.
With content like the literal trailers, they in a way reproduced themselves with the constant run of new trailers that came out, and given how each one of them would be different in a way,
he had what seemed to be an endless stream of content that could be covered, he just needed a breakthrough.
Now one of the observations that I made when looking over the previous screencaps of his channel was the clickbait that I had heard some people discuss in the past.
Initially, he branded them as just the HD literal trailers, which plays off a very clever ambiguity of the definition of literal, and obviously the fact that many people were looking for HD content back then,
but it is extremely successful clickbait. However, when he uploaded the Harry Potter literal trailer and it took off, it appears he did change everything to include the parody phrases in the title,
so I mean, you can't really complain too much. Eventually, that became part of the brand. Once again, he's a bit clickbaity, but nothing that I find all that egregious,
especially when you look at the climate, past and present. As literal trailers themselves, you can see a clear improvement with the Harry Potter video.
There are more running jokes, but once again, they don't interfere with the flow. I'm eating Cheez-Its right now, and I'm trying to work out how to explain why as comedy they worked in the time,
but damn these Cheez-Its are good. White Cheddar. White Cheddar is really delicious, guys. Alright, focus, James.
Remember what I said about Falcor, that skill in being able to contrast the mundane with the epicness. With the literal trailers, it's like that,
but amped up to eleven, added on top of the fact that they are parodying something that is already there. You have this huge epic trailer,
and then you have this twat, pointing out details and being pedantic. It's a very simple formula, but it worked, particularly on circa 2010 YouTube.
Once the literal trailers caught fire, it felt like they were what launched Tabuscus as a brand, beyond just the video. People become attached to the guy behind the content,
rather than just the individual uploads, and every single one of the videos that he dropped in the moment appeared to bang, and after the success of the Harry Potter video,
and the follow-up Halo video, the algorithm was poised to launch him into the spotlight with the Assassin's Creed literal trailer, which went absolutely wild in views.
At this point, he knew he had something, but he needed to establish a close relationship with the audience, so one of the series he started out was Cute When Failed,
basically a series where he'd show three clips, one cute, one win, and one fail, and let the audience decide which they took preference to.
I'll let Toby explain in 2010 language what it meant.
A show where videos from three different realms of viral compete to become the most epic.
But Toby, how do you determine which video's the most epic?
I'm glad you asked, guy with crazy hand movements. You decide.
The most epic video of the week receives a gold star, and the other two are then crushed to smithereens by giant rockstone text.
Epic win!
Those videos' lives are in your hands, basically.
One of the people Toby worked with was Jacksfilms, who is also known for the highly interactive content,
and although I can't really confirm whether they were acquainted at this point in their career, I feel that this content did echo the sort of attitude of Jack's work,
and served as a way to try and capitalise on the creative success of his other material, by involving his audience more.
Once again, you have that with Jacksfilms, you have his more creative side, and you have his more personal side.
Also, at the end of literal trailers, he'd have the audience decide which videos were next.
It's the sort of thing that is a smart move to do, and encourage participation from your viewers.
I don't think that any of this is a criticism, in fact, I think it's perfectly reasonable to want to do this, and these videos perform well too.
Obviously, they weren't doing as well as his literal trailers, but that content was what he saw himself as promoting a longevity about.
He made other videos too, chatting bare shit, you know, the sort of thing that he wanted to do, and in a way, that was in the spirits of 2010's YouTube.
It was broadcasting yourself in whatever form possible, and Tobuscus really nailed that.
At around the turn of the 2010's, Tobuscus also started focusing on his two other channels, Toby Turner and Toby Games.
Both of these channels didn't do insane numbers on startup, but they had a fanbase.
Toby Games is the one that is more interesting, he started at the end of 2010, and immediately it seemed to do somewhat decently, initiating with some videos on Halo Reach.
However, there was a lot more to come for this channel, and I want to hold onto this thought as we move into Toby's creative renaissance.
You see, by the looks of things, his content was doing what it needed to do. He had a lot of creative ideas, he was letting them run riot on YouTube,
an array of ventures all over the place, and people were watching them. However, given Turner's sheer spontaneity, and his nature to just do whatever he wanted to,
it meant that if he was going to do something, no one could really tell, and needless to say, no one was prepared for what was coming next,
because four words would define many people's lives forever.
Nugget. In. A. Biscuit.
Woah! Woah! Woah!
Nugget biscuit, nugget in a biscuit, nugget biscuit, nugget in a biscuit!
Nugget in a biscuit is something that could only be the product of its time.
I've explained all the components of Tobuscus, and all of his talents, the memes, the music, the tone, the narrative,
and all of these come together to create something like Nugget in a Biscuit.
The sheer peak of creative autonomy, there's no other way to describe it, and that's what often makes the greatest memes in cultural projects,
because they are so unbelievably unique that you just can't define them.
There's no way to fully explain the moments, but Nugget in a Biscuit was one of them.
It's a mesmerising video, what else can be said?
Toby also let this ingeniously kick off a new creative venture, which was basically animated Tobuscus.
Now this is an animated series voiced predominantly by Turner, and animated by the creator GonzoSSM.
These little skits did really well, but there was still more to them than meets the eye.
To understand this, we need to talk about Toby Games, Tobuscus' third channel.
Now, it's exceptionally rare for a third channel to have more subscribers than someone's main channel,
when they provide a high amount of attention to the first channel as well.
Obviously, some people might point to Shane Dawson's third channel, but I'd argue that he'd prioritise that over the other two,
and thus has made it his main channel in a way.
Tobuscus did upload a lot of content to his third channel, and there is no doubt about that.
It definitely helped, but his main channel already had a huge head start.
How did it catch up?
Well firstly, Toby was an epic gamer, and I mean he gamed every day.
The upload schedule on his channel was absolutely insane, he was uploading non-stop,
so even when he wasn't pulling the views, it was all cumulative.
However, another more interesting detail was how his new animated series tended to revolve around topics related to the games he might be playing.
So for example, Tobuscus Animated Adventures was about a trip to Dead Island,
a game that he also played on his third channel.
Or for example, on November 2011, he updated a significant amount of Minecraft videos on his third channel,
and then complimented it on the 25th of November with a Minecraft-related song on his main channel.
His first channel, in spite of everything else that was going on,
was intertwined in games enough to the point that it meant that his third channel really took off,
on the basis of algorithms, and of that audience,
even though I'd argue his main channel retrospectively was much more iconic,
and has videos that were more famous.
The content that he released on his gaming channel was more about him as an individual creator.
Closer interaction, longer videos, more videos, and the videos themselves were much more focused in their genre.
They had an underlying theme, and then people subscribed for that theme,
which is likely why eventually the channel accumulated more subscribers,
because it was more coherent in its theme,
and a lot of the time, that's what people subscribed for.
These animated videos were much more successful than any other type of video,
and with this, he integrated it with his musical talent for some very popular content.
When it came to his music skills, he had a knack of creating extremely simple melodies and rhythms
that were mesmerising and addictive,
often captured Turner's very polarised tone,
where he constantly moved between that extremely over-the-top epicness to the very stoic moments,
and GonzoSSM did a great job in capturing that.
GONZOSSM'S SINGING
Animation can capture that sort of energy like no other,
so it's no wonder why these videos were so popular with his viewers and many others as well.
On top of this, around 2012, he started to branch out into many other forms of YouTube,
which is always a resourceful move.
At the end of the day, everyone's channel dies,
everyone's channel will have a time where it no longer becomes relevant,
and therefore, they need to make sure there's a career beyond that,
and so he was in a few TV shows, a few films,
he'd already featured on his friend Dane Bodekeimer's channel, The Annoying Orange.
Yeah, that gem.
Turner was a laborious marketer with a lot of ideas,
however, in many situations, it would be easy to accuse him
of jumping from trend to trend in a rather disingenuous fashion.
How can someone have a passion for that many topics?
What makes him stand out from that criticism?
Firstly, a lot of his successful content clearly has a lot of personality,
and does carry through that energy that can root his content in that draw.
With that said, his content was never really fueled by his personality,
but more by his talents to apply them to create a character.
If you asked who Toby Turner was as a person,
well, you'd have trouble defining at least that character from Tobuscus.
He's clearly sharp and witty,
but that's an energy captured by particular circumstances.
With someone like Shane Dawson,
you have a very particular character portrait that's been constructed by his content.
Turner's content may well be abstracted from his character,
but it's so comically inclined that it's very hard to say anything about who he is.
Who is Toby Turner as a person?
It leaves you with his gaming channel and his vlog channel,
the latter one we haven't talked about for reasons that we'll discuss very soon,
but the gaming channel, I think, was very well built on the games themselves,
and make no mistake, Toby clearly has a talent and a knack,
but gaming as a genre has become a lot more restricted in the last few years,
and less focusing on the attitudes of the people playing them,
and more about relative skill, or excellent clickbait, or playing with Drake.
Unless you're CSGO surfing, of course,
then all you need to do is put some reaction commentary about Danielle Bregoli over it,
and suddenly it becomes fine art.
Toby was just a gamer, and that was one of the things,
although his creative ventures were certainly unique,
he didn't have anything that made the gaming videos stick out.
Although he was by no means unfunny or lacking in entertainment value,
he equally was just as good as the culture in its time,
and that culture quickly became hostile to a lot of YouTube gamers,
which is where we reach his vlog channel,
because his vlog channel was easily his least popular channel,
and although it had a significant amount of subscribers and a lot of uploads,
not many of them did particularly well,
and even if you arrange it in his most popular order,
you have to go through eight videos to find firstly a vlog,
but also one that isn't misleading in its title,
looking at you Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber,
and watching the vlogs, they're just not anything that I would brand as captivating.
Toby Turner wasn't necessarily made for the vlogging game in my opinion,
and the reason is that I feel that a lot of his videos felt inconsequential,
even for creators who I personally don't like, such as Zoella,
their videos always felt like they had a purpose or a reason to be there,
even if I personally think that purpose was rather forced,
it still felt like they were always going somewhere,
I just never received that impression from Turner's work.
On top of this, the vlogs never felt like they were fully Toby,
it always felt like he was holding something back,
and what we really need is someone expressing themselves in that situation,
no one could ever get the full picture,
we knew who Tabuscus was, but we didn't really know Toby Turner.
But that was alright, it just meant that he may not be cut out for one sort of artistic venture,
it just meant he had a brand to preserve,
but doing something like that in the changing environment is much easier said than done.
You see, I mentioned a couple people in this video today,
Dawson and Jacksfilms.
The reason that I did this is because they, both as creators,
are still going relatively strong to this day,
and still make videos that generate a ton of views,
and therefore there must be something that distinguishes themselves,
and has allowed them to succeed where Turner has fallen short.
And don't worry, we'll address the elephant in the room soon enough,
but by now it should be clear that the gaming channel,
as good as it may have been back in the day,
didn't really have the power to survive.
The success of the gaming channel was at a peak
where his sort of supplementary character was considered an enhancement by audiences,
and now that sort of persona was just no longer considered cool,
no longer could a large YouTuber just set up a games channel and expect it to do well.
However, Tabuscus itself was a unique brand,
and even if Turner himself wasn't the most standout person,
Tabuscus sure was, and he knew how to creatively define himself.
So what was going to tear that down?
Well, I think it was a combination of factors,
but we'll get the simpler explanations out of the way first.
As said, I think as a personality, Turner was quite hard to put in a box.
He was always known for his performance persona,
whereas Jack's films always felt somewhat more grounded,
even though it was clearly an exaggeration.
Tabuscus was always a persona, even at his most applied.
There are some creators who could just do anything they want,
and they'd make it appealing.
Tabuscus wasn't one of them,
and I think that was shown in his cute Win-Fail series,
which, although I can understand its appeal at the time,
in my opinion, it does not hold up,
because as a host, he's just not that entertaining.
Tabuscus needed a specific mould,
and I think that was most exposed when he tried to be more down to earth
in his shows like cute Win-Fail.
He was great for memes in the moment,
and he made a lot of memorable content,
but you can't be defined by your memes.
Jack's films makes a lot of great memes for his audience,
but he has this iconic, slightly disconnected personality
that will transcend whatever content he covers.
The existence of the memes is merely a bonus.
Turner's personality never seemed to be greater than the memes.
That's the best way I can explain it in that sense,
and equally, his content never really gave off a sentiment
that he had the personality to persist.
Once again, cute Win-Fail kind of demonstrated that to me.
He's a good enough host, and he's charismatic and entertaining to an extent,
and he has a decent sense of humour.
My favourite part of that video is that they all shout,
Oh, shoot! Oh, shoot!
Oh, shoot! Oh, shoot!
That's the most powerful swear they could think of in the moment.
That's cute.
And by cute, I mean fail.
Fail!
But you can tell he's holding back.
In a video that we'll discuss more in length later,
DeFranco very interestingly says this.
Like many YouTubers, Toby is a different person off-camera.
He is just as energetic, but he's a different person.
Toby's the kind of guy that when he talks to you,
he makes you feel like you're the centre of his universe,
that you are the most important thing,
that you are so amazing as a person,
he can open up for one second and tell you about some pain he has in his life.
You form a connection with him and you have a relationship,
but that relationship comes with strength.
Toby Turner falls in love with anyone that gives him attention,
anyone that makes him feel validated as a human being and special.
The problem with that is it's a hollow feeling.
And this is the thing,
even in his videos that are meant to be more personal
and videos that are built on that bond,
it doesn't necessarily feel that way.
Turner's relationship with his audience always felt somewhat distant,
and that's easy to do when you have a huge following,
but if you can't provide anything else onto that,
it will create a lack of investment.
The only creators who last on the platform
are people who are real cults of personality.
With that said, I still think with all this acknowledged,
he really did have the literal trailer brand completely held down,
and I don't think any lack of character
should have prevented him from succeeding with that brand.
To this day, you have screen junkies who did honest trailers,
and they still pull a great set of views.
Why would it stop Turner from succeeding?
I mean, we should talk about the algorithm, at least.
I think on one hand, it's just a simple case
that the last few years hasn't been good for that sort of silly,
slightly corny brand of comedy.
In fact, comedy has just died of recent as a genre,
and it's been replaced firstly by creators who integrate comedy
into content with a greater message,
or just actual TV comedians who are barging their way onto the platform.
And sure, there are still comedians out there like Jacksfilms,
but I feel that YouTubers who serve to exist merely as comedians
have had a really hard time.
Also, the sort of funny voice comedy has died hard.
We're coming from an era where Fred and The Annoying Orange
were considered entertainment.
People's tolerance for those things has nosedived,
and although Tabuscus was never to the extent of either of them,
which is probably why he lasted longer,
his exaggerated voice was still a part of the comedy.
As content modernised, his brand didn't seem to be able to keep up.
Ask yourself, would Nugget In A Biscuit
as legendary as it is go viral if it was released today?
And then ask yourself, what could Tabuscus release today to go viral?
Nugget In A Biscuit 2?
Well, yes, he did that, and it was genius, again,
but my point still stands.
On top of this, with the whole gaming content kind of dying in the last few years,
even if he'd maintained some consistency on his literal trailers,
his other content had changed so much that it was unlikely
that without something tying it all together,
he was ever going to retain a huge amount of his audience.
But you see, that's still not the whole story.
A little over a year ago, at the end of October 2017,
he released another literal Assassin's Creed trailer,
and it did very well.
I mean, it wasn't going to do the numbers of his previous ones,
but still, it's clear that he had modernised it in a way
that could make it still appealing to a specific audience.
He'd upped the production value,
he still had that subtle way of conveying jokes,
and he sounded absolutely delicious.
Main bad guy won half face reveal,
but the masked guy's face remains concealed.
He also absolutely nailed Leonard Cohen,
which, by the way, you want it darker, bonafide banger.
So I don't think his channel had to, quote, die like many people said it did.
I think there'll always be a brand for literal trailers.
Maybe he's left it too long now, and you know, 2018 was a huge year for games,
so really, there must be some active choice involved in not keeping these up.
I've looked at a lot of videos,
and there might be an explanation deep into one of his streams or somewhere,
but I can't find it.
It might be to do with YouTube's tightening copyright system,
which has been hitting creators hard in the last year, like, really hard,
and given that a lot of his content is very tightly integrated with that,
I can't see that boding well for his craft,
or maybe he just became tired with it.
He'd been doing it for years,
and there's no point in continuing something that you don't have that passion for.
With that said, his channel didn't just exist on the sole brand of trailers,
and his follow up to Assassin's Creed,
the Red Dead Redemption little trailer didn't do great numbers, honestly,
and although there were videos that still performed well in the last couple years,
I think you can pinpoint the moment where YouTube threw his channel out of the algorithm in general,
and to do that, we have to talk about the allegations.
Now, this next part, I'm gonna go a little off-piste,
and make some arguments from a personal perception.
If you don't feel the same way about Turner, then I think that's fine,
but there is a lot of concepts here that we do have to somewhat take a decisive step with,
because from a personal perspective, although Tobuscus had a lot of highlights in his career,
he never really had any clear, defined legacy,
something that he's going to be associated with for the rest of time.
The closest he reaches to that, in my opinion, is the literal trailers,
and I think it was strong,
but I think that all of these crafts were undone by a very pivotal moment in his career.
So, on April the 8th, 2016,
April Fletcher, also known as YouTuber April F,
published a very in-depth post on Tumblr called The Truth About Tobuscus,
in which he makes a plethora of claims about Turner,
about the abuse she endured from him, both emotional and physical.
I'm going to leave a link to the post in the pinned comment,
it might be in a Google document, it's under references, as always,
just control F it, if you need to.
But either way, I'm not going to go into too many details,
other than the huge one of which the claim was made that he had actually drugged her,
and subsequently sexually assaulted her.
This was covered by Keem and by DeFranco, and at the time it was a pretty huge story.
There were multiple women who came forward with their testimonies about Turner as a person,
each of them differing slightly.
There was this general agreement that he clearly had his problems,
but the disagreement on Fletcher's testimony came in which many questioned their relationship,
including Turner's mother, and his ability to actually drug and subsequently assault someone,
and people who knew Turner did tend to say he had habits of being a bit unstable,
and Turner even admitted it himself.
Because I'm not perfect, and there are a lot of ways I could become a better person.
Have I been a bad boyfriend? Sometimes, yeah.
Did I party in my 20s? Yes, too much.
And so that's what I've been doing, is working on myself.
However, this does not mean the more serious claims are true.
It can often be that someone might rely on people's inductive assumptions
to then make a further claim about the person.
This is known as heuristics, and it's very possible that Fletcher knew Turner had a reputation,
and thus managed to create new allegations.
However, that's just a theory, and it does not mean that Fletcher is lying,
but I'm just saying it's not a valid argument to perhaps say
that he is capable of something much worse than he has admitted to.
At the end of the day, it's an innocent until proven guilty dynamic,
and you really have to use your instinct and say what you think in those situations.
I think given that Turner's actual personality seems to be one that is more spontaneous and impulsive,
and occasionally inappropriate, rather than outright calculated malice,
I can't really say that situation is probable, but I don't know him personally,
and therefore I do not have a steadfast opinion,
and those people who know him better still have a more insightful view.
With that said, I think the situation yielded a few unforeseen circumstances,
which at the end of the day doesn't mean that they shouldn't be discussed in the first place,
but equally, I feel, did occur regardless because of it.
Given the fact that Turner as a person was always somewhat distanced from his audience,
this was one of the first very personal things that the viewership en masse became acquainted with,
and I think that began to hang over him, and like many people when faced down with these claims,
Toby took a break from uploading, on his main channel in particular,
and he would provide occasional updates on his second channel on how he was doing,
notice how the second channel is considered to be the more personal one,
and on top of this, it was one of the situations that he covered that did receive views.
Keep this in mind, I feel this impacted his channel in the algorithm,
and maybe in people's perception too, even if it was subconscious.
Before he took a break, all at least cracked a few hundred thousand views,
and maybe even a million, or two million.
When he came back, he had real trouble capturing that momentum,
and even when he did, it did not tend to last.
Recently, he has tried to craft more commentary focused material,
but I think watching it, it outlines the problem that he always had,
as commentary really has to be built on some sort of personal trust between creator and viewer.
When I started researching this video, even though I knew the allegations
were a significant part of this,
I didn't think they would have affected his career on YouTube too much,
because at the end of the day, from what I've observed,
the original videos and the response videos,
there was a significant amount of skepticism that revolved around it,
particularly from the audience, and YouTube is a consumer-based market.
Like music, for example, a lot of CD individuals have made mega-bank,
even after allegations, and even convictions that would have ended their careers
in many other industries.
But I think the thing is, the allegations, whether true or not,
tend to be what many people think of when thinking of him,
despite his extensive creative backlog.
His most viewed video since the allegations,
is a video that came out two years after addressing the allegations,
where he also says this.
I almost gave up, but I didn't, and I won't.
So, give me my f***ing show back, and my book deal for young adults.
Stupid lying b****.
Which outlines another problem for him going forward as a creator.
As said, YouTube channels die.
There is no doubt about that, we all have our time to go into the light,
but we can normally move outside in less consumer-controlled industries.
However, with this situation, they'd likely cut him out
due to the reputational damages that he might have been associated with,
including a voice part in a Marvel series,
and it's undoubtedly going to affect him finding future work.
The video is a well-made video,
and he does all the right things that you would need to do
when addressing these allegations.
Once again, it's so hard to know who to believe,
even though due process will always prevail.
Equally, it raises the question of whether it was best
to publicise these claims like they were,
rather than just going to the police,
and that's another very difficult question.
I feel that we live in a world where the consequences of just an allegation
are so great that we might risk allowing people to abuse it,
but at the same time, when allegations are publicised,
it might enable people to come forward and provide corroborating accounts,
or even contradictory ones,
and the truth should always be the final goal.
Sexual assault is also an extremely hard crime to prosecute through the courts of law,
because it's often one person's word against another.
What we really need to do is work out how to make sure industries and individuals alike
don't behave in a reactionary way upon the surfacing of allegations,
while at the same time trying to change the communities
so that people feel more comfortable coming forward in the present tense.
It's an absolute minefield,
and you can see how unfortunately Turner was one who trod on the mine.
It's a sad end to what really is a prolific career
that few speak about with the fondness that you'd expect them to,
but you know what?
Maybe we shouldn't be sad.
He still made a lot of great content that no one else could really do like him,
and the quality of that content I am confident will transcend the restraints of time,
and for what it's worth,
although it's kinda hard to judge how he's doing in his videos,
judging by his Instagram, he seems fairly happy.
I do think his brand of literal trailers is something that isn't necessarily finished,
it's just with channels like Screen Junkies and Honest Trailers,
they've kept it going as such a central theme that it's what people keep coming back for.
I think a lot of Toby's work has dated, some of which worse than others,
but I still think there's a formula that might work here,
but if he doesn't want to, he shouldn't have to.
At the end of the day, you make the content that makes you happy,
that's what YouTube was originally about.
Whether that happiness is derived from the content itself,
or from something else the content might bring,
go and pursue it, don't let your dreams be dreams.
Toby Turner is a creative maestro, and there can be no doubt about that,
his rise to being one of the most popular YouTubers is rooted in some great ventures
that it really paid off,
and going in tandem with a gaming channel that subsequently succeeded
due to the fact that his personality fit into the sort of mold
that people were looking for at the time.
However, his content never fully gave people a character portrait they could hold onto,
and it was rooted in some superficiality,
which is likely why his supposed more personal channel didn't ever fully catch on,
maybe because Toby himself had a lot more personal problems
he didn't want to project onto the internet,
and I don't blame him for that.
However, when we did finally address that personality,
it was in rather unfortunate circumstances,
and I feel that this may have tainted his image,
whether people viewed the claims with credibility or not.
The algorithms gave him no love,
and the only videos that received significant interest
are ones that seem like he might be revealing something about a new situation,
or trying to recapture a foregone past,
and he'll even be aware of that.
But most importantly, I want to apologize,
because I said something in my video last week,
not the last one, that one,
I don't want to apologize for anything for, I like that one.
In a way, he knows what's defined him,
and I don't know with that knowledge where he'll go from here,
but I'm not sure he cares.
No, the great question that I want to leave is,
what will survive?
What will be left behind of Toby Turner?
I guess that's my parting question for you, the viewer,
what will be left behind?
This was a long, long, long, long video,
but I'd love to hear your thoughts, I really would.
I hope you guys have enjoyed it,
I worked tirelessly on researching the script,
and I hope it gives you something that you can take away.
I really want to give a shout out to the editors who've done a fantastic job,
you know, really wouldn't be anywhere without them,
so please go and check them out,
I'm going to leave their links in the pinned comment.
Also in the pinned comment,
you can find my Twitter, my Facebook, my Discord,
all that jazz,
make sure you can check me out there if you need to.
Also, big shout out to my Patreons,
very generous people, as seen here,
and one particular Patreon, Ryan,
who is just unbelievably generous,
I mean, it's kind of beautiful, it brings a tear to my eye.
I don't really have too much else to say,
I hope you guys are doing fantastically,
I do as well as I can.
Until the next one, however,
I'm The Right Opinion,
and I'll see you in the next one.
