Hello my friends, I figured it's time that I update you on what I've been doing.
After all, when I announced my demonetization, a lot of you were very generous with donations.
You gave me most of what I was projected to get from YouTube for this month.
I'm able to reapply for monetization on October 30th, and I've identified the problem so I'm
hoping I'll get it back.
But that's not to say I've been doing nothing all this time.
As always, I've been outputting content over on my gaming channel, Game Boomers.
I've been streaming some Halloween-y games for October, plus Cooking Mama for Canadian
Thanksgiving, and I'll be there shortly after this video goes up with Carrion, so drop by
for that.
I also have another channel called The Dev Kit, where I put up basically random junk.
I've been meaning to edit some unboxings and vlogs that I've shot for that channel, and
just today I put out Naomi building her first PC.
It took us six hours to do, but I cut the video down nicely.
I'm going to keep releasing random odds and ends on that channel too.
There's unboxings, there's Dave's old anime reviews, and a bunch of other stuff that doesn't
strictly fit into the politics or game playthroughs of SFO or GB.
So if you want to see me outside of the usual wheelhouse, consider checking out that channel
too.
And just because I've spent the last two weeks focusing on side projects doesn't mean I haven't
been doing work for my inevitable return to SFO as well.
I've set up a new recording battle station, complete with one of those mics that Joe Rogan
has popularized.
In fact, I'm recording with it right now.
Does it sound any better than the old Blue Yeti?
Oh yeah, the lip balm?
That's for recording.
It prevents your lips from smacking, it really works.
As I've previously said, I don't want to make too many pre-recorded videos while YouTube
takes all the money for them.
I'd rather do SFO streams instead, and then delete them afterward.
So that's what I'm going to do.
I'll be running both Streamlabs and StreamElements so I can pay my bills, and after the streams
are over I'll upload them to the SFO Bitchute channel.
Also, any videos that may prevent re-monetization will be pulled off of this channel and put
on my Devonitize channel.
I don't like the idea of any of my content disappearing permanently, so that channel
will serve as an archive for videos too spicy for the main channel.
Maybe also the stream VODs, I'm not sure.
I've also commissioned some new artwork and music.
I want to do a sort of, uh, channel relaunch when I come back.
I'm reasonably sure that I'll get the monetization back.
I've received some behind-the-scenes help from a few different sources.
And truth be told, I've been itching to get back to scripted videos too, but for now I
am going to stick to streaming because frankly, I don't want to give in to YouTube.
It's that simple.
To recap, you're going to see regular SFO streams from now until I'm back on my feet,
and there will be new artwork and music to go with the new videos once I return.
And I'm going to keep working on my side channels all the while, so if you want to support me,
please consider checking out those projects, my Patreon or Subscribestar, or consider using
my affiliate links in the description.
Any method helps, even if it's just watching and being here.
Alright guys, I'll see you later.
I love you.
