I first met Andy online.
Andy chooses not to identify as a specific gender,
so has asked to be referred to as they.
I went to see Andy the night before the sterilisation.
Ooh. Hello, kitty cat.
What's the cat's name? Peppy.
Peppy? Yeah.
Hello, Peppy.
Why are you doing this? What's motivated you?
I don't know. I just feel like I shouldn't be having children
and I don't want to, you know...
..mental health problems and things like that.
I just don't want to have to pass things on.
I don't know, I just... And obviously the work that I do,
I just don't want to accidentally fall pregnant.
That would be awful.
And what kind of work do you do?
I'm a sex worker.
So, yeah, there's more, I guess,
more risk of getting pregnant, in a way,
because I'm having a lot of sex.
Um...
Ooh. Is that my slippers?
Yeah, I did notice that. I do like them.
It's not My Little Pony, it's, um... It is.
Oh, it is My Little Pony!
Is that your dad? No, it's my uncle.
No, I never met my dad.
You never met him? No.
You've got, you know, My Pony. My Little Pony.
My Little Pony. You've got...
..Mr Squidgy, the hair in the middle.
I mean, you know, they're dolls and ponies.
It's something that children have.
And yet, tomorrow, you're getting permanently sterilised.
Yeah. I'm, like, a five-year-old child in an adult body.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
I guess, like, I had a really difficult childhood,
and for most of it, I wasn't able to be a child.
So I kind of, like, am, like,
reliving my childhood, but, like, as an adult.
Do you talk to your mum? No, no, no.
My mum disowned me.
So, no, I don't want to have a mother.
The New Zealand Shooters Manifesto was titled The Great Replacement,
a reference to the Great Replacement conspiracy theory
that the far-right has believed in for quite a while now.
The basic premise is that the unfettered immigration
of non-white people into white-majority countries,
alongside a socially engineered cultural shift
towards white people not wanting children,
will eventually lead to the replacement of the white populations with non-whites.
Or so the theory goes.
The theory itself is taking centre stage
due to the aforementioned shootings right now,
with the New York Times calling it a racist, sexist doctrine.
I don't see how it could be sexist, but racist?
I'd say that's probable.
However, I don't think anybody actually expects
a serious, unbiased analysis of the facts from the New York Times anymore.
To the left-leaning media and the SJWs on their staff,
The Great Replacement is racist,
because it's a rightist take on race relations.
The facts of the theory don't actually matter.
And unfortunately, the right is the only group at the moment
actually having the race discussion.
The left simply calls you a racist,
if you even entertain the idea of an open discussion on race.
And while that might have worked a decade ago,
everybody's becoming pretty numb to being baselessly called a racist nowadays.
So, without a reasonable alternative from the left
that doesn't boil down to slanderous lies,
The Great Replacement theory continues to propagate.
Natalism is a problem that affects everyone in the world.
Anyone who has been born is a victim of childbirth.
So, let's look at some facts.
The UN commissioned a study on the topic.
Replacement migration.
Is it a solution to declining and aging populations?
United Nations projections indicate that over the next 50 years,
the populations of virtually all countries of Europe as well as Japan
will face population decline and population aging.
The new challenges of declining and aging populations
will require comprehensive reassessments of many established policies and programs,
including those relating to international migration.
Now, this is actually the conversation that needs to happen.
There's a practical concern regarding replacement fertility in Western nations right now.
And immigration is one possible practical answer.
In my opinion, it's not a very good answer if it comes at the expense of social cohesion.
In the past, when various populations migrated to the United States or Canada or whatever,
they did so in order to become Americans and Canadians.
Yeah, Chinatowns and Little Italy's did and do exist.
But in a couple of generations, most of those people integrated.
Frankly, if we're not taking in people from culturally similar nations as our own,
and the people that we do take in aren't willing to assimilate into our host culture over time,
it's going to cause a lot of problems down the road, regardless of the race of the people involved.
Race is ultimately a non-factor if people move to America to be Americans, not hyphen Americans.
Of course, to even discuss this topic in any way other than being an open borders advocate
makes you a racist in the eyes of the radical left.
And so despite its flaws, the great replacement theory marches on.
So when are you guys going to have babies?
Um, I don't even think about that.
Don't?
No, no, you're like, dude, like, I don't want to have a kid right now.
And she's like, I want to have babies or no, no, no, not at all.
When are you guys going to have kids?
Never.
Alongside immigration, the other half of the theory is about the white birth rate.
Without a sustainable birth rate,
non-white immigration into white countries will effectively breed out the white race.
At least this is what proponents of the great replacement theory believe.
But disregarding the fact that even with the low fertility rate,
there's more white people alive today than there ever has been in the history of the world,
there's also the fact that a falling birth rate is not a uniquely white phenomenon.
And I'm not just talking about Japan and South Korea and Taiwan,
places that sport some of the lowest fertility rates on earth
while simultaneously consisting of Asian, not white populations.
But we're seeing the beginnings of a substantial birth rate decline in half of the world's nations.
And that trend doesn't seem to be reversing.
Now, for example, if you were a white nationalist and you took a look at this graph,
it would be all doom and gloom, wouldn't it?
Replacement fertility rate is 2.1.
Your average woman needs to have 2.1 kids to keep the population growing.
Below the 2.1 line are a bunch of European and Asian countries,
and above it are a bunch of African and Middle Eastern countries.
And if you were that white nationalist, you'd say the writing's on the wall
and confidently close the study, secure in your thinking.
But the very next graph shows fertility rates over a 50-year time span,
and it paints a clear picture.
Yeah, Kenya's fertility rate is 4, but in 1970 it was 8.
Botswana's gone from 6 to 3.
South Africa's gone from 5 to 2.5.
Across all human populations, regardless of race or culture,
fertility rates tend to decline as technology and education continues to advance.
It's no secret that the third world is finally beginning to enter the modern era,
nearly a century after we did, but it's now happening.
So why wouldn't their birth rates also be dropping towards that dreaded 2.1 mark over time as well?
White and Asian-majority countries got there first,
because white and Asian-majority countries also became technologically advanced
and educated first, but in at most 100 years,
the third world will face the same fertility problems we're facing now.
Sorry, alt-right, but I don't think your dreaded brown horde is coming.
But I think it's a very bad idea to have kids, especially nowadays, in this modern era.
Another component of the Great Replacement Theory is the push
through media and culture to socialize white people to not have kids.
And maybe, unlike everything else we've been discussing so far,
there's actually something to this part of the theory.
Why not fund the welfare state with a 100% inheritance tax?
The idea that we should be able to pass on our life's accumulated wealth is deeply embedded.
But imagine if we could use that money for the greater good,
because having kids is no longer considered the greater good in our culture,
for basically the first time in our very long history.
How the biggest passion killer for men is trying for a baby.
Attempting to start a family is worse than depression, tiredness, or even erectile dysfunction.
Well, I could introduce you to many an internet fetishist that would disagree,
but the argument is clear.
Sex is no fun if you have to take care of a baby afterwards.
And sex being no fun is the more important thing to consider.
Having children lowers women's lifetime earnings, an outcome known as the child penalty.
Don't have kids. You'll lose your money and career.
Be a strong independent woman who don't need no man.
Until you're 40 and you hate your life, anyway.
Americans value equality more at work than equality at home.
Hey women, hear that?
You're only considered equal if you're not a stay-at-home mom.
If you value equality, you'll forget all about that pesky family thing you've been wanting.
Is it unethical for people to pass their wealth on to their children?
Give it all to the state. Your family is subordinate to the nation.
Your property rights don't matter.
Just don't do it. Why you shouldn't have kids.
So your friends are accidentally, on purpose, having children,
giving each other rings, and doing beautiful, real, rewarding things.
This is why you're not.
This article is particularly special. Of course, it's from Vice.
Maybe you're like me, in your late 20s and starting to feel like you're in the autumn of your life.
Okay, maybe not autumn, but summer is definitely getting colder.
The drug-taking and regular, baggage-free sex is slowing down.
But we're also not dead, so that's nice.
Friends are starting to accidentally, on purpose, have children,
give each other rings, and do beautiful, real, rewarding things together.
And there you are.
In bed on a Saturday at 4pm in yesterday's underwear.
Watching Netflix.
Texting your housemate to open the door for your menu log guy,
because you can't bring yourself to go out there.
I ward off those confused, jealous, self-pitying pangs
when a friend reaches a milestone that's light years ahead of me,
by reminding myself milestones are forever.
This goes especially for kids.
You can't divorce kids for a dude you met in Belize.
To be clear, my friend's children are beautiful,
and when they fall asleep in my arms I feel like the chaotic nature of existence
makes a tiny bit of sense.
But there's a lot of fuckness ahead for parents.
How do you know your kid won't be an asshole?
And what if they get pregnant at 15 and you're a grandparent at 40?
I find keeping that stuff in the forefront of your mind gets me through.
This person's life sounds so empty.
By my late 20s, I was getting pretty fucking tired
of the nonsense I had got up to in my early 20s.
And this person also sounds like they're tired of it too,
but since they can't find anybody who can actually stand them for longer than one night,
they're deep in denial about how the party ended a few years ago.
There's very good reasons to not have kids, don't get me wrong,
but none of them are presented here.
The only thing here is rationalization is designed to cover up loneliness.
Here's another vice a-
AHHH!
Jesus, I didn't expect that to be staring me in the face when I clicked the link.
The people choosing to be sterilized in their 20s, inside the child-free movement.
I'm actually a proponent of child freedom on the grounds of individual human rights and autonomy,
but you also probably shouldn't be getting sterilized
until a lot of other pieces in your life are set.
Sterilization is something that should probably happen when you have a committed partner
and you've both seriously decided that you're not having any more, or any at all.
But listen to this clown.
I honestly don't like kids.
They're germy and annoying and gross.
The 19 year old explains.
Hey, uh, Caitlin from Philadelphia?
You're still a kid yourself.
Puberty doesn't even end until 25.
I know that some people know they don't want kids from a young age, and that's fine,
but it's also exceedingly rare for them to keep that attitude as they mature.
Motherhood is bad for a woman's health.
Alright, I'm sure it is on some level.
But here's something off to the side that I've noticed.
There's a lot of stock photos of race-mixed families in a whole ton of articles.
That's fine, of course.
But why is it that on the articles that paint parenthood in a negative light,
it's almost always entirely white families?
Huh.
Makes you think.
Parents, the children will be fine.
Spend their inheritance.
Don't leave anything to your kids.
Give it to charity.
Give it to the state.
Spend it frivolously.
Who cares?
Just make sure you neglect your family.
It's a moral imperative.
Millennials are buying homes because of their dogs, not their children or marriages.
Is this another example of millennials ruining everything?
It should be illegal to be a stay-at-home mom.
You know, we've come full circle.
At one point in history, the state forced women to stay in the house,
using violence when necessary to keep them compliant.
And after years of struggle, women have finally won the right
to have the state use violence on them to get them to leave the house.
Feminism.
And we haven't even gotten to the cheating part of it.
Oh, the cheating.
Why men should give their wives a cheat pass this Christmas.
My wife wants to have a baby, but says it won't be mine.
When a boyfriend joins the marriage, they agreed she could have sex on the side
as long as he didn't have to know about it.
Then she fell in love.
Modern love.
I kiss one good night, but not the other.
One is my boyfriend of 10 years, the other is my husband.
I secretly date people who aren't my boyfriend, but I don't think it's cheating.
All right, allow me to set the stage.
Let's say you're a shitty female journo, living in your hyper-left urban bubble.
Empowered by the feminarchy, you enjoy sexual encounters behind the back
of your soy boy beta male boyfriend.
And despite your best efforts, you're both close to being discovered
and there's some deep, dark, problematic part of you that feels guilty about what you've done.
Do you A. Come clean like an adult, face the consequence of a messy breakup,
but use the opportunity to polish yourself up and work towards a healthier way of living?
Or B. Write articles normalizing infidelity in the hopes that society will take your side
in being an absolutely shit human being.
And we've got everybody's favorite drool sock, Ocasio-Cortez, asking the tough questions.
Is it okay to still have children?
Well, maybe not for you.
Ocasio-Cortez, the private citizen, is free to have as many shitty takes as she likes.
Ocasio-Cortez, the elected official, has no business asking whether or not
it's appropriate for the population to be reproducing.
That is not the domain of the government.
And yet things are now trending that way.
Gay and trans lessons for primary school students.
In my opinion, it's probably a bit young to be learning about anything sexual at the age of five,
gay or straight, but you'd be a bigot if you objected.
Just like how this dad was a bigot because he objected to his kids having to write
about their conversion to Islam as a school assignment.
If there's one part of the great replacement theory that actually holds water,
it's the push to normalize not having kids.
They began by attacking masculinity and fatherhood like it's inherently flawed and always toxic.
And now they're coming for motherhood and femininity,
like it's a social, financial, and as existential burden on women's equality.
It's a genderless blob agenda where men are like women and women are like men.
Where children are encouraged to be gay or trans at the drop of a hat.
And if you object, the government takes them away because they aren't your kids,
they're the state's kids.
Where wanting to be a stay-at-home mom is problematic,
or wanting to be a strong father figure is oppressive.
Where the complimentary support that men and women bring to each other is actively campaigned
against for a few fleeting moments of freedom from responsibility,
followed by a rapid descent into chaos.
I'm not saying that men wanting to be like women, women wanting to be like men,
people wanting to be gay or trans, whatever, I'm not saying that's bad.
If that's your natural proclivity, all the power to you, go off and enjoy your life.
But there's certainly a cultural push right now to put that on people who may simply be confused,
or on the fence, or having other unrelated problems.
And if it ends up not being what they want out of their life,
their experimentation is often to their detriment,
and then that detriment itself is considered oppressive.
Nothing has damaged both modern society and the individual
more than the destruction of the nuclear family.
Radical feminists talk about smashing the nuclear family all the time,
and they do so at their own peril.
Reasons like these, many more,
and the fact that I don't like to leave things of this magnitude to chance,
all informed my decision to become surgically sterilized.
However, even as this part of the great replacement theory holds water,
it doesn't do so for the reasons the alt-right thinks it does.
It's not part of some grand Jewish plot to breed out the white race
in order to seize direct political power.
Of course, I know there are some within the Democratic Party
that have directly stated this to be their goal, surprisingly enough.
It's no secret that demographic change,
rather than any serious attempt to change policy,
is why California went from Republican to Democrat,
and verifieds on Twitter are thinly veiled
in their endorsement of that tactic in other locations.
In Why the Announcement of a Looming White Minority Makes Demographers Nervous,
Dr. Myers watched as progressives, envisioning political power,
became enamored with the idea of a coming white minority.
He said it was hard to interest them in his work on ways to make the change
seem less threatening to the fearful white Americans.
For instance, by emphasizing the good that can come from immigration.
It was conquest.
Our day has come, he said of their reaction.
They wanted to overpower them with numbers.
It was demographic destiny.
And you know what?
I get it.
A white nationalist reading that article would screech that he was right all along,
and grabbing a tiki torch, loudly exclaim he would not be replaced.
But big picture here.
Do you actually think the Democratic Party,
even if they were willing to do so,
is competent enough to manage a secret scheme
to replace all white people with immigrants?
No.
They're not even competent enough to win elections while having decisive advantages.
There's a simpler solution to everything the Great Replacement talks about.
In terms of the overwhelming media and culture push normalizing not having kids,
through cheating, through transitioning, through just not having them,
it's less likely to be a Jewish conspiracy to lower the white birth rate,
and more likely to be yet another social justice push at equalization.
If all modes of living are morally valid,
then they all need to be represented equally across the population.
Of course, that's wrong for other reasons,
but with the fringe exception of the don't perpetuate whiteness,
stop having white babies crowd, it's not about white fertility.
We've already seen that technology and education have a far greater impact
on everybody's fertility,
and that a massive population crash across all races is on the way.
And as for the media push,
it really just seems to be a bunch of lonely, guilty individuals
trying to justify their loneliness and their guilt.
In terms of immigration,
while there might be racist lunatics in the SJW wings of some political parties,
masturbating to the idea of a white genocide,
they lack both the power and the competence to actually pull it off.
It's far more likely that unfettered immigration is a corporatist push
to lower the cost of unskilled labour
by flooding the marketplace with able-bodied workers,
and the social, cultural, racial, and religious consequences of that action
simply don't matter to them.
But some people see all of this and take the shortcut to white replacement.
Why is the CBC telling Canadians to have fewer children to reduce our carbon footprint,
while at the same time advocating for increased immigration
to make up for declining birth rates?
If having fewer people in Canada is good for the environment,
why bring in one million new people per year?
That's a fair question.
The answer is probably something like the common question of
why have your own kids when there's orphaned ones out there who need to be adopted?
There's a clear difference between people who don't yet exist
and people who do but live somewhere else.
This doesn't make me an advocate for the migration of
one million workers a year into Canada from Islamic countries,
but this person is asking the wrong question.
Approaching the problem from this angle
makes you incapable of offering any real solutions.
In the end, regardless of any other factor,
there will always be a percentage of the population that will never have kids,
no matter how easy their society makes it to have them.
And conversely, there will always be a percentage of the population that will always have kids,
no matter how hard their society makes it to have them.
And both of these things are fine.
People are free to do what they like with their lives,
even if they choose to lead lives completely devoid of meaning.
I'm not saying that having kids is the only path to a meaningful life.
There's obviously others.
But having kids is very clearly one common path
that applies to almost all people on the planet.
And this is coming from somebody who doesn't want kids himself.
But if the complaint is that white people aren't having kids anymore,
we don't need to look at absurd claims like Jewish conspiracies
or waves of hostile immigrants or whatever,
framing the conversation in this way as a non-starter.
Liberalism holds that the individual is more important than the group,
that individual human rights constitute a functioning society's first priority,
and that, seemingly paradoxically, through exclusive protection of the individual,
the group also ends up being protected.
Enshrining the supremacy of the individual allows the group to flourish.
Other competing political philosophies that begin with group rights
sacrifice individuals in the name of the group,
and ultimately cause the failure of the group in the long term anyway.
If, in a free society, the goals of the individual and the goals of the group are not in alignment.
And I do think the alignment of the two forces,
rather than one being subservient to the other, is the proper way to conceptualize this,
then individuals will be less likely to want kids.
Swinging too far to the individualistic side of things leads to an over-reliance on rights,
as important as rights are,
cultivating a type of narcissism where people are unwilling to give up their position
as the center of their own lives to a hypothetical child.
On the other hand, swinging too far to the collectivist side of things
leads to an authoritarian state,
where the structure of the nation is willing to consume its own populace
in order to maintain its bureaucracy.
And we've seen that, under exceptionally harsh conditions,
human fertility falls as people wait to have kids,
hoping the future will be better.
Unless the state forces all women to be constantly pregnant,
the way that Romania did, for example,
which leads to its own particular horror show.
But when the interests of the individual and the interests of the group align,
not only does the birth rate improve,
but so does investment, education, entrepreneurship, technological advancement,
basically most of the domains required in order to have a fulfilled life.
The alt-right may be a great lover of fascism,
but ironically enough, their goal of an improved birth rate
would be fulfilled not through the heavy hand of a tyrannical regime,
but by a non-interfering, Night Watchmen-styled, democratically elected government.
The theory of the Great Replacement is a joke.
It identifies problems, though not accurately.
It fails to identify the correct causes for those problems,
and it offers solutions to those problems that are not only wildly incorrect and dysfunctional,
but that also lead to bloodbaths, as history has unfortunately shown us.
For as much as both Nazis and Communists hate liberals,
liberalism is the only political ideology compatible with human life.
