3. What is it that gives the police legitimacy? It's an important question. The general
lefty position is that the cops are pigs, and yeah, I can see why. It's not hard to
find instances of legitimate police brutality. And the police in question is the one thing
that the left gets consistently correct. The problem, of course, lies in the left's proposed
solutions. You can't defund the police without crime skyrocketing, and no society can exist
entirely without a watchman, no matter how many anarchist idiots you read who say that
it can. Eventually, somebody, somewhere, has to be the person that uses force to keep the
peace. So we have to ask, what makes that force legitimate?
The Brits seem to have it right. It's the consent of the governed that makes policing
legitimate. And consent of the governed means that there should be restrictions on police
power. I know Americans love their castle doctrine, but it's originally a British
idea. Sir Edward Coke, in The Institutes of the Laws of England, wrote, For a man's
house is his castle, and each man's home is his safest refuge. Later, castle was defined
in this passage, The poorest man may, in his cottage, bid defiance to all the forces of
the crown. It may be frail, its roof may shake, the wind may blow through it, the storm may
enter, the rain may enter, but the King of England cannot enter.
Castle doctrine applies, rightly so, to the home invader. And yes, I do think it's moral
to kill a person who has broken into your house in the middle of the night. I've met
more than a few sniveling socialists who cannot possibly comprehend this position.
And I can only think that's because they've never had a woman sleeping next to them in
bed. But more importantly, castle doctrine applies
to the state. On some level, the state really is a leviathan. Its bureaucracy, its position
as a peacekeeper, means that no matter if you rebuff the state's agents temporarily,
no matter if you elude them for a day, they are not the common robber. They will continue
to pursue you until you're caught. So it is restriction on that pursuit that is necessary.
A totalitarian state will use its police powers to suppress dissidents who, by any reasonable
metric, have done nothing wrong. A liberal state will use its police powers to apprehend
lawbreakers. And yet, they will often wield the same force in the same ways. In fact,
sometimes there are instances in which the police of the liberal state opt to use less
lethal means to do their jobs. When the left objects to the police, they do so based on
this surface-level reasoning. That the jackboot stomping on the protester, and the policemen
apprehending the murderer, both must use force. And so they are both objectionable.
It is only the most naive among them who actually hate the concept of force itself. As their
activists have shown us, most of them would and do wield force when given the opportunity.
But it is not only when the police use their powers that gives them legitimacy, it is also
when they fail to use them. We've been talking about the Brits, so let's look at their
police force. They're known for not carrying guns regularly, though they obviously have
access to them if they're needed. They've also sometimes got those tall hats that Americans
like to poke fun at. Did you know that there's an old British law still in effect? That if
a pregnant woman urgently needs to pee, the officer is required to give her his hat to
do it into if there's no washroom around? But that's not the only way the cops are
taking the piss right now. Check this out. We were alerted to a series of racist messages
sent to a footballer today, and after looking into them and conducting checks, we have arrested
a boy. The 12-year-old has been taken into custody. Thanks to everyone who raised it,
racism won't be tolerated. So the cops in Britbongistan are arresting kids for dropping
gamer words online. Your society must be truly safe if your police have so little to do,
they actually have to fill their timesheet with garbage like this. We've received reports
of a number of transphobic comments being posted on social media. We take all reports
of hate incidents seriously. You know that it's not only British people who use Twitter,
but in reply to it, you didn't investigate my brother's flat when I told you I had
concerns about his wellbeing. You told me you didn't have the resources. Two days
later a neighbour found his body. I wish I'd told you he'd liked a limerick on Facebook,
you useless bastards. I'm afraid that this sort of thing is going to be a recurring theme.
UK police accuse man of playing racist music. UK police tell man to check his thinking after
making a transphobic retweet. Women guilty of hate crime for posting rap lyrics online.
And don't get me started on all the videos we've seen of police randomly breaching
people's homes and investigating them without probable cause for COVID lockdown violations.
It seems like the UK police are letting actual crimes go uninvestigated, actual people in
need go unhelped, so that they can staff online hate incident monitoring teams and other such
nonsense. But hey, that's not all they do. They also like to confiscate weapons. Look
at all these deadly objects. It's a bunch of kitchen knives, which, despite their status
as a tool, you can certainly kill somebody with. There's a fencing sword, alright. There's
a spoon in there too. I guess if you wanted to gouge somebody's eyes out. This one looks
like they simply swiped somebody's toolbox. Hell, these guys have even mistaken leaks
for machetes at one point. I know you can equip your Farfetch'd with one to increase
its critical hit chance, but come on guys. Of course, considering that people do in fact
need things like knives, the UK has decided to just start selling blunt ones. I can't
believe I have to say this, but any tool can be used to hurt people, because tools are
used to cut things, punch holes through things, pound things, attach things to other things,
and those are all useful functions when done to inanimate objects, but painful when done
to a human. Unless you want to outlaw cooking and craftsmanship and a million other things,
you're not going to be able to stop this. A rock is a weapon. Are you going to confiscate
all the rocks too? You want them to seize a scooter because there's no license? Why
not? Even though there's no reason that such a scooter should even need a license. Want
them to go after gay people because free speech is Islamophobic? Why not? If you're gay in
public you're probably racist nowadays. You want them to actually investigate a stalker?
Nah, they probably can't do that. In fact, they'll fine you for asking them to investigate
your stalker, and then let the stalker kill you, because they're completely incompetent
at their jobs. They're not so incompetent though, that if you decide to throw just the
slightest bit of shade at an elected official on Twitter, deserved shade because they've
said something monumentally stupid, that of course the cops are going to come after you
for it. Read this again guys. This person is so mad that a pleb had the audacity to
call their system a regime, that she demands the police be sicked on him, exactly as a
regime would demand. Policing in the UK is no longer based on law, and it's certainly
not based on common sense. They spend immense resources on ridiculous disarmament programs
that fetch kitchenware and carpentry tools, while ignoring actual violence due to the
colour of the attacker's skin. They prowl the online space, looking for hate speech,
while rapists and groomers get hand-waved away, because the police don't want to look
culturally insensitive. They'll take the knee for Black Lives Matter, they'll ignore the
environmentalists who block traffic and city services. But when regular ordinary people
protest coronavirus lockdowns, they arrive not with funny hats and pride flags, but beat
sticks and riot shields. At the start of this video, I mentioned that the one thing
the left actually gets right is its opposition to the police. And right now, there's a series
of kill-the-bill protests happening in the UK, as a reaction to the government trying
to pass a bill that expands police power to stifle protests. And as a person that actually
would go to a lockdown protest, if my area of the world wasn't full of people largely
ignoring lockdowns anyway, the only thing I have to say is, first time? Yes, the cops
are brutalizing these kill-the-bill protesters. And yes, the protesters are predominantly
leftists. The problem with leftist anti-police action is that their vision for what comes
next is just as bad as having a corrupt police force around. But that doesn't mean that we
should tolerate a corrupt police force. And that is exactly what the UK police are. They
wield their power for political purposes, and in a clearly biased way. Fundamentally,
they're still the unlikely allies of the idpol left, because it's not the left protesting
covid lockdowns, it's not the left wanting free speech anymore, they're crying for safety
at all costs. And those leftists who have actually entered the fray against the police
are doing so because they wish they were the police themselves. In the end, the UK's police
force has become institutionally anti-liberal, and it's long past time that the British oppose
them through whatever avenues they have. When they are wasting the resources that they glean
from productive society on this nonsense, rather than actually stopping criminals, you're
better off using your money not on your taxes, but on a gun.
Thank you for watching, my friends. If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share
it around and do all of the other algorithm-positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics
like, I don't know. Sub for more, or hit up my Patreon or Subscribestar if you want
to keep it coming. And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every
single day. So, I'll see you tomorrow. I love you.
