Hello my friends, welcome to SJ Weekly number 8 for the 12th of August 2018.
And as you can see, I've started on my desktop.
Well I've done that for a reason, and that reason is, I've been very public that the
next video I'm making is on Alex Jones, and I have the script right there along with my
social media research folder, however these six other scripts are all in various stages
of completion, so I figured we'll do a quick impromptu vote on which one you want to see
next.
We've got a script on cultural appropriation, a script on journalists are not a protected
class, a script on forced civility, a script on Anthony Burch, a script on the origin of
Islamophobia, and a script on Boogie2988.
So here's what we'll do.
The first person to comment that they want one of these six scripts, I will super like
that comment, and only that comment.
So hopefully those six comments will rise to the top, and then all you have to do is
simply thumbs up the topic that you want to see next, and after the Alex Jones video is
done, and presuming that nothing major happens in that time, the next video I do will be
one of these six, based on your votes.
And I actually got a lot of positive feedback last week from my coffee drinking during that
episode, so here guys, just take a listen.
This time, I'm drinking regular coffee, but instead of milk or cream, I'm using chocolate
milk in the coffee, and it's actually pretty fucking incredible.
Let's get to today's social justice nonsense.
Here we have Professor Slam's hegemonic masculinity of homeless men.
I mean look at this guy, isn't he just the spitting image of white male privilege?
A feminist professor at Wilfrid Laurier University in Canada recently published a book chapter
documenting the myriad ways homeless men allegedly perpetuate hegemonic masculinity while discussing
their hardships.
Of course this would come from fucking Wilfrid Laurier, for those of you who don't know,
that was the school that raked Lindsay Shepard over the coals for playing in a neutral manner
not even agreeing with him a video of Jordan Peterson to her students.
The book chapter, When a Man's Home is Not a Castle, Hegemonic Masculinity Among Men
Experiencing Homelessness, was published last Wednesday by Professor Erin Dege in a book
she co-edited on patriarchy in psychiatric wards and homeless shelters.
I guess the fruit was just way too low hanging to go after people like Harvey Weinstein or
anybody else in the top, because if you wanted an example of hegemonic masculinity and of
white patriarchy, I mean you could just go there, you can go to Hollywood, you can go
to any kind of upper echelons of any society, and you'll probably find some kind of example
of that.
Maybe go for the homeless men, because even if you're homeless if you have a penis you're
oppressive.
The goal of her research, she explains, was to assess the ways hypermasculinity is performed
among men experiencing homelessness, and to do this she interviewed 27 homeless men and
spent an additional 296 hours spying on them in homeless shelters.
While research on vulnerable people typically requires informed consent and approval by
an ethics board, it is unclear if Dege sought this.
Imagine my shock!
She declined to comment on this when emailed by PJ Media, and her research makes no mention
of ethics review.
Of course it doesn't, because these people don't care about ethics.
To them, ethics is kind of a roadblock, it's something that's in the way.
Maybe ethics is part of the white patriarchy, if it's holding a female professor down it
has to be part of the white patriarchy, so maybe ethical standards is just doublespeak
for men trying to do her transformative research or whatever the fuck she's going to call it.
During interviews with homeless men, Dege claims she learned that many aspire to hegemonic
masculinity, which she defines as the type of masculinity that serves to fortify the
dominance of men and ultimately subordinate women.
Do you mean maybe that they aspire to not be homeless, or hold down a job, or own a
car, or a house, or have a girlfriend, or a wife, or kids?
Maybe being homeless has made them desire a generic, unremarkable white picket fence
life because that is just so much better than living on the fucking streets?
I wonder if this person would go so far as to say that just general desires to get a
girlfriend by the non-violent n-cells would be hegemonic masculinity.
If you're a lonely guy and you're like, man I wish I could have a girlfriend, I wish I
had somebody to love and cherish and share my life with, but I've just been completely
unlucky in love, that's hegemonic masculinity.
I bet that's how she thinks.
However, she finds that it's difficult for homeless men to achieve this.
Without the trappings of a successful life, such as a home or a career, many men instead
develop what Dege refers to as compensatory masculinity to cope with their failed status.
This type of masculinity is worse than hegemonic masculinity, though not as bad as toxic masculinity,
and it involves men emphasizing whatever hyper-masculine traits they can within their stratified social
status to the detriment, allegedly, of women.
This is what I said a few videos back in the Starbucks and Belligerents of Black Subculture
video.
This is the one I talked about how in the absence of money or social status or job or
ability to get ahead or property or anything like that, men will often resort to brute
force as a way to create a social status, and nine times out of ten the reason that
happens is because of perpetual fatherlessness.
And just so we're clear, who is it that constantly talks about the breakup of the nuclear family?
That would be radical feminists.
Throughout her paper, as she writes up her research findings, Dege ridicules these men
for everything from reinforcing gender stereotypes, to refusing to show emotion, to talking about
how their ex-wives stole money from them.
This person sounds like a heartless sociopath at this point.
I have a feeling that feminist academia at this point is just pumping out these heartless
sociopaths who see homeless men, men who are quite literally at the bottom of the social
strata and just shit on them, just because they can.
For example, Julian, a homeless 45 year old man with severe anxiety, was accused by Dege
of perpetuating stereotypes when he confessed that I'm ashamed that I have problems, like
guys in our society are not supposed to have problems.
Oh look, it's actually Dege playing her part in perpetuating this toxic masculinity that
she rails against because I assume she was sitting there with a fucking white male tears
mug sipping on it as she was listening to this guy's story.
Dege also interviewed Ron, a 41 year old homeless man with depression and PTSD.
Ron used various drugs to cope with his mental health issues and by age 41, this had taken
a heavy toll on him, causing breathing problems and muscle weakness.
I walked down the street and like a little girl could have killed me.
That's how weak I was, Ron told Dege during an interview.
Strapolating from this comment, Dege then suggested that Ron somehow views women and
mass negatively.
That is the height of conceit that you're going to take this guy's terrible life story
and turn it around to be something about yourself.
For Ron, the feminine subjectively acts as the ultimate exemplar of physical weakness
and the most absurd hyperbole of who constitutes a threat, Dege wrote in her essay.
Not surprisingly, Dege writes that the only alternative for these men is to become more
emotional insofar as men should comfort, display, and work through their emotions, adding to
the complexity of what it means to be masculine.
But even men who are open about their emotions are problematic.
If a man opens up about his emotions, Dege laments that it still allows masculinity to
prevail without necessarily challenging the patriarchal foundation upon which it rests
– catch 22.
So basically, there's no winning, all men are toxic and evil, especially homeless men,
and this person is a complete fucking moral leper, which has also been awarded at least
$195,000 by the Canadian government to research this shit.
This is fucking ridiculous.
But let's keep going down the rabbit hole of ridiculousness with, new research shows
a vast majority of cis people won't date trans people.
A recent study attempts to quantify the extent of trans discrimination when it comes to romantic
and sexual relationships.
See, when I was younger I was always told to just say no if you didn't like the way
someone was coming on to you, but I guess nowadays your sexual preferences are considered
discriminatory.
Considering the discrimination that trans people face on a daily basis, it comes as
no surprise that trans people are overlooked when it comes to dating.
Two Canadian researchers recently asked almost 1000 cisgender folks if they would date a
trans person in a new study, holy shit this article is actually written like an SJW who's
tweeting.
About 150 participants, all but 7 cisgender, ranging in age from 18 to 81, were asked to
indicate which genders they would consider dating.
The options included cisgender man, cisgender woman, trans man, trans woman, or gender queer,
and participants could select as many genders as they wanted.
Only 12% of all participants selected trans woman and or trans man.
That is normal isn't it, I mean, what is the percentage of society that is actually
gay?
Isn't it around like 8% or 12% or something like that?
That actually seems in line.
You are not going to turn a society 100% bisexual, it is never going to be much higher than that.
Those who would consider dating a trans person didn't differ in race or ethnicity, but
were somewhat older, more likely to hold a university degree, and unsurprisingly, less
likely to be religious than those who would not date a trans person.
But some of the most striking differences were in regards to participants' gender
and sexual orientation.
Basically all heterosexuals excluded trans folks from their dating pool, that is in fact
the definition of heterosexual.
Only 1.8% of straight women and 3.3% of straight men chose a trans person of either binary
gender.
But most non-heterosexuals weren't down for dating a trans person either, with only
11.5% of gay men and 29% of lesbians being trans inclusive in their dating preferences.
Well that's because, one, I forget the exact terminology, Blair White used it, it was a
long psychological term, but attraction to a trans person is its own sexuality outside
of gay, straight, or bi.
Secondly, and this is the more ridiculous explanation, if you actually believe in there
being more than two genders, well then if straight people are only attracted to a specific
gender and gay people are only attracted to a specific gender, well if trans people
are a different third gender or an 8th gender or a 1200th gender, gay or straight wouldn't
encompass that.
Bisexual, queer, and non-binary participants, they were all combined into one group, were
most open to having a trans partner, but even among them almost half did not select either
trans man or trans woman.
I can only assume that those three groups were all combined into one group, because
there aren't really that many of them, even in a pool of a thousand people.
This is the kind of minority we're talking about here.
And when SJWs want to bend a society, this is Canada, a society of 36 million people
to what statistically rounds out to be what, like a couple thousand?
It's ridiculous, it's ridiculous.
Specific relationships are one of the most important sources of social support for adults.
The fact that most cis people would not consider trans people as potential dating partners
is yet another serious risk factor for increased psychological and physical health problems
among the trans population.
Well, while that's true, and while that sucks, the ability for cis people, and really, all
people, to date who they want to date, and to be attracted to who they want to be attracted
to, trumps any of that.
You're not going to go to a cis person at gunpoint and say you must date this trans
person for the good of the trans person.
It's not going to happen.
The high rates of trans exclusion for potential dating pools are undoubtedly due in part to
cis normativity, cis sexism, and transphobia.
How about it's because you don't find them attractive and that's not transphobia?
You can still not be a transphobe and still be like, yeah, but I don't find you attractive.
Does it work with gay people too?
If you're straight and a gay person hits on you and you're like, listen, I have nothing
against gay people, I'm just not interested, does that make you a homophobe?
It's also possible that at least some of the trans exclusion is due to the fact that for
some people, sexual orientation might be not just about a partner's gender identity, but
attraction to specific body types and or judgment of reproductive capabilities.
This is where the whole feminine B-ness comes in, isn't it?
These results clearly indicate that although the visibility of transgender people is on
the rise, we still have a long way to go to reach trans equality.
Trans equality means rights.
That's what it means.
It does not mean that everyone needs to be attracted to you.
It does not mean that everyone's going to like you.
It means rights.
It means it means legal rights.
It means human rights.
It does not mean that you walk down the street and everyone thinks that you're a fucking
bombshell.
That's not how the world works and it's never going to get there.
And in fact, let's watch some of these oppressions clash against one another.
Transgender model called Muslim airport worker, terrorist in two hour meltdown after she misheard
ma'am for man.
So guys, who's more oppressed?
Who's more oppressed and who's more oppressive?
Is it the transgender model who called a Muslim a terrorist or the Muslim airport worker who
could have called a transgender model a man?
I mean, I know that he said ma'am, but let's just say for the sake of argument, which one
of those two is more oppressed and which one of those two is more oppressive?
A transgender model called a Muslim airport security staffer a terrorist after she mistakenly
heard them call her a man.
The security worker had actually said ma'am.
Francesca Camica, 23, shouted the comments during a two hour meltdown at London's Heathrow
airport while traveling to Italy for a breast augmentation.
Camica also got in the face of one officer and shouted, this guy hates transgenders and
wishes me dead.
You're the terrorist.
Camica, who was identified as female on both her British and Italian passports, told the
court, when someone calls me man, I feel so desolated.
She was convicted of using threatening behavior towards Mustafa Abbas and supervisor Fahad
Arshad on September 17th and was conditionally discharged for two years.
She was ordered to pay each victim 50 pounds compensation and 750 pounds costs.
Mr. Abbas insisted that he addressed Camica as ma'am during secondary security checks
and busy terminal four.
That's when the abuse began, he told the trial.
She said, don't talk to me like a dog.
You need to learn some education, you fucking idiot.
She said it with disgust and was looking down at me and made me feel worthless like
I am nothing as if I am a peasant.
She said, you earn six pounds an hour and you think you are God.
He reported the incident to supervisor Mr. Arshad, who told the court, she refused to
stop and completely lost control, just mad I couldn't speak to her.
She completely lost the plot saying that she was transgender and that I wished death on
all transgenders.
She was in a blind rage.
I mean, considering considering the state of Islam right now, it's not an unreasonable
thing to jump to conclusion to, but of course she was still acting ridiculously.
She pointed at my beard and said, I should be afraid of you.
You are the terrorist.
She said I was homosexual and made an oral sex gesture with her hand.
I have never come across anyone that angry or unpredictable in seven years at Heathrow.
I felt intimidated when she came close to my face and poked my shoulder with her fingers.
She said, you're peasants, I'll buy this fucking airport, this fucking plane.
To be called a terrorist because of how I look is disgusting and she lost control with
the police as well.
You think that she would understand that if she was somebody who was called a man because
of how she looks and she felt disgusted by it as she should, then maybe she should also
understand that to call a brown guy with a beard a terrorist because of how he looks
is equally disgusting.
The court heard Kamika also shouted, I've been a woman for 20 years.
So you, you had the surgery when you were three years old to call me, sir is a crime.
I've got a diplomatic passport.
You can't do anything to me.
I know my rights.
Kamika, who has a PhD in law was upset.
There was no Jewish Torah on which to swear an oath.
She told the court it's okay.
My rates are breached every day.
What a fucking snowflake.
But let's switch back to a biological CIS woman for a bit.
Here's polygon.
Oh yeah.
Where did your ads go?
I blocked them.
Ninja explains his choice not to stream with female gamers.
The only way to avoid the rumors is to not play with them at all.
Now for those of you who don't know, Ninja is the biggest streamer on Twitch right now.
He streams mostly Fortnite, I think it's almost almost completely Fortnite.
And he makes something like a quarter million dollars a month on Twitch.
He has, I think it's in the six digits regularly whenever he streams.
Like he is the biggest guy on Twitch right now.
And I want, I want it to be known before we read this article that he's married.
All right.
I don't think his wife streams with him, but he's married.
He's monogamous.
And that's, I guess he, I guess he, that's how he wants to keep things.
So let's read this article.
I don't play with female gamers, says Tyler Ninja Blevins, Twitch's biggest streamer and
one of the faces of the Fortnite fandom.
This edict may be surprising to hear, especially as emphatically as Blevins said it when we
spoke at a recent Samsung event.
If I have one conversation with one female streamer where we're playing with one another
and there's even a hint of flirting that is going to be taken and going to be put on every
single video and be clickbait forever.
You know, that, that is actually true.
I remember seeing two streamers, Eloise and Hafu, they're both Hearthstone streamers.
They're both Chinese women.
And they kind of played up the whole he, he were dating thing when they're not dating,
they're both straight.
But for a long time people were saying, Oh, they're lesbians together.
You know, Twitch likes to do that.
Fandoms like to do that.
So if he's happily married and he wants to just kind of keep things private like that,
keep his romantic life private, then yeah, you're going to avoid streaming with people
whom a fandom might start spreading the rumor that you guys are dating or something, or
that they might start shipping you, you know, they're going to, he's going to avoid that
and it's reasonable to do so.
Ninja said, not being connected to other women online.
That was something I made a hundred percent sure it was his decision alone to keep his
streaming partners men only.
That was not even her.
She had nothing to do with it.
That was me being, I love our relationship and no, I'm not going to put you through that.
A growing Twitch means a diminishing sense of privacy, especially for women on the platform.
Female streamers have opened up before about the difficulty in maintaining a separation
between their Twitch personas and who they are offline, often at the behest of viewers
who demand answers, lest they assume what's going on for themselves.
So this article is surprisingly from Polygon, a reasonably fair article.
And it is just about how Ninja doesn't stream with women because he's married.
He doesn't want the community to start spinning up rumors about him and how maybe that's a
bit discriminatory, but it's also reasonable on his end.
But then we get this tweet thread from our good friend, Nathan Grayson.
Now those of you who remember Nathan Grayson, he, he was one of the, uh, the five guys from
Gamergate, one of the guys who fucked Zoe Quinn.
And while he was fucking her, he was also reporting on a game jam she was involved in
and spinning her story in that report to be extremely positive when there's evidence that
it might not have been.
So that, that was the, the ethics and games journalism of Gamergate, by the way.
But here's his take on it.
Ninja's stance here is thorny as hell.
While I get where he's coming from, this lends credence to the idea that women are different
and should be treated as such.
Well, it's his own personal opinion.
Like I assume that if his wife had a problem with it, his wife would let him know.
I don't think it's your place to stick social justice into their fucking marriage.
Part of the reason this sort of thing happens is that Twitch is dominated by dudes who play
with other dudes.
Ninja is more visible than anybody and could do a lot to change that perception if he so
chose, but he'd have to really commit to it and he doesn't seem to care enough.
Well, his platform is not yours for you to promote your social ideas on, Nathan.
Ninja has no obligation to use his platform to push any kind of social change.
It's his show, not yours.
And this is the absolute worst thing about hegemonic social justice is that when you
build an independent platform, like Ninja has, or like, you know, in the whole comics
gate thing, when people started bypassing the SJWs in comics and they were, they started
directly crowdfunding the comics they wanted to see through Kickstarter or whatever, SJWs
become fucking livid.
They're like, Oh, you've, you've built a platform.
You're influential.
Well, now you have to push our politics.
Now you have a moral obligation to push our politics because we, we are the ones who understand
what morality is.
And that really is the problem with the larger left.
Like this is, this is obviously a story about video games basically, but it's a problem
with the larger left that the left believe that they have a moral high ground, which
they don't, but they believe they do.
And they believe that moral high ground should give them access to every, every section of
life, every large platform, every mode of influence.
They say, because we are right, because we're right.
We need to use every avenue to get our message out there.
And even if they were completely right, which they're obviously not, but even if they were
completely right, I don't think it follows.
I don't think it logically follows at all that therefore they have the right to platforms
they don't own.
Ninja has no obligation to push this guy's brand of idiotic politics.
And even if his politics were correct, he still has no obligation to push them.
All right, my friends, that does it for me.
I'm going to turn this video recording off and I'm immediately going to go record the
Alex Jones video.
I'm going to be in my, my little office here for, for quite a while.
I'll see you guys later.
I love you.
