Oh, hello. Hi. Hello, friend. How's it going? Hi. So what's what's up? What's the scoop?
Scoop on which? You're in Alberta, right? What's going on over in Alberta? Uh, you know,
it's snowing. It's about, uh, the maximum amount of news you're going to get from Alberta.
Actually, there's really cool research happening in Alberta, but I don't know how many people
will care about that. What's the research? So I don't know if people know this, but Alberta
and Canada in general are some of the world leaders in research on forensic studies. Um,
most of the, most of the most commonly used like risk assessments in forensic psychology,
for example, have been developed in Canada and, um, we have two unique data sets being
built in Canada right now that basically don't exist on in any other part of the world at
all. Um, which is really cool. So that's kind of the most exciting news going on for Alberta
is the research game in Alberta is for like child psychology and forensic psychology is
fucking top notch. It's really cool stuff coming out of it, which is crazy because we're
such a small province and everyone treats us like we're like backwater rednecks and
we're leading in like FASD neuroscience and, uh, this new forensic youth forensic, uh,
data set that we have. So, so what are the two data sets? So the first data set that
I think, okay, I'm biased because I'm really, I'm on both of these projects as well. So
I'll be clear that I'm biased, but they are really unique. This is just your stuff then
not my stuff at all. I'm involved in the projects, but I'm not like the lead PI, but I'm not
the lead PI. Like I don't want to claim extra. I I'm just like, I'm just part of the studies.
Like I'll be on the papers when they're released and stuff like that potentially. But the
first one is Alberta recently released, um, the last 50 years of assessments that's been
done on every single juvenile offender in our province to, uh, one of my, uh, potential
supervisors. Um, and the amount of data we have on these kiddos is crazy because it's
the last 50 years. So we have, we have 50 years of longitudinal data on some of them.
We have, and the level of assessment Canada does on like offenders in general, but especially
juvenile offenders is insane. Like we could tell you they're grade three teacher, like
we have everything on these kiddos. Um, which means what we can do is there's not a lot
of like forensic knowledge that focuses on predicting outcomes for teen offenders. And
there's this big question of essentially, is there prevention work being missed with
teen offenders? Um, and so I'm hoping I would really like to do a study that, so usually
in forensic psychology, what we're trying to predict is factors that contribute to recidivism.
So future crime. Um, but I think we should actually focus on, we should do that too,
but I think we should actually focus on certain protective factors. So what predicts a teen
completing highest levels of education, specifically completing high school, because one of the
best protective factors of later life success is level of education achieved. So we know
a lot of factors that predict whether somebody is going to do a crime again, but we don't
know a ton of factors about what predicts if offenders are going to complete education.
And if they get educated, there's a much higher chance that they're going to move out of the
life of like criminality and into like a more like functional element in society. So that's
one data set. I mean, that data set is like, that's the piece I want to study within it,
but you can do infinite amounts of studies with this. Like we have, it's crazy. It's
crazy the amount of information we have on these teens. It's going to be like the forensic
data on teens coming out of Alberta is going to be just infinite. It's going to be, it's
probably another 50 years worth of research within it. Like there's just so much data
there.
Well, well, this isn't something that I know much about, but I mean, I have heard that
generally when it comes to at least male offenders, the best thing to do is to wait from the age
out of puberty, you know?
Yeah, that is one thing, but there is actually benefits. And for example, you can treat them,
depending on what kind of psychiatric conditions are going on. The issue is treating them.
So the more severe psychopathology, the more severe the intervention needs to be. And it's
really, really hard to affect, to deliver really highly intensive and effective treatment
for forensic people in general, but specifically like forensic teens, just because of like
things like resistance. So they tend to get really resistant of like therapists. So there
are assigned therapy hours, but they often don't engage in them. Um, and so you can actually
give really good therapy. There are some predictive factors, one of the best predictive factors
of them not reoffending before the age of 25, because that's what we really want to
do is can we stop them from offending before they just like get too old and get tired of
it, is things like education, things like hobbies and things like support networks.
And so, um, that's kind of the angle I want to go with my career is figuring out how do
we build those things for these teens so that we're giving them hobbies, education
and support networks that help them move away from crime before they're 25. Because if you're
25 and you're finally getting out of crime, you're still really fucked for getting education.
Like these people are not aging out and then leading, going on to lead. Like, I'm just
happy Dorian, middle, middle class. Like a lot of these people are going on to like live
in like poverty, very low class. They often are getting like very, very bare minimum jobs
and they're like pretty life dissatisfied. So, um, yeah, that's one thing that we're
doing in Alberta. That's really cool. Right. What's number two? Number two is, uh, we're
currently collecting the largest data set of, uh, neuropsychiatric comparisons of FASD
brains to normal brains, um, in a longitudinal fashion. So we're running a study. It's been
running for about eight years. We're going to run it for another 10, um, basically taking
in kiddos with FASD and not FASD, giving them brain scans, um, in two different periods
and then comparing them to normal kids that are aging in the same brackets. And then doing
a bunch of things like IQ testing, neuropsych testing, achievement testing, um, functionality
testing, behavioral analysis, testing, a whole bunch of data, blah, blah, blah. Um, so that
we can, again, start comparing functionality and whatnot between kids with FASD and kids
with a normal brain, because people don't know this FASD is actually one of the most
common forms of like, basically like brain injury and brain impairment. It's it's more
people have FASD than have autism, um, which fetal alcohol syndrome. Okay. All right. Yeah.
So more people have fetal alcohol syndrome than have autism, which a lot of people don't
realize. Um, it's about 4% in Canada. So it's really, really high. We have like no data
on them. It's crazy. 4% of kids in Canada have fetal alcohol syndrome. Jesus. It's higher
in like Norway, actually. Norway is a really high amount as well. Oh, really? Hold on just
out of curiosity. What's Russia? I assume Russia is like, I have no idea. Uh, cause
the prevalence rates across countries is going to really depend on if they're testing for
certain things. So I watched a crowd video recently. It's about, I think it's two years
old now at this point, but it was basically an analysis of Russian alcoholism and how
it's kind of a unique situation there because it's basically become an instant, like a social
institution to be an alcoholic in Russia, which is a scary idea. It's very good video
though, but it seems like everyone over there is alcoholic. It's just part of being a Russian
now. Yeah. Well, I mean like vodka is a pretty like integral part of it's I think their culture,
not that I can like speak too much on it, but you know, I always feel like Russians
refer to like vodkas, like their bread and stuff like that. So, um, uh, what it is is
that there's something about, I mean, it's best to watch his video, hear me on it. Right.
I think the TLDR is there's something to do with Russian history regarding the geography
of the area and the invasions by the Mongols and the other social institutions that were
set up in Eastern Europe. Like we're talking the medieval period that basically led to
every Russian government, regardless of its political persuasion, um, using cheap booze
as the primary way to control the population. Hmm. And that's like a thousand years of alcoholism.
So yeah, that's really interesting. Yeah. A lot of people don't know much about fetal
alcohol syndrome. Uh, especially I find a lot of Americans don't I in Canada, like when
I grew up, I was like very abundantly aware of it. Um, yeah, same. I mean, I'm Canadian
too, right? I'm over. Okay. Yeah. Where's that? When I talk to a lot of, uh, Americans,
for example, a lot of them don't even know what the acronym stands for, which is really
interesting to me. Um, I should look up the prevalence rate of FASD in America. I didn't
know the acronym, but I do know what fetal alcohol syndrome is. Yeah. Oh, okay. That's
fair. That's fair. Um, but a lot of people don't realize there's a bunch of people asking
in chat. So I'll just explain fetal alcohol syndrome. The common effects of it is the
most pervasive is going to be the brain effects. So it does like massive, whole-scale brain
damage to infants in, in, in the womb. Um, there are some, uh, bodily stuff that can
occur as well. It really depends. The symptoms of FAS is going to really depend on the amount
of alcohol they're exposed to. And when in development in like, like neonatal development,
they are when they're being exposed to the alcohol. Um, so they can have physical defects
on their face. There's kind of like the classic, like FASD, like phenotypic expression on the
face with like the flattened lip, uh, eyes that are a little bit like lower set with
a deeper brow that are like a little bit wider apart. Um, but some kids have FASD and have
none of those like physical images, but if you look at their brain, they're like, you
can tell, like, for example, their brains tend to be like, um, the gaps between like
the brains have big wrinkles in them forward to the smoke and, uh, the gaps that you can
tell how healthy a brain is, is that the wrinkle, the, the down part of the wrinkle,
I'm trying to describe this without using like esoteric language, the part that like
folds in, it should be like, it should be a really clear line and it should be really,
really plump kind of like brain meat flesh around it. Whereas if you look at like people
with like pervasive, like holistic brain damage, you're going to start seeing these wrinkles
getting like bigger and wider, which is queuing that like actual brain matter between these
lobes in, within the wrinkles are not present because they're not occupying the space. Um,
you will also see less folding in FAS brains as well.
Does this mean that the meme about smooth brains is technically incorrect? Cause it
sounds like they're getting less smooth. The more damage there is.
Well, the smooth brains is more of like a comparative cog thing where like the less
folded a brain is the less wrinkles there are the less complex the brain is. Right.
So like our brains are kind of like our colon where they fold in on themselves so that it
gives maximal surface area while taking up a very small amount of volume. So the less
folded the brain is the less complex it is. Right. So if you look at like less intelligent
species, typically you're going to see less folding in the brain. It just shows that like,
so like that's what people mean by smooth brains. There's like less wrinkles.
Right. Right. So I gotta be honest. Um, well, first of all, it sounds like you're doing
two really cool things that are a bit out of my depth. I mean, I'm, um, my psychology
education education comes from taking abnormal, uh, intro to psych and abnormal psych in university.
Okay. Nice. The only, the only reason I did that is because the professor was like, listen,
if you're not getting a psych degree, at least go to abnormal psych. That's where all the
fun stuff is. Yeah. I'm normal psych is really fun. It's where you get to diagnose all your
friends. But that was, that was still almost 15 years ago at this point. Okay. Yeah. I've
been like, I've been watching you and I've been watching Aidan Paladin and I've been
watching like some other psych people online. So I don't have any formal education in this
stuff. Okay. Well, you gotta be careful of psych people online, including myself. I very
much say like in psychology, there is absolutely a hierarchy of expertise and the greatest
number one thing on that hierarchy is having a data, having data behind your words. Um,
right. There's a, there's a lot of pop psych that is very bad and full of misinformation.
And I've been seeing more and more like tick talkers and different like psychologists starting
to like jump in social media and just like debunk really bad pop psych because it's like,
it's crazy how much like bad information there is on psychology. It's wild. It's when you
can like go to some kind of strange places on the internet and see people using evolutionary
psychology to talk about like why some races are inferior and stuff like that's that junk.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. To be fair, there's always, there's always been like,
um, a, a scientism streak, I think in psychology, even since like, I, Oh God,
I don't recall who it was that said this, but there was an American psychologist,
or actually this would have been pre psychology, but it still would have, hold on. What, what year
we were talking about the slavery era. And I think psychology hadn't been formalized at that
point. Uh, psychology like really formalized with William Vunt in like 1890. So, okay,
this would be a bit before that, but basically there was a guy who decided to say that slaves
who wanted to be free had some sort of a, of a psych related mental problem. And he, he wrote,
uh, this, this would have been like the w what was it? Early 18 hundreds. Um, he,
he wrote some sort of literature that was all complete nonsense, but it was basically just
justifying the current political situation using, using mental health. I feel like there's,
there's probably, um, maybe, maybe not a tradition, but at least like a strain of psych
that probably has some bad actors doing that all throughout its history. For sure. I mean,
if you go to any field of science, especially any science that can be like mapped onto human,
like human expression existence, there's absolutely bad actors who have tried to like
weaponize science for like bad means. Um, and I would, so like you see the most of it in like
biology and psychology, um, not as much in sociology, but that's also because it's like
not a super strong science, um, in comparison, not that I'm saying like psychology is a hard
science by any means. Um, there's just like some level of like empirical rigor that's applied to
it. Um, but yeah, absolutely. There are bad actors and we have to be careful, right? Like that,
this is why people are afraid of IQ is because IQ was weaponized in a really, really bad way.
The issue is like, we don't need to solve that problem by dismissing IQ tests. What we need to
do is like prove why, for example, if they're like prove, prove why basically racist can be racist,
but that doesn't mean that like they can weaponize science. So like explaining things like, you know,
um, IQ isn't the same thing as moral value at all. Weird concept, you know, which our society still
struggles with. I mean, I, I started my pro my platform by talking about IQ tests and then I
realized it seems like nobody can engage with IQ tests like, well, because it's really hard to
like disentangle IQ from like moral value for a lot of people. Right. If I say like somebody,
if I say like somebody is less at sale, like, yeah, my one friend has like a lower IQ. Um, what
they hear is my friend is worse. And it's like, well, that's not necessarily true. Like say I have
a friend who does have a lower IQ, which I've never talked about my friend's IQ. They might be
super gifted in a million other areas. Like IQ is predictive of certain things and success in
certain areas and in areas that our society values. But I would argue, like, isn't it a
problem that we don't value other things that are predicted for outside of IQ? Um, but like being,
yeah, I know what you mean. I mean, there's, uh, there's, I think there's just a natural tendency
to have a chuckle at someone who like, okay, I'll just use an example. Okay. So, so Zander Hall, you
know who Zander Hall is?
Uh, yes. I've seen a bit of his content, not a ton, but yeah, I know he is.
He, he did an IQ test on, on a stream and he got like a 93 or something, which is below.
Okay. Well, any tests that you do that you could just do on your screen is garbage just as a heads
up, but also if he got 93, that is surprising because these things always inflate you by like
well, he got a 93 and then he turned around and said that, well, IQ isn't real anyway. And it's
all just, it's all just a tool of capitalism to try and keep working people down to create a class,
a class structure. And I was like, this just sounds like coping at this point. And it was just,
it was funny. And it's kind of cruel because, you know, we're laughing at a guy because of
intelligence, but there's also still like some, some short and fried there, especially since he's
been not very nice to me over the four years. I can have a laugh and understand that it's also
probably a little bit cruel too. Yeah. Um, it can be cruel and like our societies really do like
Mo most infrastructure in our society absolutely abuses IQ. Um, and like how,
like I'm actually extremely quiet for your audience. Oh, really? Oh, bumpy guys. Even
more. Can you hear me? No, I'll bump you up even more. You're at 148. I'll bump you up to 200.
Oh, well, sorry. Hold on. I can, maybe I can do something on my end. Just me.
If you like. Yeah, no, no, please. If they can't hear you, then this is a one-sided conversation.
And then everyone's I saw a couple of like, this is awkward. And I feel like maybe that's,
that's why they were saying this. Can you imagine that it's just you talking to yourself actually,
and they couldn't hear me at all. That would be kind of awkward. I'm not going to lie. So
you're way louder for me, but I'm checking your decibels on my thing and it's not higher,
but everything on my site is maxed. I gave it a short nudge on my audio interface here.
I can give it another short nudge. Well, I'll watch the chat just in case they, um,
your voice is a little distorted now. So it's, it hasn't bumped up in volume. It's just kind of
distorted your voice. Like it's like peaking really hard now. So you can probably drop it
down. You're staying at the same decibel now. So you can probably drop it down a little bit.
It sounds like people are saying it's okay. Um,
yeah. Okay. Here's, I'll turn down the game, but I'll turn up the level. I think. Okay.
Okay.
Because game like affects the sound that your mic takes in and level just
takes that sound afterwards and then boosts it.
Um, thank you cowboy Christ for letting people know about FAS. It is called both technically
FAS is fetal syndrome, but yeah, you sound good. Let's do a couple more tests.
Test, test, test. Hello. Yeah. You're pretty good. You're a little peaky still,
but it's okay. It's not the end of the world or clipping or something. I'm clipping. All right.
No Dev that he's dummy thick. Yeah. I know. I mean, fat's in the name, right?
Yeah. Isn't it? I love when you get insults about things that you're like, I like, I don't know how
often to get insults like that, but I'll often get insults. It'll be like using the not so like,
they'll be like, not so smart indeed. And I'm like, good one. Like it's kind of implied with
the name, but go for it. King go off. So I guess the, the quick TLDR and who I am for your audience
since, I mean, we just talked for like five minutes, but I might as well act like we just
started. Yeah. So I started in 2009 on YouTube and wow. The, the name short fat otaku was because
it was me and my friends. And we were younger goofing around with a camera making like channel
awesome style, anime videos, rather than cause channel awesome had people doing games and people
doing movies, but not really that many anime people. And I liked anime and my friends like
anime. So we're going to do an anime show and we did that for a bit and we had like a few viral
hits, but in 2009, you're not really making a living on you. This is pre-patron. So, but you
know, we got like, you know, the first video we put up got like a quarter of a million views,
which is a lot back then. And it was like, oh shit, maybe we can actually make this work.
But there was no money in it. And also copyright strikes back then were just your video got
deleted. There was no appeals process. Oh, wow. It was. Yeah. So it was hard to actually kind of
keep the momentum going on the channel. Yeah. And also like we were going off to university
and we kind of had things to do that were, you know, real life things. And we tried to do like,
let's place and we did less plays a couple of years and those were actually more successful.
I turned those into a side channel where I do like gaming content on the side and I still get like
100 viewers whenever I stream over there, like 50 to 100. It's pretty good. It's a nice little
side hustle. But gamergate came along in 2014. And I was like, maybe I should, you know, toss my hand
into the online politics ring. And I did that. And that's when the channel really started growing.
And so, you know, I did some videos that had some traction. I got a shout out from Sargon in like
2018. And that gave me like 40,000 subs. And I got to a point where I could I could like quit
my job. And so I was like, maybe I should know to talk time. And I've been doing that for maybe
a year and a half now. Wow. That's crazy. Yeah. Living the dream. At least for me, it's it's my
dream. So like, so you're full time full time now, like you're able to basically afford life.
I'm full time. And I also have employees who really made it. Yeah. One full time editor. And
then my girlfriend also pitches in. She's she's part time, though. Okay. The goal is to eventually
like, hire all my friends and just spend our days having fun. Hmm. So that's the goal.
I'm so curious now that you've been because you've been in the space way longer than me. And I know
kind of obviously I'm stealing this directly from Devin Nash. But I always hear that there's
kind of two major like forms of monetization that you can pursue as a content creator,
which is maximize views, maximize numbers of like subscribers and everything and assume that
a very small percentage of them will give money and they'll give a very small amount of money.
Or maximize like a niche have a lot less people. But those people give a lot more money in total
because they like really value the niche content that essentially that you're providing. Do you
think that you're catering to one or the other?
I don't know. I haven't thought about it like that. I've, I have always treated my channel as
a personal project that I never expect to make any money on. I just so happen to. So that's why
there will always be like, sometimes there'll be a conflict. It's like, listen, this is the
video that I feel like making today. This is the stream that I feel like doing today.
And some people are like, well, that's not what I wanted to see today. Well, it's like, okay,
well, you can come, you can come by tomorrow then. But like, I've always kind of put my own
interests first and the audience second, as selfish as that kind of sounds.
Because I realized that like, if I faked it, it just wouldn't be very good. You know, if I,
if I talked about a topic that I don't really care about, but it's the big thing right now,
I think it would just, it would, it would be shallow and it would be,
I wouldn't care. And it would, it would, people could tell the audience could tell that I didn't
care. And it would just, you do that too much and you lose everything because then it's like,
oh, this guy's just solid, you know? So I don't really look at my numbers that much.
I don't look at my like, oh, did this video do better or worse? You know, I don't really watch
that too hard. It's probably, it's actually probably to my detriment that I'm not data driven
on, on YouTube, but I feel like I might end up destroying myself if I try to.
Yeah, I mean, I try to never look at numbers at all. I like, let my editor do that almost
exclusively. Because it's just like, yeah, it's just not a, not a good situation if I do. I'll
get obsessive for sure. Yeah, I can definitely, you know, I do like, at my size, you have to at
least sometimes. But I can tell whenever I go into the analytics panel, I can like, feel the itch
in the back of my brain. And it's like, okay, I can't spend more than a few minutes here just
to do what I need to do. And then I need to get out of here. I can't just watch these numbers for
like the next six hours. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, no, I agree. You just get in your head. And like,
the problem is that yeah, if you're making content that you feel like obliged to make,
I feel like the content quality necessarily goes down, which like hurts the wallet,
but also is like kind of disappointing your viewers, which is like, why you're kind of
doing this. And there's like this very weird inverse relationship that you can have with it.
Mm hmm. So Artemis Fowl is somebody who watches me quite a bit. He just sent you a $5. He said,
This is money I would give to SFO, but he's Canadian. Erudite's Canadian.
Yeah, that's true. It's still going up north, man, no matter what you do.
That fucked up. Oh, no. This is money I would give to SFO, but he's a Canadian.
He's a nice guy. He's a bit autistic. I've talked to him a few times. He's kind of nuts.
He's been on my stream a few times. And I always
an autistic person online. That's crazy. There's no neurodivergent people online.
I've hosted Artemis Fowl, who's very libertarian versus Econoboi on economics. And that was a shit
show of a stream. Was it? My God, it was fun. It was really fun. Because like, they both seem
to be pretty educated and pretty intelligent people. But they, they hard disagree. And it
was like, Oh, okay. And then I'm just kind of sitting there watching sound really know too
much. I got a little bit of economics. I took intro, but like, my university career, by the
way, is like intro in every single field. Did you get a degree? Did you ever get a degree or
I did? Yeah. But I took like, I took seven years to get a four year degree.
Oh, wow. So what what is your degree in English literature?
Wait, you generalized on everything. And then you settled on English lit. How the fuck? I feel like
that is not not the direction I would expect. Why did you settle on English lit?
Um, cuz I liked it. You know, yeah, a lot. Yeah, like, it's the same as my YouTube channel,
I found that like, okay, so, you know, I miss people going to university. And I understand
why people don't do this, because university has just become like the bare minimum for most jobs.
But I wish we had a university system where people just went into things because they wanted to
think Artemis and they wanted to be researchers. Thank you for making fun of Artemis publicly and
loudly. Appreciate that. He is also one of my guys, too. I did I did an ad everyone on my
Discord to annoy everyone to get them all. Oh, wow. I was telling my chat that you and I've been
like, DM friends for quite a while. I know, but we've never chatted publicly. It's crazy.
So I so I started watching you because of destiny, which is probably a story you've heard a lot.
What? You found me the destiny? No way. Oh, my gosh. Hashtag orbiter life.
Um, I'm in DGG chat a fair amount. He gave me a shiny checkmark covering capacity. It was actually
me chat. And I don't I don't pop out. I don't I don't have a discord permissions to actually
jump on the streams at all. But I watch. And, you know, it's been pretty interesting conversations
until like the current orbiter arc that just seems to be pure fucking cancer right now.
So I'm not watching right now. But I've watched a fair amount now for about a year.
So I was like, Oh, great, erudite. She seems really cool and interesting. I'm gonna go check
out her stream since since destiny is not online right now. And I go over to your stream. And
you're watching one of my videos. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then you're like, now, guys, this is not a very
good video. But there's at least a nugget of truth in here that we should probably consider. And I
was like, Oh, okay. I don't know what that means. I was amazing. What video was that? I was calm,
reasonable and centrist in my opinion. It might have changed a few views since then. It was old.
Thank you. Artemis again. Artemis is shit talking him. Of course he is. Yeah, I was amazing on the
election and I was calm reasonable centrist in my opinions economy. That's fair to kind of boy.
Um, I was a nice guy. I disagree with him a lot. But he's a really nice guy. I've enjoyed talking
I've talked to like four times now. He's great. Yeah, he's got a pretty big brain,
a pretty big brain for economics. And I've learned a lot from him.
See, if I go to your page, I wonder if it'll just like, I'll be able to see like, which one is got
a view bar on it. I talked about Mass Effect in it. It was like a video game oriented.
It was like, it was something like, the right in the 90s was censorious, and the left was free
speech. And now things have switched around on the on its head. It was a video kind of about that.
Because I talked about like, Jack Thompson, if you know who he is, he was like a politician in
the US who wanted to get video games banned. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I talked about like the
the Mass Effect controversy where in 2007, Mass Effect comes out and you can play as a human lady
and have a lesbian sex scene with a with a blue alien lady and you can see like a blue bum
for a few seconds in the game. And so Fox News back in 2007 stirred up this big controversy
about it and how it was it was the degeneracy that was destroying the youth of today was in video
games. I love blue bums. Yeah, did you play Mass Effect? Are you a gamer at all? Ah, I play games.
I don't know if anyone would honor me with the title of gamer by any means. Okay. Yeah.
Well, it actually came out because they did a remaster of the Mass Effect trilogy last winter,
I think. And it came out in the hype to the release of that, that because of the Fox News
backlash towards the lesbian sex and Mass Effect one, they took a character in Mass Effect two,
who was very clearly a lesbian or at least bisexual, a very butch character.
And they had recorded voice lines with the actors for a lesbian romance option and,
and they took it out. They took it out. And they had no gay sex in Mass Effect two because they
didn't want any backlash from Fox News again. Damn. Well, damn outshot by the by the Christians
back when Christians used to be the ones who are censoring people. Yeah, the old religious guard
and now we have a new religious guard. So yeah, the video is something about house like the
censorious nature of politics has inverted that I think about that. And you had some kind of
problem with it. But I remember the problem. I can't remember at this point. I can't remember
either. It was like six months ago. I'm sure I felt very strongly though. And I hated you in that
moment. Oh, yeah, yeah. But that was that was like a 2019 video, I think. And I might have changed,
I might have been softened on opinions or change things since since then. But I mean, I still think
that the general thesis is the same, that I think the left right now is pretty censorious. And it's
probably not good for us. Because I'm, I'm in my 30s. At this point, I remember an era when the
left wasn't that. And that's why I called myself a leftist. And now I don't call myself a leftist
because I don't like where things are going.
Yeah, plus the left is kind of hate you. Although the right hates you too. So
yeah, oh, yeah. Both of them hate me. It's great. So I've, you know, Vashj has called me a fascist
at least once on the stream. And I do know, the serfs have done the same, you know, Lance over
pretty much all the bread tubers. I don't come up often, so I'm not that big of a figure. But
when I do come up, it's like, Oh, he's that fascist guy. And it's like, Oh, all right.
Where's the right call you?
Communist. Okay, because I'm, for me, I'm just like, Hey, you know, I don't mind a universal
health care service in the government. It's probably a decent use of tax dollars, guys.
And they're like, Oh, so you're a redistributive commie cuck, who wants the state to just give you
handouts? It's like, All right, guys. All right. However, I was just gonna ask, what do you think
is your least popular take with the left? Where do you think we would most disagree?
You and I will do you consider yourself a leftist?
No, I've never been a leftist.
No.
I mean, I thought I was a leftist when I was in normie land. Because I'm quite progressive.
But then I realized that on the internet, I'm at minimum, I'm probably a moderate progressive.
Yeah. Yeah. So I've heard a lot of people say you're a liberal, not a leftist, right? When
you talk about like, people who aren't socialists. Yes, like, fair enough. Yeah. And if that's the
definition, fine, I don't have any emotional attachment to the label of left, I will take
the centrist position. I'm okay with that, you know. As for what you and I disagree with, I'm
not sure. Um, I've watched a fair amount. I think I've watched more of yourself than you've watched
mine at this point. So I'm not sure. Yeah, I'm a bad consumer of content. I need to do it more.
I get stressed, though. I don't I get stressed watching other people's content. Because every
time I watch somebody's content, I'll be like, man, they do this really well. And then I'm like,
oh, fuck, I'm not doing that. I need to be doing this.
Oh, I feel the exact same way with everyone that I watch. Oh, oh.
So it's a problem. I literally like some people's streams. I can't like watch sometimes because I
whole time, I'm just stressing about like, where they excel, which is the most self focused thing
you could ever do of being like, I know, I'm trying to watch my friend make content here.
But gosh, I feel insecure. Like it's so late. It makes me so bad. But I'm always doing this balance
of like, yeah, but I also need to be like, mentally healthy. And I have a lot of work
to do as well. So like, how do I how do I juggle all these fish? I don't know.
I know what I did, because I feel the exact same way. I got to a point where I'm just like, okay,
so what can I learn from this, and I become more analytical. And now it's like, okay,
I've, I've taken enough criticism over the years that now I'm just in the pure, like,
okay, how do I improve mode, you know, I'll watch something, I'll be like, oh, I should do this.
I don't like, I don't beat myself up nearly as much.
Okay, I'll do it found you through destiny a while back. Subscribing.
I think you are more interesting than destiny in many ways. Much love.
Oh, okay. So you also, however, watched my three forms of fascism video.
That was my most recent magnum opus. That's been like a year in the making.
Yes. And you got in a lot of trouble for that. I heard.
Wait, did I?
I thought you said that the right came out and just was fucking were we talking about
how they were attacking you?
I actually forgot that it happened so often. I have like a new because Okay, so for example,
since that video came out, let me just quickly see because it's been a little bit. I did.
I'm in my back end right now. Where's that video? Okay, so since then, I did my our trans woman
actually woman video. And my answer to that was like, mostly no. However, I did leave like the
door open for like a tiny yes at the end. And that got a lot of right wing people kind of angry.
Um, I did. I did a video on where is it? Where is it? Where is it?
I did a video on the mega republicans. You know how Biden did that speech,
like two months ago, where he was like, the mega republicans, they want to overthrow democracy.
Yeah. And the right got really good.
And he had like the red background and people like clicked it. So he looked like an evil
Sith overlord.
Yeah, yeah. So the right got like highly offended at that. And I was like, I'm going to examine this
and actually look into it. Yeah. And what I found is that, you know, from an outsider's point of
view, he didn't say anything too bad. However, if you filter, if you like, put yourself in the
shoes of a rightoid, and try to examine it from there, from what I don't, there's probably a
worldview. No, no, no, no. It's worldview, but it's more than that. It's that a, when you hold
the belief, it never feels like a belief. It just feels like the way the world is. Does that make
sense? Yes.
So if you were to say, hey, you know, rightoids have this belief, but to them, it doesn't feel
like a belief. It feels like reality. So you have to like, really say, okay, what they believe is
the truth. And so and so they kind of reorient your brain for a few minutes and be like, okay,
so the right wingers actually think the election was rigged and stolen from them. And that January
6th was a populist uprising against a corrupt government, desperately trying to take back
democracy, and it failed and it was put down. Okay, so put yourself in that headspace. And
now listen to what Biden's saying. And it sounds extremely scary.
Now, I don't agree with them, by the way, just so we're clear here that I'm not, I don't believe
that the election was stolen in 2020. I'm not one of those guys. But I've talked to a lot of
people who believe that. And I've, I've tried to like, understand their point of view, try to make
them understand my point of view. And a lot of them are extremely frightened. So when I made
that video I went through, I'd saved up since 2017, a series of events where left wing people
had been physically attacking right wing people, just for wearing a mega hat. And I had like half
a dozen of them, where you see people coming up to like one guy, I know Stardust watched this video
on her stream. And she, she was surprised at how much of this violence was going unreported in the
mainstream media. One guy in New York, he's an Asian guy who he owned an art gallery in New York,
he had a mega hat on just walking around town. And a crowd of people came up and just beat the
shit out of him. He had a broken eye socket, his eye was like all red and bloodied, and his face
was swollen up to like double the size of what it normally is, it was pretty, it was a pretty brutal
attack. And you, on right wing media, you see this all the time, right? If you go over to parlor or
getter or whatever, you're gonna see another leftoid has attacked a mega patriot. And you're
gonna see a picture of like a guy who's like, like all bruised and bloodied up. And these are
real attacks. Like, you know, a week before the election, the midterm election, a Republican
candidate got his house shot up. And no one mainstream you talked about that, like that,
that went completely under the radar. But this guy had his family at home. And, you know,
the FBI investigated it was it was some deranged leftoid went did a drive by on his house. No one
said a thing about it. Oh, this is the problem with this. This type of criminal type of
conversation is right on one side, we're only hearing air at night. Do you believe that
conservatives view the repeal of Roe v. Wade as progressive? I see what I see when the left is
victims too. Yeah, I was gonna say is interesting, right? Is that the conservatives will look at
this and be like, See, look at all these crazy things happening. And I'm like, Okay, but if I
just literally I just googled transgender woman attacked. And I can also find just like stories
from like, a month ago, three days ago, two months ago, two days ago. Yes. Right. And so it's like,
the issue is like, all sorts of crime is going on all the time, all the time. And just to be clear,
it's all bad. I grabs back a fucking obviously. And the problem is that if you have a worldview,
that's only talking about one of them, then you like because both sides feel afraid. I think
that's the issue. And the issue is I sympathize. I think both sides. I think this is a criticism I
would give of like the center is there is cause for concern. There is cause for concern. We are
attacking both of these groups. There is increasing in like violence and division. And like, the
institutions are really, really fucked. Like both sides are now concerned about the institution
integrity. And I think that there's good reason for this, right? I'm like, there's all of this.
And I think we have to be really careful in the center to not like do the both sides would be
like, but both sides have validity. It's like one of them probably has they might have equal
validity. One side might have more validity. It's really, really, really fucking hard to tell. This
is where we need like science and data. But yes, yeah, they're both afraid. And I think both sides
should be a little bit afraid. I can understand why they would be on both ends. Yeah. So so what
you said is completely correct. But if you were to go up to that guy who had like a broken eye
socket and a swelled up face and told him that it wouldn't be very convincing to him, you know,
he'd be like, I just got the shit kicked out of me simply for being a republican. What are you
talking about? And that's not an unreasonable reaction to have. So like, I watch people who
are much further left than me. And I watch people who are much further right than me, you know, I'll
watch some bread tubers that don't really like, you know, I'll watch there's there's some really
crazy people on the right that I don't really, really like, but I'll, I'll check out everything,
you know, and I see. So I made a video. And this video was basically, um, here's a collection
of things that I know the left has ignored, where right wing people have been legitimate victims of
crime. And I know and I know you guys know this. So we're coming into 2020. You the right has four
years of feeling like the victim and feeling like no one's listening to them whenever it whenever
they get attacked, whenever they get shot up whenever something happens. And now we're asking
them to accept Oh, by the way, you actually did lose the election. That's even though it's true.
It's a really hard pill to swallow. You know, when you have four years of victimizing these people
and then ignoring them, and then turning around and saying, Oh, yeah, even though the media
ignored all this shit for four years. Now you got to believe us when we say that you actually
aren't the victim this time. Like good luck getting to believe that. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah. And the issue is, it's really hard. It's really hard, because
I, this is where I struggle with the conservatives, right? This is why like,
I don't think I'd ever fall into the conservatives is, I think, at an anecdotal level, I understand
them. All of the data I find, makes me hesitant. But then I take into mind, I'm like, I know that
they don't trust the institutions. I know the institutions are left leaning and stuff like
that. Not that I think the FBI is, but it's like, I understand at an anecdotal level, why people on
both sides are afraid. The issue is that it doesn't mean that equivalency is actually occurring here.
Keep up the good work. Fire.
Fuck, figuring out if it is an equivalency, or if there actually is one side that has a much
more legitimate claim to concern is really, is really fucking hard to tease apart. Because like,
for example, like I can get stats on like, increases on like crime, like there's pretty
clear stats on the increase of anti trans crime, but by the FBI, right, that's pretty clear.
If I look up like MAGA hat crime, I don't find anything, but I don't know if the FBI is even
categorizing those types of assaults as MAGA hat related assaults, like I don't know.
Like, I'll have to keep looking. But it's like, how are these things being like anti trans
categorization makes sense? What would they be categorizing as like an assault based on like,
being conservative? Are they even tracking that as like a politically based assault? Or are they
just counting that as an assault? Or they're counting it as a racial, like poverty? Like,
how is this getting categorized? And so like, a lot of these things are like super hard,
but I think like a very legitimate criticism of the sense of the moderate is that they just want
to fence it and say both sides are equal. And it's like, sometimes they're not. Sometimes there is a
there is a worst case. And it's really important. I would argue for everyone to figure out which it
is. Yeah. Yeah, I definitely agree. As somebody who does a lot of fence sitting myself, I
definitely agree. The issue is like, I'll talk to the right, and they'll say the same thing,
but for their side, right? They'll be like, Dev, you got to get off the fence. You're clearly
clearly the left's evil. And they're coming after us, man. And I'm like, well, I don't know about
that, you know, and then I'll hear people on the left say the same thing. And I'm like, well,
sometimes I don't know about that either. Or I do know, or like, I'll hear like, they're like,
but they're D platforming conservatives. I'm like, that's fucking true. And then like, but like,
anti trans, like sentiment is on the rise. And I'm like, that's fucking true. Like, both of
these things are true, right? And like, I get somebody was like, Okay, well, is D platforming
the same thing as being anti trans. And it's like, they're obviously not the same construct.
The issue is we have to analyze like impact. And that's really fucking hard to do. Because the
anti trans stuff feels at face validity as having the more impact like that feels self evident.
However, like D platforming has major major consequences that we're really only starting
to see that are not as self evident or like intuitive. So yeah.
Yeah. And then like, I don't know if there's a formal name for this fallacy. I've just been
taking I've been taking to calling it the spotlight effect. Where you look at like
libs of tik tok, for example, right? Yeah. And libs of tik tok might show you a video.
And that video is going to be of a person who is trans or genderqueer or something who is actually
acting quite poorly. And they should maybe they shouldn't have their job in the school where
they're talking about doing these weird things. But then you scroll through libs of tik tok and
you see another one of those videos. And you might see five of those videos. And so now and
let's just assume just for the sake of the argument that these are five cases of people
who probably should be fired for what they're doing. Then you're gonna think this is walking
everywhere. This is every teacher now in 2018. Congress asked FBI if they are trapped in the
violence. And the FBI said no, then FBI claims what are the most dangerous democracy like
a huge systemic problem with every single school in the United States. Yeah. So I don't know. I
just call it the spotlight effects that kind of intuitive that makes sense. I don't know what we
should call that sampling bias. Something availability confirmation bias, motivated thinking,
kind of all these. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And then I've also seen like, an equivalent account called
chuds of tik tok from the left. And the and they're like, they're posting tik toks of these
rednecks, we're talking about how they want to overthrow the government and how democracy isn't
legitimate anymore. And it's like, well, look at these people. It's like, yeah, but these are still
just five rednecks, you know, it's what it's, yeah, it's why we need to like, we need to figure
out as a society how to think well. And we tried critical thinking. And that has been fucking
garbage. Critical thinking, like, education doesn't work at all. It's basically just like,
it feels nice. Yeah, we just need a society that thinks well, like an amazing, amazing researcher
who like talks about this type of shit, who's talked to like, people that probably we wouldn't
usually respect, like Jonathan Haidt and like other researchers is Julia Galef. Like she talks
her entire works, life's work is literally talking about how to think well, because like, these are
heavily complicated, highly politicized. So it's like, even if I say, let's get the data.
Okay, well, what if the institutions aren't working very well? Well, they're slow as well.
What if there's a bias within the institution, for example, like sometimes the FBI does tend
to overflow certain things and call like things like terrorism, when it's like, maybe it's
terrorism, maybe it's not. But also, like, we have academic institutions who are maybe like dismissive
sometimes of like conservative talking points. And so it's like, trust, like we want to use the data,
but interpretation of data can be corrupted by like human political bias. This is like why
when you try to look at like trans athletes, when you try to look at the literature and
trans athletes, it is like so complicated to actually work through, which is why I love
talking with Jangles, right? Because he's somebody who's really dominant on the left side of
understanding this. And it was a really, I don't know if you ever saw our conversation. It was like
one of the best conversations that I think I've ever had in this space. It was a debate.
I actually don't watch any Jangles. And I don't think he likes me very much.
Oh, that's too bad. He's...
I don't know why. Maybe I trolled him on Twitter once and he, like, I don't, it was,
I don't know. But...
That's fair. But he was, he was insanely good faith, right? And we basically came to the
space of being like, look, the literature on trans athletes is pathetic. There's not a lot.
We don't really know fully what's going on. There's a lot of theoretical speculation.
And there's some data that is starting to fall in a certain direction. The problem is that on
both sides of the spectrum, most of the data is being interpreted by heavily biased researchers.
It's incredibly difficult to find a researcher who's just going into this and in a much more
open way, just trying to explore and see what the data actually says. There's one now, there's one
lead. I can't remember her name. That's she's doing some really, really interesting. She's
coming out with a meta analysis in 2024. And I'm really excited for, but it's like,
even in preparing for my trans athlete debates, I went through basically every single study released
on trans athletes that I could possibly find. And I've never seen anybody cite a study outside of
the list that I look through. And it was like, alarming how little we know, like nobody even
controlled for body fat percentage. I think there's one study now that's come out very recently that
finally controlled for body fat percentage, when this is like the most obvious thing that you
should be controlling for. Like my husband thought of that based erudite. It's crazy.
And so it's like, when we're talking about these things, both sides want to see like,
it's so fucking obvious. And I'm like, you don't know the first thing about data analysis,
if you think that this is fucking obvious, especially complex shit, like political crime,
terrorism type shit. It's not fucking obvious. And so it's like, you don't want to be a fence
sitter who does like the false equivalency and be like, Yeah, but both sides are being
mean to go babies, right? What you want to do is being like, what if both sides have legitimate
claim, but they're very different claims that require different responses, and also are one
of these sides posing greater threat to the other is one side more inclined towards violence,
things like that, right? Thanks for the service. Sorry. And the raid. Thank you so much for the
raid. There was like, yeah, you got like 20 gifted memberships there. It's a big bundle.
Congrats. Thanks, guys. I had see I think it was actually today I saw a Reddit post of somebody
who's just like, Listen, it's from a left wing point of view. Listen, the data doesn't matter.
And self ID is more important for political reasons. So ignore all that shit. And if someone
identifies, you should just let them play in the sport of their choice. And it's like, well,
no, sorry about that. But I'm not gonna agree with that at all. What is your I haven't watched any of
your transports debates. I watched like, actually, you know what, I think I watched one with destiny
where it was with jangles. In fact, I guess the only jangles video I've seen in like the past year.
Yeah, yeah. So what is your take on the whole thing anyway? Well, we mutually came to actually
good conclusion debate was the most productive shit I've ever come because we came up with a
number of prescriptions that seems to do the best at balancing certain things because my orientation
is sports is vital for people's well being and functioning. There is one group Hold on, I gotta
sorry. Thank you so much, Anthony Rojas. I gotta skip this alert because I am getting so distracted.
But thank you so much, Anthony. I really, really appreciate it. So here's what we see in the data
is it's really important to get teens connected to sports. Sports is one of the most supportive
community based well being promoting protective factors that we can give teams that tends to be
affordable and accessible. Pretty much across the board, there is still a bit of a financial
gatekeep. But depending on the sport, a lot of those gatekeeps can be somewhat overcome, because
it'll be like 20 to $30. Whereas like hockey would be something like 600. Right? So you got things
like soccer and track, which are going to be really, really important sports to try to get your
lower income individuals, right? So I would, my whole goal in the trans athlete conversation is
saying, how do we get trans athletes competing and ensuring that we're maintaining sport fairness,
because sport fairness is not like a simple thing. Sport fairness is a very scientifically
defined construct that is heavily researched, dominantly because of the Paralympics, actually,
this is where a lot of the sports fairness research really butted out of was looking at
people with certain amputations. So I think one of the most famous cases that people talk about
is there was a guy who had a leg amputated and had one, actually, I think both of his legs were
amputated from from, I think, just above the knee. And he had two prosthetic legs that were
somewhat springy. And what they did when they found out when they researched him is that he
couldn't engage with basically like, bio legged people like people who were not amputees because
he actually had a fair play advantage because his springs gave a certain increase of force
per muscle mass because of the density and the flexibility of the metal springs, right?
Something that is fucking complex, by the way, like not self evident. It, you know, it's,
it's complicated. So yeah, anyone who was a kid in the 90s, who watched who watched or played
video games or shows where you had like a character with robot legs can see that coming
from a mile away. I guarantee you because it's the first thing I thought of. I don't even know
the story. The first thing I thought of was he's gonna have bionic legs, he's gonna be able to jump
like way higher. Yeah. So what we found with trans athletes right now is this,
we do know that it seems that certain advantages are maintained, even after so I would recommend
basically always making sure that you have had HRT for about a year, ideally, the actual amount
should be two years, we see that hemoglobin levels, red blood cells, and just testosterone as well,
tend to be mostly regulated and balanced by that time. The recommendation for T levels is still
under five milligrams per like deciliter. That's pretty standard, because most women are between
like two to four, and it can be really dangerous and difficult. So that's, that's kind of where
most people end. What I suggested to jangles is that that isn't sufficient because it seems to be
the case that most trans athletes maintain strength benefits. It's not super clear why
my, so my theory based on not just me, obviously, based on what I've read, theoretically speculative,
is that the reason that they maintain some of this is because, so a lot of people don't know this,
a muscle cell is multi-nucleic. So you can have multiple nucleuses within a single cell. So muscle
cells are massive, right? You can have a cell, a single cell spanning the entire length of your
bicep because there's multiple nucleuses along it. You can also have them be wider than regular
cells, because again, you can add nucleuses to maintain the function across greater volume and
space. So these little nucleuses, my own nucleic cells, when you build them up, so say I get a
really big pump, right? I get really strong. And then I maybe get like a major back injury. What
we discover is that if I stopped training, say for a year, my muscles deplete, they atrophy,
I'm very skinny and small, no muscles, no gains, but go back to the gym. The first little while at
the gym, I'm going to see explosive growth up until basically just a little bit below where
I was before. The reason why we see that is because of the nuclei. They never go away.
So like for really simply, if I have six extra nucleuses in my motor, in my muscle cell,
those things never disappear ever, ever, ever. And that means that your cap for actual cross-sectional
space in your muscle is higher because you already made those nucleuses. Whereas the
process of adding new nucleuses in just takes a really long time and a lot of really rigorous
training. So that's my theory. And I didn't get into this, but I also suspect that they have
greater like motor neuronal. So motor neurons in your body need space. And so the bigger
cross-sectional space and muscle is the more space there is for motor neuron, like the really small
ones to develop and exist within there. And so you can have two people with similar bicep size,
and one of them has developed more motor neurons in that space because they've just done a lot
more specific type of training who can be way, way stronger. But if you've already had a lot
more cross-sectional space, those motor neurons don't really disappear either. So these are two
things that even after HRT, even after all these things, these two things maintain from what we see
permanently or permanently for at least an athlete's career. It might be possible that
like, because cells die and renew every like seven years or so. So it's possible that these
things will go away after like a certain number of years, but most athletes careers like five to
six years max, right? And they're really peaking. Their peak performances are going to be within
like three to four years for most explosive sports. So how do we accommodate this? Well,
one of the best things we can do is control for the amount of muscle mass that's being
available to a person's body. Women have to maintain a higher body fat percentage,
their organs shut down. If they get below a certain percent, men can go significantly lower.
Typically women need to stay above 12 to 13%, again, depending on genetics. Whereas typically
men, some men can go as low as four before their organs start showing up. That's really low. Most
men can get to five or 6% and maintain. So that means there is a 6% gap of weight on your body
that can be fat or muscle. And so if you're doing explosive sports, you want as much of
your body weight devoted to muscle and not fat because muscle generates the force. Fat is inertia,
right? Except for in swimming where fat is buoyancy as well. So what I suggested is
essentially having like a minimum body fat requirement for specifically at least trans
women. And my goal is to also let trans men compete because here's the thing, if trans women
maintain an advantage, that means trans men maintain a disadvantage as well, potentially.
And so we actually need to accommodate both athletes. So Jangles and I both kind of came
to this together, but suggested basically having a body fat minimum, especially for weight category
sports. So it's not a solution to team sports, and it's not a solution to all like track sports,
but it is a solution to like, actually, most sports in the Olympics are there's a ton of
weight categorized sports, like most fighting sports and stuff like that. So that is one
solution that I can come up with. But this is based on very paucity of literature. And it's
like, and that's just my fucking idea and Jangles idea. Okay. Somebody else who's much smarter than
me and much more trained in the space probably can come up with a better idea.
Right. So as somebody who's a layman on this, I'm learning stuff, so I enjoy it. As somebody
who's a layman on this, I did my own layman video looking at some data as I understood it as a
layman, making sure to tell my audience always that, hey, I'm an English literature guy. I don't
have the prerequisite background to really understand this stuff. But here's what things
look like to me. And the layman's conclusion that I came to is if you start on HRT when puberty
starts, you're probably fine to compete with cis women. Otherwise, you're probably not fine
to compete with cis women. If we're talking at like the the the extremely high end of competitive
sports, like Olympic level sports, you know. But I mean, if we have no data, we have no data to
suggest that one way or the other. That's literally speculative. So possible. It sounds good. I just
you know, it sounds good. No idea if that's true. Yeah. Right. However, because you're more educated
on this stuff than me. I wanted to talk about the fascism. Maybe we'll come back to the fascism
video after this, but I want to throw something at you that I don't understand, but I think you'll
understand, OK? Because you have a big brain for psych, it sounds like. I try to. Yeah.
So I know a trans person from Scotland named Chloe who's involved in the do it yourself HRT
scene. It's not Bob posting different Chloe, somebody who's completely unknown to your side
of the Internet. And I went to them and asked them, hey, how does how does how do puberty
blockers work? Because she was under the opinion that puberty blockers without HRT accompanying
them is bad. And I was like, well, tell me, tell me about it, Chloe, what's your opinion?
And she drew me this diagram and tried to explain it to me, but I did I don't I kind of get it,
but I think I need somebody who's smarter than me on this stuff.
OK, can I show you the diagrams? Sure. You want me to pull it up in chat?
Sure. Well, are you going to show your screen? You know, I'll just post the links to you. Let's
see if this works. So here's a diagram. Can you can you chat? See that? Or can you see that?
I'm going to pull it up like in two seconds. So she painted this. All right. OK, beautiful.
Paint for me. She's very wrong, but that's OK. Yes. She's Scottish. I don't blame her.
But she had good ideas and spell incorrectly. OK, let's just be super clear about that.
She also I think she also spelled receptor wrong. Isn't it a C? Not an S.
It is a C. But yeah. So she said that this was basically the the hormonal cycle of what
hormones trigger what glands in a in a normal cis person. OK. Does that sound about does this look
right? I am I am actually not very well versed in endocrinology, specifically like hormonal
endocrinology. Oh, no. So I'm not really sure. I I'm not really sure. And it is gonadotropin
is my understanding. My sex hormone receptor. Yeah, I cannot confirm nor deny somebody more
true. You know, who would be good to answer? This is probably somebody like Corey Campbell.
He'd be probably more likely to answer this than me. I have no idea who that is.
I don't know. He's a he's a biologist who streams. OK. All right. Well, anyway,
maybe we can just kind of look at it then, I guess. But the way she described it to me
is you have the pituitary gram, which produces gonadotropin. The gonadotropin tells the sex organ.
There's a gonadotropin. OK. All right. Well, it tells the sex organ to make
your primary sex hormone. And then the the presence of the primary sex hormone
tells the hypothalamus to tell the pituitary gland to stop making the gonadotropin.
And so there's like two there's two chemicals at play here where one turns the other one off,
basically. And this is how she described it to me. And then for all gonadotropins.
I'm not sure. I don't know. She said this was a layman's understanding for a layman like me.
Then she sent me this second diagram here, and this was what blockers do.
And so the blocker takes the place of the gonadotropin, which means that
now your body isn't isn't making any like the pituitary gland thinks that there's gonadotropin
around, so it's not making any more. But then your sex organ doesn't see any gonadotropin,
so it doesn't make any primary sex hormone. OK, because that makes the GNRH analog. Yeah,
it looks like I'm finding a similar type of like it's a simplified.
OK. Yeah. You just posted to me something that looks very similar. Yeah. Just not made an MS paint.
So she said that this is this is what happens when you go on blockers. And the fact that you
have no primary sex hormone when you're only on blockers, that's that causes what all the
problems that we hear about people going on. It's like bone density problems and stuff
that causes those problems. So her solution, she sent me this third diagram. Here's the
third diagram. And so her solution is that. You need to have some kind of sex hormone
in your system if you're going to go on blockers, you can't just go on blockers
because it's the presence of a sex hormone, whether it's the one associated with your
birth sex or the other one that basically allows that prevents the problems from happening,
basically. OK, and I was like, well, I don't understand any of this, but you would probably
need both of them available, right, because men and women both have. Estrogen and testosterone
and stuff like that, because they're all needed for different developmental things. Yeah,
but if if you're not producing any from your sex from your sex organ because of the blockers,
and that seems like that would probably be a problem. And so this was her logic. And I mean,
she's more educated on this than me, but I also don't completely understand it. So
unfortunately, I can't comment. I mean, honestly, like this is this is the reality of where the
literature is at. We don't understand endocrinology super, super well. Like, obviously, I'm a layman
on it. But my understanding when I talk to people who study in the field of endocrinology is that
it's like it's a budding field. It's just like most medical shit. There's a lot we know. There's
even more that we don't know. Right. And I'm open to any solution that works empirically, because I
want trans athletes to compete. I want trans people to transition. I want them to have provided
medical care. That is not a problem for me at all. So I'm open to all this, I would just say,
just test it, make sure it does work. Make sure it is tanning out. Because I don't know enough
about endocrinology to comment on this one way or the other other than saying, sounds cool,
makes sense. I don't know enough to criticize it if it didn't make sense.
That's where I am, too. But you should definitely test it. Like if this if this would offset a
number of the problems with like puberty blockers in like, youth and stuff and like offset some of
the like negative effects like bodily that they have based I mean, that would be good. Let's
not have people being harmed by their medical transition as much as possible. That would be
something I'm obviously for. So
well, um, she does some some DIY HRT out of Scotland. And it's the main reason that she
won't give anyone blockers without HRT. She's like, No, you have to take them both. And that's
kind of her her policy for the stuff that she does. Oh, this Chloe, the one who used to run
the DIY directory? No, no, no, no, no, no different Chloe. That's not it's not sorry.
Okay. No, completely different Chloe. I'm not I'm not going down a couple's rabbit hole right now.
No. Um, there's there's a it also like I've actually made the joke with her a few times
like, you know, your your DIY HRT involved in your name's Chloe. And she's like, Yeah, I know.
I know I did. But it's a different person. She does a different organization. But she she won't
give she won't give anybody just blockers because she believes that it's actually quite harmful to
people to go on just blockers. Right. And I just wanted to show you what she had shown me because
I don't fully understand it. But oh, well, it was interesting to think about anyway.
That is interesting to think about. I unfortunately have no
intelligent commentary to make on it. So
Oh, well. Um, so to roll back, if you don't mind, okay. Rewind a little bit. You said you had
watched my three forms of fascism video. And yes, it did actually gotten get me in trouble with
with some people who are, let's say, on the dissident, right? They don't call themselves
alt right. They call themselves dissident, right? Um, because they thought that I was singling them
out with my third form. The problem with that is that I wasn't really giving my own opinion. I was
summarizing the books that I had read. Right. What do you think the video?
Um, I thought it was I thought it was good. It was interesting. I think you outlined some
interesting positions. I watched it quite a while ago. Now I feel like I should have prepped it and
watched it so that I could have given you more specific feedback because it's been a while and
I didn't take notes on it. And if I don't take notes on something, I, I don't remember it very
well. Fair enough. Um, but yeah, it was really interesting. Um, I thought you like handled it
really carefully. Oh, I feel bad because this is your like magnum openness. Opus. This is important.
Yeah, this is this was a big one. So basically, um, do I have an active Twitter? Uh,
I'm currently banned off Twitter. I can't be there. But if you want,
you can follow an account called Morbius Devo. It's not a bad account. Um, but okay, so
wonder how detailed. Okay, so at a podcast co host for for a few years, we were pretty good friends.
Um, however, the TLDR is it basically he, he had stabbed me in the back. And that was kind of the
end of that friendship in the end of that podcast. And it was fundamentally over political
differences because he had radicalized over the course of lockdowns. He was treated very badly
by his government, because he had he had he had a job that brought him a lot of money, and had him
traveling a lot. And suddenly he was locked in his house by government for like over a year. He
didn't take it very well. So he radicalized. And he was he had like, he had a bunch of very
esoteric dissident right literature in his house. He had two trans women who were who were very far
right themselves and more than happy to educate him. And he had a giant pile of cocaine. Okay,
he was stuck in this house for a year. And he completely morphed into a person that I just
didn't want to associate with anymore. Not even because of the politics. I can I can be friends
with almost anyone, regardless of politics, but in terms of his personality, his his behaviors,
the way he would treat people, I was like, I don't think I want to be. And then of course, he he had
backstabbed me and he had backstabbed Sargon and like our entire friend group. So he was just
kicked out of our like, we have like a discovery, hang out, we removed him from actually couldn't
trust him anymore. We didn't want no one wanted to talk to him anymore. It was like, okay,
we're kind of set. We're kind of burning this bridge here. Um, but afterward, I kind of
thought I don't understand what happened to him enough. So I started reading the books on his
reading list. And there were some fascist writers in there. And there were some socialist writers in
there. There were some libertarians and anarcho capitalists. Basically, his his reading list was
like a hodgepodge of everyone who is not the current establishment. I was like, I want to
understand this. So I did I spent like a year reading stuff. And then I compiled all of that
down into what's, you know, a 20 minute video and put out the three forms of fascism.
And the TLDR of it is that the first form is Mussolini's classical fascism,
where he Yes, yes, yes. I'm remembering this now. Remembering. So from that, that comes out of
the socialism of George Sorel, who was a French socialist. Yeah. And basically, in like the was
1890s, maybe there was a big debate among various socialists and communists. And the debate was,
why was Marx wrong about the impending socialist revolution? If you read Marx's political theory,
there's a lot in there about about, there's a predictive, almost prophetic element to his
theory. He says, Listen, that that the the movement from feudalism to capitalism was natural
and inevitable, as the forces of history converge, and it was going to happen no matter what. And so
he said, the same thing will happen with the socialist revolution. Eventually, the capitalist
mode of production will be brought to its maximum capacity, inequality will ramp up to it to its
breaking point. And there will just naturally be a revolution, we will have the dictatorship of the
proletariat. And then as the society educates itself to be more socialist oriented, the state
will fall away on its own. And then you will have your your stateless moneyless classless society.
This is a natural to Marx, this was a natural occurrence, it was just going to happen.
Without any sort of outside intervention. And Marx predicted that there was going to be a huge war
that was coming up in Europe, that would kickstart the whole thing. That was World War One, and it
didn't happen. And so from the 1890s, there's actually a previous war, I think was it was it
was the Boer War? They also said it might be, I don't remember exactly that. Basically, there's
a period of about 30 years in there, where socialists were writing, hey, why, why was Marx
wrong about this predictive element of his theory? Where did Marx go wrong? And there was two schools
that came out of that. And the first one was Antonio Gramsci in Italy. And he was a member
of the Communist Party of Italy. He was eventually purged by Mussolini, and he died in prison. But he
wrote the prison notebooks. And the prison notebooks are just a collection of writings
that were smuggled out of the prison that he was in. And he wrote about how the reason Marx was
wrong. The reason Marx was wrong was that the values that we all share, the moral values,
the religious values, these were actually tools of the bourgeois to make the proletariat become
invested in bourgeois culture. So for example, the reason that you shouldn't steal is not because
stealing is immoral, but because the priest class of your society is indoctrinating you to not to
not steal from the bourgeois class. And so all of morality is simply a tool used by elites to
prevent the socialist revolution. And Gramsci's prescription to solve this problem was to
infiltrate cultural institutions, to infiltrate religious institutions, to infiltrate academic
institutions. And once you've taken up positions of power in these institutions, you start to
make them more political. You say, Oh, well, every you know, you see here on the progressive
side a lot, everything's political. So we will, we will what we'll do is, there's the liberal idea
of a neutral space where we can objectively examine things doesn't exist, the liberals are
wrong. Everything's political, everything has some sort of a political bent. So we have a moral
obligation to make sure that it's our political bent, and not anyone else's that is privileged
in any institution. And the people who the the Gramsci people ended up becoming like
the Frankfurt School people. And that's where you get like a lot of critical theory stuff
that you see the critical race theory and stuff that the right is kind of correct about,
but they don't know why they're correct about it, because they haven't read Gramsci.
That was one school of thought. And so you have Gramsci, which then splits off into
modern progressivism. The second school of thought was George Sorel. George Sorel believed
that the reason that Marx was wrong, was that democracy itself castrated the revolution.
Because if you're engaging in a parliamentary democratic system, you are making concessions,
you're making deals with these other non socialist groups that do not want a socialist revolution.
And basically, they will co-opt you and they will turn you into just an element of the bourgeois
that has no revolutionary potential. So for Sorel, the idea was, reject democracy,
reject compromise, and be violent, violence, violence for violence's sake. Because if you
if you wait for a moral reason to be violent, like a revolutionary reason, you're just going
to be co-opted. You must value violence a priori. That this is okay, so far.
Okay, so from George Sorel, that's where you get Mussolini, because Mussolini spent most of his
life as a Sorelian socialist. And then he developed fascism, basically, the classical
fascism basically, as the Sorelian socialism kind of come to its full potential. And he had
his, you know, working in a Hegelian sense, he had this idea that the state was supposed to be
this ultimate arbiter of all that is good and moral in society. And so everything should be
brought into the state. And then he had the corporate economy, the corporate economy,
economy was like a series of councils that controlled from the top down all of society's
production for the good of the state. And classical fascism, as a political theory,
is pretty close to socialism. And a lot of people on the left don't like to hear that,
even though it is the truth. What in that it's like, in what way specifically?
Basically, that, at least from their point of view, it was because if you're going to be a
socialist who rejects democracy, in the way that George Sorel prescribed, the fascist state was
kind of the natural end result of that. And that's how they viewed, they viewed themselves
as the inheritor of the socialist project. So the Mussolini fascists basically like
utilized and weaponized the socialist eradication of democracy, because they realized that in that
eradication, the process by which it's done necessarily leads to a fascist state?
It's something like that. Yeah. It's also that, um, another another difference was that when,
when Marx was talking about revolting against the bourgeois, the bourgeois was like a nationalist
oriented force, you had like landowners, and you had people in the government and stuff.
But by the time the 1890s came around in the 1910s, capitalism had become more globalized.
And if you were fighting the bourgeois at that point, you were fighting almost like a landless
internationalist movement that had that viewed nations as a, an impediment to their goals,
because they, you know, neolibs want free trade, they want to, they view the borders between
nations as things that are hurting their business interests. So it turns out that the the Mussolini
fascists, they looked at socialism and said, well, if we're going to implement any sort of
workers revolution against the capitalist system, it has to be a nationalist revolution.
It has to be a revolution from the right. Because, because the the interconnectedness
that kind of comes along with, with the left's broader ideology has led to the problem of
globalist capitalism. Um, and then you have then after that, you have neo fascists, which is which
are just Hitler, and Hitler kind of took that, and really, one, he racialized it, because he noticed,
at least in Germany, that there was a slightly disproportionate amount of Jews working in banking
and stuff. And there's reasons for that, that aren't conspiracy. I'm not a conspiracy theorist
here. Like, the reason for that is because in the in the days of the Holy Roman Empire,
there was a religious, there was a religious persecution of people who handled money,
the Christians couldn't do it, but the Jews could, because they had different religions.
And so basically, you had a lot of Christian lords saying, hey, I can't actually do anything
with banking, but can you do it for me? And the Jews said, of course, we'll just take a cut.
And then they became like banking families, right? And same thing happened in the Ottoman
Empire. So there was there's a completely reasonable reason as to why this is happening,
that it isn't, you know, the Jews secretly control everything. All right. But basically,
what ends up happening is, Hitler took this conception of capitalism as being a globalist
problem, and said, hey, the Jews don't have a nation. Like the Germans have a nation,
the Italians have a nation. The Jews don't have land. They are a class of people that floats
throughout Europe, without a homeland. And does that not make them at least kind of representative
of of the the global capitalism that is currently controlling the German working class? So he
racialized this idea, and he kind of pushed it to its extreme. And those were those two movements.
Someone in the chat says the dude's running a fanfiction. No, no, no, I'm quoting political
theory here. I don't agree with any of this. I want to be clear, like I'm not I don't agree
with it. So this is it sounds insane. We're still saying so we've transferred from Sorel,
who basically argued that in the process of a socialist movement, movement overtaking and
destroying democracy, it would inevitably become fascism because violence is presumed,
essentially, for the takeover. I'm not I'm still not really seeing Sorel's link of socialism.
The violence is necessary. And because violence is necessary, he essentially equates violence with
a fascistic state. And that's why a socialist overthrow will lead to a fascistic state.
I'm just trying to understand Sorel because that that gap isn't quite making sense. I would
understand a socialist overtake would lead to a socialist state authoritarian state.
So so the violence is part of it. The other part of it was that the the fascists basically believed
that to revolt against the capitalist system, it has to be a nationalist revolt against an
international capitalism. So it had to be like a nation coming together as a people and uniting
and throwing off because it's national. Okay, so the nationalistic nature of the overthrowing.
Yes. So part of the reason that the Italians believe this is because they had just fought
a war of reunification, right? They had been a bunch of city states that were decentralized
in the end, the Austrian Empire owned some other land. And they said, No, we want we want a United
Italy. And so they had like three wars over over trying to unite Italy.
Is there any? Is there any socialist revolts that we see that follows what Sorel predicted? Like
we're because I think we're political theorists get their like meat tested as if their political
theories seem predictive of like multiple, multiple instances of this incurring in later
history. Right? I would say the Soviets. I think that's why after the Second World War,
after the First World War, Sorel ended up throwing his lot in with the Soviet Union.
He was an old man at that point. Was that a democratic? I didn't believe Russia was
democratic before I thought it was a form of like, monarchy or something. I thought it was
much more of like, I, I didn't believe it'd be a democratic state. They they tried to do like,
uh, a Western European style parliamentary democracy that pretty much instantly fell apart.
Um, but yeah, like there was like, there was the czar, the czar. Thank you. Yeah. So it was a
monarchy. So it's, this is where Sorel's thing breaks down is he said that a democratic revolution
overtake that socialist in nature would lead to fascism, but then the only evidence, how come
you're stating the evidence as, and I know this isn't your position. I'm just trying to, I'm,
I'm grilling you as, as the, as the one with more information, why would the evidence of Sorel's
predictive power of his theory be Soviet Union, where it was a monarchy state and the Nash,
was it even a, so was it even a socialist movement specifically? Because, oh, are you,
and are you saying Soviet Union is fascistic, not communist and they're not at all.
So what's communist? Is anyone communist? Um, well, per Marx, this is why they always
say it wasn't real socialism, right? Because per Marx, it wasn't. Marx said that communism was
a stateless moneyless classless society and the Soviet Union wasn't any of those.
So, but, but basically the, the Soviets had a lot in common with the fascists when you actually
look at their political institutions and a lot of their rhetoric, a lot of their propaganda,
the way that they kind of organized things in their society, they were a lot more fascistic
than anyone likes to. And, and, and, and people on the left, like on the online left, like the
modern day left, they will say like, they call them red fascists because they were like fascists
with, with, uh, with leftists, uh, leftist. Um, and you agree with this assertion? Like,
would you agree that, cause I feel like no one except coping communists say that it was fascistic
unless basically we're saying that like communism and fascism are kind of like, this is the issue
is fascism is an undefined construct in everything that I can like, look into like,
nobody agrees. What is fascism? This is why when you say is the GOP becoming fascistic,
there's arguments to make for and against it, depending on whose definition of fascism you're
using and what tenants of fascism you're using as well. Right. Like with like masculinity and like
stuff like this. And so like, I could see elements of it within the Soviet Union. However, I feel
like everyone dominantly would agree because these like, like when we talk about communism,
right, the class is going to be like, okay, well, what kind of mark, what kind of comments are you?
Are you Marxist? Are you Leninist? Are you Maoist? Or are you Stalinist? Right? Like these things
are all lumped together. And so I feel like if we say that they're fascistic and not communistic,
then essentially, are you saying like the communists are right. There's never been a true
communist state, which maybe is true. Maybe the reality is that communist state just cannot get
up and kicking. But that seems to fly in the face of like, communism seems much more defined
than fascism. So I can understand why you would label that. But I wouldn't be comfortable saying
that it wasn't communist as well, because it has so many obvious structures of communism,
like government overtaking private businesses, and redistributing land and wealth and like resources
as they see fit and redistributing people as they see fit. There's like minimal privatization and
dominantly, like huge bureaucratic government bloat, dictating everything and fucking everything
over. To be fair, that is what the classical fascist did too. They did all those things as well.
So but I thought I thought one of the there's a lot. I thought there was private businesses that
were allowed. It's just like Hitler, for example, would go to a private business and be like, okay,
you can stay private, you can still run it, but you have to make this thing. Like that was my
understanding of how he was versus like Stalin. With the classical fascist with Mussolini, it was
much more like the Soviet Union, it was much more state direct control of things. And also,
in Japan, there was a lot of there's a lot of nationalization in Japan. With Hitler was unique,
because he had no problem taking control of businesses. But he was all but he would always
ultimately give them to party elites to control. So they were owned privately. But they did
ultimately still work for the government. It's just that the if you had a position in the Nazi
Party, you were allowed to enrich yourself off of these businesses. Can I take it still wasn't
any sort of free market by any stretch of the imagination, though? Yeah, sorry. Can I be the
worst? Can I take a two minute? I just need to use the washrooms for quickly. Yeah, no problem.
No problem. Sorry about going on my own rent. So we're going on my own rent, by the way. I'm not
even done it. But yeah. Um, hello, chat. How's it going? You know what, I probably should have
also rewatched my video. You know, if I was going to be talking about the the in depth ideas of my
video, I probably should have also rewatched it. Oops. Here, you know what, maybe I'll if you guys
want to see it. I cite all the books that I use in the video. Here. I'll post it in the YouTube
chat if you guys like. Here it is. Hopefully that is allowed. Oh, didn't appear. I can't post a link
in the YouTube chat here. If I do like, it's called three forms of fascism. By short, fat,
otaku. There are no depths your ideas dude, read, watch the video, read the books, man.
Dead being unprepared. Okay, here, here. So let me I'll post this in YouTube and in Twitch. Okay.
And I would highly recommend you guys check out the reading list in there.
If you don't mind. I'll post in Twitch too. Here it is in Twitch. This is my Twitch account. Hello.
Um, and the books that I cited were George Sorrell's reflections on violence.
Um, the mass psychology of fascism, the open society and its enemies.
Uh, the origins of totalitarianism. Um, what was there was another big one.
I can't recall. Shit. I did. I debuted my camp for the video.
There's one more that I can't remember what it was called. Oh, neither right nor left.
By Zeeb sternhill. That's a very boring book, but it's packed full of information. So chat,
that's all the that's all the books that I used. And please consider checking the video
because I also haven't rewatched it. So oops. Um, I I am back. What's up?
Apparently, there's like a big thing getting dropped right now with laughs saying that
destiny sleeps with all the females that he streams within grooms them.
Uh, and somebody said that he might've my name might've been dropped. Um, which if that's the
case, there's a big problem because that's not true at all. We were fully platonic. So,
uh, I don't really want somebody. I have a husband actually. Oh, okay. All right. Well,
there you go. Well, I just want to make somebody who's like lying about
my friend being a groomer and then using my name. Um, yeah, that's, yeah, that's going to
be a problem. So I'm just having somebody check. Okay. That's true. Cause if, okay.
I'm just getting somebody to check through the clip and see if, uh, if my name is actually
being dropped or not. I see. Does that mean that we'll have to talk another time and you have to
go and you have to go to war against this person? We'll see. Okay. Well, I'll see if I can finish
up. So yeah, by the way, sorry about my own scatterbrainness because I also haven't watched
the video in like a month. Um, but basically the two prongs of Mussolini's fascism was
one violence for violence sake. And two was, um, was capitalism is an internationalist movement.
And so the, so the revolution has to be a nationalist revolution. And he based that on
this idea that Italy fought very hard to, to unify during its three wars of unification.
The final war of unification was what we call world war one. And after Italy sacrificed half
a million men and went into economic debt, the other, um, the other world war one victors,
most notably the Americans basically denied Italy's promise because they were promised by
France and Britain, certain components of the Austrian empire that had ethnically Italian
people living there. And the Americans said, ah, no, you don't get that actually. And so
the socialists, the Italian socialists at the time, they were writing political theory
about what they called the proletarian nation. And the proletarian nation was this idea that
if we have a proletariat class of people that are being exploited by the bourgeois,
you also have proletarian nations that are exploited by bourgeois nations.
So you have nations that are, that are highly developed, highly financial. They purchase the
products of other nations. They come into other nations with their foreign money and they,
and they make these nations dependent on them and their commerce. And then the proletarian nations
have no choice to basically go along with whatever is being given to them.
And this is how the Italian socialists viewed what they called the mutilated victory,
which was when Italy lost a lot and gained nothing in world war one. And it was kind of this view
that shaped Mussolini's view of if we're going to be revolting against capitalism,
it's gotta be a nationalist revolt. And that's where you get classical fascism.
And then Hitler didn't care so much about the whole anti-capitalist thing,
though he did try to frame the anti-capitalist stuff as being anti-Jewish stuff.
And then after those two, you have the modern day fascists. And the modern day fascists are,
they're the libertarian fascists, which sounds like insane if you actually think of it. But
basically their idea is fascist ideology without a fascist state.
And that's where you have like a lot of, a lot of like modern day,
like dissident right people, they call them Christo-fascists sometimes, Islamo-fascists,
you know, those people that we see floating around the right wing right now,
that's those people. It's fascist ideology without a fascist state.
So do you think then that in pockets of the alt-right there is a growing and moving
fascistic state, basically? It is specifically post-fascist,
because they don't care about any of Sorel's work. They don't care about Sorel's conception
of socialism or about Mussolini's conception of the corporative economy. They don't care about
any of that stuff. For them it is fascist tactics. And it's like, what's the word, it's like,
it's something like violence as its own virtue pushed to the extreme, because all forms of
libertarianism, libertarian capitalism, libertarian socialism, and libertarian fascism,
they all view politics as violence itself. So if you go to a ballot box and you cast a vote,
to them that is the same thing as punching someone in the street.
Because if you're casting a vote for say a law, and that law is now being enforced on somebody
who didn't vote for the law, and then they break the law, the police have to come in,
make them follow the law, punish them if they don't, to the entire libertarian wing
of politics, socialist, fascist, capitalist. They all view politics as inherently violent. They view
voting as violent. They view just because it's all society imposing itself on you.
So I think...
Do they think their bosses are violent? Do they think any form... Do you think parents
are violent towards their children, even if they're not physically abusing them,
they're just like dictating them? If everything's violence, then nothing is violence.
I hate the violence argument of being like, if somebody imposes their will on you, it's violence.
No, it's posing their will on you. We have words for these things. If somebody coerces you,
it's called coercion. We already have a word for that thing. We don't need to call it violence.
We have the word coercion.
You see... What was his name? Was it Proudhon? Proudhon wrote something like property is theft.
The idea of property is theft is that if you've taken property from the common unclaimed
property, you have now exclusivized it. So you build your little house and now nobody else can
access that house. It's no longer common anymore. So property as a concept is always stealing from
everyone else. It's a ridiculous concept, but that's kind of how a lot of people think.
This is a very common libertarian thing specifically.
Proudhon was an anarchist leftist. This does kind of filter out through because, for example,
I've listened to Vash say this. Vash has said at least a few times that employment in a capitalist
system is always exploitative, even if you consent because of the power dynamics involved
and the fact that you need money and your boss has money, your boss controls the workplace.
It's always some form of violence. I've seen anarcho-capitalists will say that taxation,
the taxation is theft thing, right? Where it's like, well, you never consent to that.
The government always comes in and takes your taxes.
So every flavor of libertarianism has a redefinition of violence and coercion
that I'm personally not comfortable with. And when it comes to libertarian fascists,
they, for them, it is the voting process.
For them, the voting process is the same thing as punching someone in the face.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, I mean, anarchists are crazy to me in a lot of ways. Like,
yes, this is this is why so like politics in political theory, this is part of why I've
actually like pulled back a little bit from politics is multifolded. Number one,
there's not a lot of interest in politics right now, which is unfortunate.
Number two, I try to do my best to be like decently. Like I realize I'm a person who
speaks with a lot of like authority in my voice. Like I make, I make statements, right? And I often
don't caveat maybe as much as I should or always need to. And I realized that political theory
and political science is a field that I'm not an expert in, um, and is highly complex.
And I'm always extremely reticent to
add into a world that's already like adding to add into a court of like, conversation,
that more muddying and more garbage, right? Because if I'm like sharing information,
that's incorrect. That's bad, even if I'm not intending to.
Well, firstly, so if we're gonna back up, then sorry for dragging you back in to the vortex.
No, you're good. It is interesting. I find it really, especially political theory. I
really love political theory. I just, one thing I like think about a lot when I think about
politics that I think is really important to me is that when people sell worldviews, specifically
like political ideologies that are selling a lie to everyone and will make the world a worse place
for not only the people who don't hold that value and are like maybe antagonistic to it,
but it'll actually make the world worse for even those holding the value.
I think that those ideas need to be like bludgeoned brutally out of the court of common,
like thing, not by deplatforming them, by the way, by like proving why they're fucking stupid
and that we shouldn't listen to them. Right. And I, I feel like this hasn't been done.
I feel like it has been done pretty well with anarchists. The problem is that
there's been this growing anti-institutional movement for a lot of good reasons, actually,
because the institutions are failing and the institutions are failing for a ton of reasons.
Right. Most of which I probably don't understand. One of them is that young people tend not to vote.
There is an unfettered corruption within like money and lobbying and who can like basically
like buy the ear of politicians. Right. There is the nepotism that occurs within government
bureaucracies of like hiring their family members and their friends. First and foremost,
there is like all of these layers of things that seem to be like breaking our institutions,
even in academia. Right. Academia is, I mean, I love science and I love academics,
but there's really big problems with it. For example, like there is kind of an ivory tower
issue within academia where they really don't touch grass a lot. They don't really understand
like normal people. Right. When I tell academics, for example, that even in Canada,
the bulk of the population still doesn't have a bachelor's degree. They say, that can't be true.
Everyone I know and my extended family all has bachelor's degrees. And I'm just like,
yeah, yeah, yeah. But yeah, but that's just because you've never gone to a gas plant
where you drive up. It's a parking lot as wide as the fucking sea. It's just a cement sea
with 80000 white trucks and just blue men and blue overalls are getting out and walking into
this power plant. That is like that is that is a very common experience of North America
that like academia has no conception of. Right. Absolutely. Absolutely. And like,
space culture has ruined academia as well. Right. Like it has it is Rooney. It is bad
for academics. It is anti-scientific in many ways. And it's a really big problem.
Right. And so like these ants, anti-institutionalists have validity.
And so I worry, though, that the answer the anti-institutionalist is going to lead into
the anarchist. And I think like the anarchist worldview, I don't know how if the like more
anarchist worldviews don't pop off, that we don't fall into like civil war because I completely
agree. Yeah. The problem is that anarchy is a lie. Anarchy is a lie. It's a lie. And it is
worse for everyone. Every single person will be worse off for anarchy. This is self-evident.
But the problem is that I feel like, again, I think it's important to criticize your own in
group, my own in group, the liberals and the moderates are trying to be like, yeah,
but these institutions do work. It's like they do, but they there's massive problems.
There are major areas where they're not working, working very well. And it's like,
the problem is that we have a really big, old, slow moving ship and we haven't been
maintaining it very well. And there's rats in, you know, and there's rats in the attic.
And we need to look at this. Right. They're chewing out the bottom. And the moderate
progressives are hesitant to engage in this because they're afraid that if they give any,
any credence to anti-institutionalist rhetoric, that they're going to become conspiratorial.
You see it the moment, the moment I say this, I know there's going to be some
schizo poster in my chappy, like, yeah, and the Jews are actually lizards.
And it's all lots of the vaccines. You're just like, stop, like,
fuck, there are criticisms to be levied, but your conclusions are wrong. Like, chill out.
So you have basically described like my life story, like to a T. Exactly. So I was here,
you know, I will toot my own horn a little bit. OK, I'll fluff myself just slightly.
Um, I was maybe considered one of those gifted children that didn't really take off in adulthood.
It's a pretty common story. I was offered like I was offered the choice to skip three grades
throughout grade school. I always said no, because I like my friends. I liked my friends. I don't
talk to him anymore. I probably should have taken it. But, you know, I was I was the kid who got
90 percent or higher on everything and never did any studying and never did any homework and just
floated through school, no problem. And I had a giant, big, fat ego about it, you know.
And then I got to university and didn't know how to actually study and didn't know how to live on
my own and I failed out. It's a pretty common story, I think. Right. So that's why I took
four years to to do a seven year degree. And I get disillusioned too, right? Like,
I understand my people like, I don't really want to go to university. Like,
what a waste of my fucking time, because like, this is why I say not all degrees are the same.
Right. The reality is that, like, I'm working in a master's lab and people are going to think I'm
cocky for this. But the reality is, like, my undergrad was I don't know how the fuck I looked
into my undergrad. Holy shit. Like most people, my undergrad, it's kind of known now that people
who go to my undergrad program and do an honors program in psychology usually are about a year
and a half ahead of anyone else. But when they enter a clinical psych Ph.D. master's program,
which is like the highest tier of education you can get in psychology.
And it's it's insane how much I can like echo that, even though I've been out of my undergrad
for a couple of years. Like, it's insane. It's insanely true. Like, not all degrees are the
same. This is why I like when somebody's like, yeah, but I have a bachelor's in biology. I'm
an authority on it. I'm like, well, did you get C's? Because then I don't know. Also,
most people who go to university realize that they don't need their bio degree. They need to get
enough of a grade so that they can get the piece of paper so that they can work in whatever other
field they actually want to work in and make money in. Right. And so it's like most people do pump
and dump. They study and cram like two nights before their exams and then they dump it all
onto a piece of paper and then they walk away and they're like, all right, beer and forget time.
And it's like, you're not learning this material in the way that somebody who, for example,
studies one hour every single day and really tries to consume and absorb it, which is fine,
by the way. Like if you just need the piece of paper, I don't expect you to study in any
different way. Like that makes the most sense. To be honest, you maximize your enjoyment of
the university experience and you still get the degree at the end of the day. Like that makes
sense to me. Right. But like so many people cope and try to pretend like these things are all the
same when it's like, the reality is like, I did the nerd shit. I did an hour every single day.
I never pulled a single all-nighter. I never started studying a night before a test ever.
I was always studying three to four weeks beforehand. I was studying at all times,
September, like first, second day of class. I was already building myself self-tests and testing
myself on the concepts that I learned. I was reading ahead. Like I was a fucking nerd,
which is losership, by the way. Most people don't need to do this. I just actually want to be a
scientist in this field. Like I actually, this is what I want to do. I wouldn't recommend most
people who do a psych degree to do what I want to do. If you just like want to like go into HR or
shit like that, you don't, you don't need to do what I'm doing, but these things are not the same.
But the problem is that people keep trying to act like they are the same. And then the
anti-introduce lines are like, they're fucking obviously not the same thing, right? There's
obviously garbage degrees. There's obviously stupid morons who don't know anything.
Yeah. I have one of the garbage degrees. Well, see, that also sounds like me too, because
so I was, I was like a young communist, you know, being 19, 20 years old, thinking I knew how the
whole world worked, you know, drum daddy. Well, here's the thing. It was partially I didn't know
how to, didn't know how to study, didn't know how to work, didn't know how to live without my
parents. But also, I mean, I started to actually get attention from women more than I had in high
school. And that, that also changed how I was viewing, viewing school. So I dropped out after
a couple years, went to go work blue collar. First time I'd ever done that. I always floated by just
on my natural talents and it finally failed. So I worked a blue collar night shift job for a while.
Actually, no, no, no, no, hold on. Sorry. Sorry. I worked for municipalities. So public sector,
plowing snow, picking up garbage, cutting grass, whenever you see, whenever you see someone in a
park doing a work, like with a vest and a helmet on, and you kind of ignore his existence. That
was me. I did that for two years. And the one thing that made me not a socialist anymore was
working with the working class. Like my God, that changed my entire outlook on life was doing that
job. And then I was like, okay, you know, I think I should go back to school. So there were some
other like personal problems in there. They don't really matter too much for the story. I went back
to school though. And I found out when I went back to school, I was like, Oh, I can, I know how to
work now. And getting the degree was actually really easy. And in fact, I worked night. That's
when I worked night shift and did the degree during the day. And that kind of sucked. But I
mean, I came out with no debt. So man, yeah, taking time off between like, the number one
thing I could recommend any high school student is unless you know, for fucking sure, take a year,
just take a year. Because you don't like, ideally, you shouldn't have to treat university like you do
public education, public education, you just gotta fucking get through it. I don't remember.
I remember getting into like one of my mathematics 100 class in university and looking at shit and
being like, I don't feel like I've ever learned this. I remember getting into my English classes
and being like, I don't know what grammar is. Like, I've never heard of these things, right?
Like, I feel like I really did most of my like, learning in university, which like, you know,
proves that the failing of our public education system, but also like your approach to it is
different. Like you just realize you do want to pump and dump. You're like, I fucking hate this
shit. I don't want to do it. I just want to get through this forced schooling. And it's like,
God, don't do that with university if you can avoid it. Like, this is why I'm like really big
on technical schools. Like I would always say before somebody should go to university, you
should go to a technical school. Like unless you know precisely what you want to do, and it requires
a university pathway, do technical, get a trade, even if you're not sure what you want to do,
getting some sort of certificate so that you have a fallback plan B like trade that you can always
do is such a base move. Like if you're really uncertain, just like do a year getting like
a trade in hairdressing, cosmetology, like those are trades. There's lots of like youth work
certificates that you can get. So you can do like respite care and government like government kind
of contracted stuff that pays really well. It's got good contracting, but it's like six, like six
months to like a year max of training. Yeah, I'm just like really big about pushing trades more.
And I think this is where I think Europe is really out-competing North America in our education
academic system specifically is right as they've like shortened all of their bachelor's to like
three years on average. And they really try to streamline it of recognizing like,
we're trying to prepare you for a occupation, right? So like if you're taking a degree,
you're moving the direction of working within that field. And we're going to tailor
our bachelor's in that direction, like for the most part, which is just like, it makes way more
sense, right? Like that's why like my friends in like the EU will be like, I already got a PhD at
like eight years old. And I'm like, fuck you. Yeah. You know, for me, like I went to university
because I was expected to based on my immense success in high school and in grade school.
And it was one of the worst decisions in my life. I fucking ruined myself. To be fair,
like I came out of it pretty well in the end. Like I was working on a master's and then I realized
I don't really want to do I thought I wanted to be a professor. I was like, I want to be a professor.
And then the channel took off. So I guess I want to do this. And I do want to do this. So you know,
it all worked out in the end. But like, I have a friend who was also pretty intelligent, but he's
like, you know what, I want to be a plumber. And he got like a plumber's apprenticeship with
somebody else who is a plumber in the city. And he's doing fine for himself. You know,
I think I think the X, even though university is very important, the expectation that everyone
should go to it probably isn't that good for us. It's not good because it's not what university
was even designed for. Like university should be for fucking loser fucks like me who want to like
study and do research and wrestle with ideas and inquire. And the reality is like, the problem is
that our society has convinced us that everyone needs to do this and that you're a bad person if
you're not doing it. It's like, that's not fucking true. Like most people have kids, they've worked,
they've got family, they don't have fucking time to be like, I wonder what it means to be a human.
And it's fine. Like if you're interested in that, that's based, but I don't think everyone's
actually required to do that at all time. And it's like, this is actually like, I just said in my,
my grad like statement of intent. And I like opened my statement of intent by basically being
like, university used to be a place of like inquiry and scholarship. And unfortunately,
at least on an undergraduate level, like it no longer is that, which is why in part, I want to
go to graduate school because in many more ways, graduate school is, especially in thesis-based
programs, that space where the whole goal of you being there isn't to rush through and get the
degree. The goal is to like be mentored by greater minds than yourself to stand on the shoulders of
giants and like look into space and wonder why. Like that's the point of university. That's what
makes it fucking cool. But now like university is just like this cringey shit. And it's, it's not
like it's not, it's not all bad. Like the institution itself still works to some extent,
but it's like, if we can't be honest about the failings of it, then how the fuck are we ever
going to correct it? And if we lie about the failings of it, all you do, we've already proven
this, is you radicalize the extreme who like don't understand it. Like, well, if they're not
going to be willing to talk about it and they keep lying that the institution's broken, it must mean
that there's some deep sinister plot and you know, like the, the higher ups, the great bourgeois are
in on it and they're trying to control us and they're lying because they don't want us to know
but I see it, I see the truth and I see through all the murk and the misery and right and then,
and then build into this like paranoid thing. You have a great Alex Jones voice.
Is that what I'm doing? You kind of slip into it sometimes. Yeah.
You know what you should do? You should get like a tinfoil hat off to the side and just
put it on whenever you do one of those. But yeah, that, that definitely, are you,
hold on. I'm going to be tactful. Have you revealed your age? Yeah, I'm 28.
Okay. Was it, you're, you're a bit younger than me. Was it the case when you were in high school
and you were talking to guidance counselors about what to do after you graduate,
that they were really, were they still really pushing hard for people to become high school
teachers? Not in my, I don't remember. I, I'm a bitch. I've been a disagreeable child since the
moment I was fucking born. Okay. I've always been like, I do it my own way. Don't fucking talk to
me. Don't, don't tell me what to do. I know. Right. Like that's, uh, that's my propensity.
Yeah. I've worked really hard on it because it's fucking annoying and it's not very,
how it's bad epistemic humility. And I really come to value that. But, uh,
you know, when I was 18, I didn't have it. And I had decided at that point that I was
going to be a vet and I had known that since grade like nine, that was my plan.
So I sat down the forced guidance counselor thing and I was like, I don't need this.
I've known since grade nine, I'm going to go to the university to get a pre-vet Medicaid,
pre-vet, uh, education. And then I'm going to go to, and then I listed like the three
major universities and I'm going to specialize in equine at this university, ideally with this
professor, if I can, I don't need your help. I've already got it figured out. Can I leave now? And
she was like, but have you ever thought about going into nursing? And I was like, she wanted
nurse. I was in a Dutch school. So I was just like nurses and engineers for everyone. And I was like,
my mom's a nurse. I'm not going to be a nurse. Hashtag mommy issues. So yeah.
Jesus. Well, for me, something like one third of my graduating class in high school ended
up going into some sort of concurrent education program because they pushed high school teachers
that hard. Everyone wanted to be a high school teacher. They were talking about the big high
school teacher shortage coming up. There'll be so many jobs. And now my generation over
here in Ontario, there's so many high school teachers and no one has any work.
Like, well, that didn't work out for me. Like I took a drama class in grade 11
and something kind of sparked in me that felt different for everything else I had done in
school. But I was kind of, I was kind of expected by my parents to do something,
something more tangible. So I, uh, I, I suppressed it and I got an English lit degree.
Yes. Well, actually I was originally going for programming, but I changed over to English lit
after one year. Cause I was like, nope, not for me. I just like the stories, man. I just want to
study stories. Yeah. Kind of, kind of, but like in, in, in grade school, I think starting in grade
six, I started learning basic programming just to like, I wanted to make my own video games. I'm,
I'm a big gamer at heart. I want to make my own video games. So I was making computer games in
grade six and I was like, I can be a programmer. And then I realized, fuck, I don't want to be a
programmer. This sucks. I can, if you ask me a programmer right now, I probably could, but like,
I do it for myself now, you know? Um, but, but drama, the drama class was it sparked something
and then I suppressed it basically until we started the YouTube channel, me and my friends.
And I was like, Oh, this is what it is. This is what I want to do. Actually. I like making videos,
like talking to people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's, that's what I do. Had a great conversation
with Stardust a couple of days ago. Yeah. Cool. What'd you guys talk about? I authoritarian
pilled her. Oh, really? I convinced her that it's based or what does that mean?
Yes. Yes. I gave her the anti-democracy pill. Okay. Um, here's the thing. I'm not even an
anti like, I'm not an anti-democratic kind of guy. Like I, I'm still ultimately like a liberal,
like pro democracy, pro capitalism, pro, you know, functional institutions. But like,
I know the anti-democratic arguments very well, partially for making the fascism video.
So I know how they think. And I was like, I'm going to, you know, she, she was, she was cool
with it. Like it was okay. I was like, I'm going to troll Stardust a bit here and I'm going to try
to convince her that, that overthrowing democracy is the way to go. So I gave her all the hardest
arguments that I could, and she was just like, Oh shit. I was like, don't worry. Don't worry. We
can answer all these. It was, it was just, it was really fun. She's actually great. She's a great
sport. She's very funny. I really enjoyed talking to her. Good. I'm glad you enjoy talking to her.
Yeah. She's a very nice woman. Do you want me, do you want me to authoritarian pill you?
I'm an uppity bitch. I already told you I am way more disagreeable.
Even if I don't have reasons, I'm just like, I already, I just, you probably will. I am dubious
that you can do it. Not even because I necessarily can like out contend with it. I just, I'm just not
as agreeable. It's just, it's just kind of fun. It's something that it's just kind of like a fun
little thing. You can try. I'm curious to see. Oh, sure. Uh, what was that? I know there's what,
um, new taftages, right? I love tough. She's great. I talked to her all the time. She's,
she's got a big brain and big boobah. Well, I wasn't going to say it. No, actually, um,
after her, what I said she has a nice boobah. Okay. Um, after her, um, her first discussion
with destiny, I messaged her and I was like, you know, you're, you're really cool. Like I really
enjoyed your appearance on destiny. And then she immediately follows me back. Okay. And it's like
in my DMS, she's like, Oh my God, are you the real SFO? I've been watching your videos for years.
And I was like, um, all right. But she's, she's, she's really nice. She's really smart. Um,
I love bouncing ideas off of her, but she threw this around in a stream with destiny
and here, let me just, I'll just post it in the DM. Have you seen this before testing
theories of American politics, elites, interest groups, and average citizens.
Okay. So the TLDR of this study is basically, it correlates a voter's preferences to policy
outcomes such that the lowest income bracket in the United States, who they vote for makes
no difference at whatsoever. So if you're a poor person and you vote for a candidate,
because he says he will implement policies X, Y, and Z, the chances he will actually implement
policies X, Y, and Z is basically nothing. There's a zero correlation. However, at the highest income
bracket, the correlation is 0.6. So there's a lot of people who are, who are very anti anti-democratic
oriented who like to lean on this study and say, look, voting doesn't matter. It's all what the
upper-class wants. And that's just how it's going to be. And this is like the entryway into the
anti-democracy component of the internet is usually this study. Does anybody look up any
counter studies that like, uh, challenge this or like any meta analysis that challenges?
Um, well, in, in the destiny TAFTAD discussion, he said that there was some problems with
reproducing it, but I don't know the full details of reproducing it. If what, what the problems
were, but, um, there's a, there's a political theory that also comes out of the, it's always
the fucking Italians, you know, it comes out of the, it comes out of the Italians called elite
theory. And the idea is basically just that democracy is a post hoc justification of what
the elites want and they will make you vote for it using propaganda.
Hmm. Interesting.
And, and when they talk about this sort of thing, they have some real world examples they can cite.
So for example, these people believe that the problem of NIMBYism is a uniquely democratic
problem. And they'll point out the urban sprawl issue in LA as being the best example of what
they're talking about. So I'm sure you've been to LA. I think, I think I've actually seen you
stream that. Haven't you? No, that was Miami. You were doing an IRL with Miami with destiny,
but anyway, most cities have this problem. They have urban sprawl. So hundreds of miles
of just tiny shitty little houses and tiny shitty little backyards, no apartment blocks.
And everyone's just renting these falling apart, little shit shacks. And, and, and the poor have
nowhere to live. And the land owners don't want the situation to change because that will ruin
property investment. So the correct thing to do to solve the issue would be to build apartment
blocks. So now there's apartments, they're cheaper. Poor people can go live there. That
reduces demand on housing. So now suddenly you have more people in one place in the apartment
block. Now suddenly house prices go down. The middle class can have houses again, but every
single landowner will never vote for a zoning change that actually allows you to build apartment
blocks in these neighborhoods. Because that means that their housing prices, the value of their
investment will just plummet into the ground. And so this is an instance where every single voter
will always vote for what is best for them and what is worst for society and things don't get
changed. And they use this model to talk about prisons. Nobody wants a prison in their backyard.
Nobody wants prisoners released into their community. They use it to talk about nuclear
power. Nobody wants the nuclear reactor in their town because everyone has the shadow of Chernobyl
over their minds. And so basically, if you had, say, a benevolent philosopher king,
he would just build the apartment blocks as society needs them, because he has absolute
authority. He could just build the nuclear reactor. He could just build the prison. He
could do what is good for everyone and ignore the votes of the people who basically,
they make, like, they're not being unreasonable. They make rational decisions. But it's the
collective rational decisions of every individual that makes society worse.
And so this is kind of where the anti-democratic Yeah.
Yeah. How do you feel about gatekept democracy? I'd be curious what you think about that. So
there's some element of gatekeeping, for example, like people can't vote unless they
meet a bare minimum test, which could be as simple as like, can you name three candidates on the
ballot or like something like that? I guess that would work for you guys, because you guys
typically only have two on ballots. But I'm a Canadian. Oh, yeah, you're Canadian. Fuck,
I always seem to forget that you're Canadian. Don't I have the accent? Yeah.
Uh, I don't know. I don't really think Canadians have an accent, so.
All right, really? I mean, I hear it in you sometimes.
You have like an Albertan accent for sure. Do I? I don't know. I mean, probably. Probably
technically, yes. I just don't hear like a major deviation from Americans other than like a couple
of our like, ah, like ah sounds usually that are different. I sometimes slip into a Newfoundland
accent because that's where my family's from. And I spent like some of my youth there. But for the
most part, I'm pure Ontario. So gate kept democracy. There's like a few forms of that.
So some people, you know, believe that should only be landowners, because if you're a landowner,
you have like, yeah, that's a bad one. I don't like that. And an investment. It is. I agree,
it's a bad one. But just to steel man their argument, you have an investment that needs
protecting. So if you own land, somebody else doesn't own land, you probably have more of a
buy in into the stability of the country because you have more to lose. That's gonna be their
argument. Some people based on the draft, which is why women, they believe women shouldn't vote
and men should because if you're voting for the country to go to war, you should have to be the
one who dies in that war. And there's maybe something to that argument because death is
kind of final. I know. Yeah, that's kind of related to like the Starship Troopers argument where
you only get the you can only get the opportunity to vote if you if you either work for the
government for two years or for the military for two years. That's how it was in Starship Troopers.
Did you hear the news? What's the news? So I don't know what's going on. But destiny just
started his streams saying that he's going nuclear. So I'm curious if you'd want to
watch some of that with me. There's a clip I'm I don't want to totally pivot. But I feel like
I'd be interested to get your thoughts on a couple of clips that have been sent to me.
Sure, sure. I mean, I guess I could like 30 seconds to do this up. Um,
because I really like this is really interesting. I just know that everyone is going to be
distracted and wants you to watch this right now. And I'm getting like pummeled with DMS about it
right now. Also, like if you want me to bow out, you know, it's your show. You just let me know,
right? I don't want to I want to actually get your thoughts on it because I think you're actually
really good. I like how you think a lot. Oh, really? I don't think I wouldn't be able to
categorize at all. Ah, okay. I think you actually do really good critical thinking.
Oh, well, thanks. I always view myself as exceptionally stupid. Like, I've had some people
ask, like, despite my academic, like early academic success, I've had some people ask you
some very tough questions. And I'm like, I don't fucking know. I don't know. But here, I'll TLDR
this 30 seconds. And then we can watch the clips if you don't mind. Regarding regarding gate kept
voting, I think there are strong arguments for many different systems. But I think they all have
the same fatal flaw. And the fatal flaw is, in a social contract society, the point of the
government is that it is, it wields the monopoly on force. And that is what makes the government
different from a corporation and from an individual, an individual person. It wields
a monopoly on force, it is the decider of what justice is, it will be the thing that comes and
arrest you if you if you violate a crime, it will be what sticks up for you, if you have been the
victim of a crime, it has to be the thing that uses force in ways that no other body can. And so
if you are going to be subject to the violence of the government, you should even if you have no
money, even if you don't pay enough in taxes or own land or, or serve as a soldier, you should
probably have some say in how that force is applied. So if the cops are coming to arrest you,
because you broke a law, you probably should have had some opportunity to vote on whether or not
that should have been a law. I think that is something that all the other systems kind of
disregard. But like, there's, there's something to those systems that can't simply be ignored.
Because there's lots of people, it seems to be more on the progressive side of things. They say,
like, well, if you want to restrict democracy in any way, that means you're a fascist. And it's
like, well, not necessarily, right? Like, clearly, democracy should be restricted to citizens of the
nation. And you can't have a bunch of people who aren't citizens voting in your democracy.
Like, there's reasonable things. And I even see the appeal of like, intelligence, like, like,
are you should like a 65 IQ person be able to vote? You can't even write on the page like,
I get it. But I think that the the worst evil is the possibility of government violence being
used against somebody who had no conceivable option to even avoid it. And there's my rent.
What do you think?
What do I think? I think I need to read a lot more political theory before I can offer you good
interesting conversation, because it's obvious to me that you have way more knowledge in this space.
And so like you, like, you know, when you're talking to somebody who's like,
way more trained in a field, and then you ask a question, and then give you that look where you're
like, fuck, that question makes no sense within the field. That's it. That's it. That's where
I feel where I'm like, interesting guys, I can I have some thoughts about this. I'll fully admit,
I'm slightly distracted. Because there's stuff going on privately in my DMS that is like,
very distracting. It was the other way around when it was psychology earlier, because I know
some I know enough to know what you're saying, but not enough to comment on it. Right. So,
like, I understand completely. Yeah. Um, but, yeah, I guess that's something that we could
always I mean, I, I, I've enjoyed what we've talked about anyway, you know, it's been fun.
But if you want me to stick around and see what you've got going on, I can do that. Sure.
I've got maybe I got maybe an hour left of my night. And you can have the hour or we can or
I can go do something else. It's up to you. Well, I got it. But I do I do. I do kind of want to see
some of the shit show that's happening right now. Okay. Got a clip. Okay. Can you see my stream?
I can. You're on Firefox right now. Use Firefox. Yeah. Isn't it Firefox like a memory hog?
It's better than Chrome. I use brave man.
Using those alt options. Yes, wanting to load me. Oh, it's downloading. That's why
I even have a fair phone, believe it or not.
Their phone. Is that? Yeah. Do you do programming? Are you one of those nerds who like programs your
own phones and stuff? Kind of. So a fair phone is a completely open source phone made in Europe.
So it has like it has stuff that both lefties and righties kind of like about it.
So it's completely made out of recycled material. I think it's like 75% reticle at least. And also,
there's a lot of right to repair stuff because every component of it can be easily dismantled
and bought on the fair phone website. So lefties like that because of the the openness of the of
the hardware and the recyclability. Righties like it, though, because it also has a bunch of
like anti tracking and anti data harvesting components to it as well. So it's basically
like that the the best phone if you if you hate big tech and want to be like a Greenpeace advocate.
Okay, so I just I got one of those.
Look at you living out your ethics like a fucking loser.
It cost me extra $200 to for what I otherwise got, but it was important to me. So I got it.
Yes. Right. You ready for this?
I am watching. Is that Overwatch? Yeah, Overwatch.
Yes. I like it. So I don't
respect her takes on psychology. Agree. And I feel so.
The way that she and Destiny kind of ganged up on Max was really irritating.
They do this with every fucking orbiter because not so erudite has to signal to
Destiny that she's still the best one. It's like a golden child syndrome.
Jesus. And it comes from a deep
insecurity of not knowing when it's going to happen a lot.
Yeah. Oh my god.
What do you think about that? So from what I understand,
as somebody in the space for two since 2009, you are deeply familiar with petty drama on
the internet, probably more than I am. So I would love to know your analysis of this clip.
So from what I understand, Destiny is kind of unique on YouTube.
He's kind of unique on YouTube in such a way that
right now there's the orbiter meta of DGG, right? Where there's a bunch of people coming on,
and they're all kind of jockeying for the attention of Destiny and his viewers,
while Destiny sits there and plays Factorio and gets completely absorbed by League of Legends.
So that's the current DGG meta. And from what I can tell, it's actually kind of unique.
There are other components of the internet that have like a big central YouTuber and
their smaller friends. So I'm part of the Sargon orbit. You know who Sargon is, right?
Yep. Yep.
Okay, so there's the Sargon orbit. He's more right-leaning than me, but we've been friends
for like five years. And we have a lot of spirited debates, actually, in private, because I don't
agree with him on a lot. But we're good friends. And there's like V is in there, and Archwarhammer
is in there, and I'm in there, and Rags and Mauler, the EFAP guys, they're in there. Adam
and Sitch, you went on their show recently, they're in there. There's like a group of us,
and we're all kind of like pals, and we all talk about stuff. And we all tend to orbit around
Sargon because Sargon has nearly a million subs. And we do kind of owe partially our success to
him, but it's not as drastic as with Destiny, because Destiny has like made people's careers.
Destiny made Vaush. Destiny has made Mr. Girl. He's kind of made you, in a sense,
if you don't mind me saying. Oh, for sure. Absolutely. I wouldn't even cope about that.
Um, and for me, like Sargon definitely made me for sure. He gave me like one third of my sub base with
a shout out at one point. But Sargon didn't really make V. Sargon helped, but V kind of made himself
and Arch definitely made himself and Adam and Sitch kind of made themselves. So we, Destiny is
unique in that like, the orbiters seem to really depend on them way more than in other YouTube
spaces. And I feel like that that dynamic might actually lead to more orbiter infighting. People
who are really like, I gotta get on Destiny stream today, I gotta get I gotta get those subs, man,
I gotta get that money. I gotta get those views. And they kind of see destiny as a path forward.
And combine that with the fact that Destiny has had a lot of bridge burning over the years.
Like, there was like the bridge burn with Vaush. And then there was, there was the bridge burn with
Xander hall, the bridge burn with the surfs, all the lefties, he burned all the lefty bridges.
And then like, I think even with Nick Fuentes, there's been like a bridge burn.
Yeah. I'm not sure if they're not doing anything together in the last one.
Yeah. So and I haven't seen him do anything with Lauren Southern recently, either. But
maybe that's burned me. I don't know. I'm not even I'm not like, I don't know destiny. I've
talked to him in DMS a couple times. And I actually wanted to stream once like late night,
like a year and a half ago. And I had just started watching him. And I got so like,
nervous. I couldn't talk to him. And I made myself sound like a complete fucking retard.
And I was like, Please don't upload this VOD. And he's like, Don't worry, I won't understand.
But I haven't had a chance to talk to him again since then. And he's kind of hard to get a hold
of. I'd like to but um, I don't know if I have anything relevant to say on anything. But um,
I do know that a lot of I'm not I'm not in his head. But so from the outside, it seems like
there's a lot of bridge burning happening. A lot of like, kind of people are using him,
blowing up their platforms, like book smarts and burning the bridge and then
running away with now that they've had a career that's gotten jump started. And when I this just
seems to be like another case of that, when I see this, and maybe that maybe these people
shit talking you is going to be a component of that, because you seem like one of the
people who wouldn't do that to destiny. So maybe that's what's going on here. That that
kind of seems like what's happening. Like I don't, I don't know who these two people are
that are talking but just from the
It's Anna and
Lav.
Who who are these two people?
Ann of War?
Oh, Anna. Okay. Okay. Yes. Oh, God. The person that you cannot speak about in DGG. I know who
that is. It's tricky, right? There's multiple reasons why you shouldn't speak about it. Like
she did get like a aggressive level of like, hatred that like, really distressed her as well.
Not saying that she was perfect in the whole thing. But yeah. Yeah, I know. I know the basic
story that I know there's some some weirdness. The other person though, I, I think I've seen
her on a few of destiny streams, but I don't know what her deal is. I haven't. I don't know that.
I'm sorry. But it does seem like from an outsider's point of view, this is like the orbiter jockeying
meta right now. That I think is just a continuation of what we've seen before.
So I have one more thing to share you. And then I would like to
watch a bit of a live stream with you if that's okay.
Sure thing.
Okay. Face takes. See, I told you, I knew that you think well,
okay, share your screen. Sorry.
Well, thank you very much.
You're so
I've like, I've seen when I had that kind of big blow up where like, I just failed at a school.
Part of my, I guess the reconstitution of myself, I was trying to be like, well,
what did I do wrong here? And a lot of it was that I felt like
I was just I was getting by on, like a natural intelligence that had basically run out,
I hit my wall. And so I need to, I need to try and think differently. And a lot of that was like,
well, maybe let's be a bit more rational. Let's get a little bit more in touch with like my intuition.
I've been trying to do some, some almost like you do ski and mental exercises, if that makes sense.
Okay, you ready? I'm gonna I can't speed it up. No, you're good. You're good. You're good.
I can't see it. I just see your face.
I'm sharing screen in the discord. You see it?
Yeah, I can't see the discord. It's just your avatar.
Oh, that's really weird. Um, let me try.
It's in your screenshot if you want to see.
No, I believe. Is that better?
No. Nope. Here. It's actually a type of glitch that I haven't seen before. So it's kind of
new to me.
Can you see this one?
Say I'm nuclear?
No, nothing's changing.
I'm just gonna turn this off.
Can it be a refresh of it?
Nope. Still no. Here. What if I leave the call and come back?
Okay, there we go. It's back. Sorry about that.
Okay. Can you see it? Is it working? Okay. Can you hear it?
Eyes. How do I hear it?
And I'm not saying that there was any. It's hard. It's hard to grapple with because there's no
I mean, I reached out to Steven first, right? I reached out to Steven because I
liked his content. And I assume that like most of the women also did, right?
So then I have to think about like, did I put myself in a situation like this?
And the answer is yes. And I can also take myself out of it if I feel uncomfortable.
And that's what I'm doing.
Do I think that Steven is an evil person? No.
At this point, not enough information has come out to make me feel like he's an evil person.
I wasn't metude. I wasn't, I wasn't harassed. Everything was consensual.
And I'm sure most of the things that he's done with women are consensual, right?
But now there lies this strange intersection between what is consensual and then
all these women that are orbiting him that are fighting each other in front of him
for his honor, who have had sex with him or had a sexual relationship with him.
That is kind of GigaChat, I guess.
And it feels weird.
I don't know if that's true. I don't know if that's true. Like I, I don't have a sexual
relationship with him at all. It's super platonic. I'm sure it's true for a lot, but he's in an open
relationship. He's got a decently, any girl that's attracted to intellectuality is going to be
someone into him. He's pretty charismatic. Yeah.
It's charismatic. He's good with women and he likes to fuck. So it's like, I'm not surprised
that he fucks a lot of the women that come on the stream, but I don't know if it's true that there's
like this, like it's making it, it's making it seem like there's a necessary requirement that
a woman is like sexual to be part of the orbit, which is not true. Um, I believe for example,
isn't like Pixie who's still part of the orbit talks to him like dating and therefore like,
assumably not involved. Um, I don't know. I do know. I've, I've, I've talked to Pixie a bit in
DGG. I don't know if she's dating anybody. Um, I do know, I think this is public knowledge,
so I don't mind saying it. Um, I've talked to Cherry a bunch and apparently they had some
kind of a fling, but I think that's public knowledge. In fact, I'm almost 90% certain
that's public knowledge. Um, if they had a fling at one point, um, I know Stardust orbits,
but Stardust isn't as in a relationship. She's got a boyfriend. Um, I think maybe,
Hmm. Don't take this the wrong way. All right. I think maybe the reason people are assuming that
you have been sexual with him is because you visited him and it's very easy to say
who's going to go and visit a streamer and not do that sort of thing when the camera's off.
But my husband was there and his wife is there the whole time.
Well, sure, sure. But he has an open relationship, right? And I mean,
maybe everyone's assuming that you guys all had a foursome or something. I don't know.
Like if I were somebody who knew absolutely nothing watching from the outside, just being
a fan of everyone, I could see that being a fan theory that kind of propagated around.
For sure. I totally understand why that would be a fan theory. And it's like, obviously,
if I say that I haven't, some people will just take me at my word. Other people are going to
think I'm coping and lying about it. Right. And it's just like, there's, and there's no way,
like, what the fuck do I do to prove it? Because you're proving a negative, right?
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. All right. Wondering if there's more of this.
Because, because how do you consent to something like that? Like, how do I,
how do I consent to having a sexual relationship with someone and then
for them to let me get completely denigrated on a subreddit or in the chat every time I come on and
then how, how does that, like with Britney or Terry or with all of those, like, how do we,
what is that situation? How do you navigate that situation? It's so strange.
It's weird. It's like.
I have a question about that.
And I would not tell my.
Is this her confirming for the first time that her and Destiny have had a sexual relationship?
Or is that, is this also known about this person?
I'm not going to be asked. I don't know. I don't follow like all of the drama super closely.
Okay. Okay.
So probably chat will answer that better than I can.
All right. Okay.
Friend to put themselves in that situation or to continue that situation. So I had to
be a good friend to myself and take myself out of it.
Which I think is fine. Like I said, I don't, I don't think Steven is a bad person.
Do I think he's impulsive? Sure.
I really, what I'm saying is selfishly, the situation was not good for me.
It can be good even for other women if they're getting what they want out of it, I suppose.
To her credit, it probably isn't good for her. If she's, if she feels like she's existing in
an ecosystem where she's had sex with a guy and she's now surrounded by like his harem
and everyone believes that they're all fucking and they're all fighting
each other while he just kind of sits there, you know, half paying attention.
It probably isn't good for her. If that's how she perceives the situation.
I would agree. She's also like, is getting a massive, massive,
massive amount of hate from DGG. The issue is that it's like,
I don't, I don't want to say that somebody has like earned it necessarily because I think
most of the hate that people get online is disproportionate. And I think misogyny
makes almost all of the hatred against women typically beyond overblown, right? Like,
um, yeah, there's just, there's just a much smaller margin of error for women to exist within,
which is a really big problem. Yeah.
The issue is she's also like said a lot of shit where I'm like,
probably be careful about how you say this publicly. And like, to what, like,
there's an expectation of like, you need to protect me from like your community being mean to me. But
she's, um, why she's very young, right? Like she seems she looks kind of young 24. Okay.
I mean, she's not that young, I guess not that young, but I would say she's definitely young
in like the way that she engages in like the world and stuff like that. For sure. Like,
I can kind of see that from how she talks. Yeah. Yeah. Um, like by 24, that already been passed
like my own life collapse. I was already kind of growing up at that point. But this this reminds
me of like, like a female version of me when I was like 20. You know, like, kind of being a
bit oblivious about some things and wanting other people to take to take responsibility for stuff
that I probably had at least half of a hand in, if that makes sense. And it's not like the,
the hyper individualistic view of just take responsibility for everything. It's all your
fault. Like that doesn't really help either. But there's probably some middle ground between
it's all my fault. And it's all somebody else's fault, you know,
the issue is like, you don't, you don't get to say this shit. Like you don't have to play the
stupid, like politically correct game, but she doesn't get to like, have an out for just acting
young. Like this is the issue, like with sneaker too, like I'll give grace to sneaker, but he's
still culpable. Like people not liking sneaker and like attacking him is also part of it. Like
if you're going to act immature and you're going to say dumb ass shit all the time, the realities
that there are consequences for those actions. And yes, when you're in public scrutiny,
those consequences are way bigger than they probably even should be. They're way
disproportionate reactions, which fucking sucks. But that's why the reality is that being in the
public eye is not for everyone, which is super fucking fair. It's awful. It's awful. And it's
wrong what a lot of people have to deal with in the public space, but it isn't destiny's fault
that this is existing. And it's just crazy to me that she's saying shit like this when she
literally just attacked cherry and stardust for like in her mind, me towing Max, when it's like,
what are the implications of what you're saying here? Like, what are like, think about it. You
don't get the out of being like, I'm young. I get to walk up. Like, it's like, think about what the
fuck you're saying here. This is really bad. This is really, really bad. What you're implying here.
Just to clarify what you're talking about was the, um, the midriff exposure drama, right? Yeah.
Okay. No, I understand what you're talking about. Okay. Um, yeah, that sounds, it sounds like a lot
of it. Um, the issue is, from what I think, I think the issue is, I think the issue is,
it's something like, everyone kind of goes through this process as part of their own maturity,
where they, they like, they say some dumb shit, because they're kind of stupid.
Do they make like veiled? I don't know if I've ever made veiled accusations at like,
essentially, like, some sort of like power abuse of a sexual dynamic thing. Okay. Somebody who
is my friend, especially publicly, right? Like, like, he's been good to her. They,
I assume that they're friends. They seem friendly. At least, um, he's been exceedingly
charitable of her, like some of her, like really bad positions. And he's been like, patient with
her. Like this isn't, this isn't like a normal growing up stuff. It's like, this is worse than
that because I've never done this. Not even publicly. The worst I ever did even close to
that was like one time in grade eight, I told my friend that my friend had a crush on her brother.
And she told me that I shouldn't and like asked me not to, which was bad. I broke my promise.
That was bad. But that's like, I'm pretty sure that's the last time I ever like fucking crossed
that boundary because I was like, Oh my God, this is so bad. Like this is, yeah.
Oh yeah. That first time when like you tell a lie that goes way out of proportion,
reality snaps back. You're fucking terrified when it happens. Holy shit.
Like the idea that destiny giving these people a platform makes them more responsible is actually
kind of psychotic to me. So, so I was going to get to that. I was, I was trying to be fair to her
before I got to that part of the conversation. I'm sorry. I'm just, I know I'm going, I'm being
bummed out. I was trying to be, I was trying to dump on your charitable train too, but then I'm
just like starting to think about the implications and I'm like, what the fuck? Like, what the fuck?
So, um, let's see if this process were happening to this exact same person,
but one, it was offline and two, it were with somebody who let's say didn't have an audience
and it was just somebody she had been sleeping with. And there had been a little bit of
interpersonal drama in their friend group. It probably would not be nearly this bad. I think,
I think a lot of it is just exacerbation through the fact that there's like 10,000 people watching
this drama right now. And that's still ultimately her fault because she did some of this stuff and
she's allowing her responses to get exacerbated by the fact that she has a spotlight shining on
her right now. But it's, it's high. It's like 10% understandable, I guess. And 90%, what the fuck
are you doing? Yeah, because it's still, because even if you can understand, even if you can put
yourself in her shoes and kind of try to model her brain and it's like, well, what would you do
if you were her? And it might be something similar. I mean, from the outside, it still
looks kind of crazy, right? It's still like, you know, if this, this is a streamer who destiny has
collaborated with and has probably grown her stream off of, and it sounds like they've,
they've had sex. And now that after she's kind of, you know, she's gotten her bag,
she's here kind of turning on the whole thing, and not only turning on the whole thing,
but like, not making any sort of actual threat of any sort of like sexual misconduct, but like,
vague posting about it. Yeah, yeah. She's scraping at the edges of it a little bit.
And, and it's like, well, maybe I can get like one last, one last bag out of out of DGG before
I finally burned the bridge completely by by having this new. And it's like that seems kind
of scummy. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, destiny is now live fighting with Max because I guess
this is escalated. Would you like to stay and watch this with me? Sure. Of course, again,
in DGG politics is just getting derailed by by DGG drama. Oh, my God, there was that one
recently he was going to have a guy on to talk about the midterms and it got instantly fucking
derailed by a bunch of people jumping in and talking about I know I know the black experience
or something and no offense to that conversation, but I wanted to watch politics.
Yeah, one thing I will say for love, because a lot of people don't actually know this about her,
she is actually quite successful in multiple platforms. So she's got about 700k on TikTok,
I think. And she's written a number of like decently successful Spotify songs as well.
So the dynamic of like relying on him for her platform isn't as true. In fact, I think she's
helped him go viral on TikTok multiple times. So their relationship actually is a little bit
at least in platform, helping a little bit actually more equitable than like mine would
be, for example. Just to make sure that that's known, because there's another there's another
dynamic in there. You can't make you can't really make money on TikTok. And I don't know what
Spotify but you can't make money on TikTok the way you can on Twitch and YouTube. So there might be
an added financial component because it's very hard to move your your audience between platforms.
You know, if you have a million sub TikTok, you might have like a 70,000 sub YouTube, right? So
if you have a platform that just isn't monetizable, it doesn't in terms of like how much
money you're making it matters a whole lot less, you know. So there might still be that financial
incentive here. Yeah, possibly. I thought on TikTok after you have 100k subs, you can start making
dollars per view as well. That was my understanding. But maybe I'm wrong.
And there's, um, there is a pretty big TikToker with several million
called call me Chris. She's out in Vancouver, actually. And she revealed recently that she
makes nothing on TikTok. Zero, not a single cent. And it's like, holy shit.
So I'm glad I moved off that site. Holy shit. It's so scummy. That's crazy.
Okay, well, if you'd like to hear the screaming, I'm having fun. Okay. So your insight says like
outsider because you're like, you're not really in the orbit, right? So you're like,
kind of like an outsider viewing from within is really interesting. Can you see this?
I know a lot. I can. Yeah, I know a lot of the people like I know. I know who Destiny is. And
I know who you are. I know taftaj is, you know, I know who Stardust is, but I'm not in the circle,
you know, circle. I know. Um, there was shit, there's something I want to say. And I don't
remember what it is. It's gone. Left my head. She gone. Are you good? If I watch it 1.5,
I tend to watch. Oh, sure. I can watch it 2.2. If you want. My chat usually loses their shit.
If I watch that too. I have actually a thing downloaded so I can watch it at three. But I
find if I'm watching it at three times speed, I have to actually watch it and not just have
it on in the background. I can do three, but I have to really be focused on it.
Yeah. Yeah, me too. I Yeah. And I usually try to passively consume content. Same. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. Ready? Ready. Should we go from the beginning?
How? Oh, 30 minutes. Okay. Sure. Sure. There's a 30 minute section where there's nothing happening.
Okay. Right. Have all my sources, my links, my docs. I usually take time to like get everything
in a row. Have all my sources, my links, my docs, my manifest. Just tell me if you want to pause it.
A little bit. For reasons that will become apparent. And I don't think this one is quite
crank it to max in mind. Can you crank up a little bit as it's coming through to me?
Because it's kind of quiet. Sure. Let me try doing this.
Is that is that better? It's like the same.
Nope, it's good now. That's okay. Okay. We're gonna we're gonna wing it.
A new manifest doesn't work. Come back into a formal write up. I guess
live and impromptu improv manifesto.
I like his new emote, the skull emote, the nah.
Should I should I smoke a little bit? Or should I just fucking go trying to try to think? Actually,
you know what? Before we do this, let me see how this is gonna go. Let's see how this is gonna go.
Hold on. If I get over 900, I've got to go to the washroom, but I have wireless headphones.
Are you fucking kidding me? I'm gonna keep listening. Don't worry about it.
I'll be back in a minute. Okay. Okay.
Okay, this.
This situation actually really sucks. Generally, we're gonna go back. Let me take you back a few
months. Generally, when I meet people online, there is very limited interaction that I have
at such a level to where I can cut a person off. I wouldn't care. It's incredibly rare. It's like
three people in my life would affect me. But after a few months ago, after a few months ago,
I had a tumultuous interpersonal thing that happened. And I was like, okay, well,
here's like a lesson I think that I've learned from myself. I'm gonna reach out and talk to
more people offline to try to have more like human friendly ish type relationships. Because
that's what like, um, that's what human beings do. Maybe be good for me. And one of those people
was our good friend Max. And another one of those people before she became a streamer was lab.
So with her, like a few months ago, she wasn't really into the whole
destiny.
Oh, yeah. I'll make it smaller. Yeah.
Oh, yeah. Did that work?
Well, not really, but they've eased up on destiny at themes.
Oh, streaming thing. So I didn't really think much of it. It's like, oh,
random person I've spoken to before, whatever. And, uh, yeah. Yikes. So
where do we even begin? What happened?
Am I crazy to think that love has hope? So here's, here's the issue.
I don't have perfect transparency. Okay. I don't normally make, so here's something that I've
learned in my life. Okay. One of the reasons why I think I'm quite intelligent and quite good at
dealing with people generally, because I'm usually pretty humble about the extent of my knowledge on
a person. So like, I might say, or think that I have a person like 90% figured out, but I'll
really only act on like 50% because like, truly, you don't know, like, I'm not going to sit here
like, oh, I mind read you completely. I figured you out 100% blah, blah, blah. Usually I get an
inkling, I'll ask more questions, interact with somebody more. If somebody would ever ask me,
and I've said this a lot on stream before, somebody asked me, how well, how do you know
if you truly know a person? How long do you need? Like, I can do it in 10 minutes. And some people
do it in hours. Usually I say, well, if I've gone through like a really big situation with somebody
and they could have fucked me over, then I'll know what that person's like. That's generally
like my approach. I usually wait to see until big situations happen. And then I kind of get like a
handle on, on what people truly are like. So that being said, generally when I'm like reading people
on stream, I'm usually pretty reserved in what I'm saying. I usually don't give like all of my
just because I don't know 100% and because it's whatever, but I'm going to be a little
bit more candid with my impressions now. I don't actually think that Lav or Anna or
Shaylin are that much in the wrong. I think that max is actually like a full-on narcissistic
manipulator. Who's abusive to every single person in his orbit, probably worse than any other person
I've ever seen in my entire life. I kind of got that inkling over the Shaylin videos, but
truthfully, I'm willing to extend like, well, maybe there's stuff I'm not seeing. Maybe there's
something I don't understand. Yeah. You know, like maybe there's something going on behind the scenes
or whatever. Um, so I'm like willing to wait for data to come in, but especially watching him
interact with Lav on his stream and then seeing how Lav has changed her disposition and then seeing
the types of messages that Anna sends me now, and then hearing about what Shaylin is saying
on the logic stream. Now I understand way more like what's. Can I jump in here a bit? Yeah,
for sure. So two things. Um, one while you've been doing this,
Chad logic has been doing the Shaylin interview and, uh, I messaged him and I was like,
I watched the VOD later cause I'm going to do something, but what's been going on in the
Shaylin interview. And he says, apparently some spicy things have happened in the Shaylin interview.
So, okay. There's a lot of, uh, shit stirring. I suspect we're about to see a massive civil
war and separation of certain orbiters probably. No, no orbiter will be, will be left. Everyone
must, everyone must take all we'll be victims of the great civil war. Uh, even, even started us
assuming about it. Now she switched over from election coverage to destiny, Mr. Girl. Yeah.
Max has a certain impression. He's able to, the second thing I wanted to point out. No,
for sure. The second thing is, um,
there's probably some psych way to describe this that I don't, I don't know, but I think there's
like, I don't want to word this. I haven't, I haven't vocalized this idea before. It's only
been in my head. So I'm trying to figure out, um, when you see somebody do something,
it's actually not important what you're seeing. What's important is what state of mind that
they're likely to have while they're doing it. Does that make sense? Explain it. It's like,
um, okay. Let's, let's see. If I told you that I had a girlfriend whose name was Naomi,
was Naomi. There's a few things that I could be doing when I, when I do this,
I could be saying to you, I have a girlfriend named Naomi. And in reality, I actually have
a girlfriend named Naomi, or I could be lying to you. I could be saying, I could be saying,
I want you to think for some ulterior motive reason that I have a girlfriend named Naomi,
but I don't actually, and it's going to depend how you take what I'm saying to you is going to
depend on how likely you think either of those, um, mind States that I have is.
Okay. Okay. So I've, I've seen a bunch of Max's stuff and I actually, um,
messaged him to interview him. Uh, but he never, he never got back to me. Um, because he reminded
me of me when I was 19, I see a lot of similarities between him and I, before I went through my
complete like life ruination. Um, and I was like, this is very interesting because I see a lot of,
like, you know, I wasn't, there were some bad components of myself that I think I've at least
kind of tamed as I've gotten older and I see them in him and I'm like, I want to talk to this guy.
Right. Um, which never happened, but I have been watching his stuff. And when Destiny says,
I think Max is like a, you know, as I call it, a psychotic manipulator of the highest degree,
you know, as soon as he said that I was, I was in the washroom, but as soon as he said that I was
like, I had these flashes in my mind of like certain things, nothing concrete that I can
think of right, right on right now. But I had flashes of like certain things he had said,
certain feelings that I had towards him where it's like, it could be the case that you're telling the
truth, but if you were lying about this thing, it's actually highly probable that this is what
you would say. This is the lie you would tell if you were lying, if that makes sense.
Well, yeah, it's the issue of like, it's like the kind of like, it's almost in a way like the body
language analysis where it's like the exact thing that you would express if you wanted to convince
people that you weren't being deceptive might also look identical to non deceptive behavior.
Yes, yes. I was trying to, I, I kind of brush at the surface of this when I was talking to
Stardust, but it wasn't really the conversation. So I didn't get into it. I said, I vocalize
something like, um, deception versus intuition. Ultimately deception wins because a perfect
deceptor will look completely identical to the real thing to a perfect intuitionist.
Well, there's another factor in here, which is the self-deceptor, right? There's somebody who knows
that they're lying and who will try to like maintain a certain look and the perfect
intentional deceptor. You can't tell from that, but there are also another category, which is the
self-deceptors. So they don't realize that they've lied to themselves. So they're living under the
lie, like the intentional liar, but they believe the lie to be true. And so they're also typically
going to look just like authenticity because they are authentically reacting to the situation.
The problem is that they have misconstrued it. This is the most common cause of fights,
for example, right? You miscommunicate, you misunderstand what a person's trying to say.
And so you take it in one way when it was intended in a different way. And now you have all sorts of
feelings and thoughts and emotions when actually all your feelings, thoughts, emotions, and
criticisms of the other person are based on like essentially like a self-deception because you've
misunderstood what went on. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So I guess that that's like the other possibility
where you misunderstand. Right. No, I think I understand what you're saying because what I
was talking about is if they're actively trying to deceive you. Yeah. Right. When they're actively
trying to like when I when I listen to Max talk. It's it seems like the stuff he is saying
is the stuff that you would say if you were lying and actually meant the opposite.
But it also could still be true, like that's the problem with it, right? It's
I'm having a hard time putting this in words. I don't.
It's it's something like. What makes a certain behavior important isn't what the behavior
looks like. It's what states of mind that make that make that behavior more or less probable.
It's something like that. I'm sorry. This is the kind of the edge of my understanding right now.
And so when you're looking at Max, are you basically trying to understand
like the state of mind to basically make a proper interpretation of the behavior?
Yeah. So when I see Max, a lot of the things he says are things that you would say if you were
lying or being deceptive and you wanted to come off as not looking like you're lying or being
deceptive. Right. And that that seems to be like his bread and butter almost. I see that in like
every stream he's on every video he's on those at least one moment where I'm like,
oh, this is one of these, you know? Yeah. And just seems to be like a component,
like a core, almost a core component of his personality, at least his online personality.
Anyway, yeah, I've really struggled with Max constantly because I waffle between
are you self-deceptive or intentionally deceptive? Because you're one of these two things. I don't
know which it is. And you don't think you ever think he's actually telling the truth or.
I think if you're telling the truth, but your truth is based on a false perception
and a small amount of introspection could correct that false perception,
it's functionally a lie as well. Yeah, fair enough. Yeah.
I do actually have a girlfriend in Naomi, by the way, just for the record.
That wasn't that is true. OK, guys, that is true.
But then again, if I want you to think that's what I would say.
Yeah, and the issue is that like Max has a continued repeated pattern
of building a feeling some way about somebody typically upset her angry toward them for
whatever reason. And he goes resentful and bitter toward them, like I don't think he's just angry.
I think he's like resentful, maybe even hateful. I can't read that much, but he for sure has
strong negative emotions toward them. And all of a sudden he can't go. These are just my feelings.
This person's fucked up. Margin of error. Humans exist within some element margin of error.
It somehow becomes this person must be evil, malicious and wrong. And then he goes out of
his way to make a moral crusade. So now this isn't actually about his feelings. His feelings were an
intuition that told him something about the person's character and what he's deduced based
on his feelings originally is that this person is evil, malicious and wrong. And then he goes on
a moral crusade that he paints as some greater reaching good, which is what he did with the Dr.
K. I am concerned about psych ethics and the treatment of this psychiatrist, the people who
come out on a stream. But it was never about psych ethics because he said from the very beginning
with me that if the board did not decide in his favor, which it looks like they will not do,
he would basically take it up and attack the board next because there was no way for him to possibly
be wrong about his deductions about psych ethics, which means it's not about psych ethics. It's
about your feelings and you've just made a moral vendetta out of it. And he did this with Britney.
And it sounds like he's doing it again with destiny. And the problem is in this case,
destiny is a close friend who actually relied on him and got vulnerable with him, which is like
literally the thing Max has said destiny is worst at.
I see. Um, well, in terms of the psych ethics thing, like is, is Mr. Girl like involved in
the psych sphere enough to know, to know what constitutes bad ethics?
His dad and his grandpa are psychologists. And I've heard mixed reports. Some people have told
me that he has a degree in psychology, but then when you look up like past articles on him,
they report him as having a degree in gender studies. So I'm not sure maybe he's got a major
and minor and I don't know which are which. Well, to be fair, my minors in gender studies,
so my degree is even more useless. So but, um, okay, let's see here. Um,
there's something I had again, and I also lost it. I feel like my memory is going in my old age.
Oh, man. Should we keep going? See if it comes back? Or chats?
Sure. Go ahead. Go.
Really abuse or gaslight or manipulate people around him into feeling a certain way.
And he draws them in, in such an unbelievably effective way that he can get them to feel almost
whatever he wants them to. And I think that, um, I think that he's done that now with, uh, with,
uh, with people in his, in people in his immediate orbit. So.
Oh, I do have a question though, really quick. What I was trying to, where do we go? It didn't
work. Um, what I was trying to describe to you, did that have like any kind of basis in
psychology or is that like a, like a fallacy or an effect or something? Or is it just like
something I've pulled out of my ass? Sorry. The stuff on psychology was, is what?
Oh, um, when I mentioned the importance of a behavior is not what it looks like, but,
but what the person's mind state is likely to be is more or less likely to be when,
is that like a fallacy or is it a, is it like a known psych thing? Is it like,
because I like, I'm not educated enough to know what these things actually are, or if somebody
else has described this before. So I'm just wondering if it's like a thing.
Uh, I mean, you could argue, maybe I've never heard it. Um, it's probably more of a philosophy
if it's anything, um, kind of like a philosophy of human, which in fairness, like psychology and
philosophy are like deeply interlinked for obvious reasons. In fact, psychology is born out of
philosophy. Um, yeah, so no, but it's a really interesting, it's a unique, it's at least gotten
me thinking so good job. I've never been exposed to it before. Well done.
Let's, let's keep going though. Yeah. Work on you though. Well,
because obviously I'm not, I'm not going to be labeled, not like that. Okay.
Okay. Um,
let's, I'm trying to think of the order I want to do this in. Let me put together what I think,
what I think Max's mind looks like. I think, okay. This is what I think.
I think that Max is extremely narcissistic. And when I say narcissistic, what I mean by that is
I don't know if Max can ever be wrong about anything. I don't know if he ever sees himself
as being in the wrong. I think that if something happens and it is wrong because other people
either don't understand or other people are trying to abuse him or other people are making mistakes
that just puts them outside of the ability to understand what's going on inside of his head.
I've noticed this conversationally when he talks to people, he seems unwilling to ever back off
a read he has on somebody. And I've noticed this when it comes to settling interpersonal drama with
the stuff with Lex Friedman or that professor that he blew up on a stream or that he blew up
on Twitter. It seems like he can't ever take any kind of feedback there. And I've noticed it. Um,
oh, there's one more thing I was gonna say. I think, um, I was gonna say professionally,
um, happens in a personally happens during conversations. Oh, we're going to get to me
that where, um, anytime, anytime something negative happens, it's, it's always some other
person's fault. It's always like another person that's making these mistakes. Um,
so I think the scary thing is that in Max's mind, uh, hero, his own.
Okay. In your experience with, with Max, has it ever come off as, um, when he does what
destiny is describing here, has it ever come off as like a defense mechanism shrouded in jokes?
Because I know a lot of, a lot of men do that where like, when they're wrong about something,
they'll be like, ah, fuck you. I'm, I'm actually right. But that, but they know they're wrong and
they're just kind of like making light of it. What destiny just did just there or what max does.
Sorry. Uh, what destiny is describing max is doing as like, like when destiny said like max
never views himself as wrong. He never takes criticism. Um, it's pretty common among like
male friends when they're criticized their acceptance of the criticism is them saying,
ha ha, fuck you. I'm right in kind of like a jokey way. Does that sound like what max does?
I actually don't find that max does the escape through humor that much. Um, I think because in
part he like really would criticize it. It is a very classic thing men do in general,
um, that I've noticed it's like a distinctive, like, I think all people do it, but I noticed
that like the classic band thing, I'll be like, as soon as we're getting into like any level of
like fee fees, we like avoid through humor, um, which is like adaptive and functional.
I don't feel like I've noticed max doing it that much though, personally.
Okay. All right. Yeah. Sorry.
World and nothing can get in the way of that. Like if he's on a mission, if he's on a crusade,
he has to like, he's the only one that can task with figuring things out. And if you
misunderstand, you just have to talk to like his most loyal fans. They'll tell you you're
not smart enough to understand if you don't otherwise. Right. So damn, I'm trying to think
of how much I can even say. Um, a few days ago, uh, I started to get a whole bunch of messages
from people saying that I'm not gonna say who, but it's been a lot, a lot of people that have been
reaching out to me saying that max has been contacting every single woman I've ever had in
my discord in the background and a whole bunch of men trying to get lists of women that I've ever
spoken to. And in his mind, he's built up this idea that I have a, essentially the following
fetish that I approach a woman. I float the idea of her being on my stream. If she fucks me,
I fucked the woman. Then I bring her on stream and I have my entire fan base attacker because
I get off on that. And then I run her out of my community. And I think he's built almost this
entire narrative off of mining Anna Vienna personally for stories and information. I don't
know when they started talking, but I think that he's really good at talking to people and building
them up in the ways that they want to be built up so that he can get the information from them
that they want to give him. And yeah, him and Anna have been talking a lot in the background.
He's got this archetype or narrative in his head for how I treat women on my stream. And he's also
got love who I just love reveal that we hooked up. Now you know how fucking irritating it was.
Every time she would claim that I'm only defending a woman because we hooked up on the blah, blah,
blah, but I can't be public on the fact that we hooked up. So between him live and Anna,
now he has in his head, he's built up this archetype and his head up. This is what Steven
does to people. I've got two women here who maybe feel abused or mistreated by his community.
And then what he's doing is he's trying to find every other girl that I've spoken to,
to see if that he could get similar stories out of them. Now, I don't know how many women he's
talked to so far, 10 or 20 or 30 or more. I know that he's been trying desperately to get in
contact with people like Denims and Bad Bunny. I know that he's messaged a ton of people asking
for lists of women that I've spoken to. I know that when I found this out two days ago, I started
going down my list of friends and right clicking and doing the properties. And I suddenly started
to notice that Mr. Girl was mutual friends with every single girl on my friends list that I've
ever spoken to. And I think what he's doing, and I can't prove this, I don't know, but if anybody
wants to come for a show, I think what he's doing is he's calling all of these people in the
background. And I think that he's asking them through long conversations or trying to convince
them that I'm doing something improper or wrong. Wow.
This is extra frustrating for a few different- That might be a spot.
Yeah. What do you think of that?
Basically disgusting. I don't know how else to say it. Destiny is Max's lifeline for a career. So
people are trying to be like, Max is just trying to gain more clout. He's just going on another
attack to save his career. I don't know if it's that simple. Max is convinced that he's the
righteous moral crusader. And he holds to this probably unhealthily and he will do so at the
cost of his career. I think that's evident because attacking Destiny, like Destiny probably has,
doesn't he use Destiny's website formatting and all this sorts of stuff? He's his last lifeline
on YouTube. He made his career in a lot of ways. So I really do see it as like this moral crusade,
but rather than giving his friend any level of benefit of the doubt, not just like friend.
Like Destiny just said that he opened up, he said, I'm going to try doing friendship because people
told me that that's the right thing to do to be more of a human. So I opened up and was vulnerable
with Max and Lav and a couple of other people. And so for Max to like, know that Max has
ultimately regularly said that Steven is like shut down, that he's like got problems in his
relationships. And then to do this behind Steven's back is like the ultimate betrayal of friendship
in like a pretty extreme way. And I think it's gross. Like, I think it's actually really gross.
And the problem is that like Max is not the champion for women. He was never be a champion
that I would select for women. Every woman who has been on stream, who has disagreed with them,
he has aggressively attacked. I have been doxxed. I have had my work companies contacted by some of
his crazy fans. I have had multiple of his fans from burner counts send me nasty things to me
and Steven. I've been attacked ruthlessly by his fans. And in large part, most of the questioning
about my credentials comes in large part from Max. And a lot of people basically saying that
I have no salt to stand on, that I have no credence to anything I say on psychology
is in large part from him. He's basically implied that I am worse than a rape apologist within
psychology and that clients aren't safe with me, right? Like, and this isn't just me. Then
Brittany Simon disagreed with him on things. He went on the attack with her, right? The first
time that like Stardust basically like put up a fucking boundary with him, he went on the attack
with her instead of weaponizing her like previous lice experiences against her to get the boundary
to go down, which is, she just said, I just like, I just need to cool down and blah, blah, blah,
and to like make his major point. Like he has this consistent pattern with women that it's like,
don't you fucking now use women's experiences to try to attack your friend because you're mad that
you got banned on his discord. Don't fucking do it. It's not a moral crusade. It's a petty fight
that you're making worse. And it's fucking gross. It's insane to me. This is insane. I can't like,
this is worse than Boston Hassan combined for sure. Um, I entirely agree with everything that
you've said. Do you mind if I steal me on the other side for a bit? Sure. Go for it. Okay.
Going, going back to the start of the stream, when I said something like,
if you have a belief about the world to you, it's not a belief. It's the way the world is.
If Max genuinely believed in his, in his deepest heart of hearts, that destiny actually was some
sort of abuser, and he was going to go on what he thinks is actually a righteous crusade against
women, or sorry, against destiny for all the women he's abused and he's collecting all this evidence.
It seems like this would be exactly how a person like that would behave.
He would be calling these people and he would be talking to them and he'd be trying to
understand what's going on. So it's, it's, it's not immediately obvious to me that he's,
that he's just evil. He might actually believe this stuff delusionally.
The issue is if you believe in a self lie to the extent that it does an unabashed amount of damage
to everyone around you, at what point do we not say, I don't know if I still want to say evil,
evil is a really big word, but how do we not say this is obviously deeply wrong?
Yeah, I, I, I do tend to agree with you there. I mean, I'm, I'm trying to see it from his point
of view. I know that's why I want you here. Fucking base gig at Chad steel manner.
And, and like, even from his point of view, like, let's say that max actually believes this,
and let's say he calls up a dozen of these women and a dozen of these women are like,
no, man, everything's fine. I'm sure at least some of them have said that if it actually has
been 20 or 30 women, I'm sure at least a few of them have said things are fine. I think,
I think you reach a point where enough evidence independent of your, your own biases and your own
biases in your own, your own viewpoint, you know, your own subjectivity and enough real world
evidence to stack up that maybe you start questioning your hypothesis. Right. I guess
basically I would say like there are reasonable lease and unreasonable beliefs and a rational
actor must be held account for their unreasonable beliefs, particularly if your unreasonable beliefs
are being targeted and aimed towards somebody that you claimed, I will never betray you.
And who you claimed is a good friend of yours and that you love, right? This is not what love
looks like eat land. Like here's the thing. Let's assume that he does think that this is going on
when you love somebody and they've, and they're doing a really bad thing that a loving person
still addresses the behavior. I'm not saying that if he actually thinks that this is going on,
that he should just yes, man, and dismissed it. Let's, let's assume in the worst case that he
act like, cause I believe that he does believe this to some degree. And he actually is worried
that there's like an abuse pattern that's being established here, but this is also a friend that
you love. So the question is, if you're actually thinking in any way about a person that you love
and the victims and being responsible with the enormity of the claims that you're trying to make
and putting together a reasonable actor does not act in this way. This to me looks like
petulant behavior driven by anger and motivated thinking to construe a re a narrative based on
his unreasonable belief in a situation. Yeah. And that's the problem. Yeah.
That or max is crazy enough to just be disregarded. But if we're going to take his claim
seriously at all, then we have to seriously look at how he's behaving. And if you're
making this size of claim against somebody, you claim that you love with potentially abuse,
sexual abuse, allegations of multiple women, you owe it to the women and to your friend to be as
maximally responsible as possible. And in no way is this maximally responsible.
Okay. I think I've, I think, I think, I think my brain just expanded a size or two here. Okay.
Okay. All right. One of the, one of the Yudowskian things that I learned when I was studying that
sort of stuff was an argument that he called privileging the hypothesis and privileging
hypothesis. It goes something like this. Okay. It's something like, let's say you live in a city
with a million people. Okay. And then a murder happens in the city. And then it's your job to
figure out who who's the murderer. And you have no evidence at all. You have no evidence about
who could, who could the murderer, the murderer me. And then you decide to say, I think it's you,
Dev. You point the finger at me. You're the murderer. And I'm like, Oh, I'm the murderer.
You're pointing me out. I'm the murderer. With no, with no proof at all. You just have a hypothesis
that it might be me. And then it comes out later that a witness saw that the murderer had brown
hair and I have brown hair. So now you're like, Oh, my hypothesis was correct. Dev has brown hair.
I think he's the murderer. The murderer had brown hair. And so now you start running,
you start investigating and you start finding more evidence that pins me as the murderer. Now,
in reality, I wasn't the murderer, but because you started with a faulty hypothesis, your
investigation is going to naturally lead you in a way that makes you think like you're, you're
getting at the truth, but you're actually not. Yes. And so this is why I would say here, not
being in that case, you're engaging in motivated thinking. If you actually want to take a charge
of murder seriously, or sexual abuse seriously, you need to do better thinking than that. And
you're responsible for being a fool in your process. For example, if he genuinely thought
that this was serious, why didn't he approach women who he knows that he has contention with
and is maybe somewhat more warm towards destiny to vet the opposing side. For example, why didn't
he approach me or somebody else who's maybe more friendly, right? It's very market. The women that
are getting included, um, by like at least Lav and Max, that to me is extremely suspicious and begs
that there's motivated thinking, if not intentionally being done, horrifically,
irrationally done to a level that is basically disregardable. And if it is intentionally done
and he realizes that there are certain people who will not yes, man, his story, and he's not
approaching them. Now you're now you're a malicious actor.
Yeah, yeah. So you see this a lot in like the, the YouTube video essayist community,
where people will find that they will find evidence, real evidence that suits their their
views. And then they'll present that evidence in a very responsible way. But evidence that
specifically goes against their views, they won't present it at all, the pretend doesn't exist.
And so they go down one tree of logic, and they come to correct conclusions, and they have
correct ideas. But they're completely ignoring everything else that is also true that causes
them problems. And when it comes to a more serious thing like this, where you're accusing somebody of
something you kind of have to have you have to, you have to explore all the ways in which you
might be wrong. Before you start like going on the warpath, you know what I mean? And if you don't,
then it just it seems like you have a preset idea that you're that you're you're privileging
the hypothesis. That's what my this area of the internet that I'm in calls it.
Which is why it's very good that you're here to steal land against me because I want to be as
doing my best. But to not do that, I'm glad it's useful. Acknowledge my biases. Number one,
I've had a growing frustration with Max, I exchange him a massive margin of error,
even after he treated me horrifically twice and then refused to engage with me on anything but
the thing where he wanted to basically berate me over. And I was still charitable towards him. In
fact, I did a documentary still speaking decently, warmly about him. And then I watched how we treated
Stardust. And then I watched how he treated Steven in the past stuff. And I will admit,
I have a strong disdain for him now. So I am definitely biased against Max. And Steven is
a good friend of mine, genuinely a good friend, like on and off stream. And no, we're not fucking
sexual. It's very hard to find a tonic mature older streamers to be friends with. I'm sure
you probably know that personally. And so I think they somewhat cling to one another.
It is it is less of a problem with me because I'm a guy but I do know what you mean. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Brittany Sime is another person that I would say I'm personally friends with
off stream as well. She's very, very mature and whatnot.
Really? She's kind of out there.
She's got strange ideas, but she's like, a very good person, like a deeply, deeply good person.
She's got some bad ideas. And like, there's certain things where I could be like, okay,
Brittany, fuck, don't say that shit. Like, Jesus. Yeah, but she does care. Okay,
let's keep going. Everyone's like, we're like an hour behind now.
reasons. One is because there are some people that Mr. Girl, I think can only confront because
of very personal, very private information that I've told him. So he's taken that information.
And he's basically used it to lie to other people or attack me in the background, which is
very frustrating, because it's very rare that I share a secret with somebody don't have very many.
Wait, wait, wait, hold on. He's taken girl, I think can only confront because of very personal,
very private information that I've told him. So he's taken that information. And he's basically
used it to lie to other people or attack me in the background, which is very frustrating,
because it's very rare that I share a secret with home. Did you hear that?
Yep. Yep. That's, that's pretty rough. Fuck that. This is even worse than that. Fuck everything.
I'm like trying to be like, let's try to hear the other side, but holy fuck. Can you imagine
somebody with trust issues finally opens up, tells you very personal information,
and then you weaponize that against them elsewhere in a private space. What the fuck is wrong with
you? Does destiny of trust, trust issues? I don't know that about him.
Uh, I would say so. I would say any streamer last in this space for too long.
It's probably pretty big. Trust. I mean, I mean, I don't. I mean, I've been here for a while. And
I've had multiple cancelings and backstabbings. But I mean, I'm,
I can, you know what, I maybe I'm just unique. I consider everyone I talk to a friend until they
show me they're not a friend. So I have many friends. Also, the world's better that way when
I have many friends. I feel like I, somebody just said, did you say Brittany has bad ideas?
I don't think actually Brittany has bad ideas. Um, I think that she has ideas that she doesn't
always communicate super well. So people understand them, but actually a lot of her
ideas are really, really interesting and smart and cool. So yeah. Oh, sounds neat.
So that's one thing that's very irritating. And then two, cause I think I was genuinely like a
pretty good friend to Max and Lav. Although I guess they both don't feel that way because
my subreddit should have them for awhile. Um, but like, I'm not sure, I guess in the future,
I need to write like strict rules for, um, I need to write strict rules for how people are going to
interact with me on stream or something, because I guess if the subreddit is mean to them for a few
days, they're going to lose their fucking mind. I guess a quick steel man, a quick steel man,
I could probably insert here is something like a lot of whenever you have like viewers interacting
with streamers or, or small YouTubers are interacting with large YouTubers, there's
definitely a knee jerk reaction. That's pretty common that if the personality themselves treats
you well, but their audience treats you poorly, that reflects on the personality. And I don't
think that's fair, but I think it's common. Yeah. And there's this trick where like,
how much are you accountable to your community? Like how much is the community reflection of you?
Cause I think it is to some extent of reflection of you. Um, the issue is that
destiny is somebody who's very critical. He's critical of his friends and he's critical of
the world. And he tends to be very open about that. I mean, he, I remember like the first,
one of the first times we had like a, a chat, like one-on-one, he was like, I need you to be
warned that I'm a big asshole. So like, I don't want to, I don't want to mince words about that.
It's super fair if that's like, not for you, but I'm not like, I'm not going to pretend,
just, I really want you to understand that. And that's like, I've watched your, a bit of your
content. I'm fully aware that you're an asshole. Um, right. He's very, very blunt and dry and like
prone to criticism and not very prone to compliments as well. Right. Because in many
ways, this is a projection of Steven. He doesn't find compliments meaningful and he finds criticisms
helpful and interesting and kind of fun. Right. And so like, he only offers what he kind of
appreciates, but the problem is that that's not the same for everyone else, which he realizes,
but it's hard to operate outside of your own, like essentially quote unquote, love language.
That, that sounds kind of like me too, but I do like compliments from my girlfriend,
at least that's nice. That's true. But yeah, like I also see, I also someone who
I also love when Naomi compliments me. Oh, Oh, okay. I see how it is.
Yeah. Um, Oh, this is so bad and sad.
That entire fucking stream with erudite was fucking disgusting,
where he's pushing to share shit with him to prove that you love him. Yeah. It's pretty weird.
But, um, I think at the end of the day, I think that he's just like, again, highly narcissistic,
highly manipulative. And, um, yeah, that's kind of what, that's just what he does.
How many different people did you confirm that he contacted? Uh, I'm not gonna release numbers
because I don't really want him to know what I know. Is he doing this because of the subreddit
stuff? I don't really know what flipped the switch in his mind. Do you have any evidence or receipts?
I have a ton of evidence and a ton of receipts. Of course. I'm not gonna go public with something
like this with somebody that shady without obviously having some idea of what's actually
going on in the background manifesto time. Oh, I don't really want to quote any of these in
particular because I don't want him to know who sent me stuff, but he used phrases alluding to
the fact that I like very carefully choose which women I want to victimize. Um, he's repeated this
pattern that like, my goal is to abuse women by bringing them on stream and having my community
make fun of them after I fuck them. Um, you had laugh today, alluding to the fact that I guess
I'm Harvey Weinstein on stream because I have sex with a lot of people that come through my
community, which I'm gonna do. But, um, the, the way that I always kind of saw it going in my head
is if anybody ever tried to me to me, um, all I would ever say to that person is like, Hey, listen,
Oh, you think I was improper? Okay. Well leak all of our DMS. Or if you don't want to, I will
leak our entire DM history. Um, because I always figured that like, obviously, um, I usually have
really candid conversations about like my expectations for people like sexually or
whatever. Um, so like, like for instance, these are messages that I sent back to lab in August.
Okay. Early August. I don't know how many months ago that is. So like, I'll literally say things
like, Oh, Hey, just because you've been on stream more and whatnot. I know we've had some kind of
sexual conversations in the past, but you being on my stream or the way they interact with you
never has anything to do with any of that kind of stuff. Just being clear on that. She says
something and I say, I'm just saying, don't feel like any of your interactions are contingent on
anything like that. You're fine doing whatever. So don't you feel like I'm keeping you around
for anything related to sex, et cetera. Like I usually have very, very, very explicit
conversations with almost everybody about stuff like this. Um, I'll say it, I'll set it a million
times. If anybody out there, any woman ever feels like I'm being improper, feel free to like show
in DMS where I'm pressuring you or growing your journey, where she like that, those DMS don't
exist because it doesn't happen. Um, the only thing that I'm a little bit worried about when
it comes to max is because he's so manipulative. The, the, um, the struggle that I have is that I
think he probably could get like, I actually want to speak to this. So a lot of people assume that
we're having sex, which I will never fully be able to dispel. I actually want to say there was
one moment where we flirted a little bit in like very low key. And I imagine he won't care about
this. And then he immediately was like, Hey, just so you know, I don't know what the boundaries are.
And I want to be really careful. Cause I realized you're married and I don't want to make you or
Nick uncomfortable at any point. So I just need you to like explicitly tell me like,
what are the boundaries in lines are? And I was like, Oh yeah, Nick. And I think that like
flirting is like just another form of like kind of social communication. Um, it would probably
never go beyond that for me personally. Um, so like that would be basically my line is there's
like, never, this would never escalate to anything ever. And I would never want it assumed on the
table more or less. And he was like, okay, based. And now we don't even do that. We're just,
we're just actually just like fully platonic friends. Right. Right. Yeah. Um,
Hmm. Can you rewind it to 30 seconds? If you don't mind. Yeah.
Just being clear on that. Okay. Early August. I don't know how many months ago that is. So like,
I'll literally say things like, Oh, Hey, just because you've been on stream more and whatnot.
I know we've had some kind of sexual conversations in the past, but you being on my stream or the way
they interact with you never has anything to do with any of that kind of stuff. Just being clear
on that. She says something and I say, I'm just saying, don't feel like any of your interactions
are contingent on anything like that. You're fine doing whatever. So when you feel like I'm keeping
you around for anything related to sex, et cetera, like I usually have very, very, very explicit
conversations with almost everybody about stuff like this. Um, I'll say it, I'll set it a million
times. If anybody out there, any woman ever feels like I'm being improper, feel free to like show
in DMS where I'm pressuring you or growing or doing research like that. Those DMS don't exist
because it doesn't happen. Um, the only thing that I'm a little bit worried about when it comes to
max is because he's, um, it's a, it's a strange phenomenon, but I've had at least a dozen people
over the course of, since my channel, you know, hit over a hundred thousand subs,
at least a dozen people send me nudes unprompted. Um, and it's always very strange. I don't know how
to deal with that. You know, it's like, okay, that's, you know, giga chat. I got some nudes,
but like in actuality, it's very strange. I don't, I don't know what to do with that. I don't know
what to say. And you know, there, you know, you can't, there's a power dynamic that comes with
when you're talking to someone that you look up to that I think some, there may be some personality
types of people or some, some types of people, something, some people, they, they're just going
to always feel coerced, even if you're not trying to, you know, so generally, and I've learned that
through a few bad experiences of my own. So I generally just like, don't reply, just a safety,
you know, it was not somebody I know, it was just like a random new drop. I'm just like, nope,
not going to reply to that because I could be like, Oh, that's great. Send me some more. And
then they might feel pressured to do it. Or I can say like, Oh, thank you. Or Oh, don't send me
that. And it feels like nothing I can say, is ever a good thing to say. Because that it might
be the kind of person who just who, I don't know, do you know what I'm saying? I do understand what
you're saying. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know it, too, I guess to even then, though, like, it doesn't
really excuse any of this behavior. But it may be the case that some people just by virtue of
interacting with destiny feel pressured, even if he's not being pressuring, you know?
Yes, I understand that the problem is, at some point when consent is being negotiated explicitly,
if you're still feeling some sort of way, and the other actor has shown to you that they're
very comfortable with an explicit exchange, it's fundamentally on you to voice that. And I know
that sounds like literally been blaming. But the reality is, like, I literally can't imagine a
world. Because, first of all, because of students trust issues, there's no world in which a girl
would text and be like, just you know, I'm feeling a little bit pressured, like sexually, I'm not
sure I'm comfortable with this, where Steve would ever be like, what do you mean? Come on, like,
I can't even picture it. And to be honest, if it had happened, so many people hate this motherfucker
that it would have been leaked by now. Like you would be the most popular girl on the internet,
like overnight, if you had that fucking content. The reality is, like, I'm sure he's very aware of
optics seems like he's very intense about consent. And he's pretty explicit about consent as well.
So it's just like at some point, if you're still feeling like some level of innate pressure,
it is on you to voice that or to step away. Like you have to negotiate this with it.
Yes, by the way, you pause at the great the greatest frame that is a good face.
So manipulative, the struggle that I have is that I think he probably could get like two or
three girls like fucked out of their head, and like, try to get them on stream. Like, oh, yeah,
actually, you know, I think about this, it's kind of feels like really bad, because his community
made fun of me or some shit. And even if I have a really good response, if I get like three or four
girls in a row that all have these types of like emotional stories, it just makes me look bad, no
matter what. I will say that it's extra frustrating that Max is trying to do to me, basically, what
Sherry and Stardust did to him except on a much lesser level, where he like talks to people, hikes
them up, tries to convince them that they were abused, and then tries to get them out. And then
talks to people, hikes them up, tries to convince them that they were abused,
and then tries to get them out. I also think it's really gross that,
despite me and Anna's past shit, me and Anna have been like relatively chill, I think,
for like the past year. I haven't had any complaints about her, no problems or whatever.
Obviously, I think she did better in the past. She thinks I've been better in the past. I haven't
really had any problems with her for like, I don't know, for like a year or more. But Max has
been talking to her a lot in the background now. And I noticed that she's starting to echo a lot
of what Max has told her to me and to other people in DMs. So basically, her, Max, and Lav have been
running around in DMs in the background, basically talking to a ton of people to try to see if there
are people that I've sexually abused or manipulated or anything like that.
There's another really big thing here that this is kind of, there's this really weird misnomer
around ethics specifically, where people feel like if something is risky, it's inherently also
unethical. The issue is riskiness isn't inherently unethical. It's only unethical if you take a risk
and it ends really poorly for somebody. Now it is retroactively unethical, and you're going to be
in big fucking shit, but also sometimes people will take risks and it will work out very well
for all better things. So like power differentials creates a risky situation. There is a little bit
more complex, unspeakable factors that even if you gain explicit consent, always exists in this kind
of abstract, amorphous thing that you can't navigate. The reality though, is that power
dynamics and sexual relationships do and can exist all the time. And a lot of times it's completely
healthy. For example, a very common power differential relationship is men who have sex
and date women, because there is always a power differential between the muscle and physical
capacity of a man compared to a woman. But that doesn't make it unethical that the man is having
sex with the woman. And it doesn't make it a problem that they form a relationship. It means
that there's a higher responsibility on the person with the greater power in specifically that
dynamic to be extra scrupulous and responsible. But that doesn't mean that the relationship in and
of itself is unethical because there's a power differential. And I really fucking hate that this
has been like this weird construction. It's so fucking weird. The only relationships that are
objectively obviously unethical, or when there are codified practices that make it clear that sexual
interactions cannot happen here, because at that point you're being unethical because you're
breaching a codified ethic that everyone has agreed to. I can kind of explain this,
but it might take a long time. And it might be too much of a derail.
Because, yeah, maybe I can just TLDR it without like going into super detail. Um,
there's a component of political theory on the left, that basically does define risk,
and does define differences in in comparative power. And it even defines the very concept of
negotiation as being unethical. And there's a whole wing of political theory on this and
they describe why and they describe how. And it's extremely toxic, because who the fuck actually
thinks like this in real life. But there's a political component to this. And then that
political component, if you believe in this sort of politics, it does filter down into other things
like sexual consent, for example. Yeah, I it would take it would it would be like,
it's already getting late. And it's kind of a derailment. Maybe it's maybe it's a conversation
we could talk about. Yeah, there is, we should throw it in our chat and then pin it.
Because every time we're like, let's chat, we're like, what are we talking about?
But because there is like a political science component of this, this conversation where it's
like, there's some political writers that have delegitimized the very notion of compromise.
And and every interaction with any other person, unless you're complete pure equals and always
is non consensual. It's a crazy line of politics.
Same, it's insane. And it's actually so bad for it. Like it's brain rot. It's actual brain rot.
But yeah, okay, let's, I'll write that in our chat.
Yeah, I'll put it in a text file or something.
Do you regret giving Mr. Girl a career? I don't know. I'm actually really surprised at this. I'm
not gonna lie. I feel like Max is so much to lose by like, I don't think I'll pull the plug on site
because I'm just not that kind of person. Although I think if I did, I don't think anybody would
think that I was in the wrong to do so. Like, I can see his income. I see like everything he does
on the back end of his site that is like running my shit. Like I could have just pulled the plug
on that. I don't know why. I don't know why he would think it like, but then I guess even just
saying that does that make me sound abusive? Like I have no idea. I don't know what the expectations
are. Something that I was gonna go off on. Something that I was gonna go off on related
to the conservative shit is that I'm really, really, really tired. And this has like been
wearing me down a lot over the past few months. The reason why I have good conversations with
people is because I have to try exceedingly hard to meet them where they're at, which is oftentimes
years behind me in terms of emotional maturity. And it is a struggle day in and day out to baby
walk people like lab or Mr. Girl through conversations to show them like, this is like,
this is why everybody hates you. This is why you're contradicting yourself this way around here.
And to be doing that at the same time that they're like constantly attacking me and shitting on me
when I'm applying like every fucking ounce of good faith and credibility I possibly can to
these people. And then they're like turning around and like calling me an abuser or saying that I'm
this or that is very fucking frustrating to me. I'll probably go back to my bunker in a day or two
and I'll probably try to like reconsider the amount of chairability that I extend to people
because it's just, that's a huge burden. Are you afraid that he would leak your secret? I mean,
like he might, the thing that sucks is that like technically none of these leaks really hurt me.
They just hurt other people who want to keep their business secret, which I'll always respect if
other people want to keep their business secret. I like, I'm always cool with that. But I mean,
I guess at this point it's up to those two who seem like they have no boundaries for any of that
now. But yeah, the the Mr. Girl, Shaylin laughs stuff is incredibly fucking creepy. I'm assuming
that Shaylin is a victim of max instead of assuming that she has any agency at all.
That's just the assumption I have because she's so caught in his orbit. But the max conversation
with laugh was actually unbelievable. You've been sexting consistently with Anna for a year.
Me and Anna don't have any problems. We're fine. You haven't, you haven't
been sexting consistently with Anna for a year. Oh my God. He jumps in. Sorry.
I know. I thought he jumped into our call.
You're like, where is he? That's true. Oh my God. Jesus Christ.
I was about to make a joke and say, I have been sexy with Annaver,
but somebody is going to clip that and take it out of context. I have not been sexy with Anna.
So it's clear. Okay. Everything you say. Oh gosh.
He's so loud too. Holy shit. He's so fucking loud. Is it okay on your ears? It's blasting mine.
Yeah. Is he doing like the, the infra Haas thing where he's like cranking his mic up to make sure
he can be heard? I'm not, so I'm not sure. I don't know. Destiny always asks people to
turn their mics down like 15%. So I think it's in part like destiny stuff has probably turned
off a little bit. Okay. But her is a lot. What have I said about her? That's a lie. Tell me
that she stopped you. She did stop me that she locked. Okay. Then why are you sexting
with her still? We're cool. We've been cool for a year, Max. Okay. So you acknowledge
that you've been texting with her for a year. I think, yeah, we've had on and off. Sure.
Consistently this entire time, every single day. No. What is this him admitting that he's doing
sex stuff again with Anna? Yes. What I know about the Anna story kind of sounded like
she was never going to do that again because she kind of went a bit unhinged.
Sounds like they work their stuff out. All right. The reality is like, I don't know.
It's I Yeah, I want to I'm not going to comment on it at all because I don't know what's public.
From what I from from a complete outsider's point of view, it sounded like this was somebody that
it would be wise to never do anything with again. But you know, you can, I guess he does.
But Max, listen to me. Do you understand that we've been fine for a year?
When you say we've been fine. That includes that you've been sexting for a year. Sure. Yes.
Okay. So when you're saying that she is locking you in the basement of her mind or that she's a
traumatic stalker person who's your victim, you have all these people. Can you can you
acknowledge that? I haven't said anything bad about her for a year. I said we've been fine.
I said the last time I talked to you about her like two weeks ago or 16 days ago or something,
you said that she locked you in the basement of her mind. It was a traumatic experience for you.
Yeah. Because a year or two ago, she spent two years nonstop talking about me no matter what I
did. You understand that that was a year ago. If you pull up clips on my stream ever since I moved
to Miami, I've always said me and Anna are cool. It's chill. Like she used to be, I would say,
a stalker or she used to be like, whatever, but we're cool. We've been fine for like a year,
literally. Okay. So this, the fact that you've been sexting with her is already absorbed into
your narrative about this. Do you think that changes anything? Yes, absolutely. I think it.
Okay. Have I talked shit about her this past year? Yes. The last time I talked to you,
you said that she locked you in the basement of her mind. Locked me in the past. In the past,
Max. Oh, okay. Why, tell me, Max, why hasn't Anna come forward with any of this information now?
Can you tell me or do you want me to tell everybody why? I don't want to speak on her
behalf. Okay. I will. It's because she said she literally wants to remain friends with me. And
she said that, and I've had that conversation multiple times. Are you sure you want to be
friends? Are you sure about this? And she's like, yeah, this is fine. It's cool. She talks to me.
We talk about her shit. Sometimes she loops on stream. Sometimes she talks about her fucking
loops. Like, yeah, that's fine. But that's why she won't go public. It's because she's literally
told you. And I know she's told you this. And she told me this. Like, yeah, I still want to be
friends with you. I was like, okay, fine, whatever. I don't really care that much. It's fine. That's
cool. You've got a problem. She loops. Sometimes she talks to me about it and then that's it.
Okay. You've built your entire narrative on this one story. And again, to repeat,
I'm gonna ask you, this entire narrative that I'm like abusing women sexually, but I'm gonna
ask you again. Have I said anything bad about her over the past year? I said in the past,
things were bad, but I have seen, I have seen the logs, dude. I have seen her asking you,
Hey, why are you calling me a stalker on stream? What's going on? Why is that happening? Yeah.
When she gets into her loops, but I don't call her a stalker. I said she used to. And then
within two more, two more lines, you're saying you're sending her videos. It depends. Our
conversations move back and forth. Sure. Okay. So have you seen the conversation?
Like, Hey, do you want to be friends? You don't want to be friends. You want to do this,
but like, yeah, we've had plenty of conversations and you can go and ask her where, Hey, have you
hold on? No, no, hold on. Cause you're, I know the narrative you're trying to sell where she's
explicitly saying I'm keeping her on like some weird, like sexually abusive stream. When I've
asked her plenty of times, like, do you still want to talk to you? I want to do whatever.
And she's like, okay, well, as long as you want to, sure. That's fine. But I haven't
shit talked to her on stream. Sometimes she loops on her stream about me. I don't respond to it on
my stream. And I say, everything's cool. Like we're pretty chill. And then boom. That's it.
Well, the narrative I have is that while she is getting publicly dog piled by your community
and is labeled as a stalker, she's labeled as a crazy person in a stalker that no one is allowed
to talk about. And it'll have even mentioning her to you made you threatened to cut laugh off
permanently. Why is she considered a crazy person in my community? That's not, I'm not answering
that question. That's not talking about it's important because you're blaming it implicitly
on me. Me and Anna have talked about this before. It doesn't matter. It matters where the facts
come from. It's a fact that Anna is labeled as a stalker in your community. Okay, hold on. I'm
meeting you for a second. Okay. So what's happened is, is when Anna goes live on her stream and then
she starts looping that gets attention on places like Kiwi farms. Oh, he left. Okay. Easy. Boom.
So is the, is, is, is it possible that the difference between them is that Max feels
like destiny is far more responsible for the actions of his community than destiny feels like
he is? Yes, he basically thinks that destiny needs to, so here's the issue. I don't know what
specifically he wants destiny to do other than basically never levy criticisms at any of his
friends. Uh, because when in fairness, when destiny criticizes somebody, a lot of people
in DGG very much respect him. So if there is an element where destiny can frame the structure of
the narrative, right? So if he says erudite is a stupid bitch who fakes her credentials,
the reality is that I would need a huge burden of proof to really try to undo the structure
of that narrative because people respect his opinion. They know that he checks his sources,
which means this is why like destiny is valuable in this space is when he says something is some
way people tend to give it a lot of gravity because he's not somebody who says something
is just some way and he doesn't have fucking receipts for what he's talking about, right?
And so this is why there's this tricky thing of when he labels somebody with a criticism,
it fucking punches home because there's a lot of weight there. The problem is that that's not
necessarily an expression of his toxic community attacking people. It's the respect that he's
gained from his community that when he's willing to levy a criticism, his community goes, okay,
that's gotta be fucking right then. That's the issue. That's what's really going on that I don't
think they've like sussed out the like nuance within there of like what's going on. And the
issue is that what if he's right most of the time, right? It doesn't feel nice to have certain
criticisms levied against you, but I've never heard him make a criticism against Max or Lav
that wasn't very legitimate. So. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, I'm on board with what you're saying. Yeah.
Failing me on the steel man, man. I mean, it's, it's kind of hard at this point.
You're like, I can't steal mountains out of you. Okay.
Like the, the, the best steel man that I could think of is that maybe,
maybe max thinks that destiny is way more responsible for the actions of his community
than he does. And so max is coming in and saying, you need to stop your community from doing
this. But even then, like, I don't even agree with that point of view. So
it's, it's hard. It's hard. It's hard this time. Yeah.
And every time I saw a false narrative, there was like a point in time where it was almost
the case that like Anna publicly had like redeemed herself. Like we were on like a panel,
everything was chill. Everything was cool. And then she like, and then she keeps,
and then she just keeps looping. But
he just wanted to drop that bomb and leave. True. I wonder if he's gonna have any luck getting of
the, any of the other fucking 20 girls that he's trying to contact to flip against me. Jesus.
He literally does not know that everyone saw the entire history of Anna. Yeah.
The problem is that he thinks that she is a,
that she has a bad reputation in my community because of me, but that's not the case.
Like I literally banned all mentions of like talking to her loops,
reacting to her loops or anything like that. Yeah. For the most part,
like we didn't talk about her except for whenever she would go like on her,
like crazy loops or whatever.
I'm trying to think if I should read any of the.
This was some of the messages that he was sending to other people. If Anna gives me permission,
I can prove that almost everything Destiny said about her is a lie.
He's mentioned to people, I have to move fast because Steven is in full attack mode on me.
When I haven't attacked him at all on stream ever, I think he's just mad because I'm reacting
to his videos where he's talking to lab about me. Oh, this is where he paints out the,
this is the, uh, this is the destiny pattern. One bring on female orbiter, two fucker,
three trash her with the community and four discard her. I would like to stop this from
happening, but I don't think I can do it unless Anna is willing to come forward.
Oh, this is the shit Max does is what he said. He feels some sort of way. He's mad because
Destiny's not defending him. He got banned from his Reddit and he feels like because
destiny won't defend him, that he can't be on destiny stream anymore. And that hurts him
because he's like, this is my friend. And I feel very hurt. And now he's creating this
massive narrative. See what happened to me is happening to all the other girl. I'm just
like every other girl here. You know, I have a good relationship with him. You know,
we get really intimate and close and then I disagree with him once. And then he did six,
his attack dogs on me. And then he kicks me out of the community. And it's just like,
none of this shit fucking happened. There's all your feelings. And now you're turning your
feelings into a fucking moral crusade. Gross. It seems it, yeah, it seems, Hmm.
Hmm. I'm trying to kind of process this in my head a little bit because
it's going to sound very strange and probably very wrong, but I think I'm correct.
Like everyone does this to an extent. You know, it's if the ultimate black pill,
the purest form black pill is that all evidence is ultimately just an argument from authority
because you weren't there and you don't know. You're hoping that the university that you get
your study from is legit. You're hoping that the report of this video wasn't completely faked.
You're hoping like everything is an argument from authority. Do you trust the source that
has sent this to you? Unless you've experienced it, it's an argument from authority. That's the
ultimate black pill, the ultimate skeptical position. And Max is doing like an emotional
version of this, if that makes sense to you, where. Because he feels a way that's the reality
and there's no and there's no room for for anything else.
Yeah. Yeah, there's no it's yeah, it's just him in his position, right? It's like that moral,
yeah, that moral and intellectual righteousness. I mean, I was like looking at like his fucking,
I don't know if you ever saw his tweet that he made when he was declaring war, but he like,
it's like, I don't I don't know what the fuck has happened, but he like basically is like,
if people watch my work and they don't get me, it's because they're intellectually inferior
or they're too afraid to dive into this stuff. And my fans, they're like my little knights.
They're my little knights who get me and they and they creep into all the other discords and
Reddits and they explain me because they see me. And now my knights are getting banned and killed
left and right. And so there's no one left to defend my name. And it's like, why do you need
to be defended? Like, why are you entitled to this? You literally said parasociality is bad
and you're calling your fucking fans, your little knights who get you and protect you.
Like, what the fuck? I don't even understand. I don't even disagree with his I even disagree
with his like view of parasociality. But like, holy fuck, for somebody who's so anti parasociality,
what the fuck are you doing? Mobilizing your units like what?
Raising. I was only like 75% saying what I was trying to say. I think I have the rest of it.
Like, oh, fuck, what was the name of the guy? I can't remember the name of the guy.
It was a philosophy paper 2009 Sargon and Taftage have both talked about it before and sent it to
me. I forget the name. I know the idea. The idea is that all of morality based is just simply what
feels good. Not not feels like pleasurable. I mean, like, feels what is the good, you know,
like, if you're taking a moral position, if you boil it down, it's just going to be your moral
intuitions. And that's it. It's not Jonathan Haidt, but it it's kind of it's kind of similar
to his ideas. And so like, you get like, you get, let's say, more on the left than the right,
you get people who say it's who say that they're consequentialists. Sorry, cons,
consequence, Jesus Christ, consequentialists, where they're only interested in consequences
and not and not rules. No, does this create good ends? That's my moral system. And it's like,
well, no, it's not because how do you judge what makes a good and good? And that's just going to
boil down to how you feel. Right. So you might have a consequentialist, socialist atheist living
in the West, who says we shouldn't get we should not kill gay people because killing gay people is
bad and wrong. And that's a bad end. And then you might have a consequentialist, you know, ISIS,
radical Muslim living in the Middle East, who's throwing gays off rooftops. And you ask him,
Well, what are you doing? He says, this is a good end. Because in terms of my moral framework,
more dead gay people is moral for me. So even even the the way of calculating morality already
presupposes a huge amount of normativity. And, and so you get to a point where if all of morality
really just is how you intuitively feel. And you just fully embrace and accept that there's no way
to like, argue a person like this out of their position. Because it's, they're gonna be like,
I don't feel that. You say, you say, Well, hold on, this is this is bad. He goes, I don't feel
that. You're wrong with this. Well, I don't feel that. You know? Yeah. And it seems like maybe
maybe Max has taken some very strong black pills on the moral question. Yeah, I can't I can't
decide is like moral framework, because it it feels like because I agree that most people do
kind of what you're saying. I think there are rare exceptional people who really do try to
think about moral frameworks, and they do their best to hold themselves to it despite how they
feel in that moment. Right. And I find those people incredibly respect worthy because they're
decently rare. And it's hard to do yourself right. Like deplatforming is bad until all of a sudden
you fucking hate that fucking piece of shit and you want them deplatformed, right?
Doxing is bad until fuck you just want to dox them to fucking get back at them.
And I think this is the issue is like, I don't know if Max has a moral code, but he claimed to
have really important ethical principles that he lived by. And the problem is that I feel like he's
just lied or given up on them. Or he's like post hoc trying to like rationalize that he's still
operating from within them. I'm not really sure. Well, I think he still does. But I think what
those what those that moral code is, is basically just what he intuits as right without any sort of
like actual rational processing behind it. Yeah. It's like, oh, my gut says this is bad. So it's
bad. And to him, it's objectively bad, because his gut tells himself. And to be fair, that's
how a lot of people do this sort of thing. I mean, that's how I do this sort of thing. And
I think it's I think it's normal. Yeah, it's not good. I do try to think I'm a free speech
extremist. I think free speech is good, even speech that I don't like. Because I try to hold
myself to some sort of more objective standard. But even then, like that presupposes a normativity
where you care about objective standards, you know? Right. Right. Which a lot of a lot of people
say that they do, but they don't. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe Max is just more honest about it. Maybe he
just like, yeah, I don't care. I you know, my morality is that I want things to be partial to
me. Maybe that's his moral code. Right. Most people don't value. It's not even like objective
morality. It's like consistent morality. Most people seem to like not value consistent moral
reality very much like, OK, for me and not for these kind of a go to. Yeah.
If you need to go at any time, I know you said an hour and I worry that that was an hour ago. So
if you need to go at any time. That was half an hour ago. And with my the magic of wireless
headphones, I slipped out and talked to Naomi and she gave me a very stern look.
And she was like, I understand. Here, just just hold on a second. OK, OK.
Naomi.
Erudite wants to know how much longer I can go. Give me a time.
Did you hear that? No, I did not hear that she she gave me an hour.
OK, so we're good. Hey, thank you very much. I love you. She's very unimpressed right now.
Should we should we be very good? And we'll only I'm going to force you to get off in half an hour
so that she's pleasantly surprised by your earliness. Maybe, maybe. I know that there's at
least some of my viewers in the chat and they all they all know about Naomi and what she's like.
She's been on my channel a whole bunch. They know the dynamic. OK.
OK.
Oh, it was this message. He's starting the anti Mr. Girl hate train. Pretty hardcore now.
To be clear, I never even really said anything about him except for reacting to the videos he
was doing with them. This is exactly what Laff said. Yeah, because because Max's sold this
message to Laff and to Anna and I don't and probably to Shaylin, too. So like all of them
are on 100 percent the same page when it comes to, I guess, me being this like crazy manipulative
abuser or whatever. This is he keeps messaging all these people, he's like, I'm trying to,
but none of these girls are getting back to me because nobody's responding to insane fucking
shit. A lot of these people like are coming to be a message like, hey, this guy's like
messaging me asking me weird stuff. He seems to have this idea that I'm like.
Yes. So that should be if you're somebody who actually believes this narrative. No,
I think that for Mr. Girl in his mind, I think he actually believes all.
Wait a second. OK, sorry. Sorry. If you are somebody who wasn't just privileging the
hypothesis and you really were trying to figure out the the truth objective from your own
perceptions, if, you know, a dozen of the girls say, what are you talking about?
That should be the moment where you stop and think about it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the fact that he didn't probably shows what's going on.
Yeah. Man, I wish I could show you my DMs. My DMs are blowing up. I'm getting so distracted
because people like sending me this and this and they're like, here's this clip. Here's
the verbatim thing that you need to be aware of. And I'm like, I don't know how to play 90 chess.
Can you can you say who's DMing you or is it not a shot?
No shot. I don't want to pull anyone in that doesn't want to be pulled in. Everyone can
make public declarations on their own at their own time. Fair enough. I'm just explaining to you
because everyone probably notices me getting like distracted and me being a bad interlocutor.
And I do genuinely apologize. But there's like a couple of people needing my help with a couple
of things. So, yeah, I haven't I haven't noticed anything. It's all right. Could you say if it's
are these like streamers or personalities or are these just random people? Can you say that or no?
I'm not even going to say that. It's a whole it's a whole I'll say it's a mixture of all the above.
Understood. Yeah. Genuinely is a mixture of all the above.
So I'm extremely curious if you want to type them to me, I won't reveal.
You don't have to. You don't have to know. I'm open to accepting the information.
You're like, I'm nosy, but I won't be pushy. Yes. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I appreciate that.
But I'm going to say no. Sorry. As a fellow, nosy person. I understand, though.
I think that he really does believe because in the mind of a narcissist, you're never wrong.
He thinks that he's like the hero, like saving these people from the ashes or some shit.
Try to ask for an example of one thing they disagree on, and she paused for like a minute
before going on a tangent about gender identity that she said they probably agree on, but haven't
talked about. Oh, well, I've been obsessed with Max for months, I think so. She'll agree with
literally anything literally with anything Max says. So, you know, he's trying to do this to
come up with a podcast about you both. I don't think it has to do with the next podcast. I think
it has to do. I think the subreddit stuff like fucked his mind like really hard. Who's this?
Unless you're something super relevant. I'm sorry. I just wanted to see my first. I was
just watching some of the stream started. I don't mean to cut you off. I'll pop out. I know you're
going through some shit. Okay. Have fun, buddy. All right, bro. Stay strong, brother.
Lab on her stream said she thinks it's hypocritical for you to call Max a narcissist. That's because
she probably doesn't know what a narcissist is. I don't think that has very much people experience
in general, which is probably one of the reasons why she's so easy to manipulate, which is kind of
what Max is like. I don't really blame what kind of reason why love is obsessed with Mr. Girl.
So Mr. Girl, Mr. Girl is a person who has a lot of gravity. I think he's he's kind of similar,
actually, I think to Steven in this way. It seems like especially with women, like some guys just
have a lot of gravity for like whatever reason. You know, Max's no matter how big of a piece of
shit I think he's being, he's extremely smart. Like he's a very, very, very smart person.
He's kind of really unique in the fact that he's kind of like refreshing,
that he's so like emotionally blunt. And there's also so one thing that I really dislike when I
engage with Max that I can see other people finding it kind of attractive, maybe or enjoyable
or like intriguing is there's always this tension with him where you know that he's trying to mind
read you at all times and trying to read implications into all of your words. And so
you can't help but trying to do the same thing back to him. And I fucking hate that shit. I'm
not interested. But I definitely know some people who find that very interesting and like seem to
like to engage in that dynamic in relationships. That's like the best I can guess. I think she
feels very similar to him in that like, she's got a really traumatic childhood, like really high
trauma childhood. And he's also got a pretty high trauma childhood. So I think there's probably some
level of kinship over that as well. A lot of like she seems to be really into kind of the mind
reading type of engagement with people. And so I think she gets that a lot. I think like Max is
like probably the most extreme that I've met personally, like in like, not personally,
interpersonal interaction that does that. So if she enjoys that style of engagement, particularly
a lot, that's going to be like one of her most favorite people to go to words. That's really
different about like Max and destiny is like, destiny says exactly what he means. There's no
implications. There's nothing more than what he means. If he thinks you're because I think you're
doing bad here. He means you're literally doing a bad thing. And that is the full stop. He's not
necessarily he's not implying that you're a bad person doesn't go beyond that. Right. So that's
how Max and Destiny are very, very different. OK, yeah, I think I understand. It's just the.
You know. The I guess like every time you talk to Max, it's a struggle session, kind of.
Yeah, he's very mind fucky. He's very, very mind fucky. And I've seen very, very,
very few streamers in the space know how to manage it. And I guess some people just want to get mind
fucked. OK, I don't think you want to, but it's compelling because it's about like that. So here's
what's really compelling about Max is that he uniquely has here now conversations almost
always what people are calling the meta is fundamentally what in like existential therapy
we would call a here now conversation. And as somebody who's run treatment and therapy
that focuses on healthy, healthy, not manipulative here now conversations, they're so interesting
because they're deeply about you. And those are our favorite conversations. Right. So like,
that's why a lot of people, I think, really enjoy the Max because it's deeply here now.
And we rarely get to experience that. Right. Like I could conjure it up right now in part because
I'm trained, which is why I almost actually never engage in here now conversations on stream.
I just want to be really careful about it. Like I could conjure it now by being like,
how do you feel about me precisely like right now? Like how you felt about the fact that I
interrupted our politics conversation to like drag you into this drama? Like,
is that upsetting you in any way? That would be right. And that question you can tell it puts
pressure on you. Yeah. I'm not actually asking, but that would be an immediate here now question.
And then what he does is he decides whether you're, he thinks your answer is right. So
if you said no, he'd be like, I don't think that's true. I noticed a weird pause when I switched over
and I'm pretty sure that you actually are extremely angry, but you're too passive and
cowardly to be honest with me about the fact that you're upset that I moved on in the conversation.
Right. So that's the next thing that he's going to do here. Now conversations are fascinating
because we never do them in our culture. Yeah. I think what you're talking about, it's like,
you know, I think a lot of police might rely on them because everyone wants, it's the whole,
everyone wants to tell their story thing. So you can get, you can get a suspect talking,
you can talk them into a corner kind of thing. It's more than that because it's not just talking
about your life. It's talking about you, who you are right now in this moment. How do you feel
right now in this moment? What is the body expressions that you're having? What is your
heart feeling? What is your chest? Are your palms sweaty? Like it's very intimate and in your face
and people basically never have it. It's a very, it's a very weird style of engagement that
I've, I've never seen in any of the existential groups I've run. I've never seen a group not be
absorbed by here now conversations. Right. No, I think I understand you. Yeah.
Because Lab is one of the people that I was, Lab is one of the people that I was talking to
on a more personal level. But there's, I've always said something that like,
when I see people like turning against me, I never like fight for relationships because it's weird.
I don't want to be in some weird like manipulator game back and forth where me and Max are playing
like tug of war over the mind of like a vulnerable 24 year old. I think the thing that bothers me the
most is that Max, aside from like being like a literal rapist, like talking about like,
oh yeah, when women say no, I fuck them anyways because I know what they really want. It's
irritating that he's the one at the end of the day and then watching him manipulate and guess
who the fuck out of Lab on his stream. And like the pictures that Shaylin is drawing of him and
Max adopting her and then like him on stream trying to like pull it like, you've got to leave
Destiny's communion. I left for you. I left for you, Lab. No, you didn't, motherfucker. You left
because you got ass mad and now you're trying to suck more people into your orbit. To see somebody
that manipulative and that abusive, like I said, and I'll say this a million times, if anybody
wants to lead DMs, if they think where I'm being a manipulator, I'm being a manipulator, feel free
to do it. Go for it. Like I said, I'm usually really upfront with everybody at anything. If
I feel like somebody is like, oh, Destiny, I don't like this. Okay, fine. Then fucking leave. I won't
talk to you anymore. Like that's it. Yeah. Has Ana matured a lot off stream? From what we've seen,
she never seemed like somebody can engage on casual sex again. I think she probably can. Like
I said, me and Ana behind closed doors have been chill for literally like a year. Every now and
then she'll have a cycle on stream and then her and Kiwi farms like fucking egg each other on.
And then sometimes she'll like spam messages at me, but then like usually in a day or two,
she'll be like, oh, cause I looped. And I'll be like, okay, chill. And then it's just whatever,
like that's been more or less like the past like eight months of our conversation.
Well, I mean, that's good for her. It sounded like it sounded a lot worse before.
Leave, sex slave. What do you want? Can I say something? Sure, go for it. Okay. I just find it
incredibly abusive in the negative. The fact that he's using Anna as the foreground is battle
just for his benefit. And it's also really fucked too, because she started to message people. Now
he's using a lot of the language that he's used. Okay. Yeah. I can tell that he is like getting in
her head and like hyping her the fuck up on everything that he is saying about other people.
Yeah, exactly. And she's gone through, you know, rough shit. And this is him bringing her back on,
making her go back through, like back through everything that she's gone through before.
So this is ultra fucked up. And I don't think people are realizing how fucked up that is.
Yeah. Like, like I noticed this when she sent me this message, like a day ago,
where she's basically saying that, like, I get tons of hate and harassment from your community.
You know, this and you exploit this and you face no consequences. Big streamer news networks,
repeat your words, articles, get rid of the things you say. Like a lot of it is the same talking
points that I see max and lav and probably Shannon are like echoing. So I know that they've been
speaking to her. Oh, actually, I'm sorry. I know that I can't reveal that. I know that Anna has
been speaking to them a ton. And I know that max has been like mind fucking her a ton on a lot of
this shit. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, like she just told me right now, sorry to leave the dam from Anna.
And I just said, okay, fine. Max is telling me that you're going to go nuclear on me and
got me scared. I'm not going to go nuclear. Anna, because me and Anna don't have any problems. We
haven't had problems for literally a year. Sometimes she loops on stream about me and
it's annoying, but like I ignore it. I can just respond to it. And then like a day later, she's
like, oh shit, I looked and that's it. Boom. I haven't touched it for a year. That's it. We're
cool. Everything's been fine there for a long time, but max is like digging in and he's like
trying to like, because the problem, I think the thing that happened was after max built this
narrative of Anna, he realized he couldn't find a single other girl to reinforce the story because
it's bullshit. Um, and now he's like desperately trying to like hike the Anna shit and maybe try
to like get lab on it as well. But I don't know. That's the only thing I can think of.
And so the other thing is, this is one of, I guess, I don't know, this is me. This is not
you from your words or anything, but I feel like, like the situation with Anna was a big
vulnerability for you because it was a part of your life that was really tough. And not only
for you, but for Anna as well. Sure. Like a year or two ago when she was streaming,
like every single day talking about me and Zorka was forming whatever. Yeah,
that was fucking annoying. But yeah, but like for over a year, that's been like done.
No. Yeah. So everything's like chill now. And you and her are like on decent terms and just
talking as friends and stuff. And now he's bringing it, bringing it back to make it like go
absolutely bonkers. Yeah. I think another issue is I think somebody must've brought it up to them.
I don't know how many people know this, but it was brought up to either lab or max. Then they
brought it up on stream. And then max posted, like, was it like a hundred times in his subreddit
defending his characterization of the Anna stuff? I think that somebody can tell me if they were
watching the watching the subreddit. But yeah, max started to post a ton in his subreddit,
like attacking me, like overall the inertia. So I think that he wanted to I think that he wanted to
like bring that back up to like prove some shit about me basically. But yeah,
also something else I want to say. So him blaming you for what did he say just now? He said that
the fact that your community attacks her is because of the shit you say about her.
But Anna and I have been very friendly in the past. Like I have no personal issues with her.
The thing is I've said this to Anna directly as well. The more she speaks about it and she loops
on stream and all of that, the more your community and even other random people are
going to shit on her. So it's not what you say about her. Like, and you've stopped saying things
about her when she asked you to stop saying things about her. It's because she talks about
you on stream all the time. So like, you know, it's not even my community. It's usually like
the Kiwi farmers who she goes back and forth now. But yeah. Yeah. So it's not, I don't,
it seems like he knows, like surface, like he probably knows the situation, but he got
blaming everything on you is just, it's just bad faith. It's completely fake.
Excuse me. We do not sound the same. I don't understand.
Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry. Molina from the same country. Nope. Molina sounds like women.
I just heard girl with nice sounding light feminine voice. Okay.
You sound like a baguette since we sound like, I have a, it's a big, I got a strong baguette.
I am a strong baguette French baguette. Yes. So that's why I want to say, okay.
Yeah. I don't know if there's anything else to, I don't know if there's anything else to go over,
but I don't know if Max is planning on dropping a manifesto or some shit, if that's his like
fucking goal. I know that he's getting really frustrated because in the background, he's like,
he's saying that like, none of these girls are getting back to him. He's not getting the stories
that he wants. Maybe now that it's all public, you know, if you feel like you're a woman and
you've been abused by me, or if I've been sexually manipulating you, feel free to go
and talk to Max in the background and he'll give all the publicity to your story that you need.
Yeah. Watch the Shailen interview. I don't really want to, because like I said, I'm trying to be
Shailen is more of a victim than like anything else. From what I heard, I saw people in chat
typing things. It sounded like Shailen is basically like just 100% a microphone for Max.
She's just repeating all of his exact same talking points verbatim. She's probably been
abused by him for years now. I don't know if there's anything else. I don't really,
I'm not going to sit here and attack like a victim of his, you know, for days or hours.
Like it just seems kind of shitty. Uh, but I mean, I feel the same way about lab too,
even though I had high expectations, but once you want to post logs, um, of the things that Mr.
Case is, um, and I do know that there was some kind of story about, about Shailen's D trans
arc, how max D trans her. Hmm. I wonder if that all ended up just being copium too.
Oh man, just me spitballing here, but I don't know. I'm just no interpersonal stuff gets so
messy. It's so fucking messy. And it's like, let's let, let, let's assume we take
destiny at his word and maybe Shailen is fully the victim. If she's an adult,
what's still her responsibility. Now it's really tricky because
Max is older, right? There's so many, again, there's so, there's so many of these things
that make the situation riskier, more difficult and more complicated to analyze.
Hmm. But there's an element of like, she's also choosing to stay in this relationship. She's
choosing to defend him publicly like this. She like released the tweet about cherry and stardust
like, but we don't know what's going on behind the scenes. And it's really weird that Max refused to
let her come on stream until he wanted to attack. That's me basically like, why the shift? Why is
she suddenly on stream now? I do recall him saying in the past, like, I don't want her in
this space because it's my space and I wouldn't go into her space kind of thing. I think he said
something like that. And, and also, I guess there's just the wider point of like, is it really
possible to detran someone? Like if they're actually trans to force them through some,
through some method to make them not trans, like it doesn't seem possible to me.
That's a whole other topic. Yes.
Uh, it's a good question. Um, but I do know that she said with the trans stuff,
she was grateful to him for it. So it's like, the problem is like there. Yeah. I don't want
to get into like pig pilling and shit like that. I think it's a whole other conversation that is,
uh, yeah, but I will say she does say that she loves Max, that he's not abusing her,
that she's happy with her relationship, that people are wrongfully misconstruing their
relationship, that she's grateful that he transitioned her. Those are all of her statements,
just to be clear. And there's, there's also like, there's a, there are some strange relationship
dynamics where like, I know, I know one couple personally, where the guy just hits his girlfriend
and everyone who meets them is like, what the fuck? What the fuck is this? And they're both
like, no, we're okay with this. It's like, hold on. Are you just abused into being okay with this
or are you actually okay with this? And they're like, no, we're actually, it was like, I,
I want him to hit me. And it's like, uh, what do you say to that? I don't know. I don't know what
to say to that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is, this is a really, I mean, this is where I wouldn't,
I think there's some really, really cool women I know who work with like inter-partner violence
a lot. And it's really interesting having these conversations with them about being like, well,
what do you do with somebody? So for example, a different situation, but when I was working in the
teen non-voluntary lockup, there was a couple of girls who came into our facility, um, who were
being, I would say they were functionally being trafficked, but by their underage boyfriend,
but they were saying that they were okay with it and that they wanted it and that they were
just having like an open relationship, right? This is where it gets into really dicey things. Well,
like in the case of a child, we're way more willing as a society to say, no, it doesn't
matter if you think that this is okay. It's not okay. Right. Uh, so that's a little bit more
simple to solve. But then when you talk with people who example work with like women fleeing
domestic violence, I mean, the rate of which women who are fleeing domestic violence, go back to
their partner. It makes all of these things really complicated. Like so many people when
they talk about like domestic abuse or like inter-partner relate violence or, or, and whatnot,
they try to make it sound like it's this solved thing. And it's really simple. Um,
it's not simple. It's incredibly complicated. And as somebody with pretty minimal experience,
but who's talked to lots of people, it is an insanely complex situation. There's a lot of
mind-fucking that goes on that will cause people in the moment to say that things are fine and
really feel that it's fine and really feel like they're consenting that four to five years later,
when they're out of the relationship, they're like, holy fuck, no, I wasn't fine. No,
I wasn't consenting. And it's like, which person do you listen to? Our society empirically,
we tend to lean towards the later person, but like, there's this argument of being like,
if you're in the middle of it with a person, if you're in the middle of trying to convince them
not to go back to their domestic partner, which part of them do you listen to? Do you listen to
like what you think is best for them or what they're saying is best for them? Not an easy
answer. Really not an easy answer. Um, because if you don't listen to them, you're basically saying
your agency doesn't matter as much right now, which we can do, but then we have to own from
our chest that we're willing to do that sometimes. And it feels like our society isn't quite ready
for that. Because there's so many problems with it. Yeah, sorry.
This has been an inverse effect sometimes too, where like people weren't traumatized. And then
in the future, because of a new social circle that they're in, of people who are saying no,
I think you actually were traumatized. And then they kind of like convinced themselves that they
were then when they weren't, I think the also the inverse probably happens as well.
It does. It does. And so this is the issue like with the with the girl who's being trafficked,
there's multiple staff telling her that she's being traumatized. She probably was and is.
The problem is that, so this is my view, trauma and people's life experiences, their self narrative
are theirs and theirs alone. It is not your job ever as a person who loves them to impose your
perception of their narrative onto them. You can be like, this is maybe what I think is going on.
These are some of my thoughts. But it's really important, especially in my view with trauma,
to allow people to label it trauma, if and when they're ready, and only then. And I'm so lucky
that a lot of people in my life allowed me the liberty to do that. Because like I was like 19
to 20 before I realized that there was like some pretty like not okay stuff going on in my home
when I was a child. But I'm glad that I was given the space to make that decision on my own. And
finally, like I turned to one of my friends and I was like, I remember my friend handled this so
well because she knew all of my life. And I finally turned around like 20. And I was like,
I think there was actual like, I think there was some abuse going on in my home. And she's like,
why do you think that? And then I like explained stuff that she already knew. And I was like,
that's like, that's actually really abusive. And she was like, it is pretty abusive. Yeah. And I
was like, I think that's kind of why I'm fucked up a little bit. And she was like, possibly she's
like, you know, I've been thinking about that for a while. But I think it's really important that like
you come to that realization. And it's like, I'm so grateful for that friend. She was so wise
to hear my life story about some of the shit that was happening and not immediately go,
that's abuse. Because it's like the reality is that I wasn't ready at the time that I told her
to realize that it was abuse. And by the time I realized it, I was in a space in my life where I
was trying to understand who I was. And I was ready and big enough to like handle the scariness
that is to like, look at your childhood and be like, that shit was fucked. And it's really bad
in my view to rob somebody of the opportunity to move through that on their timing.
Yeah. And then there there is also seems to be the possibility that it actually isn't abuse,
right? Like you could have, it's conceivable that you that some people have some sort of kink
relationship where, yeah, there's there's just some, you know, one partner hits another partner
sometimes. Yeah, it's and they actually are like, completely fine with it. So there's, yeah, I
understand what you're saying. Any girls and other people really don't want to reveal who
they're coming from. Because I start posting, I mean, like, if max challenges me on anything,
I'll just start leaking, because I guess who the fuck cares. And I don't think any of these people.
I don't think any of these people care. Jesus, what it really, there's like clips of like,
lab, like almost compare me to Harvey Weinstein. Oh, Jesus.
His framing on this is so crazy. Sorry, just reading through some of these DMS.
I thought you and Destiny were friends. Well, we're friends. I guess I'll just read it. Fuck it.
I stopped working with him because I think he's abusive to his orbiters. And then I found out
he's been lying about and smearing the women he fucks. And then someone told me that he said he's
aroused by psychologically tormenting women. What I guess we're friends, but he's also a sociopath.
I'd like to figure out what's going on. The thing is, my hands are always tight because I don't,
I'm not gonna reveal every single person I've had a sexual relationship with because
it's for their privacy. Like there've been quite a few for sure. But like,
there are girls that I don't have sex with anymore because of reasons. And they still
come on the stream. Everything's fine. Some of them get girlfriends. Some of them get married.
Some of them like there's plenty of girls have been on that. I've never interacted with sexually.
There's been plenty people that have blown up, but I have and haven't interacted with sexually. Like
it's just like the craziest like story in his mind. I've had issues with guys, not issues with
guys. But I guess it's kind of hard to prove a negative. Well, I don't have to prove a negative.
Actually, he would have to prove the positive. Max really ended up becoming your super villain.
Yeah, I just, I feel like I put so much out there for him. It's actually insane. I was the only
person that was willing to listen to him after the weird like shit with Vash. I steal man the fuck
out of like his like basically pro rape videos. Are you worried that Max is gonna stop? I'm
worried that I'm gonna become like a new Dr. K for him. And now he's just gonna go like full
fucking. This is gonna be what he spends the next like three months on is just basically
publishing videos about me. But here's here's something that I'm that I'm wondering, and maybe
it's it sounds a bit victim blaming. And that's that's never good. But maybe we can explore the
idea anyway. Destiny has created so many of his own villains. Yeah. At what at what point do you
think it's it's reasonable to say, Hey, what am I doing? You know that I that I've made Vash and
Hassan and now Mr. Girl and everyone else who's burned a bridge? What is it that I'm doing that's
causing this? Man, okay, this is for sure going to be a mind read. So I could be wrong. And
have you ever seen the interview with Dr. K and Steven?
No, I have not.
This is why I maintain some level of respect for Dr. K, even though I disagree with like certain
things that he does. I think Dr. K had the most accurate read of Steven within three hours that
I think I've seen anyone do, which is that they talked about this idea that basically like to
operate and function within the highly volatile, highly like, intense space that he's in, that's
so toxic. He's essentially like, closed the door to certain colors of like, essentially a human
experience in his life. And some of that is emotionality, right? The biggest driver I think
for I know this because I asked him about it publicly, the biggest motivation for him is fun
and interesting. Anything that kind of gets his gears going is what he loves the most.
And the problem is that
bad people, or unhinged people, or sometimes mentally unwell people or bad actors can be damn
interesting people. And if you enjoy fighting with people, they can be particularly interesting.
The problem is that that's not a good metric of who to trust. And so this is something I think
he would maybe not agree with me. And I think there's definitely a situation, an issue going
on that like, I don't know if he has the best metric of precisely who is trustworthy and who
is not. And I think there's a second thing that's going on. And because of his position of like,
such large amounts of fame for so long, he doesn't have to pursue friendships.
Mostly people come to him and pursue him. And this is a similar issue, actually, that my best
friend has. She's just like, she's just an incredible, she's just a really cool person.
People fucking love the shit on my best friend. Everyone wants to be her friend. And I remember
in high school, she'd have people like following her around unironically, just trying to spend time
with her because she's just like, she's just got gravity. We would always joke that she has like
crazy animal pheromones or something because people were just like drawn to her always.
And what we realized when she was like hitting major crises in her life is that she had very,
very few friends around her that were of depth and substance that she could rely on. And she
didn't even know who they were because she'd never really had to pick and pursue somebody.
She'd always had people kind of thrust upon her. And she would look at me and she'd be like,
you have amazing friendships. You have really good friends. You can really rely on them.
What's the difference here? And I was like, well, I pursue friendships. I've never ever had somebody
try to pursue a friendship with me because people think I'm a bitch when I think I'm intimidating,
whatever the fuck that means. I think that usually just means that you're a bitch and they want to
say nice things. And I'm highly disagreeable. And I've never really been a part of like
Christian girl club very well because I always want to fight with men about theology.
Well, I haven't gotten that impression from you so far.
I've grown a lot. And because of that, I always selected my friends and then pursued them.
And because of that, I could just look at the crowds of people, watch how they treated others
and go, that's a good person, and then pursue them as a friend. And that's what I did. I would
literally be like, she seems based. And then I would pick them and pursue them as a friend.
And this is my reality. I'm always really close friends with people who are insanely popular,
but nobody likes me that much. That's like Nick, too. Nick, everyone fucking loves the shit out of
Nick. But in fairness, he pursued me. That was a bit of a different dynamic. So I suspect it's
a mixture of these things going on for destiny. And if he'd like, learn to basically pursue the
friends that are meaningful, I think he would see a major offset of this. But I think that's a tricky
thing to learn and realize. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it is. I mean, some of that story sounds familiar
to me just because like, I get 100 DMS a day, just just being my size. If I if I ever lacked for,
let's say, non sexual companionship, all I would have to do is talk to a fan. And they'd be like,
whenever I whenever I apply to a demon, so I was like, Oh, my God, you're actually talking to me.
This is amazing. It's like, it's not that amazing, dude. Like, I'm, I'm pretty normal guy. But they
see as amazing. And like, and sometimes I think I have Jesus, like, I sometimes have ego problems.
And I'm like, Listen, you're not actually that amazing. You got to calm down, calm down the ego.
But like, if I ever I don't, I don't, I'm at a point now, that because of having fans, I don't
need to like also pursue people, right? I can, if I want, if I want a giant room full of Yes, man,
I can have it. But I don't want that, you know. Um, so I guess I kind of empathize with that.
It sounds like it makes a lot of sense. And maybe it maybe applies to me as well on some level.
Um, there's something about me, though. So so we've hit the soft end point that you wanted to
give Naomi at 1030. All right, get out of here. I will I will leave the call if you don't. I respect
relationships and I respect hold on. Give me a couple minutes before I get out of here. Okay.
Let me give you my final thoughts. So you have two minutes to somebody in your
somebody also somebody in your chat is saying that you should go talk to Justin before he leaves
because he's putting is apparently putting a moratorium on Mr. Girl content. So maybe it's
it would be better for you to talk to him than me right now. Um, I guess thanks very much for
for talking to me. It was very fun. And I want to do it some more. Because this is a very enjoyable
experience for me. I don't talk to the side of the internet much. And I've been slowly, you know,
stepping my toes, slowly muddying dirtying your hands. Yeah, I do have one request, if you don't
mind. And you can completely say no. I'm not going to take it in any negative way. Yeah.
Because it is your show fully believe you've been extremely charitable and flexible. So
Oh, well, thank you. Um, I did an absolutely terrible job of explaining the contents of my
three forms of fascism video. And I should have looked it over. I'm gonna watch it. We're gonna
watch it. Yeah. Hold on. We're gonna watch it together. My that's your girlfriend being like,
get the fuck off the internet. Let's go on a fucking date already. Oh my god.
I guess the TLDR is I did a very poor job of explaining that to your chat. And so if you
are so inclined, I would be appreciative if you showed them the video. You don't have to,
but maybe it makes some good content for you reacting to it.
Sounds good. Okay, thanks very much. Let's talk again. Okay, anybody. See ya. Bye, everyone.
