The beginnings were as inadvertent as they come.
Hastily drawn up and jammed into the entirely unrelated Safe Port Act, the Unlawful Internet
Gambling Enforcement Act passed through Congress in September of 2006, then, with President
Bush's signature a month later, became law.
The unremarkable bit of legislation banned gambling companies from taking payments over
the internet made in violation of state or federal law.
The old guard of online gambling—the likes of Full Tilt Poker, Poker Stars, and Absolute
Poker—the new law would prove an existential threat.
For a set of upstarts, though, it'd function as the legal foundation of an as-yet untapped
market.
In trying to close one loophole, the Act opened another with this seemingly innocuous exemption—that
betting and wagering did not include participation in fantasy sports, which were deemed as games
of scale, not chance.
At the time, the distinction made sense—fantasy sports were fundamentally different from any
sort of online gambling.
People didn't get rich off fantasy sports, nor did they lose thousands, tens of thousands,
or hundreds of thousands of dollars in one fell swoop.
Fantasy team owners wagered on season-long outcomes with their friends from school or
work, and poured over stat sheets for bragging rights as much as money.
They might have been obsessed, but they were never quite addicted.
Then, in 2009, a fateful backyard brainstorm at South by Southwest completely altered the
trajectory of fantasy sports and, as it would turn out, sports betting.
The company that coalesced under the Austin sun was called FanDuel, and it was everything
that fantasy wasn't.
Countering the traditional season-long league, FanDuel offered daily fantasy.
Rather than just playing with your buddies, the service provided tournaments and cash
games to compete against countless others.
Whereas traditional fantasy leagues only saw minimal financial exchanges in league buy-ins
and annual draft guides, FanDuel moved major money.
Just one good day they advertised could net a couple thousand dollars, and, thanks to
the Unlawful Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, it was online and in your pocket.
What had been slow-moving and cumbersome was now fast and convenient—just play from your
phone, win, and cash out that very same day.
Young people followed, and so too did money.
FanDuel's first rounds of funding topped $1 million, then $4 million, then, by 2013,
$11 million.
As investment climbed, so too did winnings.
That same year, the platform crowned its first million-dollar prize winner during its December
Fantasy Football Championship and dished out more than $150 million in prize money overall.
The following year, FanDuel partnered with the NBA, while its rising competitor, Draftkings,
nabbed the MLB and NHL.
Suddenly, companies that didn't exist just years prior were outspending the entire beer
industry, running ads every 90 seconds on national TV.
With palm-of-your-hand convenience, cheap buy-ins, mouthwatering prize potential, and
unavoidable promotional offers, daily fantasy services had maximized the potential of fantasy
sports.
Sports fans played, sports leagues and media invested, while critics and academics began
asking exactly to what extent this sped-up, further gamified version of fantasy sports
actually differed from sports betting.
Yet, rather than regulators intervening, legislators, league leaders, team owners, and daily fantasy
consumers alike began to rethink just how bad sports betting really was.
Banned by Congress in every state except Nevada, and opposed by all major leagues, sports betting
had long been perceived as the antithesis of fair sport.
This wasn't only the position held by league commissioners, either, as 56% of Americans
polled in 1993 disapproved of its legalization.
Through the 2000s, after point-shaving scandals rocked college basketball, then insider betting
and the NBA came to light, betting remained a dark, shady sports underworld in the view
of most and, to league leaders, a direct threat.
Even through 2012, NFL's Roger Goodell, MLB's Bud Selig, NHL's Gary Bettman, and
NCAA's Mark Emmert each came out against the idea of overturning the federal ban.
Or at least that's what they said outwardly.
As teams and leagues entered partnerships with gambling-adjacent fantasy platforms,
internal conversations slowly shifted from sports betting as a scourge to sports betting
as a potential opportunity.
Daily fantasy drove more fan engagement, and so too would sports betting.
At the same time, sports fans were voting with their wallets, as the American Gaming
Association estimated that Americans were spending about $150 billion on wagers annually,
with only a small fraction actually going through legal means in Nevada.
Then finally, the head of the NBA came out and said it.
If Americans were spending billions on sports bets, American newspapers and media were publishing
betting lines, and other countries were finding success in regulating nationwide gambling,
then why not just legalize it?
By and large, the public followed the logic, as 2017 polling showed that 55% of Americans
had now come to favor the idea of legalized regulated gambling, while only 33% opposed
it.
Polling, though, doesn't overturn federal bans.
But the timing was perfect.
While daily fantasy shot skyward, and American opinion came around, the legality of the federal
ban was coming under question.
New Jersey's effort to legalize sports betting to prop up a faltering Atlantic city had climbed
all the way to the Supreme Court, and in 2018, a surprise ruling opened the floodgates as
Justice Alito delivered the 7 to 2 opinion acknowledging that while sports gambling is
fraught with controversy, it ultimately wasn't the federal government's constitutional right
to ban it—rather, that it was the choice of each individual state.
The race was on.
Eight states legalized sports betting in 2018.
Ten more joined in 2019.
Sportsbooks opened in state and tribal casinos, sports venues added betting kiosks, while
DraftKings and FanDuel, the darlings of daily fantasy, opened up brick and mortar lounges
across the US and launched mobile online betting in states that allowed it.
But this race to legalize wasn't between states.
This was a time trial to see which gambling industry representatives could secure legalization
as quickly as possible in the friendliest terms possible.
The likes of FanDuel and DraftKings, who had previously spent millions ensuring that state
legislators saw daily fantasy as a game of skill and not of luck, the strategy was already
established and the team already assembled.
From Trenton to Tallahassee to Topeka, lobbyists bought lawmakers gifts and presented the plot
points of a new path over expensive glasses of wine.
The best sports betting they pitched would bring tax revenue by the millions, and besides,
they argued, people were betting illegally anyway—why not bring it above board, bring
in revenue, and create a win-win?
Or what about a win-win-win, they'd ask, where regulations and taxes are slightly less
burdensome so more sportsbooks are incentivized to enter the market, so more users have more
outlets to bet, so more volume brings the state more tax revenue?
The pressure was immense as the deep pockets of the world's most recognizable casinos
spared no expense in helping state legislators see the issue from their point of view.
While the extent varied from state to state, the blitz was largely a success.
By 2022, 30 US states and Washington DC had some form of legal and active sports betting.
And this wasn't the sports betting of old—this was sports betting in the digital age.
Sure, like before, people bet on the individual outcome of the game they were going to to
heighten the experience, they put future bets down on whether or not the teams would match
the win totals that their sportsbook projected, and wagered on odds for end-of-season awards
and champions, but now they bet on far more, too.
Odds not for games but for halves and quarters, propositional bets that didn't have to do
with the outcome of the game like player points or shots on goals, and in-game parlays that
combine propositional bets with score outcomes to boost potential payouts.
Just as mobile devices turned fantasy games from four-month seasons to daily games, mobile
gaming apps unlocked in-game betting that people could wager on in the middle of the
sporting event they were watching on TV.
People had more options and easier access than ever before, and the established gaming
houses of Vegas took note.
Joining FanDuel and DraftKings were online sportsbooks by familiar names like BetMGM,
Caesars, WinBet, and Penn National Gaming's Barstool Sportsbook, while various other casinos
and companies launched smaller, more regional online outfits.
In 2019, US betting revenue doubled that of 2018.
Then 2020, despite sports as an entity disappearing globally for a matter of months, saw revenue
nearly double once again, then in 2021, revenue tripled to over $4.3 billion a year.
Simply put, sports betting just exploded.
Or at least, it looked like it exploded.
It looked like an unmitigated force of nature, perhaps triggered by humans, but hardly managed
by them.
But that's what the industry wanted it to look like.
To support the plot that they had laid out to legislators prior to legalization, they
wanted it to look like this was only natural—that there was always a huge volume of betting
behind closed doors and that sector growth merely represented this phenomenon moving
into the legal space where it could be taxed and regulated.
Well that was undoubtedly part of it.
A huge additional chunk of this growth was precipitated by a carefully choreographed,
long-planned deluge of spending and effort by the burgeoning industry—a well-funded
scramble for market share before a hierarchy could set in.
They knew that if the industry looked anything less than unstoppable, it could be stopped.
Step one was to normalize the practice, and for this, the industry was gifted a massive
opportunity—the COVID-19 pandemic.
With the world of sports reopening into a new, less physical, less social context, the
industry realized it could capitalize on the degraded fan experience to effectively manufacture
a new normal.
COVID was slowly and steadily growing pre-pandemic, but come Q3 2020, as the NHL, NBA, and MLB
restarted their seasons in various forms of biosecure bubbles, the industry spent three
times more than any prior quarter on TV advertising.
And logos went everywhere.
FanDuel adorned the boards around the NHL's pandemic-proof rink in Edmonton, on screens
sitting where the NBA's courtside seats would normally go, on the pitcher's mound
at MLB ballparks, and anywhere else where a competitor hadn't already inked a deal.
With the knowledge that their most promising customer demographic was 18- to 35-year-old
men, based on their above-average propensity to develop long-term, potentially addictive
gambling habits, companies even inked deals with LSU, Michigan State University, CU Boulder,
and other colleges to advertise sports betting to their own students—sometimes, as a New
York Times investigation exposed, to the extent of paying a fixed amount per sign-up.
This sports betting omnipresence wasn't normal, but it was tough for anyone to recognize
that when nothing was.
But making the practice feel as integral to the sports viewing experience as donning a
jersey or assembling some nachos was only half the battle.
Once the gambling companies got people in, they had to keep them—they had to turn a
sign-up into a habit, and for that, there were inducements.
The concept is loosely based on the casino experience.
In Vegas, around 40% of gambling is conducted by the top 5% of gamblers—the high rollers—so
the casinos generally focus their inherently limited resources on keeping these gamblers
gambling.
Typically, that task falls onto the casino hosts—they're supposed to act as the high
rollers' friend, accompanying them to dinners, arranging show tickets, grabbing drinks from
the bar, booking free flights, really doing anything they can to make the guests' experience
better.
What their job really is is to use that social dynamic, and the power to occasionally reimburse
some losses, to subtly nudge the high roller towards playing more and betting bigger.
The opportunity with online sports betting was that this task could be automated and
extended to all, no matter if they bet $1 or $1 million.
For example, if an algorithm predicts that a player is likely to stop betting after a
string of losses, which some can with remarkable accuracy, it'll automatically offer a risk-free
bet—if they lose the next one, they'll get their money back.
But, the terms will indicate, the money returned can't be withdrawn—it has to be spent
on another bet.
After two additional bets, there's every chance the player wins one and decides to
keep going, but even if they don't, they've gotten back into the groove of it so, even
given the high cost of this inducement, the economics work out in aggregate so that free
bets are a winning proposition for the gambling companies.
The systems are just incredibly effective at forming a habit in their players in a cost-effective
manner.
Unsurprisingly, myriad academic research has demonstrated that inducements have a dramatic
effect on the size of bets, and encourages the behavior that turns gambling from a form
of entertainment into a problem.
Governments know this, and yet they allow this.
In fact, not only are inducements legal, but in many states, thanks to aggressive lobbying,
they are tax-exempt, meaning sports betting companies have avoided paying millions upon
millions of dollars in taxes by engaging in the practice that develops addicts.
Underfunded and overstretched, state regulatory agencies have been unable to properly manage
the sports betting companies, and their corresponding legislators have overwhelmingly failed to
resist the influence of some of America's highest-paid and most effective lobbyists.
While everyone in the equation hides it as best as possible, the gambling industry is
in charge—they're calling the shots, and America is slowly and quietly turning into
a nation of gamblers.
This is far from unprecedented.
On the other side of the equator, one of the US's closest cultural equivalents has
already marched far further down this path—Australia is already a nation of gamblers.
It is as deeply intertwined into society as guns are to America's.
No population loses more to gambling than Australia's—each adult resident averages
over $1,000 a year in loss, a clean doubling of America's equivalent figure—and the
explanation is concerningly straightforward.
In the US, casinos are a destination.
From the center of New York City, the closest proper one is a 50-minute trek into Queens.
From Dallas, it's an 80-minute drive north to Chickasaw land in Oklahoma.
From San Francisco, it's a similar 60-minute drive north into Sonoma County.
In Australia, however, casinos are city-center attractions.
Melbourne's Crown Casino development sits just across from the city's central business
district and has turned the riverfront into a lively nightlife destination that just happens
to include a place to play poker, roulette, or craps.
Sydney's newest tallest skyscraper now sits just steps away from the very location where
the first fleet of European settlers started their colony and acts as the home to another
Crown Casino development.
And up in Brisbane, a slice of its city center was torn down and is now being rebuilt into
the largest casino development in the country, which will tower over and look down upon the
historic neighborhood below.
Even Las Vegas separates the bulk of its casinos away from the city center.
In Australia, they're tough to avoid.
Gambling doesn't have to be purposefully planned.
It can simply be spontaneous—a convenient, accessible way to turn one's day around
for the better, or more often, worse.
But the concerning convenience compounds.
Across the country, nestled in a sizable proportion of bars and clubs, sit 188,000 slot machines,
or pokies, as the locals would call them.
That's one for every 137 residents.
They are simply everywhere, but they're especially in the areas that use them the
most, which more often than not are low-income neighborhoods.
In Sydney, for example, adult residents of the upscale Ritzy Coringa area only lost an
average of $180 a year to the pokies.
Meanwhile, to the west, in Fairfield, overwhelmingly home to low-income immigrant families, the
average adult lost nearly ten times as much—$1,558 a year.
And this pattern extends city and country-wide.
The lower the average income, the higher the average annual gambling loss.
From a systematic perspective, gambling in Australia is acting as a wealth transfer mechanism
from lower-income individuals to wealthy gambling conglomerate owners, and this has crafted
a legitimate, nationwide public health crisis.
Roughly one of every 14 Australians have exhibited signs of problematic gambling behavior.
The government says this, the government knows this, and yet the government enables this
because the gambling companies are in control.
The methods used to exert their influence are neither unique nor interesting—it's
the same lobbying, political donations, and revolving door between industry and politics
that you see in America and beyond.
It's just its extent and effectiveness that sets Australia apart.
As many observers have put it, the gambling industry is Australia's equivalent of the
American gun lobby.
But there is still one final step in the gambling industry's grand plan.
People gamble more when it's convenient—we know that people play more when they live
closer to pokey machines, we know that people sports bet more when they can do so on their
phones, and so the gambling industry knows what their biggest legislative win to date
would be—iGaming.
That's the technical term for the broad-bucket of chance-based gambling, roulette, slots,
bingo, and more, taking place on the internet or apps.
This would create a problem.
Time and time and time again, a causal relationship has been demonstrated between accessibility
of gambling and the likelihood of it developing into a problem, so the legalization of iGaming
would undoubtedly increase the number of addicts.
Drinking can be safe and fun, just like alcohol can be safe and fun.
Consumed in the right amounts, in the right places, by the right people, there is no problem
with drinking.
Done in the right amounts, in the right places, by the right people, there doesn't have
to be a problem with gambling.
But in both cases, improper use can wreak havoc on life and livelihood.
And increasingly in America, legal gambling is occurring improperly.
Gambling has to be a destination, not a convenience.
Anyone can have a terrible, hopeless day, log onto an app, wager far more than is responsible,
lose it in an instant, and trigger a downward spiral of issues that turns a bad day into
a bad year.
Far fewer people can have a bad day, drive 80 minutes north to Oklahoma, and still think
it's a good idea to wager an excessive amount.
Putting such potential pain in people's pockets requires a degree of personal responsibility
that few players are able to consistently fulfill across the full spectrum of emotions.
Right now, on average, across the US, the power balance swings towards gambling companies
rather than the regulators.
Underfunded and overworked state regulators are struggling to cope with the massive, well-funded
explosion in online gambling, and so regulation of existing rules is inconsistent and weak.
Gambling companies feel this, and it means they consistently operate off of forgiveness,
rather than permission.
Gambling companies need to be terrified of regulators to keep the industry safe.
Notably, Nevada's Gaming Commission has a death grip on Las Vegas casinos, holding
them to an exceptionally high standard, leading to gambling companies often operating above
those standards to allow for margin of error.
But in the rest of the US, those very same companies and more consistently skirt, bend,
and push the rules because they know they can get away with it—they downplay the risk
of loss in advertising, even when that's illegal, they allow gamblers to accumulate
credit card debt through deposits, even when that's illegal, they operate sports betting
on lower-division semi-professional leagues, even when that's illegal, and more often
than not, they're just told to do better in the future.
Sports betting doesn't have to be a problem—it can be what it's portrayed as, it can be
a fun, social way of upping the emotional stakes of the viewing experience—but far
too often, it fails to hit the mark.
Faced with few roadblocks and increasingly capable of knocking the remaining ones down,
the industry is doing what industry does—finding and following the greatest possible revenue
opportunity by turning the US into a nation of addicts.
The trend is worrying, and it is a trend.
West Virginia, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Michigan all have
legalized some form of iGaming, and more states are expected to follow in 2023.
The dominoes are falling, the slow, silent march continues, and the gambling industry
takes another step forward in its grand plan to consume America and Americans alike.
Okay, so I'm really weirdly excited for this ad read because it's been an incredibly
long time coming.
Six months ago I made a video called the carbon offset problem, where the conclusion was that
while carbon offsets as a concept can theoretically work, the current marketplace for them enables
and even incentivizes scams to the point where they're nothing more than a greenwashing
tool on average.
The video got a ton of attention, and was even included in a John Oliver segment about
the same subject, and then a little later the people at a company called Wren reached
out and claimed they had created a system to help make offsets actually work.
I talked with their CEO Landon, their project evaluator Sophie, and a few others over there
for over an hour, and they walked me through the process and responded really well to all
my grilling, and I left pretty confident that Wren is as good as it gets in the carbon offsetting
market.
As you might remember from my video, offsetting is only as good as the accuracy of project
evaluation, so their project evaluator Sophie showed me the hundreds of tiny, tiny details
that she individually verifies to make sure a project is actually going to do what it
says it will, and it's an ongoing process once the project actually starts, too.
They only have seven active projects so they put a ton of focus into each, but one thing
I think is really smart is they only sell offsets in a combined portfolio of all of
these—that way they reduce risk and build in a margin for error if one project falls
short.
In addition, unlike single project offsets, they can use the fund to help finance more
experimental or ancillary projects that still help fight the climate crisis but are tougher
to quantify in tons of carbon.
For example, they recently added Carbon 180 to the mix, where they're helping this policy
group that advocates and works for more funding for offset projects, which hopefully leads
to a compounding effect.
I could go on and on about all the different tiny ways they assure what they're doing
actually works, but the thing to know is that, based on what I know about their subject,
Wren is the real deal and if you're still skeptical you should check out their website
because they do a good job of explaining how.
So, if you want to be genuinely as sure as possible that you actually offset emissions
from taking a flight, for example, they're the place to go.
I've turned down plenty of carbon offsetting sponsors in the past, and I've opened myself
up to plenty of criticism by doing this since I've been such a vocal critic of the carbon
offsetting market, so you can know that I genuinely believe in them.
They'll be what I use going forward both for my personal and business carbon offsetting,
and I think you should too—they make it super simple to calculate your personal carbon
footprint and give personalized suggestions on how to reduce it.
Then, for anything else, you can set up a monthly offset so you can reduce your personal
contribution to the climate crisis.
Doing this probably costs a lot less than you think, and it's even less considering
that if you click the button on screen or head to our link in the description, they'll
pay to offset the first month of emissions for the first 100 people to sign up.
