Today's video is another case of somebody sending me a submission for TikTok Tuesday
and me realizing this is actually worth going over in more detail.
The broader topic is about cancel culture, and though I've spoken about it before on
this channel, it's been a while, and there's new stuff to talk about.
Let's start with Viral TikTok.
This clip blew up over the last weekend, netting 650,000 views.
So
the story is, the one recording the video, Lizzie Ash Music, claims that this guy grabbed
her wig while walking by on the streets of New York at night.
The third person in the video is the guy's friend, who knows that his pal is looking
like an asshole and is begging him to apologize.
But the guy doesn't seem to know what's going on, he's falling forward, he's ignoring
people talking to him, when he does reply, he doesn't seem to understand what's being
said to him.
It's very clear that this dude is drunk and stumbling home from the bar at the end
of the night.
But he probably actually did snatch her wig.
With a bright fucking beacon like that, that's something a drunk guy looking for a laugh
might try to do.
Plus, the fact that his friend is on camera trying to defuse the situation by asking him
to apologize, yeah, I don't think it's too likely that she's just making the whole
story up.
We didn't see it happen, but it is believable, and yeah, that's a shitty thing to do.
It probably even counts as some form of assault, legally.
She showed off in a later video that the wig is actually quite attached to her hair and
did real damage being ripped off.
But look at this.
If you pull the wig, it looks like it's going to come off, right?
And then it gets stuck because it has combs in it.
So he ended up pulling my hair in order to officially take it off.
You have to then yank down and then try your best.
It's still not coming off.
He dead pulled my whole wig off.
But as a result of the video going viral, this guy got his life destroyed.
He goes into further detail in a third video.
The internet tracked him down and discovered he was an associate at the law firm Leader
Burcon Kalau and Silverstein.
The firm put out a public statement that reads,
We have been made aware of a video of a non-work-related incident involving one of our associates circulating
on social media.
We take seriously any inappropriate behavior by any employee, whether inside or outside
the workplace.
This associate is no longer with the firm.
Now listen, I'm not going to sit here and simp for this guy.
Even if grabbing the wig isn't something he would have done when he was sober.
Even if he doesn't remember doing it.
You are responsible for what you do when you're drunk because you chose to get drunk.
This applies to drunk driving.
And yes, unpopular opinion alert, it applies to a good chunk of sexual activity as well.
So obviously, it also applies to when you yank a random woman's wig off in the street.
He committed assault, she went to the cops, which is exactly what she should do.
That's her legal right.
Now look at the wording of that statement again.
We take seriously any inappropriate behavior by any employee, whether inside or outside
the workplace.
Any inappropriate behavior?
If this guy tells an edgy joke in the privacy of his own home to his old high school friends,
and the law firm has a fucking spy drone hovering at the apartment window recording it, should
he be fired then?
What is the limit on this shit?
I mentioned in my video about the City Bike Karen that I hate how our society has decided
that a workplace can just police random workers off the clock and it's no big deal.
If you're not a public face of the company, if you're not the CEO or something, if you're
just a cog in the machine and you're not getting paid on your off time, why the fuck are you
being held to company standard on your off time?
It's ridiculous, but this is where progressives have led us.
Liberals, conservatives, libertarians, capitalists of all types tend to respect the barrier between
private and public.
It's progressives who overwhelmingly preach that because everything is political, there
should be levers of power available to destroy somebody who does something immoral regardless
of its legality.
So what is the limit on that principle?
Again, forget about the legality for a second.
The wig snatcher is already finding himself in legal trouble because the wig woman went
to the cops.
But should he have been fired for something totally unrelated to his job?
The wig woman frames the conversation as if she's just holding him accountable by recording
him with her phone.
But what that actually means is she's doxing him and then uploading his face and ruining
his life.
What makes that the appropriate thing to do?
Maybe you think that legality itself is the standard, that as long as something is illegal,
it should also be grounds to be cancelable and fireable.
That's not necessarily a bad position to hold.
We see lots of examples of people doing beyond the pale stuff, and it feels correct when
they lose their job.
I went over an example on yesterday's weekly sip of a feminist professor who vandalized
a pro-life display on campus and then, when asked about that event by journalists, held
up a machete to one of their necks.
That might not have been done strictly during work hours, but she did get fired for it.
Though this one is quite extreme, and to be honest, it probably would have naturally led
to her firing anyway.
If she had to go to jail, she couldn't attend her job.
The issue is, the people who overwhelmingly wield the cancel culture power right now,
progressives, they don't think the limit for a reasonable canceling is just legality.
They think the limit is whether or not the target is aligned with them politically.
Now, sometimes that alignment literally means, do you hold the same political views as me?
But there is more to it than that.
Look at the wig-snatcher story again.
He's a presumably straight, white male working in law, while she's a black female, probably
some flavor of queer, and she's working as an artiste.
Even if they both happened to hold the same political opinions and voted for the same
candidates and policies.
Because blackness and whiteness are now political ideologies themselves in the progressive zeitgeist,
she automatically classified him not just as a douchebag but a political enemy after
he snatched her wig.
And sometimes, the issue at play is power dynamics.
Progressives tend to talk about punching up and punching down a lot, especially online,
where the idea is, despite other factors like political affiliation or race or sexuality
or gender.
If there is a class disparity, or a power disparity, or a reach disparity, like if one
party has a larger platform, that also creates opposing political classes.
This was what was at the core of the ultimately deranged Mr. Girl report on Destiny, where
the basics of Mr. Girl's argument was that Destiny had an extra responsibility due to
his size when dealing with smaller creators.
That they could punch, but he had to tie one hand behind his back when counter-punching.
This idea is all over the fucking internet right now.
How many times have you seen people, quote, come forward with bullshit docs or manifestos
and make claims about how a YouTuber treated them inappropriately four years ago or six
years ago or whatever.
Something that can't be proven anymore and was never reported to the police, and we're
just expected to believe all women because of some residual me too effect.
These stories all read the same.
I'm so scared to speak up because I used to run with some mid-tier Twitch stream you've
never heard of before.
I'm not doing this for the clout, even though I'm going to link my own Twitch channel or
my OnlyFans or whatever in the end of the Twitlonger.
We met back in 2017 on Discord where he groomed me by being nice to me, and then after the
relationship ran its course, I felt betrayed because he used his star power to get me to
send him pictures of my butthole.
All of these stories sound the same, dude.
And listen, I'm not sitting here saying that they're all fake.
There are absolutely people who have used the one drop of celebrity that being a mid-level
streamer nets them to get nudes from girls in a way that the girls later regret, who
have gotten into parties and got girls drunk and taken advantage of them, who have roped
in girls with big promises and left them hanging.
There's very real stories out there of people doing this with underage targets, too.
I'm not being unsympathetic to any real victims.
At the same time, every time I see a tweet chain describing the most one-sided series
of events that amount to a scorned lover looking to capitalize on a possibly real, possibly
fake event that happened five years ago that they may or may not be traumatized by, where
the target is somebody who is much bigger than them and who has moved on from them,
I just don't care anymore.
I hate sounding like Andrew Tate in his old videos, but fuck me, dude, bring it to the
cops.
The court of public opinion is not the appropriate place for most of this stuff, and I just don't
care anymore.
So, those are the three possible vectors for a successful canceling event.
Political dynamics, demographic dynamics, and power dynamics.
If your canceling attempt can lean on one of those three to demonize your target, you
might actually pull it off.
Of course, it's not that simple.
One, progressives tend to ignore a specific power dynamic, attractiveness privilege.
If all else being equal, a pretty person cancels an ugly person, it's no problem
despite it obviously being punching down.
Considering that, as a very general average, left-leaning people do tend to be slightly
more attractive than right-leaning people, I'm not surprised that this is a hierarchy
that the left doesn't really care too much about tearing down.
Two, and more importantly, when the various dynamics clash, the winner is always the political
dynamic.
In other words, when it's a white progressive versus a black conservative, it's the black
person who gets cancelled.
Take this video of Tim Pool having his beanie snatched off his head.
Now, because the beanie wasn't pinned down like Wig Girl's wig was, it didn't physically
damage him.
It's obviously not a one-to-one comparison, but it is in roughly the same class of thing,
and it's also likely a form of assault.
How many leftoids laughed at Tim Pool in this clip, shouting about him getting owned and
how hilarious it is, while calling the guy who did the snatching a hero and not doxing
him and not ruining his life?
I bet those same leftoids were 100% on board with stringing up the wig snatcher.
Even though, in both cases, it's a racial minority getting harassed by a white man,
it counts for Wig Girl and it doesn't count for Tim Pool because of political alignment.
This is why we've seen nonsense like how Asians are honorary whites or how black-white
supremacy is a thing.
When the demographic dynamic disagrees with the political dynamic, the dissenter has to
be de-raced by the progressive lens.
Do you want an even more stark example of this effect in action?
Watch this trans woman wear a mega-hat at a Pride event.
You
need to calm down, sir.
This person is absolutely part of the demographics of Pride, being trans.
This is literally her community.
But the political alignment made that point moot.
She's not actually trans anymore, in the progressive view, because being progressive is a necessary
component of truly being trans.
This is something that I went over in detail in my video documenting people who were physically
attacked for wearing mega-hats in public during Trump's presidency.
Some of those attackers did face legal repercussions, but none of them were ever canceled by the
internet mob.
The question at this point is, why?
Why is it like this?
If you want an hour-long, deep answer to that question, go watch my video on the philosophy
of Antonio Gramsci.
The TLDR is, Gramsci in political theory and everybody who has descended from his work,
even if unknowingly, like the modern progressive movement in the West, has three basic axioms.
1.
Moving the world more leftward is good.
It doesn't matter what type of leftism.
Doesn't matter if you're an incrementalist or revolutionary.
More left equals more good, simple as.
2.
Any method to move the world more leftward is morally permissible.
If somebody objects to the morality of your chosen method, they're objecting to your outcome.
Again, more left means more good.
Because you're pursuing a better world, even a utopian world, all paths that lead in that
direction are valid.
3.
This is the first result of 1 and 2 when a liberal calls for neutrality in debate, neutrality
in institutions, even neutrality in things that you'd think would be naturally objective
like science.
The liberal is simply blind to the nature of power.
Liberal neutrality does not truly exist because it necessarily privileges a specific liberal
political position.
And anything more leftward than that imposed neutrality is preferable because, again, more
left is more good.
Therefore, when leftism and neutrality are at odds, leftism should win.
4.
Multiple right-wing political theorists have observed and described this ratchet effect
leftward.
Moldbug stated that Cthulhu always swims left.
One of Robert Conquest's three laws of politics is any institution not explicitly right-wing
will become left-wing over time.
They're all getting at the same thing.
Progressives slowly boiling the frog on wider cultural subversion, with each moment a new
data point, pulling fire alarms on a conservative speaker at a university campus, spam reporting
somebody's social media because they are your political enemy, pushing for people who aren't
even terrorist groups or anything.
They just don't hold progressive opinions to have their bank accounts shut down.
Going after history itself, whether that's old books, old movies, old songs, or dead
public figures.
And, of course, attacking regular people who aren't in any way any sort of extremist,
but support the idea of liberal neutrality itself.
This is where everything is political is trotted out, to be used as a battering ram to shame
the liberal into compliance.
And of course, it's not happening.
It's not real.
This is just the natural state, guys.
This is how it's always been, how it always will be, how it should be.
It's consequence culture, guys.
If people do bad things, shouldn't they be punished?
Even a child knows that bullies should be held accountable.
Of course, the progressives doing the canceling aren't bullies, they just want to make the
world a better place.
They're just clapping back.
Their goals make it acceptable.
It's all so tiring.
The left has reinvented all of the worst aspects of the internet, that they screamed about
being dangerous right-wing extremism back in the 2010s.
Doxing, targeted harassment, life ruination.
But because it's done in the service of their good cause, it's acceptable.
Before everyone had a camera in their pocket, people weren't scared of doing something stupid
in public, because there was no chance it would be immortalized.
See my nostalgia as fascism video for more on that idea.
Do you know what we did back in the 90s and 2000s if we were slighted by some dumb drunk
fuck on the street?
We moved on because it didn't matter.
If it was serious, we might have fought them.
If it was really serious, we would call the cops.
But the proportionality of those three responses was correct.
Not so nowadays.
Nowadays, even the slightest of offenses, which have been rebranded as microaggressions,
to the progressive, are deserving of the most extreme response.
But to most people who have their head on straight, snatching a wig off that lady's
head while drunk is an asshole thing to do.
But it's not worth ruining the guy's life over.
The left is, slowly, finally, beginning to lose some of its cultural dominance.
At least online, anyway.
And I expect their Puritanism to ramp up hard, as their claws are forcefully pried out of
the death grip they've got us all in.
They are just like the religious fundamentalists of yesteryear, who can't leave people alone
to live their private lives.
Who must butt into every space to make sure the proper views are followed.
Who must punish anybody for any deviation from orthodoxy.
These people are butting totalitarians.
They lack the total political power to actually enforce their morality on everybody at all
times like a true totalitarian system would.
And so cancel culture is their next best attempt.
If they can't make it illegal to be a non-progressive, they will make it financially costly, morally
repugnant, and culturally taboo instead.
