Hey, we're back in the movie studio.
This time to talk about the newest Star Wars property, well, slightly newest.
The Obi-Wan Kenobi show has been done for about a month.
I figure that's enough time for the fanboys to stop soying out over it and start soying
out over Star Wars andor instead.
These shows seem to have a particular life cycle.
When the name is quietly printed at one of those corporate meetings, fans begin to rapidly
speculate.
Once the trailer drops, everyone uploads their reaction video where they're screaming and
crying and clapping and talking about how they've done it again.
Oh my god, it's a cultural phenomenon.
Then as the movie or the show or whatever actually premieres, everyone gets into a competition
on social media to see who can give Disney the deepest, most full-throated blowey they
can.
And then a month later, everyone finally comes to their senses and realizes, yeah, that was
kind of shit, wasn't it?
I've got a lot to say about the Obi-Wan Kenobi show, so it goes without saying that I'm going
to spoil pretty much everything.
Therefore, if for some ungodly reason you plan to watch this series yourself, you may
want to step away from this video.
Also, I'm very aware that multiple channels have already gone over the show in depth,
including Red Letter Media, EFAP, and It's a Gundam, and I'll try not to say the same
things that they do, but you know how this reviewing stuff goes sometimes.
Don't worry though, at the very least, I won't be autistically analyzing the different eras
of Darth Vader's suit to find inconsistencies in the costume.
Geez, Gundam, that was a bit too much even for me.
Oh, Vader does look like a cosplayer this time around.
Additionally, even though this video is an in-depth review of the Obi-Wan Kenobi show,
it's also a wider discussion of Star Wars as a whole, including at the end a political
discussion.
If you're not here for that, that's fine with me.
The Kenobi review ends and the meta conversation begins at about the halfway mark.
But enough goofing around, let's get this show on the road.
The first episode of Obi-Wan Kenobi begins with the supercut of the original trilogy,
and I gotta say, they cut the shit out of these movies.
Just to let you really young Zoomers know, the internet did actually exist 20 years ago
when the prequel trilogy came out, and forum posts and later YouTube videos of the day
considered these three movies to be dogshit.
That's all it takes for Cypher to give up his whole life in service to some evil mastermind.
Honestly, is Cypher the most easily manipulated little worm on the planet or what?
Who's going to believe that a hero, young and reckless though he may be, is simply going
to abandon his entire life and his career in a prestigious, respected order of warrior
knights just because some evil wizard challenges his feelings of powerlessness and impotence
and offers him the chance that power and respect he feels he's been denied.
You're not all powerful.
Well, I should be.
I will be the most powerful Jedi ever.
But at the very least, people are nostalgic for them, despite or perhaps because of their
flaws.
I think that's why the meme of shitting on the prequels versus the sequels caught
on for a while.
People know the prequels are bad, but they love them anyway.
They can take a joke.
Anyway, despite these being three shitty movies, this supercut makes them look amazing.
The music's great.
They show Anakin's life and his relationship with Obi-Wan.
It's just…
Mwah.
It was watching this when I realized that I think I love the idea of Star Wars more
than the execution of Star Wars at this point.
There's this rich universe full of lore and characters and organizations and conflicts
and all this history, and then we get shit like this.
The first actual scene of the Obi-Wan show has some Jedi younglings practicing Tai Chi
or something.
It looks all nice and serene and then suddenly Order 66 happens and the shaky cam begins.
Watch it.
This is laughable.
It looks like the cameraman was pulling back and then tripped over an apple box or something.
We get to witness Jedi fighting clone troopers during that historic moment, setting up Riva
in the process.
Yes, I am pretty sure that everybody and their mother knew that this was Riva on their first
viewing.
It's not exactly hard to figure out what they're doing here.
There's no reason to remake the Order 66 scene when you've already flashed back to
the original footage, unless you're going to add some new information.
We cut to the present day, which is ten years later, approximately halfway between Revenge
of the Sith and A New Hope.
The setting is Tatooine, specifically a reuse of the Tatooine set from The Mandalorian and
Boba Fett.
Hey, if you've got it, why not?
The Inquisitors have come to town, an elite group of Force-sensitives that hunt Jedi on
behalf of the Empire.
Oh, come on, dude, why'd you have to park in the middle of the road?
We've got a spaceport, you know.
The Grand Inquisitor, along with Umbrella Hat Man, are both characters from Star Wars
Rebels, with established personalities and story arcs.
Fun fact, the Grand Inquisitor in that show was played by Jason Isaacs, the guy who did
both Draco's dad in Harry Potter and Captain Lorca in Star Trek Discovery, the only legitimately
interesting thing about that show's first season.
Upon learning that his character was heading towards the live-action screen, Jason Isaacs
expressed interest in playing him there, too.
But alas, we got this guy instead.
I'm sorry, I don't know him for anything, but his filmography isn't nearly as extensive
or high-profile, and I am wondering if it was a budget issue, considering Kenobi feels
kind of cheap all around.
It turns out that Kenobi only had a $90 million budget.
That's actually not that much in comparison to the $100 million for a season of The Mandalorian
or Boba Fett, or the $150 million that Moon Knight and Ms. Marvel, or the non-Disney offerings
of Star Trek Picard and Star Trek Strange New Worlds all commanded.
I think that's why, despite the aesthetically impressive offerings of the slum planet of
Dayu and the underwater fortress Inquisitorius, overall the Kenobi show feels rather drab.
The other locations are the beige rocks of Tatooine, the red rocks of Jabiim, the brown
rocks of the nameless planet that only exists to duel on, and the black rocks of a quarry
in California.
Multiple ships use the same cockpit set, just recolored, in an attempt to make it look like
it's a new place.
A lack of money is the only explanation I can think of as to why the show can make some
things look so good and other things look so cheap.
The thing that we really aspire to constantly is quality.
Maybe they couldn't afford to take on another big name beyond Owen McGregor, and it sucks
too because Jason Isaacs is great, and, more importantly, he's got the correct shaped
head.
No, really, the Grand Inquisitor is supposed to be a member of the Pau'an race, yeah these
guys from episode 3.
With the long skinny bald heads, these effects were made with a combination of prosthetics
with a little bit of CG to add a few extra touches.
But I guess they just didn't have the budget for all that in Kenobi.
It would have looked a little bit better on Isaacs, though.
They're also missing the full suite of cranial ridges, no no no I'm not going to go full
autist like Gundam did.
This scene serves to set up the Inquisitors, what they do, the Jedi in their current situation,
and the conflict between Riva and the Grand Inquisitor.
But it does it just so poorly.
Why is the dialogue so stilted?
We should be hunting bigger prey.
He is not yours to find, we are past this third sister, I will not warn you again.
You will forget this fixation with Kenobi or I will relieve you of your duties, is that
clear?
Why do you just grimace menacingly at the Jedi and not stop him?
Why does a fallen tarp stop the chase, literally just go the fuck around it?
The catching up with Obi-Wan stuff has done pretty well.
There's a lot of good character moments here, and they do a good job of showing, not
telling.
The drudgery of Obi-Wan's daily job, butchering a rotting sand whale, especially compared
to the prestige of his previous life.
How he appears powerless and oppressed whenever injustice happens.
How he isolates himself in a cave and has flashbacks to the pre-cultural events in his
dreams, even events he wasn't even present for.
I guess we didn't need that pre-show recap after all.
During those lonely nights Obi-Wan spends time with his anteater face, hahaha don't
look that one up.
But in all seriousness this is a depressed Obi-Wan, and we spend like half the episode
setting it up.
This is legitimately good stuff, even if the writing is kinda shitty.
You have no idea what I've been through.
Uh, I might have an idea dude.
We also set up the conflict between Obi-Wan and Uncle Owen, something that is only lightly
touched on in A New Hope.
I wonder if he's related to Ben.
That wizard's just a crazy old man.
This is a natural plotline though, that Obi-Wan would be buzzing around like a weird stalker,
while Owen just wants to get on with his life and bury the past.
It's pretty easy to feel for both of these characters.
Owen truly does want what's best for Luke.
Meanwhile Obi-Wan's clearly having PTSD just looking at the kid.
Nonetheless, these two are truly quite stupid characters.
They have private conversations about Obi-Wan being a Jedi, Luke being a Jedi, etc. in the
open fucking street.
Can you guys take this shit inside maybe?
Ride Obi-Wan's farting anteater back home?
Seriously this guy says rewards will be given and you're just going to drop a thank you
in the crowd?
You think these people won't sell you out for money?
The show then cuts to Princess Leia Organa, future leader of a very well known asteroid
belt.
They do a lot of work setting her up too, with Bail Organa returning from episode 3.
Her life as a princess, there's a bunch of noble family stuff in there, but it's clear
she wants no part of it, opting to spend her time running away from the palace to hang
out in the woods with her droid, Lola.
Which by the way, was an idea originally from the prequels.
A vision of Padme having a hovering personal droid companion was something that didn't
make it out of the concept stage.
Also at one point she had a falcon too, I wouldn't mind seeing falconer Leia.
At this point I will ask the obvious question.
If you're going to do an Obi-Wan story, and it's not just going to be about his shitty
life in the desert, what do you do?
Do you have him butt heads with Uncle Owen?
I mean of course, that's a natural extension of already established stories.
But what else?
You can't make him go have a huge adventure with Luke.
A new hope firmly establishes that Luke knows of Obi-Wan as Ben Kenobi, but they're not
friends or acquaintances.
So what do you do?
You include a Leia storyline instead I guess.
And you know what?
If you skim over a new hope, you'll realize that Leia and Obi-Wan don't actually share
any scenes together.
While Obi-Wan is spending his time kickstarting Luke's hero's journey, Leia is on the Death
Star.
By the time Luke, Han and Chewie rescue Leia, Obi-Wan has already gone off on his own.
So putting them together now is perfect right?
Well I'm pretty sure that the only thing the people making this show did was skim the
old content.
Because if Leia actually went on this huge epic adventure with Obi-Wan that we see in
the show, she'd probably be reacting just like Luke does when he dies.
Does this look like a woman who's just lost a close friend and mentor?
With whom she bopped around the galaxy a decade earlier during her most formative years?
This is the look of somebody who's like, are you fucking kidding me, did this kid just
blow our cover?
Yeah dude, Leia does not give a fuck that Obi-Wan's dead.
Anyway, we need to kick off this Obi-Wan and Leia adventure that totally happened somehow.
So Leia gets kidnapped.
But not before a tense chase scene through Alderaan's woods.
And by tense I mean cartoonish.
This is the sort of thing that you'd expect to see on a Disney Kids series, where the
adults are somehow slow and incompetent, and the tiny child keeps managing to get away.
In fact, there's like four running scenes with Leia, and they all follow this formula.
Somehow grown ass adults just can't keep up with her.
So Leia's kidnapped, and Bail Organa wants Obi-Wan to come out of hiding at great personal
risk to himself, and sort it out.
For some reason he's not going to ask the Empire for help.
Because remember, at this point in the timeline, Organa is an Imperial Senator for a planet
under the protection of the Empire.
And I know the Empire is evil and all, but it still ultimately values rule of law, and
considers abducting an Imperial Senator's daughter a grave offense, as the Grand Inquisitor
will tell us next episode.
Nor does Bail consider sending out his own personal guard.
Yeah, those guys in the background with funny hats, that get completely shot up and destroyed
in A New Hope and Rogue One.
Alderaan has its own security force, he could send those.
Hell, if for some reason, Organa wanted to keep it a secret, he could call it bounty
hunters.
That's literally their job in this universe.
Hired muscle for when you don't want the authorities finding out.
No, he just wants Obi-Wan.
But here's why.
Only you know how important she really is, Obi-Wan.
Wait a second, how important is she?
I mean, yeah, she's Anakin's daughter, and Luke's son.
That's pretty important.
But only insofar as Anakin's personal feelings, and maybe some sort of succession or legitimacy
thing down the line?
Yes, Bail loves his daughter, but they're acting like she's a child of destiny or something.
My duty is to the boy.
What about your duty to his sister?
She's as important as he is.
There was that whole stupid prophecy thing that George Lucas invented for the prequels
about Anakin bringing balance to the force, but his kids aren't named in the prophecy.
You refer to the prophecy of the one who will bring balance to the force.
Also in the end, Anakin didn't bring balance to the force.
You and the chosen one bring balance to the force, not leave it in darkness.
I know George Lucas later confirmed in an interview that it was Luke who fulfilled the
prophecy in episode 6.
The prophecy is that Anakin will bring balance to the force and destroy the Sith.
He becomes Darth Vader, Darth Vader does become the hero, Darth Vader does destroy
the Sith, meaning himself and the Emperor.
He does it because he is redeemed by his son.
But even that didn't matter because Luke's school fell apart, and by the end of the sequel
trilogy there's no Jedi or Sith anymore or anything.
Is that what balance meant?
I guess everyone's equal when they're dead.
Anyway, my point is, Leia is important politically, as both the Senator's daughter and secretly
Anakin's daughter.
But insofar as Bail Organa knows, that's it.
They're treating her like she's supremely important, and yeah she is to the future movies,
but these guys don't know that.
Are they reading the fucking scripts or something?
They're even treating her as more important than Luke, who actually does become the hero,
and who Obi-Wan is all too happy to abandon his watch over to go on this adventure.
Dude, hide your lightsaber, like what the fuck?
The blue tunic was actually a good look on you, man, Obi-Wan should have stayed in that
the whole adventure.
Why would you dig up the old dirty Jedi robes and then just hang the lightsaber off them
for all to see?
Is that what secretly gives a Jedi his powers, the unwashed robes?
So, Obi-Wan arrives in the Blade Runner planet of Dio.
And you know what?
They did a pretty good job with the art direction here, all things considered.
There's even that nice touch of bringing back Boba Fett's actor to play an aging
clone trooper who's now down on his luck.
You can see Obi-Wan getting flashbacks as soon as he sees him.
I have a feeling that maybe the clone trooper should have recognized Obi-Wan since, you
know, Order 66, but still, this is good stuff.
We're introduced to Haja, who's a scam artist.
He pretends to be a Jedi using tricks in sleight of hand to fleece people, which again, I
don't mind.
That's the kind of person you'd find in a scum bucket city like this.
He is what passes for this story's comic relief.
And, like most comedy written by nihilistic millennials, he's only really got one note.
Being sardonic.
And hey, to his credit, it's sometimes funny.
But for the most part, he overstays his welcome in every scene he's in.
Due to the usual hijinks, Haja ends up leading Obi-Wan to the drug operation the gangsters
who kidnapped Leia are operating out of.
Obi-Wan is taken prisoner, he breaks out, he breaks Leia out, Leia doesn't trust him,
she runs away, he catches up, Leia doesn't trust him again, she runs away again, this
time into a rooftop firefight against a punk rocker from that dinosaur show, and a robot
who is more stiff than Hayden Christensen's acting in Attack of the Clones.
I'm really skimming over this quickly, because every scene is extremely painful and contrived.
Awful dialogue, forced chase scenes, completely counterintuitive character moments.
It feels like a Disney executive said to the writers, this episode needs a rooftop shootout,
a street level chase scene, a drug lab, and a cargo port, because that's what the analytics
say will be good.
Then the writing department padded it out with really bad dialogue and scenes of Alan
McGregor playing with children.
But it's not only the props and the sets and the algorithms that they're writing around,
but also the phenomenon that I mentioned in my Boba Fett video, that I called Cool Scene
Itis.
That final shot of the previous episode, with the lightsaber hanging off Obi-Wan's belt,
that's a perfect example.
Disney wanted that trailer bait shot, something that fanboys would shed tears over in their
reaction videos.
Even though it's literally the dumbest fucking thing, because walking around with a lightsaber
while Inquisitors are hunting Jedi is a fast track to getting your face shoved into the
meat grinder.
But it looks cool, you got the iconic imagery, the swelling orchestra, Obi-Wan's back baby!
They're pursuing these moments at the expense of the cohesiveness of the plot.
At this point in the story it's implied that Obi-Wan's connection to the Force has
withered away along with the rest of him.
Leia's hanging on by a thread and Obi-Wan's in a bind.
Either he uses the Force or she dies.
It's that pressure cooker moment where the hero finally steps up, and of course Obi-Wan
does.
Wait a second though, this isn't the first time Obi-Wan used the Force in the show, is
it?
Earlier in the episode, when Obi-Wan was breaking into the drug compound, he notices
that the door going into the back is locked.
His plan is to cause one of the drug beakers to over boil and explode, causing a commotion,
upon which he pickpockets the key from the guard and slips in while everyone's distracted.
But watch the scene again, he enters from the right and then faces the front wall, where
the camera is.
It's the blue beaker behind him that explodes.
He doesn't adjust any knobs with his hands or anything, not that there are any knobs
where he is.
It's just a shelf of materials and some chemical canisters that aren't hooked up
to anything.
And with his back turned to the beaker, it blows up all on its own, which is when he
slips in.
Am I crazy?
Because this seems like he used the Force to turn a knob over on the burner, or drastically
heat the liquid up or something.
And everyone that I was watching this with took it that way too, we were all confused
like, why are they doing a big Obi-Wan has to use the Force for the first time scene?
Didn't we just see him use it?
Meanwhile, it's revealed that Raeva is the one who hired the thugs to kidnap Leia, specifically
for the purpose of drawing Obi-Wan out, so that she can capture him and make a name for
herself.
The other Inquisitors are outraged because, you know, the Imperial Senator's daughter
thing.
And this is when we get handed this beauty of a scene.
I found a link between him and Organa in the archives.
I used the girl as bait.
You hear that line?
I found a link between him and Organa in the archives.
I used the girl as bait.
That is a redub.
I should know, I do them all the time.
If you've got a sharp enough ear, you've been doing this sort of thing long enough,
it's not hard to spot.
Every time you set up to do voice recording, even if it's the same location, the same
microphone, the same equipment, the same people, it always sounds just slightly different.
Maybe the mic is in just a slightly different position relative to your mouth.
Maybe you're sitting differently.
Maybe the moisture content in the air is a little different.
Whatever the case is, no two recording sessions sound exactly alike.
In fact, this video is so huge, I'm doing two recording sessions on two different days
just to get it all done.
Let me know in the comments if you can tell when day two starts.
So listen to that scene again and really open your ears.
I found a link between him and Organa in the archives.
I used the girl as bait.
They added the line, I found a link between him and Organa in the archives in post, presumably
because they realized after shooting that there is no way anybody should know about
a connection between Obi-Wan and Leia.
Hell, there's no way that anyone should know that Leia's adopted at all.
You know, my father says they never let you leave this planet.
Yeah, I know, Bail's wife probably didn't appear pregnant, but you can fake that shit.
Fake records and pictures?
It's the goddamn future.
If Stalin could airbrush literally everybody out of existence, surely wifey here could
have been given a baby bump in a picture.
Sure, there's no automatic reason to suspect that Bail's publicly adopted daughter is
actually the believed to be dead child of Padme Amidala, but why even leave the door
open?
So what is this connection that Riva dug up from the archives that is so important that
Obi-Wan would come out of hiding to rescue Leia?
Is it that Bail, Organa, and Obi-Wan knew each other back in the day?
That's not really enough.
Bail's a senator and Obi-Wan was a Jedi Master.
There's plenty of reason that both men would know any number of other state officials or
military officials or other important people.
They had a working relationship isn't enough.
Either the archives showed an extremely tenuous circumstantial connection between Obi-Wan
and Bail, and therefore Riva should be executed on the spot by the Grand Inquisitor for taking
such an insane and stupid gambit, or the archives showed a rock solid connection between Bail
and Obi-Wan, and therefore a garrison of stormtroopers should be en route to Alderaan
immediately to extract any Jedi information from the Organa family and then send them
off to concentration camps to be turned into Soylent drinks.
But the show won't commit to either of these possibilities, because the plot simultaneously
demands them both, plausible enough to kinda act on, but not plausible enough to really
act on.
Riva does get punished for this though.
The Grand Inquisitor benches her and takes over the pursuit of Kenobi himself, so she
decides to go do her best Batman impression by hanging out on the rooftops of the city,
hoping for some reason that Obi-Wan will show up there.
And of course, he does.
This leads to a completely meaningless set of scenes where Riva does some very slow,
poorly choreographed Force parkour to try and get to the gunfight in time.
Which she doesn't, so whatever.
Back on the ground, Haja tells Obi-Wan to take an automated cargo transport to bypass
the Empire shutting down all the shuttles.
It's pre-programmed to take them to a safehouse because it turns out he's part of the Rebellion.
It's at this point that I realize that I really, really hate Leia's character.
She's simultaneously the dumb, naive kid and the wise-beyond-her-years Serene Princess
and you can't be both of those things.
Who?
Fucking Jar Jar?
Riva shows up though, so Obi-Wan stays behind to give Leia time to get to safety.
Start a counter on this one kids, it happens a lot.
So Leia runs ahead to the cargo transport.
A transport made only for cargo, not designed for humans to be in it.
Okay, so why are there human-sized doors?
And human chairs for people to sit on?
Also, why can you breathe in the ship when it goes into space?
Ah whatever, we can't worry about that too much.
We have this monumentally stupid fucking scene to watch.
So Obi-Wan knows that Anakin Skywalker is Darth Vader.
Vader does keep his real identity a secret from the wider public.
There's a lot of stories out there where he kills people he used to know or who somehow
found out.
It's kind of the equivalent of Vader wanting his old Anakin Twitter account buried because
there's some edgy shit on there and he lost the password, you know?
But Vader himself isn't a secret, he's the public face of the Empire, that's the
point of the guy.
Darth Vader is the name whispered by the people as a cautionary tale to not fuck with the
Empire.
Are you seriously telling me that after ten fucking years, word never made it back to
Obi-Wan that there's a dude in a pressure sealed burn protective suit named Darth fucking
Vader running around acting as the Empire's front man?
Does the newspaper just not get delivered on Tatooine or what?
Anyway, Riva kills the Grand Inquisitor.
Everyone knew he was coming back because Star Wars Rebels takes place later in the timeline
and he's in that show.
Though, to be honest, some people genuinely believed that Disney would violate their own
new canon just for the hell of it, including me for a little bit.
This did lead to some funny moments of Internet salt, the best of which probably being this
post on Reddit.
I'm so tired of people complaining about stupid shit.
Obviously, the Grand Inquisitor isn't dead.
He's in Rebels and Pow-An have two stomachs.
Oh, is that the reason why he's not dead?
Get stabbed in the stomach.
Oh, it's no problem.
You got another one.
Yeah, if you're with the spine or the aorta or any of their surrounding organs, you got
two stomachs, buddy.
Just use the other one.
It'll be okay.
Obi-Wan manages to escape onto the cargo ship with Riva waving her sword menacingly.
But isn't there a garrison on the planet now?
Surely there's Imperial ships in orbit or something.
All Riva has to do is call it in and they'll stop the transport.
Okay, we know Riva's setting this up as a double-cross invader, so maybe she won't
do it.
But why not Umbrella Hat Man or Reptile Hijab Lady or any of the other soldiers?
Maybe the Grand Inquisitor could do it.
You know, before Vader puts him in the bacta tank?
I have to tell you, before I pass out, my lord, Obi-Wan is on that ship.
And there you go, right as rain.
I know Hijab's explanation is that it's an automated ship, so the Empire will ignore
it.
That's kind of stupid, isn't it?
It's a cargo port.
It's fully automated.
They won't be looking for you there.
Wouldn't they just stop it just to be sure?
Well, they didn't shoot C-3PO and Archer D-2's escape pod either.
Hold your fire.
There's no lifeforms.
They must have short-circuited.
Maybe the Empire really is just fucking dumb when it comes to letting important ships slip
by, because censors say no one's on board.
But wait, Obi-Wan and Leia aren't droids.
They would know someone's on board.
It doesn't matter, though, because they find out where Obi-Wan went anyway.
Because Riva mind-sucked the information out of Haja.
Wait a minute.
Mind-suck the information?
Yeah, I know that Kylo Ren did that to Poe, and that was justified because Vader kinda
did it to Luke in Return of the Jedi.
Though that scene seemed like less of a mind-suck and more of a sensing-his-feelings sort of
thing.
But if Jedis and Siths can actually mind-suck information out of people, why didn't Vader
just do that to Leia without resorting to the drug droid in Episode 4?
After Riva got the archives, why didn't she just go to Alderaan?
Okay, it's guarded.
Wait with Bail at some official Empire function, then, and mind-suck him there to find out
where Kenobi is.
Bail clearly knows, and Riva knows he knows.
And oh boy, if she did that, wouldn't that unearth a treasure trove of information.
At this point in the timeline, not any Legends retcon shit, but Disney's own lore, Bail
Organa is the secret leader of the Rebel Alliance in the Star Wars Rebels show.
That's one big fuckin' way to blow your cover, Bail, and risk the entirety of the
Rebel Alliance by sticking your neck out towards Obi-Wan stupidly.
Also, why didn't Bail ask any of the Jedi that are part of the Rebel Alliance at this
point, including Ahsoka Tano, who is Darth Vader's former Padawan?
You know, maybe Obi-Wan would want to know that she's alive, considering their mutual
familial bond with Anakin.
Hell, Bail would know that Darth Vader is still around, being a Senator himself.
And though we never see it on screen, presumably he knows that Darth Vader is Anakin, since
he's present at the secret meeting at the end of Revenge of the Sith.
Why wouldn't he tell Obi-Wan, hey if you're gonna go save Leia for me, just know that
Anakin still rang around out there?
Is it because he thinks Obi-Wan won't take the job if he knows?
What an asshole.
After arriving on the planet, I don't even remember what it's called, it's just
the mining planet, cause fuck it.
After learning that Anakin is still alive, Obi-Wan's having PTSD visions of him off
in the distance.
Well, actually, just one vision.
And they never bring it up again.
They could have done something really cool with this idea, but they just drop it.
Instead, we get more out-of-character dialogue between Obi-Wan and Leia again, and this time
it's really weird.
This is where he told us to come to.
Maybe they're just late?
Maybe it was a lie.
I knew it.
I never should have trusted him.
We don't know his name.
No one is coming here, Leia.
Holy jeez, chill out dude, you just got here.
They hitch a ride with cloaca face here when a bunch of soldiers looking for a Jedi pile
in.
Shouldn't these guys recognize Obi-Wan?
This is no ordinary Jedi.
Kenobi is the last ember of a dying age.
Surely the Empire would have told them which Jedi they're hunting out here, right?
Are you sure he's even on this planet?
They know what they're doing, Leia.
You called her Leia.
Oh my god, dude, they also know that Leia is missing.
This is the kind of goof up that you'd see in Spaceballs or one of the Family Guy spoof
movies.
Not in an actual Star Wars show.
Anyway, the soldiers somehow don't recognize him, and they get off at their stop, giving
us space for another Obi-Wan-Leia bonding moment.
Are you my real father?
I wish I could say I was.
Dude, is this you admitting that you wanted to fuck pad me?
That makes this scene hit different.
But our guy Freck sells him out at the next Imperial checkpoint because, I don't know,
you talked about being a Jedi in the back seat?
All throughout this show Obi-Wan has a bad fucking habit of spilling the beans in public,
let me tell you.
Obi-Wan is asked to step out of the vehicle and he complies.
Good move dude, never fight the cops, always get your day in court.
And the scanner droid is brought in to finally face ID him with the Empire's Facebook Chinese
algorithm shit, upon which Obi-Wan blasts it in the camera, completely destroying it.
Now we all remember in the original trilogy scanner droids being incredibly weak, and
every time they show up they get downed in one shot, but they're actually not that fragile.
Yeah, there's that scene in Empire where Han takes one out in two shots, but everyone always
forgets the next line.
I didn't hit it that hard, it must have had a self-destruct.
Yeah, it purposely destroyed itself after sending information back to the Empire so
that the Rebellion wouldn't get any intelligence.
But I guess they're all just made out of paper mache now.
In probably the second most notorious fight scene in the show, because a dude gratuitously
falls into the laser gate and gets fucking vivisected, jesus christ, Obi-Wan takes out
the stormtroopers but also takes out Freck.
What the hell man?
Obi-Wan doesn't know that Freck sold him out, he said that quietly to the stormtroopers.
Look at Obi-Wan's face.
It could have been just a routine check, it is a checkpoint you know.
And Obi-Wan's just like, well fuck you, bonk.
Dude just go around it.
Just go around the laser wall, you're literally outdoors, it's a hill, go around it.
Anyway, Tala, that chick from Game of Thrones, arrives and picks up Obi-Wan after slaughtering
her own unit.
Surprise!
She's a mole within the Empire working for the Rebellion.
And she reveals that if Obi-Wan was just a bit more patient, none of this would have
happened.
He gave you the right coordinates.
I was on my way when the probes arrived but you'd already gone.
I hadn't expected anyone to come.
Oh, imagine that Obi-Wan.
Look at just how many people died because you couldn't take a breather.
Look at poor Freck.
Also, guys, you're visible on the fucking street.
Why didn't you put on stormtrooper armor?
We know it comes off easy enough.
Why didn't you suit up for this instead of running around the town square on your Jedi
robes you should have left back on Tatooine?
Tala brings them into the Jedi Underground Railroad where, stupidly, everybody who's
passed through here has written their name on the wall.
Why would you let anybody do this?
If this place is ever discovered, the Empire now has a record of everybody who survived
Order 66 and they'll be keeping an eye out for them.
But there's no way that'll ever happen.
Also, how many times are we going to get an origin story for the Rebel Alliance starbird
symbol?
It was the family crest of the noble house of Merrick, which featured prominently in
The Force Unleashed.
That whole storyline has been thrown into the Legends shitter, though, and replaced
with this purple-haired chick who is a Mandalorian graffiti artist who started painting phoenixes
on TIE fighters as a way of fighting the power.
Also, maybe this dude from Rogue One did it.
The wiki's not exactly clear, but the Kenobi show implies that it was actually started
as an adaptation of the symbol of the Order of the Jedi, which was a lightsaber with wings.
And after the path turned into the Rebellion, they kept an altered version of that symbol.
In fact, it looks kind of like it fell prey to the corporate dumbing down of symbols,
making it look all sleek and simplistic.
Uh, you need to run.
Run Obi-Wan, he can sense you.
Obi-Wan, you're in the safehouse of the Underground Railroad and you're lit up like
a forced Christmas tree, run.
Obi-Wan stays behind to give Leia time to get the safety, but then Tala sends Leia ahead
to go back for Obi-Wan.
Everyone's just self-sacrificing all over the place, sending the little girl off on
her own hoping that she'll make it.
And she doesn't.
Wait.
How did Riva get ahead of her?
Riva enters the tunnel that Leia goes down.
How did she beat her there?
Okay, let's assume that the tunnel has a branching path.
That's the path that Obi-Wan and Tala go to attend the obligatory Vader confrontation.
Leia's still ahead of Riva, so for Riva to get ahead of Leia, Leia has to double back,
go down the other path, let Riva get ahead and then double back again.
Or alternatively, it's just a giant labyrinth down there and therefore it was wildly irresponsible
to let Leia go off on her own.
Okay, okay, I get it, Obi-Wan's terrified.
He's not ready to face Anakin again.
But the way they shot and cut that scene is like he ran behind a pile of gravel and then
came back out the same way.
Like oops, I dropped my keys back there or something.
The duel between them is kind of lame.
Shadaversi does a great job breaking down this fight and many others.
She should go check that shit out.
But there's a point in this fight where we just break one of the most fundamental Star
Wars rules.
Anakin uses the force on Obi-Wan during a duel.
Now this has never been directly confirmed except in, you know, video games where the
game prevents you from doing this exact thing for this exact reason.
But it's always been under everyone's impression that Jedis and Siths didn't use the force
on each other directly because it would just be a waste of energy.
You'd be able to counteract it, which is why Vader always force chokes at regular people,
not Jedi.
But I guess that's just not the case anymore, so I don't know.
I gotta say, I do like the idea that Vader wants to torture the fuck out of Obi-Wan for
revenge and just dunks him in the fire like he's a Dunkaroo cracker going into the plastic
cheese sauce.
When I left you, I was but a learner, now I am the master.
Yeah, when you learned how to burn my fucking arm off.
Then Vader extinguishes the flames with the force, which I didn't know was a power but
alright.
And then Tala saves the day by shooting a random stormtrooper, which isn't shoot Vader,
no.
Also, Vader doesn't somehow censor there.
And everyone reacts like they have no idea where the shot came from despite her using
a blaster, even though you can see the bright flash of light from it.
So Tala reignites the fire with the blaster, creating an impenetrable barrier between Obi-Wan
and the stormtroopers, allowing Tala's loader to scoop Obi-Wan up and carry him to safety.
Vader doesn't extinguish the flames again, the stormtroopers don't, you know, walk around
the huge blaze, nope, nothing.
Obi-Wan just gets away, because fuck it, I guess we're not even trying anymore.
Episode 4 opens with Obi-Wan getting dunked into the bacta tank at the rebel base on Jabiim,
where we see his hallucinations about Anakin, intercut with Anakin himself, also in a bacta
tank.
I guess he has to sit in one because of his burns, which is a nice touch, um, thematically
I mean.
Meanwhile, Leia is held captive at the fortress inquisitorious, which is first shown in the
video game Star Wars Jedi Fallen Order, which, by the way, had a much hotter sister inquisitor
villain.
I guess that's why she's the second sister in Riva's the Third.
Almost immediately during the interrogation, Leia spills the beans.
The Empire doesn't take kindly to Jedi sympathizers.
He will come for me.
Yep, no plausible deniability, just Obi-Wan will come for me.
That's it, that's the end of the Organas.
The Empire should just liquidate the entire family at this point.
And yeah, I know, Riva's actually got ulterior motives, but how about these guys?
Do you think they're not going to tell their superiors about the link between Leia and
Obi-Wan after Riva goes off the Imperial Plantation?
How in the fuck did Leia ever become a senator after this?
Wait a minute, why did Leia become a senator?
Surely that kind of job would have brought her in contact with Vader and Palpatine plenty
of times.
Wasn't the whole point that the Sith could sense the kids, so they needed to be in isolation?
Hidden, safe, the children must be kept.
We must take them somewhere where the Sith will not sense their presence.
How did Vader not sense her on the Death Star?
Once Obi-Wan wakes up, he talks to the local leader of the Rebellion in order to try and
get some help retrieving Leia.
Which is when Tala drops this bomb.
She knows everything, where we are, what we're doing.
Why?
Why would you entrust a ten year old kid with all of your plans like... wait, when did you
entrust her?
Was it this scene?
We have safe houses like this throughout the galaxy.
It all leads to Jabin.
From there we give them new identities and get them out.
Does it look like Leia is listening?
I don't know anything about a path.
That's actually true, Leia knows literally nothing.
Actually this whole scene, every single line, is a bomb.
You've no idea what the Empire is capable of.
These people have been fighting for years, you've been in a fucking cave this whole time,
what do you know?
But this comment prompts the leader to give an emotionally hollow speech about his dead
wife.
I had a wife once.
So I know exactly what the Empire can do.
This guy, he goes from not helping to helping in the span of about 30 seconds.
I'm sorry, but that's not my problem.
Look, if you want my help, you got it.
In fact he talks himself into it with the dead wife speech, it's not like Obi-Wan convinces
him.
So they begin to plan the assault of the fortress inquisitorious, and I swear this episode is
the worst of the bunch.
Listen in here.
I don't see any shields.
That's because no one would be stupid enough to attack me.
How does that make any sense?
Isn't that the opposite of how it works?
People would be too smart to attack if it was too heavily fortified?
But wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, five years earlier in the timeline, during
Jedi Fallen Order, a game which everybody, Disney, EA, went to great lengths to ensure
is actually canon, Cal Kestis goes to the fortress inquisitorious in the exact same
way that Obi-Wan does, but this time it has shields that need to be taken down.
I've disabled the shields on the outer sections of the fortress.
I don't see any shields.
That's because no one would be stupid enough to attack me.
With the defenses they got, our usual tricks just aren't going to cut it.
I don't see any shields.
That's because no one would be stupid enough to attack me.
It's impenetrable, Wade.
I don't see any shields.
That's because no one would be stupid enough to attack me.
Somehow, some fucking how, Tala's cover is still intact, even though she, you know, gunned
down her own squad at Imperial checkpoint, and the Empire was there that same evening
investigating the planet.
I guess they just missed that.
I know that when most people watch this scene, their knee-jerk response is to say that her
bullshitting and rank pulling wouldn't work, because people do have assigned posts, and
you can't just bull your way through somebody else's command, especially in a sensitive
area like this, which are all things that you would know if you talked to anybody with
any military experience.
But to me, the more pressing problem is that when he stuck her ID rod into the computer,
a big flashing screen should have popped up telling him that her own squad was found dead
and she was missing on a planet where Obi-Wan and Leia were sighted dealing with the Rebels.
The exact same Leia that's in their basement now.
And so begins the worst infiltration in probably all of cinema history.
Palla is just hanging out around other Imperials, openly talking to Obi-Wan on the mic.
In fact, this guy even notices her, and he's like, yeah, that's kind of weird, but it's
almost time for my break.
She is, of course, discovered, upon which she goes with the officer behind a large computer
in the same room and knocks him out, again, in the same room that all the other officers
are doing their work in.
Do these guys just not hear what's going on?
Do they not think it's weird she just comes back after getting told to report to security?
This is some Metal Gear Solid level of hide-the-guard shit.
At the deepest level of the fortress, down where Riva is torturing Leia, put a big pin
in that, we'll get back to it, Obi-Wan discovers the big secret of the facility.
It's actually a tomb for all the dead Jedi from Order 66.
At least, that's what Obi-Wan assumes it is.
But if it is a tomb, why does it look like they're frozen in place from the moment they
died?
Like, look at this kid.
It looks like he's been time-stopped right when he got shot.
The cynical part of me wants to say that Disney is going to come out in some future show and
say, oh, those guys down there weren't dead, they were just in stasis.
That's why they all look like that, and that's how they can bring back any character they
want.
You want a Mace Windu show?
It's okay, they put them back together after the fall.
You want an Aayla Secura show?
Everyone likes blue girls.
You want a Kit Fisto show?
With a name like that, pair them with Aayla.
So these guys can't be in stasis, can they?
That was the whole point of carbonite freezing in Empire.
Nobody had developed the technology to put people into stasis yet, or at least technology
that would reliably work on a Jedi.
The whole middle arc of Empire, on the Imperial side anyway, was Vader trying to find a way
to incapacitate Luke, and he finally settled on jerry-rigging Lando's gas-refining equipment.
We only use this facility for carbon freezing.
You put him in there, it might kill him.
I do not want the Emperor's prize damaged.
We will test it on Captain Solo.
The only logical conclusion is that this place is as Obi-Wan said.
But if that's the case, then this scene serves no purpose in the show.
They don't come back here and do anything.
This information never comes up again.
If it's meant to show how bad the Empire is that they're turning Jedi corpses into
trophies, I mean, yeah, alright.
But at this point we all already know how bad the Empire is.
Yes we do, Obi-Wan.
We always have.
The scene where Obi-Wan solid snakes into the torture chamber and saves Leia is actually
great.
The idea of a Jedi using darkness to his advantage by turning off his lightsaber so you can't
see him.
You haven't seen that before and I kinda like it.
Hey, shouldn't our helmets have night vi- ahhhh!
Meanwhile, Talib breaks free from her stormtrooper guard, yeah she got caught and brought to
security a second time, by slapping him in the face.
Yes, really.
At this point, stormtrooper armor seems to make people less defended when they put it
on.
Obi-Wan's first card, getting the Darth Maul treatment, is the second most notorious
action scene in Kenobi.
This one is the first.
As Obi-Wan and Leia escape, he accidentally deflects a blaster bolt into the pressurized
glass, causing the weight of the ocean to breach into the hallway.
Obi-Wan tells Tala to take Leia and escape while he uses his force powers to hold the
water back.
And the show presents this like it's a great magical moment, like this is when Obi-Wan
finally gets his force mojo back.
In fact, they even set it up earlier in the episode, where Obi-Wan is struggling to spin
a fidget spinner using the force, and Tala is like, you've got PTSD.
Like this hallway scene is the big moment where Obi-Wan re-communes with the force,
but we already had this moment.
We had it when Obi-Wan catches Leia on Daewoo.
Their final plan is to just… walk right through the crowd, with Leia underneath Obi-Wan's
coat.
I've seen soy boys online defend this scene, saying that Star Wars should have comedy,
and yes I completely agree.
C-3PO, R2-D2, Chewie, Anakin's banter in the same movie he becomes one of cinema's
greatest villains.
Even the more questionable choices like the Ewoks or Jar Jar, fine, Star Wars should have
moments of comedy.
But just as this scene or this scene or this scene shouldn't be a moment of comedy, neither
should this scene.
In fact, one of the main reasons that this show rapes the old lore is because it actually
turns this scene into a farce with Leia's complete non-reaction.
You have to have a specific type of anti-talent to ruin genuinely good movies and turn serious
scenes into comedic scenes with your new incompetent additions.
Like I don't even know if I can overstate just how stupid this is, and the show just
lets it happen.
No one's blinking an eye.
For some reason, nobody can tell that Obi-Wan's coat is a fucking circus tent.
Nobody's stopping them, they just waltz right out into the hangar.
General Obi-Wan Kenobi, years ago you snuggled me out of the Imperial base underneath your
trench coat.
In fact, even after Riva actually stops them, people are still going about their business.
Guys, do you mind?
We're trying to do a scene here.
The Rebels show up in two snowspeeders to pick them up.
One speeder occupies Riva, while the other picks up the gang.
I guess all three of them fit into the back of a speeder now?
Y'all know those things only hold two people, right?
One pilot, one gunner?
Did Obi-Wan, Leia, and Tala just cram themselves in the back?
Is Leia's face squished up against the glass?
They never show them getting in it, so I guess we're just not supposed to think about it.
After the tragic death of Wade, oh no, that guy.
I guess he's wading in the ocean now.
They return back home to the Rebel base.
Wait a second, though.
The fortress Inquisitorius is on the planet Nur.
Nur is a water world.
It's a moon of Mustafar.
Mustafar is the infamous lava planet where Anakin got barbecued.
But more importantly, at this point, it's the place where Darth Vader has built his
upstate cottage, for when he needs a getaway from the everyday life of running the Empire.
Yes, I know, it's symbolic, because Vader's emotionally stuck at the point where he lost
everything and now he's also physically stuck there, too.
Fine, fine.
But how in the holy hell do the Rebels even get into Darth Vader's personal star system
without getting noticed?
It's in the Mustafar system.
Why isn't there star destroyers or something in orbit around both Vader's castle and the
fortress Inquisitorius?
And how did the Rebels get away?
Why didn't they scramble ships?
Even if there's, somehow, nobody in orbit, you've got ships in the hangar.
Episode 5 opens with a tribute to Wade, our fallen comrade.
All right, right behind you.
Wade!
I'm actually surprised they remembered to put him in the recap.
I figured something that sullen would have weighed the episode down.
Okay, I'm done.
I'm done.
That's the last one.
This episode is interspersed with flashbacks to Attack of the Clones, from when Anakin
was a Padawan and Obi-Wan was still training him in how to fight.
Using real lightsabers, though, for some reason.
And it looks like they kinda de-aged Hayden Christensen.
Not really, you know.
It looks like they cast a 40-year-old man to play a 20-year-old and used the latest
technology to de-age him to about 35.
In fact, we know this could have been done better because somebody did do it better.
Look at these two scenes.
Disney, how do you fuck up turning on a Snapchat filter?
Flash forward to the present day, where it turns out that Riva is being made Grand Inquisitor
because of her cunning plan.
You see, it was all a ploy on her part that Obi-Wan would escape, because she put a tracker
on him, and now they'll lead the Empire back to the Rebel base, where a hacked Lola
will disable their defenses from the inside.
A plan which requires Lola to have the ability to open a maintenance hatch without touching
it.
Must be some pretty strong magnets in there.
The tracker and hacker on Lola, by the way, is one of those restraining bolts that we've
seen previously.
In A New Hope, it didn't actually alter the personalities of R2-D2 or C-3PO.
It just let them be immobilized by a remote control.
But okay, let's assume that Lola's been turned evil by a restraining bolt.
Oh, if only you had noticed the Terminator eye sooner, Leia.
Wait a minute!
How did Leia even get Lola back?
Lola tried to attack Riva with her micro saw blade during the interrogation scene.
That's pretty dangerous for a kid's toy, by the way.
But Riva easily subdued Lola with the Force, and immediately after took Leia to the torture
chamber.
Riva was called away by Talos' distraction, and that's when Obi-Wan does the splinter
cell thing to rescue her.
At this point, the only other time Riva and Leia are even in the same room is during the
escape, where Riva is a bit preoccupied.
And it's not like anybody else knew to give the droid back to her, because Vader and the
other Inquisitors are royally pissed off until Riva explains her gambit.
And yet, Leia's got Lola.
Either Lola flew out of Riva's pocket into the speeder on her own, off screen, or were
being asked to believe that Riva, in between the interrogation scene where she first grabbed
Lola, and the immediate march down to the torture chamber, took a side detour to mess
with the droid and then give it back to Leia, also off screen.
Disney didn't rate this show with the intention that your brain be engaged while watching
it.
But all the Defenders online are saying, hey, you see, this show is smart.
This explains how Leia knew they were being tracked in Episode 4.
They let us go.
It's the only explanation for the ease of our escape.
Easy.
You call that easy?
They're tracking us.
It happened to Leia as a kid, so she can see it coming as an adult.
Smart writing.
Except it's not, because this makes Obi-Wan look like a complete fucking buffoon.
Obi-Wan did the very same thing to Jango Fett in Attack of the Clones.
Why didn't he see it coming, then, like Leia did?
Lola's there, I guess, and transmitting information back to the Empire.
The Rebels are planning to evacuate, because, you know, the Imperials are closing in.
The reason that the Anakin-Obi-Wan training flashback is even in this episode is so that
Obi-Wan can reflect on Anakin's fighting style and use that knowledge to make this
remark.
He'll attack next.
He has the patience for siege.
Okay, fair enough.
But this turns out to be a completely irrelevant insight, because the Empire could just bomb
them from orbit.
And I don't know why they don't, because their only objective is to kill everyone there.
Instead, they opt to send troops down with a huge gun, which ends up being completely
useless against the blast doors.
It's okay, though, because the blast doors get instantly shredded by Riva's lightsaber
anyway.
I guess patience for a siege wasn't necessary after all, eh, Obi-Wan?
Hey, remember when it took Qui-Gon Jinn several minutes of stern concentration with his lightsaber
to be able to melt a hole on a blast door?
Meanwhile, Bail Organa sends a completely unnecessary, traceable, and highly sensitive
message to Obi-Wan during the midst of all this, where he says,
I know he said no communication, but your silence worries me.
If he's found you, if he's learned of the children, if I don't hear from you soon, I'll
head to Tatooine.
Owen will need help with the boy.
Oh, smart, dude.
The fucking brain's on this guy.
I think you've been found, so I'm going to send this message with secret info in it to
you, Obi-Wan.
Let's hope the Empire doesn't find it all.
Immediately after this, Tala gives her Death Flag speech, and then Obi-Wan goes to the
blast doors to buy the others time to escape, and to confront Riva, who also gives her Death
Flag speech.
The ensuing fight consists of stormtroopers pouring into the breach made by Riva's lightsaber,
all of them missing every single shot.
Okay, so I know you're stormtroopers, but Obi-Wan's the only target for a solid 10 seconds.
How are you guys missing?
Look at this dude.
Where are you shooting?
Obi-Wan is right there.
What are you aiming at?
Also, at this point, Disney has retconned the Force, such that we know a Jedi can stop
blaster bolts in mid-air without having to deflect anything.
Why doesn't Obi-Wan just pull a Neo and hold them back?
I mean, we are going to see him do something equivalent by the end of the series, so why
the fuck not?
The fight is ended by Tala, who sacrifices herself by way of a thermal detonator.
I don't know why she didn't just throw it, it's a grenade, she probably could have survived,
but I guess Disney is hoping that you'll care.
So the breach is sealed by Tala's sacrifice.
Wait, not really, because Obi-Wan just walks back 15 seconds later.
So why did this explosion stop the fighting?
Yeah, it killed a bunch of people, but it didn't close the hole through the blast door,
and there's clearly more stormtroopers, and you know what, whatever, I don't care anymore.
Obi-Wan decides to go right back out there to sacrifice himself again, that's two times
now in the span of two minutes, where he has another sensitive conversation out in
the open, this time with Riva about her secret plan to kill Darth Vader.
You're not bringing him to me, I'm bringing him to you.
Jesus Christ, this time they're both retarded.
Dude, the stormtroopers are right there, do you think they don't hear you plotting the
assassination of Darth fucking Vader?
And it's at this point that Riva unveils her grand plan.
Okay so let me lay this out for you, you're going to want to get a drink for this.
Riva is apparently one of the many Jedi who survived Order 66 as a youngling, right?
Afterward she devoted herself to hunting and killing Darth Vader.
Her plan was to become an Inquisitor, get close to Vader, and then knife him in the
back.
At the start of the series we're told that Riva has a weird obsession with finding Obi-Wan
Kenobi.
Everyone else has given up the hunt and they find Riva's obsession to be a bit off-putting.
Great way for her to blow her cover, but whatever.
Riva's plan is to, okay I gotta keep it together here.
Riva's plan is to hire drug dealers on the slum planet of Diu to fly to Alderaan, a prosperous
core world, bypass all of their security, kidnap Princess Leia, daughter of an Imperial
Senator and the Queen of the planet.
Wait a second, I thought Leia was a princess because Padme was Queen of Naboo.
Oh but I guess that had to be kept secret because nobody's supposed to know about
the Leia-Padme connection.
In retrospect it kind of feels like in episode 1 the only reason Padme is a queen is to hint
at the future relationship with Anakin where their daughter turns out to be a princess.
But by episode 3 George Lucas realized this was supposed to be a secret so I guess she's
got two queen mothers now.
Jesus the fuckery that is Star Wars is getting to me.
Riva's plan, okay hire the Diu drug dealers to kidnap Leia off the heavily fortified world
of Alderaan.
Then she hopes that Bail Organa calls up Obi-Wan for help rather than using any of his other
resources at his disposal.
Because according to the fabled archive files Bail Organa knows where Obi-Wan is and rather
than just extract that information out of him Riva would rather Obi-Wan resurface on
his own.
If Obi-Wan takes the bait Riva will apprehend him.
Or at least that's what she tells the other Inquisitors.
Her actual plan, her actual plan is to get Obi-Wan in front of Vader so that he will
be distracted enough that she can kill him.
And when the first attempt to do that plan fails on Diu the second plan is to just do
the exact same thing again at the fortress Inquisitorius.
And when that plan fails the third plan is to do the exact same thing again at the Rebel
base.
Only this time the plan really fails because Darth Vader is fucking Darth Vader.
He was wise to use you against me.
Yeah that.
So Leia fixes the hangar doors in time, Obi-Wan slips away from the stormtroopers, Haja accidentally
drops Obi-Wan's secret message from Bail Organa.
Yeah Haja is here too when he had the message, don't worry it's really not important.
And everybody piles into the transport ready to go.
Vader arrives just in time to pull the transport back with the force.
And it's at this point everybody and I mean everybody gave up on this fucking show.
If this is what the force can do now, why does Vader even bother with the lightsaber
shit?
Why doesn't he just pop people's heads like that one chick from the boys?
When he had Obi-Wan strung up why not just immediately dismember him?
Fuck it.
Why didn't Vader just slam Luke into the carbonite freezer?
Hell why didn't Vader hold back the Millennium Falcon, an empire?
When the force is this strong it breaks the fucking canon.
People were complaining about Starkiller pulling star destroyers out of orbit and force unleashed
back in the day.
And rightfully so, they made that game non-canon, but they brought back its most egregious component
because fuck me I guess.
But it's all okay because it was a fake ship and the real one gets away immediately
after.
Why doesn't Vader just hold back that one too?
This is the same problem with that fire extinguisher scene.
They establish a rule, an expectation in the viewer's mind of what can be done.
And then they immediately violate it in the same scene because they've written themselves
into a corner.
Also, how did the Rebels know that Vader would do that?
Is that another one of Obi-Wan's off-screen nuggets of wisdom based on Vader's personality?
Or maybe Obi-Wan went on that When Disney World ride where Vader holds a ship back so
he knows what's coming.
Also, where is that second ship?
Seriously you can't see it when the first ship flies off.
Is it this?
This blurry blob deep in the background?
Is that the ship they're all on?
It's a hell of a lot bigger when it takes off.
Also, there's a star destroyer in orbit.
I hope they don't just let the ship get away again like on Dayu to the mining planet
or the mining planet to the rebel base or leaving the fortress inquisitorious.
It really feels like the Empire is severely undermanned in this show.
Like they've got maybe a couple dozen guys at best to do all of this shit.
The confrontation between Riva and Vader is actually really interesting.
Where Riva is just hopelessly outmatched to the point that Vader doesn't even draw his
lightsaber.
He simply blocks her attacks with the force.
It's a new way of fighting we haven't really seen before in Star Wars.
It almost feels like martial arts.
But then the fight immediately dive bombs into what I can only describe as a Dark Souls
role fight.
Seriously, that's the only way to describe what Riva is doing here.
Was the original plan for Riva to do some kind of Capoeira shit and the actress just
couldn't pull the moves off so it came out looking like this?
Why would you leave this farce in?
Of course, the Grand Inquisitor is still alive.
He survived getting stabbed in the gut just like Riva did as a child.
Oh, and just like Riva did again as an adult.
How many stomachs does Riva have, guys?
And of course, they just leave her to bleed out.
Riva manages to find the message that Haja dropped.
It's damaged, but she fixes it enough to hear part of the message.
If you've learned of the children, I'll hand them Tatooine.
Owen, help the boy.
Because Riva had that run-in with Uncle Owen in the first episode, when she hears that
message that Bail Organa totally should not have sent, she recognizes that there's some
sort of connection between Owen, specifically his son, and the Organa family.
So she somehow manages to make her way to Tatooine, while wounded, and without any sort
of interstellar transport.
The Rebels have already left.
The Imperials are gone.
How the hell did she get off this rock?
Are you okay?
I just sensed a plot hole.
Word gets back to Uncle Owen that an Inquisitor is coming, and the Lars family decides the
best course of action isn't to skip town, go lay low.
No, Aunt Beru wants to stand and fight.
We need to leave, Beru.
We need to take Luke and hide somewhere.
Where?
In the desert?
I'm not leaving my home.
At least here we have a chance.
Remember, these guys don't know that Riva is injured and working alone and without the
institutional backing of the Imperial State.
Also, they know they're holding onto a child of destiny.
I know it's stupid, but the show's acting this way, so let's just roll with it at this
point.
So surely they must have a plan.
If the Empire ever came knocking.
But nope, the plan is just castle doctrine.
Get some rifles and fight them off from inside your own house.
These people are fucking stupid.
I expected this show to rape and butcher the characters of Obi-Wan and Darth Vader, but
not Aunt fucking Beru.
Obi-Wan stays behind to sacrifice himself and let the Rebels get away again.
But this time, the gambit shouldn't work.
The Empire is pursuing the Rebel ship and a Star Destroyer.
You have more than enough resources to split them here and pursue both.
My lord, we must continue our pursuit of the insurgents.
Now is our chance to wipe out this network in its entirety.
We cannot prioritize one lone Jedi.
He is not just any Jedi.
Follow Kenobi.
At once, Lord Vader.
And you know, I get it.
You're showing that Vader is obsessed with Obi-Wan and it's blinding him.
But look at the Grand Inquisitor's face in this scene.
This is the look you make when you know that your boss just made the biggest mistake of
his career.
But you can't say anything because if you do, he'll fire you.
It doesn't even make sense because when they arrive at the obligatory deserted dueling
planet, Vader takes his personal shuttle down.
These shuttles are capable of going into hyperdrive.
There's no reason Vader couldn't have taken his shuttle to pursue Obi-Wan and left the
pursuit of the rebels in the hands of the Grand Inquisitor on the Star Destroyer.
Have you come to destroy me, Obi-Wan?
Dude, you followed me here.
Yeah, we're heading into the confrontation with Vader, which I know this show's been
building up to.
But it kind of deflates the emotional impact of their reuniting in A New Hope, doesn't
it?
I sense something.
A presence I've not felt since Obi-Wan blasted my mask off nine years ago.
And so begins the culmination of the emotional arc of the entire season, where Obi-Wan has
faced his fears, he's got his mojo back, and he's ready to finally confront Vader.
The fight is, again, actually pretty good.
The music is even okay.
So I have no idea why they didn't use Battle of the Heroes for Episode 3.
The callback would be incredible, wouldn't it?
Like here, just check out the same scene with Episode 3's music.
Isn't that fucking incredible?
While all this is going on, Riva sneaks onto the Lars homestead under the cover of darkness,
and immediately reveals herself by igniting her lightsaber.
Uncle Owen, now knowing where she is, takes a shot.
And misses.
Jesus, what a comedy of errors.
Uncle Owen does get one badass moment, though, with this exchange with Riva.
You know, gotta hand it to the guy.
He's fighting an Inquisitor with a pipe.
But unfortunately for Riva, Luke does what they all should have done hours ago, run into
the desert.
Meanwhile, back where the audience's focus and care actually resides, the Obi-Wan vs
Anakin rematch is picking up the pace.
A bit too much, actually.
That really seems to be what's at the core of the cool-scene-itis problem with Disney's
Star Wars.
Even when they have a legitimately good idea, they turn it up so much it becomes entirely
unbelievable.
Check this bit out.
Vader force throws a rock into Obi-Wan's leg so hard that the rock shatters and Obi-Wan
goes down.
Now, Obi-Wan shouldn't be getting up from that.
That liquefied his fucking ankle, dude.
Vader goes on to bury him in more rocks, while dropping the blandest possible one-liner.
You have failed, master.
Come on, man.
At least say something like, I actually do have the high ground at Obi-Wan, would you
look at that?
Obi-Wan manages to hold out underneath the rock pile by creepily thinking of Luke and
Leia.
And this is clearly meant to be the moment where Obi-Wan is inspired by those who he
has to protect to get his mojo back.
For the 15th time.
So Obi-Wan pulls himself out of the hole and oh come the fuck on.
Remember when master fucking Yoda had to struggle to move just a few rocks?
Remember when lifting an X-wing out of the swamp was considered the maximum extent of
force levitation powers?
Putting these kind of concrete restrictions on the use of the force makes Jedi more interesting.
Because while they can do things others can't and they are extremely special, they're not
overpowered, they don't break the story, and therefore even a good Jedi can be overcome
if you come at the problem from the right angle.
That's the point of the Mandalorians and their anti-Jedi weaponry.
That's the point of Order 66 and overwhelming them with sheer numbers.
But if Obi-Wan can actually act as a one-man artillery unit, then fuck it dude, just go
home.
Why didn't he cause the mountain to collapse and all of his clone troopers?
Because the prequels, for all of their faults, weren't this stupid.
Obi-Wan strikes the decisive blow on Vader's helmet, dramatically revealing his scarred face.
His voice in this scene is a mixture of Anakin and Vader's, which is a nice touch.
Anakin's gone.
I am what remains.
The way the shots are framed, where you get that close-up of Anakin's disfigured, vulnerable
face beneath the terror-inducing Vader mask, how the scene is only lit by the glow of their
lightsabers, how Anakin's face flashes with 50 different emotions after Obi-Wan apologizes
to him.
Obi-Wan is a money shot at the entire show.
Every character moment has pushed Obi-Wan towards letting go of his guilt.
And when Obi-Wan says, I'm sorry Anakin, for all of it, he's taking responsibility.
Not just for what he did to Anakin in their fight, but for how he failed Anakin, for what
Anakin became.
Obi-Wan is saying, even for the things that he's not responsible for, he's sorry that
things turned out how they did.
And Anakin, in a way, absolves him of all that responsibility.
That tiny flash of an evil smile shows Obi-Wan that Anakin actually likes who he's become.
I am absolutely convinced that this is the scene the writers base this entire show around.
The ultimate case of cool-scene-itis.
Dude, wouldn't it be fucking cool if Obi-Wan re-encountered Vader and learned just how
much of a monster he's become?
Yeah, it would be.
But you need a narrative that supports that journey.
You need a well-crafted story that will pick Obi-Wan up out of the desert where we left
him at the end of Episode 3, have that cool scene in a way that doesn't break the lore,
and then put him back down where he is in time for Episode 4.
And this show?
This show ain't that.
That's why so many things happen at the end, for absolutely no reason at all, other than
the fact that we need to reset the game board in time for a new hope.
Obi-Wan has Vader beaten here.
It's over, and he just walks away.
Why?
Why are you leaving?
You even admit that Anakin is dead to you now, so why not make him actually dead?
At this point, Obi-Wan knows he's seen what kind of monster Vader is, and he still lets
him live.
To go on to, for example, blow up Alderaan.
Yeah, Obi-Wan, those millions of voices?
That's your fault now, buddy.
You just fucked up the homeworld of that little girl you apparently have a special bond with.
But that's okay, right?
Now you would think that we would end the show on the resolution of the most important
arc.
But no.
After Vader is beaten, Riva is still playing grab-ass in the desert with Luke.
Your father's lightsaber.
Yeah, I know.
Riva attacked my house ten years ago while you were off on an adventure with my sister.
Luke falls or something and gets knocked out.
I don't know.
I'm writing this part of the script at like 3am and I can't be arsed to go back and
check.
Riva is only able to catch up and get her revenge.
But she can't.
She sees herself in Luke and she just can't do it.
This is why everyone loves Riva, you guys.
She's just confused.
She's redeemed because she didn't kill the plot armor character.
And that is a load of horseshit.
What about all the other people Riva has killed?
What about all the other shit she's done over the years?
What about one-armed Sally back in Mos Eisley?
You think she's ever going to be able to masturbate normally again?
Doesn't she have some kind of moral consideration too, even though she's not a main character?
Hell, what about Leia?
Why wasn't she having PTSD flashbacks preventing her from torturing Leia?
It was only getting called away that stopped her in the end.
Did she just critically fail her willpower role when it came to Luke?
Here's what people don't seem to understand nowadays about a good redemption arc.
If Darth Vader had survived the Empire's fall, he would have been put on trial for
war crimes, regardless of his redemption.
Now if he's actually redeemed, he also would have accepted that fate and gone to his death
peacefully.
But the point is, suddenly saying, I'm the good guy now, even if you mean it, doesn't
absolve you of what you did.
That's the beginning point of the journey, not the end.
So when Riva walks back to the Owen family home, carrying an unconscious Luke, Obi-Wan
– yeah, he made it back to Tatooine just in time for the action, the Star Destroyer
in orbit gave him no trouble because of course it didn't – Obi-Wan should immediately
stick his lightsaber to her forehead and turn it on, but he doesn't because she's redeemed
and she made the right choice.
And because, I'm guessing, Disney's hoping to parlay this appearance into a Riva spin-off
show.
The obligatory reset button scene pretends it's a character moment, but it's not.
It's here to restore the status quo and not disrupt the lore.
Though considering all the plot holes that is bitched about for over an hour, there's
no way one scene will repair all the damage the show has caused.
But here is their attempt.
Even though it's already common knowledge, among the many stormtroopers and inquisitors
who saw it, the story ends with Obi-Wan deciding to move on with his life.
Even though we all know that moving on means from moving from a Tatooine cave to a Tatooine
hut.
Moreover, at this point he should be the most wanted fucking Jedi in the galaxy now that
it's confirmed he's still alive, having been a Jedi Master, a General of the Old Republic,
his knowledge and dealings with the Rebel Alliance, his knowledge of Darth Vader's
true identity, the fact that he managed to humiliate Vader in single combat again.
His cover is entirely blown, but hey, it's okay.
As part of the reset button, Vader tells the Emperor he's not going to pursue Obi-Wan,
even though that goes against literally everything established about him.
This is Ian McDiamond, whatever his name is, his one scene in the show.
I bet he literally phoned his lines in over at Discord.
No!
These events have proven that Luke desperately needs you around, Obi-Wan.
There are Imperial files somewhere that link you to Bail Organa and his daughter, and then
you dropped a top secret message linking Bail Organa to the young boy in Uncle Owen's
care.
Now, the audience knows that Riva got a hold of the message and nobody else, but you don't
know that, Obi-Wan.
From your point of view, there's a trail of breadcrumbs out there leading Vader to
Luke, just waiting for somebody to stumble upon it.
And Obi-Wan is too fucking stupid to even recognize that it's the case.
But that's okay, because you know who's equally stupid?
Darth Vader himself.
So, Darth Vader is a retard, and it's not solely because of the Obi-Wan Kenobi show,
but that does give us the final puzzle pieces that allow us to definitively declare him
retarded.
Like I said earlier, Leia's association with Obi-Wan should mean that a Star Destroyer
should immediately land on the Organa family house.
Riva told the Grand Inquisitor that there was a connection between Obi-Wan and Bail
in the archives.
The Grand Inquisitor has witnessed the result of that connection.
Obi-Wan came out of hiding.
Yeah, Vader told the Emperor he wasn't going to obsess over Obi-Wan, which is this show's
hackneyed way of tying up the loose end.
But even with catching Obi-Wan off the table, surely the Grand Inquisitor is smart enough
to think, hmm, maybe I should go down to the Imperial archives myself and retrace Riva's
steps.
Not to find Kenobi himself, but maybe to find Bail's connection to him and the Rebels.
Even without Bail's incriminating message, Riva left the rest of the Imperial characters
enough clues to begin a hunt.
We know that Darth Vader doesn't learn that Luke is his son until the middle of Empire
Strikes Back.
George Lucas added this scene in one of the 50 remastered editions.
The original also informs him of the news, in a more roundabout way.
Bail Organa, Yoda, and Obi-Wan plotted at the end of Episode III to hide the children
away.
Yeah, we've already talked about how the Sith won't sense the Maximination is kind
of shit, considering the job that Leia is being groomed into.
God, I hate that that word's been ruined.
This is actually how you're supposed to use it, that you groom a person for leadership
at a young age.
Get your minds out of the gutter, you weirdos.
Vader knows he has family on Tatooine.
He and Padme visited them in Episode II, where Owen and Beru have Ani's old protocol droids,
C-3PO, which they take with them.
And then Uncle Owen buys back the same protocol droid 20 years later, without recognizing
him.
Geez.
Maybe Owen always was an idiot.
Yeah, stolen from me.
But they drop off Luke with these people, whom Vader already knows about.
And they don't even bother to change his fucking name?
Why does he call himself Luke Skywalker?
Why wouldn't it be Luke Lars to keep up the charade?
You know that it's supposed to be public record, that Padme lost her twins when she died, right?
That's why she's made to look pregnant during her funeral?
Because they were faking this shit?
Why did they keep that last name for Luke?
Okay, fine.
He's Luke Skywalker.
Somehow, word didn't get back to the Empire that, on the moisture farm where Vader knows
he has family, there's a young boy who looks and acts like him named Luke Skywalker.
Alright.
When the hunt for the Death Star plans in A New Hope brings Vader back to Tatooine,
do you think he's ever looking out the window and thinking like,
Hmm, I wonder how Owen and Beru are doing down there?
And then the search goes forward like we see in the movie.
Later Stormtroopers find the escape pod.
They find evidence that there's droids.
They follow the droid tracks to Jawa tracks.
They catch up with the Jawas, torture them for information on who bought the droids,
and then kill them, making it look like it was a Sand People attack.
The information leads them to the Lars farm, where they fucking disintegrate Uncle Owen
and Aunt Beru.
How in the hell do you think that conversation went back on the Star Destroyer?
So how did it go down there?
Well the droids were sold to a moisture farmer named Owen Lars, but the trail ran cold.
Oh, that's a funny coincidence.
Yeah don't worry though, we killed him to keep it a secret.
The Stormtroopers are looking for droids, right?
So maybe after torching the Lars family, the smart thing to do is to ransack the farm looking
for the droids or maybe any other information that might help.
Maybe the Stormtroopers find evidence that there's actually a third member of the family,
like say a teenage boy, another bedroom, a third bed, a smaller set of clothes, maybe
a toy or two that it turns out Obi-Wan gave him.
Maybe they find paperwork or evidence that this boy's name is Luke fucking Skywalker.
Maybe before Owen and Beru die they say that the droids aren't here right now, that their
son Luke fucking Skywalker is taking them to get maintenance in Anchorhead or something.
Surely this news gets back to Vader eventually in a mission report or something.
You'd think he'd be interested in this mysterious new young relative of his who has gone missing
with the plans of the Death Star.
You'd think that when the Rebels attack the Death Star at the end of the movie and the
Imperials figure out that they use the plans to find a weakness, and then Vader notices
the pilot who eventually hits the bullseye.
You think he might put two and two together?
TIE fighters can't go faster than light.
They're support craft.
Vader's got several decades to mull it over on his way home.
Okay, put it together buddy.
Who do you think that this young hotshot Rebel pilot could be?
It doesn't matter though, because if the Rebellion was smart, they'd double back and pick his
lonesome ass off.
You should have killed me when you had the chance, sister.
Oh, so you have a twin sister.
Your feelings have now betrayed her too.
Obi-Wan was wise to hide her from me.
And surely you should have put this one together too?
Vader, who was it that Riva illegally kidnapped?
Did the Grand Inquisitor just not tell you?
Did no one look at the records of the holding cell, the interrogation room, whatever?
There may be motivation to keep Obi-Wan's involvement a secret, but not to keep Leia's
kidnapping.
If the Lord would have gotten back to Vader eventually, Anakin really is retarded that
he didn't figure all this stuff out.
You know, I'm starting to think that Star Wars was always stupid.
And I guess in that sense, the Obi-Wan Kenobi show fits right in.
This is the quintessential cool scene-itis show.
It's so formulaic, it feels like it was written by an algorithm.
And here's what I mean by that.
George Lucas set it up at the end of Revenge of the Sith, such that all the pieces are
in place for Episode IV to begin.
Yoda's on Dagobah.
Bail adopts Leia.
Uncle Owen adopts Luke.
C-3PO's memory is wiped to protect Leia's identity.
But R2-D2's isn't, making him a colossal asshole who could have told anybody everything
at any time and he just didn't.
So an Obi-Wan Kenobi show taking place in Episodes III and IV has to do a few things.
Firstly, it can't majorly disrupt the lore.
Whatever happens during the show, we have to end up back where we started, with the
pieces still in place for Episode IV.
Which means you have two options.
Option A, it's a tiny character piece exploring Obi-Wan and his solitude.
Option B, anything done that could mess up the lore, if left unresolved, has to be resolved
such that the integrity of the story is maintained.
Secondly, it can't betray the characterization of the people that the audience cares about.
There's a natural midpoint between who these people are in Episode III and who they become
in Episode IV, and that can be a very precise target to hit.
In other words, it has to respect the story and it has to respect the characters.
Does Obi-Wan Kenobi do either of these things?
Let's start with the characters.
Obi-Wan is pretty much spot on.
Uncle Owen's conflict with him is only natural.
Leia seems about correct even though her actress isn't great.
Vader?
I don't know about this one.
People tend to forget how tame Vader was in A New Hope, he was always a Saturday morning
cartoon villain.
We meet again at last.
The circle is now complete.
When I left you I was but the learner, now I am the master.
I think that's why, when fans recreated the Vader-Obi-Wan fight from Episode IV, to make
it more line up with their physical abilities from Episode III, they also made Vader a lot
angrier.
Okay, how about the plot then?
Well, you just listened to my over an hour long epic rant on how this one's an obvious
NO.
I don't think I've ever written anything this detailed for my channel in my entire
life.
This show has almost an infinite number of problems.
Firstly, it can't choose what kind of story it wants to be.
A tiny character piece or an epic adventure with a big reset button.
So it tries to do both.
One A and one B. The first episode, showing Obi-Wan's depression and the state of his
life.
That shit is great.
I know some fanboys were complaining that they made Obi-Wan a cuck, but I don't care.
It was good.
That's exactly what you should do if you're making this kind of show.
Obi-Wan's lost, he's defeated, and billions of people are now suffering because he failed.
He should be a scarred character, and the triumphant hero story of how he gets his mojo
back, that is exactly what this narrative needs.
This series also answers another question.
Why Obi-Wan doesn't think that Vader can be redeemed.
There is still good in him.
He's more machine now than man.
Twisted and evil.
I mean, you can kind of imply it from the prequels, but at least here it's spelled
out explicitly.
Also, they kind of shoehorn in him, calling Anakin, Darth.
Goodbye, Darth.
Which I don't know, it doesn't really work, but fine.
But all the character stuff from one A suffers from all the rebellion stuff from one B, and
that's all just pure garbage.
None of those characters are likable.
None of them matter in the long run, except Leia, and she necessarily has plot armor the
whole show.
How many plot holes are there in this story?
How many unnecessary arcs?
How many unnecessary scenes?
How many lines of dialogue that just make no sense?
I'm sorry, but that's not my problem.
Look, if you want my help, you got it.
Soon the location of the network and Kenobi will be ours.
Kenobi is all that matters.
You're in, die, you know.
All signals in or out are blocked.
I let your parents know you're safe.
I know he said no communication, but your silence worries me.
I am what you made me.
I am not your failure, Obi-Wan.
No matter whether he dies or I do, this ends today.
Goodbye, Darth.
But there's always a teacher, someone who mentors the young hero in what his destiny
is.
And in this case, it's an old Jedi who has been sitting out in the desert primarily waiting
for this moment to happen.
He served me well during the Clone Wars and has lived in hiding since the Emperor's Purge.
Yes, I will send for him.
One last fight.
He's been sitting out in the desert primarily waiting for this moment to happen.
He's lived in hiding since the Emperor's Purge.
One last fight.
Also, if you're telling a story and you want the audience to care, the rules have to be
at least somewhat consistent.
If Darth Vader can extinguish flames at the Force or pull a starship down from takeoff,
you can't just have him not be able to do it a second later.
There has to be a consistent idea of what the stakes are.
If people keep surviving gut-stabbings, no matter how many fucking stomachs they have,
the audience's reaction to a scene like this isn't, oh my god, he's dead, it's, I wonder
if they'll bring him back or not.
If anything, the moral lesson of Star Wars is at this point, when you kill somebody,
make sure to actually fucking finish the job.
The Grand Inquisitor comes back, Darth Maul's come back now, Riva came back twice.
There's also just a bunch of small things that bug me about Kenobi too.
Yeah, the quality is all over the place like I mentioned at the start of the video.
But also, Vader looks weird in this show.
I know it's not just Hayden Christensen's scrawny ass in that suit, but still, something's
off.
They keep showing him in these wide shots far away from everyone else, so no one's making
any comparisons about his size.
Look at the Riva Force choke scene.
Riva is clearly his height, except when he gets closer and then it's like, whoops, he's
suddenly two feet taller than her.
It's not just the visuals though, it's the writing too.
Riva's got like three scenes setting up her storyline in the first episode.
Leia goes running through the woods twice.
We've got three days at Obi-Wan's dreary job.
And it's not just establishing scenes that repeat.
How many times did Obi-Wan have private conversations in public?
Or how many times did he try to sacrifice himself?
Hell, the entirety of Episode 4 is just filler.
Think about it.
The total arc of the show is, Leia's kidnapped, Obi-Wan goes to help, he rescues Leia on Daewoo,
he has to get smuggled by the Rebels off-world to some mining planet, I still don't know
the name, I still don't care to look it up, where the Empire catches up and Obi-Wan has
to confront Vader, the Ghost from his past.
Obi-Wan loses that fight, this is the low point of the story.
Leia's kidnapped a second time, Obi-Wan rescues her again, they go to the Rebel base on Jabiim,
the Empire lays siege to it, the Rebels escape just in time, Obi-Wan has his second showdown
and wins.
You can cut out the Leia re-kidnap and re-rescue bit from Episode 4 entirely and the story
is completely fine.
In fact, it's better because the lore-breaking scene where Leia reveals to agents of the
Empire that she knows Obi-Wan is cut out along with that arc.
In prep for this video, I think I've watched this show about 4 times now, God rest my soul,
and I've really begun to notice just how many times micro-arcs repeat only to pad out the
runtime of what should have been a movie.
We know that this story was originally supposed to be a movie, Kenobi the Balance of the Force.
Disney sees the writing on the wall when it comes to TV shows and miniseries versus movies,
especially after the success of The Mandalorian versus the failure of Solo A Star Wars Story.
So they took their script for Kenobi A Star Wars Story and stretched it out to Kenobi
A 6 Episode Story.
In fact, several people have already re-cut it into a movie and as a movie it actually
works pretty well.
I mean it's not perfect, but if you only use the footage and the plot on hand, you
can actually make an okay feature film out of this.
It still doesn't hold a candle to the Kenobi fan film though, which basically does the
quiet Tatooine character story and does it 10,000 times better.
It's all the same beats.
Obi-Wan is old and downtrodden, he's losing his connection to the Force, Uncle Owen wants
him to go away, and by the end Obi-Wan gets his mojo back.
But it's actually legitimately good.
The fans really do understand Star Wars in a way that Disney doesn't.
At this point, it's obvious to me just how much of Kenobi is a repeat of something we've
seen before.
Yeah, they repeat scenes, or they repeat whole arcs even just to fill the hour, but it's
not only that.
Pretty much everything noteworthy from this show is taken from something else.
This part's from the fan film, this part's from Return of the Jedi, this part's from
the video game, this part's from Rogue One.
And the linchpin moment of the show has already been done before, in Rebels with Ahsoka Tano.
I know, I know, it's just a TV show, stop caring Dev, why can't you just shut your
brain off and let the images enter through your eyes and have a mildly entertaining evening?
I understand that point of view, and there is some value in just liking something for
the spectacle, even if it is dumb.
But that has to be a choice that you as the viewer make, not they as the creator insist
that you choose.
Okay, here's a good example, this happened back in 2015.
Back when the video game Fallout 4 came out.
If you don't know anything about Fallout, here's the quick TLDR.
Nuclear war happens, Americans take shelter in vaults built by the Vault-Tec Corporation.
Some of the vaults turn out to be weird social experiments set up to study human behavior.
Vault 95 was housed with only drug addicts, and there were no drugs in the vault.
Except, five years in, a massive stash of drugs would be revealed in a hidden location
in the vault.
The problem is, one of the logs the player can find is written by a delivery man, where
he says that he's delivering a shipment of Jet.
Jet is a fictional drug in Fallout, it's a weird cross between meth and jankum made
from the fumes of dung from irradiated cattle.
Jet was invented after the bombs dropped, so there was no way that a pre-war delivery
man was bringing a shipment to Vault 95.
Now this is a problem that's very easy to fix, especially in a video game.
You just say, oh sorry guys, my mistake, and then in the next patch just change the text
of the log.
One and done, right?
But that's not what happened.
The writer of that quest, Pete Hines, when the inconsistency went viral on Twitter, replied
with saying, doesn't say what year that was posted, implying that after the bombs
had dropped and Jet had been invented, Vault-Tec was somehow still around and still sending
out trucks of drugs to Vault 95.
When the fan pointed out the obvious flaw in that logic, as well as other consistency
problems, Pete Hines gave this response, not interested in discussing how realistic things
are in an alternate universe post-apocalyptic game with talking mutants and ghouls.
And of course, various game and tech-based news outlets backed him up, making fun of
fans who dared to complain about lore inconsistencies because of not taking the series seriously
enough that features aliens, a talking tree, invincible children, and guns that fire miniature
nuclear warheads.
And it's like, on some level, yeah, that actually makes sense.
It is just a story.
It's just a fictional world.
So if the new writers working on it make a mistake, on some level, you shouldn't take
it too seriously.
But the flip side of that, as part of not taking it seriously, is no longer consuming
it.
The game is created by Interplay, though the games are now made by Bethesda, which
is a whole other rabbit hole not worth going down for this video.
The point is, Bethesda is not the creator of Fallout, they're only its current owners.
The people who work at Bethesda might care to a point, but if push comes to shove, they
prioritize their own vision.
And stuff like this is ultimately how they view it.
Because while if you're a fan of Fallout, it means something to you, that's why you
enjoy it, that's why you're the superfan, but to them, it's only a vehicle for their
new story.
If they can get away with not respecting old lore, not simply just to save face in a Twitter
fight, but also because the old lore gets in the way of the new story they want to tell,
and they believe that you'll continue consuming the product, what incentive do they have to
respect the old lore?
And through that lens, we can understand why Pete Hines took it as a personal attack, that
fans pointed out there was inconsistencies between his writing and what came before.
Now how many times have you heard a story like this?
How many video games?
How many TV shows?
How many movies?
Something equivalent to this happened to.
People take these things seriously because they love them.
When they see inconsistencies, they're worried that the new stewards don't actually care.
And when those new stewards respond like this, it's a confirmation that they're really
only here to wear the progressive skin suit of the thing that you love, to ignore pre-established
storylines and push whatever it is they want to push.
So apply this lens back to Star Wars, and what do you see?
When I watched that final scene with Riva crying in the sand, I had a sinking feeling
that this whole thing existed simply to set up her spin-off show.
They were taking a beloved character, this guy in the title, and using him as the opening
act for the story they actually wanted to tell.
This is like bait-and-switch Member Berries, where you think you're getting the Member
Berries you want and that's how they drag you in.
But it was me, Riva!
Jesus, we're this far into the video and I completely forgot to talk about the Qui-Gon
scene.
I actually forgot about it, it's that forgettable.
I'm re-recording this days later.
One of the big Member Berries scenes of Kenobi is in the very end, where Qui-Gon shows up
as a Force ghost and basically says, get ready for season two, you fucking nerds.
This scene serves no purpose whatsoever, other than to get fanboys to record reaction videos,
like how they reacted to Luke at the end of Mando season two.
A far better use of Qui-Gon would have been, in the scene where Obi-Wan is buried by rocks
during the Vader fight, Qui-Gon whispers to him, it wasn't your fault.
And that would have made sense.
The whole story is, or should be, about Obi-Wan coming to grips with his guilt.
In A Phantom Menace, Obi-Wan didn't want to train Anakin, Qui-Gon did.
And Qui-Gon made Obi-Wan promise him to do it.
The rock Berries scene would have been far superior with Qui-Gon in it, than with Obi-Wan
fantasizing about kids, but it wouldn't have given us that reactable moment that Disney
wanted.
Yet again, they sacrificed the soul of the story for what looked cool.
The reason people originally liked Star Wars is because, despite the many flaws of these
movies, it had something to say about the human condition.
It's not really about stormtroopers and death stars and X-wings and lightsabers.
Those are the trappings.
That's the window dressing.
That's what you drape over top of what should be, a good solid story.
George Lucas has correctly identified that A New Hope is more of a fantasy film than
a sci-fi one.
My original inspiration on this film was really to use mythological motifs to create a whole
new kind of myth that was very updated and contemporary.
So I used the Saturday matinee serial as my vessel to put this barrel of mythological
motifs together.
Since it's based on a very kind of old story and not a high-tech story, it's more of a
fantasy film than a science fiction film, I was able to use archetypes which helped
develop the characters and put them in a context where they could be easily grasped because
they are traditional characters.
And this is the same story that has been told a thousand times around the world for several
thousand years.
This is a mythic story.
It models for us what it means to be a hero in a very generic sense.
Luke Skywalker is a child of destiny given a magic sword by an old wizard and told to
storm a fortress guarded by the Black Knight in order to rescue a princess.
The scope and scale of the story, along with 4 1977 state-of-the-art effects, help cover
up the fact that Star Wars is a very basic hero's journey.
Meanwhile, The Empire Strikes Back turns us on its head.
It's a story about how the hero deals with his own failure, how it's his own heroism
that is the source of the failure, and how to come to grips with the terrible truth.
Luke's heroic traits are well-defined in A New Hope.
He's courageous, loyal, and impulsive.
All qualities well-suited for a young man leaping to the defense of the helpless.
But in Empire, these qualities lead him to a confrontation with Vader that he isn't
ready for and he loses badly.
Yoda tells him point blank before it even happens.
If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path as Vader did, you
will become an agent of evil.
But Luke has to experience it to truly understand the path that he's on.
Return of the Jedi is the culmination of this story.
Luke's first appearance in the movie, he's acting a little bit more Sith-like than the
audience should be comfortable with, but at the same time, he's also more patient.
He allows Jabba to make aggressive moves and mistakes while his own plan unfolds.
This is what integrating your dark side looks like.
By the end of the movie, Luke refuses to kill Vader.
In fact, at the end of all three movies, Luke gives up control and takes a leap of faith.
It's not a foregone conclusion that Vader will rescue him from the Emperor's forced
lightning.
Luke is doing this knowing full well he might die, but the statement is clear.
Luke is not going to become his father, even if it kills him.
Yeah, sometimes George Lucas is caught huffing his farts a bit too much.
I said to George, you can type this stuff, but you can't say it.
Move your mouth while you're talking, while you're typing it.
I couldn't say it.
But even then, the point I'm making is when you strip away all the Star Wars stuff here
there's a soul, a moral and ethical through line that cuts right down the center of Luke
and his journey.
The movies are trying to tell us something about what it means to be a hero, what quality
of character a hero has, where that might lead them astray sometimes, and ultimately
what somebody might have to sacrifice in order to live a good life.
And George Lucas is okay with outright saying, yeah, this is what the movies are all about.
Are you saying I am trying to recreate the myths of old or are you saying I just want
to make a good action movie?
Well when I did Star Wars, I consciously set about to recreate myths and the classic mythological
motifs, because I think the core issues that I'm dealing with are if they were valid 2,000
years ago, they've got to still be valid today, even though they're not in fashion.
Why are they out of fashion?
The world we live in is more complex.
A lot of those moralities have gotten to be grayed to the point where they don't exist
anymore, but those issues are still there in most people's minds.
The importance of, say, friendship and loyalty, most people look at that and say, how corny,
but the issues of friendship and loyalty are very, very important, but it's not common
knowledge among young people.
They're still learning.
They're still picking up ideas.
They're still using these ideas to shape the way they're going to conduct their life, and
you need to tell the same story over and over again every generation, so that generation
gets it.
And I think we've gone for a few generations where a lot of the more basic stories have
fallen by the wayside.
I hear so many young people today talk about a world that's emptied of heroism, where there
are no more noble things to do.
What do you say to them?
Everybody becomes, everybody has the choice of being a hero or not being a hero every
day of their lives.
And you can either help somebody be compassionate toward people, or you can treat some people
with dignity or not.
And one way you become a hero, and the other way, you know, you're part of the problem.
And it's not a grand thing.
You know, you don't have to get into a giant laser sword fight and blow up three spaceships
to become a hero.
I mean, it's a very small thing that happens every day of your life.
Though people don't like the prequel trilogy nearly as much, they're still remembered fondly
for being the mess that they are.
And Lucas is also quite insistent that these films also have something to say beyond just
Star Wars.
In fact, Padme even spotlights the message in case you don't get it.
So this is how liberty dies, with thunderous applause.
One of the reasons the prequel trilogy talks so much about politics and economics is because
it's showing what a fearless, well-meaning, impatient young hero, somebody very much like
Luke, in fact, can become if he doesn't take the sacrificial path that Luke did.
Take that scene from episode two where Padme and Anakin talk politics.
Yeah, that one that became a reaction meme for a while.
I don't think the system works.
How would you have it work?
We need a system where the politicians sit down and discuss the problem.
Agree what's in the best interest of all the people, and then do it.
That's exactly what we do.
The trouble is that people don't always agree.
Well, then they should be made to.
By whom?
Who's gonna make them?
I don't know.
Someone.
You?
Of course not me.
But someone.
Someone wise.
Sounds an awful lot like a dictatorship to me.
Well, if it works.
This is actually the monarchist argument against democracy.
If democracy really is just a bunch of squabbling, uneducated fools, all having their worthless
say while a crisis grows more desperate, why shouldn't a strong individual with the expertise
to solve the problem be in charge instead?
It's the benevolent dictator, philosopher king argument.
Palpatine's populist rhetoric during his rise to power, if you transplant it to real life,
is probably pretty popular with libertarians in how he wants to dismantle components of
the state and end corruption and shrink bureaucracy.
There is no civility, only politics.
The senate is full of greedy, squabbling delegates.
There is no interest in the common good.
If I may say so, your majesty, the chancellor has little real power.
He is mired by baseless accusations of corruption.
The bureaucrats are in charge now.
Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger supreme chancellor, one who
could control the bureaucrats and give us justice.
Any other choice would be to submit a plea to the courts.
The courts take even longer to decide things than the senate.
Your majesty, if I am elected, I promise to put an end to corruption.
I will be, chancellor.
I fear by the time you have control of the bureaucrats, senator, there'll be nothing
left of our people, our way of life.
It is clear to me now that the republic no longer functions.
I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to the senate.
But what his supporters don't understand, and what he keenly recognizes, is that all
of those multiple levels of bureaucracy are what keeps political power decentralized.
That decentralization has led to their current problem, where there's too many interests,
nobody can agree on anything, and nothing gets done even in the face of a civil war.
But stripping away those bureaucratic layers, however popular a move it might initially
be, doesn't destroy the political power vested within them.
It simply centralizes that power within the remaining bureaucracy.
The rebellion will continue to gain us support in the imperial senate.
The imperial senate will no longer be of any concern to us.
I have just received word that the emperor has dissolved the council permanently.
The last remnants of the old republic have been swept away.
That's impossible.
How will the emperor maintain control without the bureaucracy?
The regional governors now have direct control over their territories.
It may very well be the case that if the people within a state's apparatus are corrupt, you
might need to clean house.
It's not against that.
But contrary to what libertarians think, shrinking the state doesn't always shrink
its power.
Sometimes, it centralizes that power into a system with a single point of failure.
That's why the rebellion's decisive strikes, at just the right target, are so devastating
throughout the series.
Because when you weaken a state's bureaucracy, you monopolize the state's power into one
autocratic leader, and at that point, all you have to do is kill him.
That is the lesson of the prequels.
The dangers of seduction, both sexual and political.
It's tempting to think that you know all the answers, that you can handle the forbidden
fruit.
But you don't.
And you can't.
Of course, the prequels have many problems.
Like a lot of what the Jedi are don't really make sense.
For example, why do the Jedi wear these robes?
Well, because that's what Obi-Wan wore in the original trilogy.
But if Obi-Wan's in hiding, why would he specifically run around in the uniform of
a persecuted class of people?
Why do all the Jedi act like creepy cult members?
Well, because Luke's journey from regular kid to Jedi Knight saw him become serious
and somber.
But that's only because of what he was going through with his father.
That is the limitation of George Lucas's iconic hero's journey style of storytelling,
when it butts up against a cultural phenomenon.
Whatever becomes emblematic of an idea is what sticks, even if it doesn't really make
any sense.
But it's this rough-around-the-edges nature of Lucas's Star Wars that lead internet
soy boys nowadays to justify the moral bankruptcy of Disney's Star Wars.
So if the original story is telling us how to be a sacrificial hero, and the prequel
story is telling us what happens if you reject the call, what does the sequel trilogy tell
us?
As far as I can tell, The Force Awakens exists to tell us that Star Wars is really cool.
Everything is a reference or a callback.
They exist not as trappings of a larger story, but as the larger story itself.
Where before the movies would explain a political crisis and the various parties therein, or
a personal conflict between characters with a lot of history, now the movie goes out of
its way to not explain anything at all.
J.J. Abrams said he wanted the Star Wars comedy back.
But where before comedy accentuated characterization, here it undercuts it.
The characters in the setting are reset back to the way things were in A New Hope, only
this time with less explanation.
There's an empire and a rebellion with different names.
Luke is isolated from everyone, Leia is a political leader fighting the power.
Han Solo is a smooth talker desperately trying to hide the fact that he's a broke bum.
All of the growth and change is reversed, so we can do Star Wars again.
What does The Last Jedi have to tell us?
Well, pretty much the opposite of The Force Awakens.
Star Wars is bad.
Where in Empire, Luke would never abandon his friends, and in Return of the Jedi, Luke
chose not to kill the defenseless.
Here we discover that Luke did both of those things in his old age.
Everyone talks about the phrase, subverting expectations with this movie, and yeah, fair
enough.
I don't want to go into just how bad this movie is right now.
This video is long enough, but I don't think the phrase, subvert expectations, is the ethic
of this movie.
Instead, it can be summed up in these scenes.
It's time to let old things die.
Snoke, Skywalker, the Sith, the Jedi, the Rebels, let it all die.
Let the past die, kill it if you have to.
We have what they grow beyond.
That is the true burden of all masters.
The idea here is that Star Wars is changing.
It doesn't have to be about Skywalkers and Kenobi's anymore.
It can be about anybody.
That's the point of the final shot of the movie.
This kid isn't anybody important, and yet he can use the Force.
It's a grand moral equalization.
The old institutions don't matter.
We can make things how we want them to be, and they don't need to be Star Wars.
So what is the rise of Skywalker telling us then?
Well, the lesson of The Force Awakens is that we can no longer make anything new.
We must remain tethered to what Star Wars was.
At the same time, the lesson of The Last Jedi is that we can no longer hold on to anything
old.
The slate must be wiped clean.
Despite how it sounds, these two ideas actually fit together.
In a Hegelian sense, if The Force Awakens is the thesis and The Last Jedi is the antithesis,
The Rise of Skywalker is the synthesis.
It's a movie that is simultaneously tethered to the past while rejecting it.
It wipes the slate clean and then uses that space to build a simulacrum of what came before.
The ethics of Star Wars at this point are gone, and what remains is only the window
dressing.
There are X-wings and lightsabers and stormtroopers and star destroyers, but the core has been
hollowed out.
That's why it rings so hollow when Carrie Fisher says
It's about family, and that's what's so powerful about it.
We know they're not.
They're about being about family, which is a very different idea.
At least Mark Hamill was a lot more honest about them.
I said to Ryan, I said, I think I fundamentally disagree with pretty much everything you've
decided for me.
Now, having said that, I have to accept it, get my mind around it, and do my best to realize
your vision.
But I said to Ryan, I said, Jedis don't give up.
I mean, even if he had a problem, he would maybe take a year to try and regroup.
But if he made a mistake, he would try and right that wrong.
So right there, we had a fundamental difference.
But it's not my story anymore.
It's somebody else's story, and Ryan needed me to be a certain way to make the ending
effective.
That's the crux of my problem.
Luke would never say that.
I'm sorry.
Well, in this version, see, I'm talking about the George Lucas Star Wars.
This is the next generation of Star Wars.
So I almost had to think of Luke as another character.
Maybe he's Jake Skywalker.
He's not my Luke Skywalker.
But I had to do what Ryan wanted me to do because it serves the story well.
But listen, I still haven't accepted it completely.
But it's only a movie.
I hope people like it.
I hope they don't get upset.
In other words, the Star Wars sequel trilogy teaches us how you build a progressive skin
suit.
First, stagnation is celebrated by way of worshipping the aesthetics of the Thing.
Secondly, revolution is celebrated by way of discrediting all the old ethical achievements
of the Thing.
Finally, these two ideas are married into a creation that is simply mechanical in how
it operates.
Scenes happen only because they must happen to reach the next scene.
Conflicts or revelations or sacrifices occur not because they further anything, but because
this is around the point in time the audience expects to see one.
Nothing makes sense, but nothing needs to because we've deconstructed the idea of
cause and effect.
Things might be set up and then paid off like in an actual movie, but there's no underlying
action and reaction.
The progressive skin suit is complete.
It looks like Star Wars, but deep inside it is in fact anti-Star Wars.
You can't even make new films anymore, not without disregarding 7, 8, and 9.
Where would you go with the story?
Everything's already been ruined by people who didn't care that they were ruining it.
Which makes it pretty fucking hilarious that Kathleen Kennedy complained there was no
more Star Wars stories to make, considering that Lucasfilm de-canonized nearly everything
and then deconstructed the rest.
And by the way, it should be no surprise that George Lucas isn't all that happy with how
it's going either.
Bob Iger said, gee, if you really want to sell your company, if you're thinking about
selling it, because we were talking about retirement and what are you going to do after
all this.
And he said, well, you really want to sell it, you know, we're very interested.
I sold them to the white slavers that take these things and I made a decision to move
ahead on the next Star Wars series and we were starting to do that.
So you were starting to make the next Star Wars?
Yeah.
You as director, filmmaker?
They wanted to do a retro movie.
I don't like that.
I like every movie, I worked very hard to make them different and make them completely
different with different planets, with different spaceships, with different, you know, to make
it new.
They decided they didn't want to use those stories.
They decided they were going to go do their own thing.
And so I decided fine, but basically I'm not going to try to, they weren't that keen to
have me involved anyway.
But at the same time, I said, I'm not going to, if I get in there, I'm just going to cause
trouble because they're not going to do what I want them to do.
So I don't have the control to do that anymore.
And all I would do is muck everything up.
Now then, let's finally return to the Obi-Wan Kenobi show.
Remember earlier when I said that the plot feels like it was written by an algorithm,
like they had this idea for the one truly emotional moment where Vader absolves Obi-Wan
of his guilt, and then just had a machine write a bunch of stuff that served no purpose
other than to get us there and fill the allotted time in the Disney Plus schedule?
Now you know why it feels that way.
The way I like to work is you try and come up with visual milestones of like, well, I'd
love to see this, and I'd love to see this, and I'd love to see this.
I'm not sure how they all connect.
And then what you do is you create visuals of things that would be great, and then you
try and find a way of linking them all.
And using this mode of analysis, you can go back and rewatch the gradual decline of any
property that covered up its failings by claiming to subvert expectations, and you'll probably
see the exact same process underneath of how they built the progressive skin suit.
We're, uh, we're not re-going over Obi-Wan again using this lens.
No thank you, you can do that on your own fucking time.
But I do want to give you one solid example from the show.
Everyone is coming their pants over Riva.
She's so complex and deep, because she didn't kill young Luke, you guys.
The truth is, no, she's confused, which only has the appearance of complexity.
And in order for us to get to this moment, where Riva is broken and has to put herself
back together again, the writers have to directly violate her established character.
That doesn't matter, only getting to the end result does.
Now compare Riva to Luke in The Empire Strikes Back.
Luke isn't confused like Riva is.
Rather, Luke's heroic traits are the cause of his downfall, and the Force itself is trying
to warn him.
Luke may enter a self-destructive spiral and hit rock bottom, but at no point does he ever
act out of character.
His loyalty, his impulsivity, and his bravery, all heroic traits, are what Vader uses to
draw him into his trap.
That's the difference.
The culmination of Luke's arc happens because of who he is.
The culmination of Riva's arc happens in spite of who she is.
But if you squint your eyes, it kind of looks the same.
So this is what Disney is going to be doing going forward.
Kenobi, and almost everything else that Disney has done since taking over Lucasfilm, is a
Star Wars homunculus.
This is the progressive skin suit, and Disney is hoping that you won't look close enough
to notice.
Of course, if you complain about any of this, you're a bigot.
It's not that you're a diehard fan who's dismayed at the cultural rot encroaching on the stuff
you grew up with.
The problem has to be you, not them.
Only kinda, though.
If the show is pro-progressive and you complain, you're the problem.
But if the show does something that progressives don't like, then it's the show's problem.
For example, back in May, when the first two episodes of Obi-Wan Kenobi dropped to an auditorium
full of devoted fans, after the initial screening, the audience took to Twitter to complain about
how triggering it was.
Remember, the show opens on Order 66, and it just so happens that the Uvalde school
shooting went down the same day.
And oh boy, the internet had no problem talking about how it was Disney's fault that they
didn't see the shooting coming and reschedule their premiere.
Trigger warning!
Had to pause and literally sob.
Huge trigger warning.
It literally starts off with the attack on Jedi younglings in their temple slash school.
What the fuck was Disney thinking?
Obi-Wan should have had trigger warnings after Uvalde.
That nearly made me vomit.
The cold open of Obi-Wan is a bunch of Jedi kids getting gunned down by stormtroopers.
And it's super fucking triggering.
And I literally can't believe they released that right now.
Hey Disney, given current events, can we add a content warning to the first episode of
Obi-Wan?
I'm too sick to my stomach just reading about it.
These people are fully grown adults who feel like shows targeted at their demographic,
you know, adults, are somehow too violent, to the point that they're protesting online.
And the violence we're talking about isn't like gratuitous gore or something.
It's people getting shot and stabbed with laser weapons.
Kids were sneaking in to see R-rated films in the 90s.
Now those same kids are soy boy adults crying that PG-13 is too much for them to handle.
Part of the progressive skin suit is rounding the corners, sanding down the bumps, making
everything appear epic but have no actual stakes because we can't let anybody get
emotionally upset.
So when a bit of the old lore filters through from the before times, when tragedies actually
happened in a narrative, these padded room zoomers can't fucking take it.
However, when actual Star Wars fans voiced their actual opinions on the actual problems
with the Obi-Wan show, doesn't matter which problem, take your pick.
I've given you over 9000 of them at this point.
Disney falls back on ol' reliable, racism.
The Star Wars fandom's racism problem, Moses Ingram, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and ongoing racist
toxicity in the Star Wars community, Ingram plays the main villain in the new Star Wars
show Obi-Wan Kenobi, a Jedi hunter named Riva.
After the series' debut, the actress, who is capital B Black, revealed on Instagram
she's been bombarded with hundreds of racism threatening messages, with one telling her
her days are numbered, and another using the N-word.
Damn, well, alright, let's head over to her Instagram and take a look.
Jesus, holy hell girl, what the fuck, why is that your avatar?
Uh, give me, give me a second, guys.
Alright, here's her Instagram video.
You suck, loser, you're a diversity hire.
Operation Get Behind the Darkies is real, JESUS CHRIST.
Ayo, Kenobi, you ain't finna run forever, white boy.
You have now been converted into the Saint George of Floydium of Star Wars.
How the fuck does an alien know Ebonics?
Yeah, this is pretty shitty.
There are hundreds of those.
Hundreds.
And I also see those of you out there who put on a cape for me, and that really does
mean the world to me, because, you know, there's nothing anybody can do about this.
There's nothing anybody can do to stop this hate.
And so I question what my purpose is, and even being here in front of you, saying that
this is happening.
I don't really know.
I don't really know.
But I think the thing that bothers me is that, like, sort of this feeling that I've had inside
of myself, which no one has told me, but this feeling of like, I just got to shut
up and take it, you know, I just kind of got to bury it.
And I'm not built like that.
So I really just wanted to come on, I think, and say thank you to the people who show up
for me in the comments and the places that I'm not gonna put myself.
And to the rest of y'all, y'all weird.
Shiva is kind of a garbage character, but Moses Ingram was pretty good in the Queen's
Gambit.
She's probably a fine person in private.
It's not her fault.
I've never really liked the idea of attacking an actor or actress just because the character
they play is evil, or worse, badly written, or worse, badly acted.
Best case scenario on the side of the angry fans, it's not Moses Ingram's fault that Star
Wars writers were looking for a diversity hire.
That's Disney's fault.
She was just taking the job she was offered, like anybody reasonable would.
You gotta chase that paper.
Personally, I think she did an okay job with what she was given.
She was just given garbage.
After her video went viral, Owen McGregor recorded his own to show his support.
This weekend, Star Wars fans made Obi-Wan Kenobi the most watched Disney Plus original
series premiere of all time.
And for that, I would say a big thank you.
And it just goes to show what this family can do when we all pull together.
However, it seems that some of the fan base from this influential fan base have decided
to attack Moses Ingram online and send her the most horrendous racist DMs.
And I heard some of them this morning and it just broke my heart.
Moses is a brilliant actor.
She's a brilliant woman.
And she's absolutely amazing in this series.
She brings so much to the series, she brings so much to the franchise.
And it just sickened me to my stomach to hear that this had been happening.
I just want to say as the leading actor in the series, as the executive producer in the
series, that we stand with Moses.
We love Moses.
Again, mostly a completely reasonable response.
Anybody who's worked on a set will tell you.
The lead actor is like the informal dad of the set family.
He's probably feeling protective of Ingram right now.
However, where he goes off the rails is at the end.
And if you're sending her bullying messages, you're no Star Wars fan in my mind.
There's no place for racism in this world.
And I totally stand with Moses.
I'm not simping for the racists here, all right?
But as objectionable as I find them, you absolutely can like Star Wars and be a racist.
They're unrelated things.
Here's a funny thing, though.
Moses Ingram's video dropped on May 31st.
But on May 22nd, five days before parts one and two of the show were released, Moses Ingram
gave this interview with The Independent, where she said,
Obi-Wan is going to bring the most diversity I think we've seen in the galaxy before.
To me, it's long overdue.
If you've got talking droids and aliens, but no people of color, it doesn't make any sense.
It's 2022, you know.
So we're just at the beginning of that change.
But I think to start that change is better than never having started.
Are you butt fucking kidding me?
What about Lando Calrissian?
Mace Windu?
Jango Fett?
Maybe the problem isn't that Star Wars lacks people of color.
It's that the new people of color being brought on aren't actually very good at their jobs.
Hell, there's new people of color being brought on that are doing pretty good jobs.
So maybe the issue isn't race.
It's no secret that, for example, Jake Lloyd's life has completely fallen apart since the
Phantom Menace, and he lays at least part of the blame at the feet of Star Wars fans
who treated him exceptionally poorly when he was a child.
And you know, fair enough.
But Lloyd's white.
Maybe you can make an argument that some parts of the Star Wars fandom is toxic.
But is that problem based on race?
Absolutely not.
Billy Dee Williams was considered the smoothest dude in the original trilogy.
That guy broke out the Colt .45 after every scene.
She's pouring a Colt .45, and we all know what that means.
You mind if I join you?
You must have read my mind.
Something like that.
I find the idea that Star Wars fans are just blanket racist really hard to buy.
It just doesn't track with reality.
Here's some classic Star Wars fans on the eve of the release of The Return of the Jedi.
All I've got to say, the Jedi have returned.
We're just fanatics out here waiting on Return of the Jedi.
Three years in the making.
We're waiting for this.
Some people don't idolize Darth Vader like I do.
See, I want him to get Luke.
And I think that Luke will destroy Darth Vader.
I guess Darth Vader will die.
I'm not sure.
I hope he doesn't.
I love his black.
I think it's surprising to see all of them together at the end playing pinochle and having
a great time.
I wish I was there, and I'm going to try to get a part of the next movie myself.
This has left me practically utterly speechless, actually, you know, but it was the best one
ever.
The big surprise was seeing Darth Vader unveil himself to his son.
It was very exciting.
The biggest surprise?
Well, I don't want to give it away to anybody.
Do you think it was worth coming to this late at night?
Yeah.
Looks like it's straight out of a KKK meeting.
Am I right, guys?
Ingram also stated, This was something that Lucasfilm actually got in front of and said,
This is a thing that unfortunately likely will happen, but we are here to help you.
You can let us know when it happens.
Disney is referring to her getting racist DMS and stuff.
They knew this was going to happen before it did.
So good faith to Disney.
Everybody should recognize that some people online are just assholes.
That's it.
They are going to say racist shit in the DMS, even if you do an amazing job.
But if Disney knows the show is going to be bad, getting ahead of it might entail spinning
up a story of racism before any such racism even happens as a defense.
Therefore, the guy who's actually in Moses Ingram's DMS being a racist and the guy who
thinks the Obi Wan show sucks and has real complaints because Disney got out ahead of
the story.
They can spin it like those two are linked.
The most cynical part of my brain thinks they might have actually planned this, like, Oh,
thank God Moses Ingram got sent racist messages.
Now we can go to Twitter and activate the woke spin cycle and generate some press for
this god awful show of ours.
And you know what?
That's exactly what they did.
Here's the official Star Wars Twitter account.
We are proud to welcome Moses Ingram to the Star Wars family, and we're excited for Reeva's
story to unfold.
If anyone intends to make her feel in any way unwelcome, we have only one thing to say
we resist.
There are more than 20 million sentient species in the Star Wars galaxy.
Don't choose to be a racist.
Make it all about the controversy guys.
Don't talk about the show's shoddy writing or middling quality or awful new characters.
Make it all about racism.
Two black female Star Wars characters, one liked and the other disliked by fans, almost
as if it is less about demographics than quality.
This is literally the I have a black friend argument.
Being racist does not just refer to donning a white hood and being overtly racist.
It also includes things like implicit bias, you can like some black characters and still
be a racist.
Man, I've never understood this.
Why would a black person still be friends with somebody who's a racist?
Why would a racist still like black characters and actors?
Where's the implicit bias when you think that Reeva fucking sucks as a villain?
You know, I'm just not willing to take any fucking guff from the company that puts this
woke virtue signaling shit out on Twitter, while at the same time actually acting overtly
racist and homophobic themselves in the overseas markets.
If you're not willing to stand up for your values, where and when it matters, when you
have something to lose, then they're not values, and I'm not going to be preached at about
them by you.
I'm certainly not going to get preached at when the same fan backlash shit happened to
Mandalorian actress Gina Carano because she was anti-ACAB during the Summer of Love 2020
and she lost her fucking job over it.
Remember that shit?
Carano did all the things that you don't do as an arm of the Star Wars corporal progressive
subversion machine.
Make jokes about masks, talk about her belief in the 2020 election fraud, don't put pronouns
in your bio, oh my god.
I think the star that finally broke the camel's back was when she compared hating people for
their political views to the persecution of Jews from the Holocaust.
And fair enough, that's pretty fucking spicy, isn't it?
But hey, how does that one poem go that leftoids always like to cite?
First they came for the socialists.
Why isn't this a case of comparing a political affiliation to the persecution of the Jews?
This is, in fact, something that people on the left always do.
Compare the persecution of leftist activists to other historical horrors.
Even though there are just as many historical horrors where leftists come after who they
deem to be counter-revolutionary or reactionary or whatever.
It's almost like, despite the obvious hyperbole of Carano's claims, the ultimate issue is
that only one political camp is allowed the privilege associated with being a victim.
But you know what?
Not only did they have no problem at all with Gia Carano before she posted any of the spicy
stuff, they actually claimed the sexist, racist, toxic fanbase that was Star Wars was
triggered when she first joined up with the franchise.
Really?
The same people who you now claim are her most ardent alt-right supporters or whatever
the fuck?
There is nothing these people wouldn't say.
No lie they wouldn't tell to further their agenda.
By the way, that alt-right thing?
It turns out that most of the complaints about The Last Jedi came from the same Twitter accounts
that were considered Russian bots and plants during the 2016 election, making them all
part of the alt-right.
Or maybe average people are just fed up with your shit, Disney.
You're alt-right if you hate Star Wars.
It's the fans' fault that Star Wars sucks.
The Force is female.
Anakin Skywalker fell because of toxic masculinity.
Watch the all-female Star Wars or you're a bigot.
If you negatively review Star Wars, you're a bigot.
Except Obi-Wan is LGBT or you're a bigot.
I swear to fucking god.
Consume product to defeat my cultural enemies regardless of its quality or my personal enjoyment
of it is the greatest marketing gimmick ever conceived.
And now they want to do the same thing they did to Gia Carano to Rosario Dawson, the actress
playing Ahsoka Tano, despite her being quite left-leaning, because at one point a trans
man filed a lawsuit against her for discrimination, verbal abuse, physical assault, and misgendering.
I guess that's illegal in California.
Even though the lawsuit was dropped because there was just nothing fucking to it, people
still want her out of the Ahsoka show.
These people are so deep down the rabbit hole that even being innocent of the crime that
they're accused of is not enough for them.
Some people are saying that Obi-Wan was purposely brought low in order to pump Riva up and that
might be the case.
That doesn't bother me the way that it does a lot of other fans.
I don't mind a story where an old hero is taken down a peg or two and has to, you know,
get his mojo back.
But it has to be justified.
And in the Obi-Wan show, one of the only things going for it is that Obi-Wan's descent is
actually pretty justified.
He's lost everything here and it's all his fault.
Compare that to The Last Jedi, where with Luke they explicitly avoid fleshing out the
justification.
Compare it to Star Trek Discovery, where the beloved character of Spock plays second fiddle
to his secret until now unknown stepsister Michael Burnham.
There are many cases where this criticism makes sense, that in order to privilege the
new characters and stories they want to tell, they just shit all over the established characters.
But that doesn't work here.
Obi-Wan's downfall is actually believable.
I just wish that it was in the service of somebody better than Riva.
The Star Wars Twitter account is always doing shit like this.
For example, for Pride Month this year, they released this comic starring two gay chicks
as bounty hunters.
Now listen, you know I have no problem with lesbians, that's some pretty good shit.
But I also have no problem with casual incidental homosexuality.
Like recently, everyone was losing their mind over the lesbian couple in the Buzz Lightyear
movie and it's like, who cares?
They're just chilling, it's whatever.
I'm even fine with a story about homosexuality specifically, where it's not just incidental
gayness, but where gayness actually drives the plot.
One of my favorite anime of all time, the 1997 masterpiece Revolutionary Girl Utena,
is a show specifically about lesbianism and gender-bending.
It is impossible to do this show's plot without the gay and queer aspects of it.
It is built from the foundation up to be that type of show, and it's done very well.
But that's the point.
Utena is designed to be that story, but Star Wars isn't.
There's nothing in the fabric of the Star Wars universe that demands queerness.
Meanwhile, this comic also isn't the incidental gayness of Lightyear either.
This is not a Star Wars story with Star Wars characters that just so happen to be gay.
This is a gay story wearing the Star Wars progressive skin suit.
So of course somebody replies with, don't make Star Wars political.
Oh, you poor brave soul, F's in the chat.
The Star Wars official Twitter account replied with, queer characters existing isn't political,
and Star Wars is literally in our name.
You know, for a political faction that talks about responsible platforming, use of social
media, punching down, a faction that I'm sure the Disney intern running the Star Wars
account is a part of, you'd think they'd know not to sic their huge following on a
smaller private account.
Though I'm sure they actually knew exactly what would happen.
Look at the fucking rage of all these replies.
Here's another one, calling all members of the Resistance, Billie Lourd and Kelly Marie
Trainor taking the stage now.
Respectfully, nobody likes either of them.
Respectfully, L plus ratio, geez, maybe the Disney intern is actually Kefls.
And the exact same thing happened to this poor bastard too.
Get his ass, get his ass, get their ass, I guess this one's inclusive.
Get his ass, get his ass, yeah, let's go, get their ass.
It's often said by left-oid screeching about right-oid YouTubers or even apolitical YouTubers
that people in positions of influence online have a moral obligation to tilt their audiences
towards good behavior and that the harassment that pours out of right-wing communities reflects
on both the politics and the individuals within those communities.
If we accept this logic, what does it say about progressive communities that individuals
within them have no problem being grotesquely racist towards black people who aren't progressive?
You know, at this point, if you're anti-BLM or something, you're a member of the actual
Resistance.
These people are a fucking monolith.
The most important type of reply out of this officially sanctioned Star Wars dogpile, though,
were the people who were claiming that Star Wars is actually political.
And yes, the left-oid answer is the everything-is-political position, stemming out of Antonio Gramsci's
theory of cultural hegemony, describing how before the working class can revolt against
the bourgeoisie, first they must be indoctrinated within an alternate culture that is pro-revolution.
The crafting of that culture requires the subversion of mass media to deconstruct morality
and heroism for the masses, and within that resulting cultural vacuum, push pro-socialist
propaganda.
If you want to know why so many new properties are garbage that promote communism and progressivism,
while so many reinventions of old properties are simply lessons in how to subvert them,
this is why.
Gramsci's time will come on this channel eventually, but for our purposes here, Star
Wars is political because when George Lucas chose to base his stories on the specific
hero myths and morals that he did, to a reader of Gramsci, that choice was not a neutral
one.
It did not exist within a political or cultural vacuum.
Rather, it led new generations of people to idolize specific types of heroes, and as those
children became politically active adults, the particular cultural morality they grew
up with informed their politics.
One of the themes of the movie is high technology and romance.
They're romantic human.
One of the human qualities is that romantic quality, that quality of honor and justice
and everything that we equate as human in the way we focus and conduct our lives.
In this particular case, I was looking for a symbol of sort of a more humane, honorable
way of being a warrior, as opposed to the mechanical, heartless, machine-like approach
to killing and battle and war.
One of the main influences here was the samurai ethic and King Arthur and the King Arthur
ethic where you have a very strong set of ethical rules that you live by.
The lightsaber became the symbol of that humane way of conducting your life.
In this way, Star Wars is political because the progs view it as a vehicle to influence
political change in the next generation.
It's not valued by them for the artistry of the thing, but only for its real-world
impact.
In other words, it's the progressive skin suit.
Probably the greatest bulwark against the Gramsciate cultural subversives is literally
voting with your wallet.
A piece of media that lacks a soul and only exists to enact political or cultural change
is generally not of high quality.
This is the source of the get woke, go broke phenomenon, but it was identified by George
Lucas as an issue long before that phrase became popular.
When Star Wars came out, everybody said, oh, it's a silly movie.
It's just a bunch of space battles and stuff.
It's not real.
There's nothing behind it.
And I said, well, there is stuff behind it.
It's not just a space battle.
There's more to it than that.
It's much, much more complicated than that.
So the spaceships and that part of the science, fantasy, whatever, got terribly abused.
And of course, everybody went out and made spaceship movies and they were all horrible
and they all lost tons of money.
And you say, well, you know, there's more to it than that.
You can't just go out and do spaceships.
Earlier, when I alluded to just how many properties beyond Star Wars have been turned into subversive
vehicles, you should be able to notice intuitively that they all went through this process.
The stripping of initial meaning, co-opting of the aesthetic, and the replacement of the
core with politics and the fans almost always react negatively, which is why the new creators
attack their fans as a last ditch effort to try and get them in line, which only exacerbates
the problem.
But with something as big as popular as Star Wars, where legitimately bad movies still
turn a profit, the get woke, go broke effect takes some time to build up.
Unlike with, for example, American comics, which are getting absolutely dominated by
Japanese manga right now, to the point that the industry is collapsing because nobody's
reading them anymore.
Star Wars started with enough of a head start that it's going to take more than your average
failure to kill off the franchise.
But we've still seen those preliminary symptoms rear their heads.
Nobody's buying the Rose Tico action figure or whatever else because nobody likes these
characters.
The days of this stuff being collectible are over.
Just a few more strokes and all of the Bubba Fett action figures on Esau will be mine.
Auction closed.
Hello, success.
But there's also a more basic truth here.
Star Wars is obviously political, and it always was, long before the Prague sunk their hooks
into it.
The Star Wars story is about civil war, rebellion against the state, religious persecution,
persecution of people with immutable traits, economics and the effects of taxation, how
populism and dismantling bureaucracy can lead to a totalitarian nightmare state, how good
people are convinced to endorse such a state, and how a crisis can be used to seize political
power under the guise of temporary emergency measures.
There is this tendency, exemplified by the you made it political quartering meme, to
view what is culturally normal as apolitical and what is abnormal as political.
And some people really take this to the extreme.
You know, I'm not sure if your average black guy just existing as a political statement,
my man.
It's also a Gramscian idea that the dominant culture isn't actually neutral, it's simply
been normalized, and that a socialist centered culture, once it's normalized, would also
appear to be neutral to those living within it.
And you know, that's probably true.
The left's point of view is, when someone says you made it political, what they're actually
saying is, you made it a type of politics that I don't like.
And you know what?
They're correct.
This is absolutely the case.
But that's not necessarily a bad thing.
If you live in a liberal culture, and you value liberalism, and you see a story, like
say, Star Wars, about a rebellion striving for liberty against an oppressive totalitarian
empire, that is a liberal story.
On the surface level, it will appear to be apolitical.
A quick examination, though, will reveal it to be absolutely political.
The true complaint here is the subversion of liberal politics is turning Star Wars into
an anti-liberal story.
And you know what?
That's a legitimate complaint, at least to me.
I have no allegiance to the anti-liberal point of view, but I do object to them taking liberal-aligned
media and subverting it, even though, when they do, their ethics almost always collapse
in on themselves.
Here, let me give you an example.
One of the best moments in the Obi-Wan show, arguably, was Frak.
It's pretty clear that Frak's a good guy.
He likes the stability that the empire's institutions bring to his life.
His banter with the stormtroopers serves to humanize them both.
Despite the empire being that totalitarian nightmare state, your average person is just
doing their job in a system they can't control, and they're just trying to get on with their
lives and do what they think is the right thing.
To them, the empire represents security, order, law, trade, jobs, and a bulwark against the
religious zealotry of the Jedi.
This dude on Twitter almost gets it.
This moment was the most real and scary Star Wars has been in a long time.
Yeah, that's the point.
Obi-Wan is a wanted man undercover.
The symbol of the empire should serve to frighten him.
But the next part of the scene, where Frak and the stormtroopers are humanized, shows
us the point.
In a different world, these guys would be friends.
But then they blow it.
That's like having a Let's Go Brandon or a Don't Tread On Me bumper sticker on a pickup.
I mean, just surface level here.
Despite some of the problems with libertarianism, the libertarian creed of Don't Tread On Me
is still the exact opposite of the empire's ethics.
But there's a bigger issue here.
These people are explicitly ignoring the point of the scene, which is humanizing Obi-Wan's
enemies before he has to kill them.
Because they don't accept the idea that their own political opponents should ever
be humanized.
I know we're digging back into history now, but remember when Ben Shapiro hosted Mean
Review on PewDiePie's channel?
Or Donald Trump went on Jimmy Kimmel's show?
Progressives were screaming bloody murder that these right-leaning people were being
humanized as if they were not already humans.
The Prague's rejection of the humanizing moment of this scene shows that they don't
actually understand the larger Star Wars conflict.
In their evaluation, there's no moral content here, only the symbols of good and evil.
If Freck was flying a Pride Month variant of the empire flag off the truck and the narrator
called the rebellion transphobes or something while Darth Vader was going around choking
out right-wingers, these idiots would do a complete 180 on this shit.
They don't want a society free of totalitarianism.
They want their ideology to be the one enforced by the totalitarian government.
In fact, okay, Star Wars is political.
I'm on board.
What kind of political is Star Wars?
That question is best answered by going back to the source.
This line in A New Hope always bothered me.
It just isn't fair.
Oh, Biggs is right.
I'm never going to get out of here.
So most people know that the Biggs that Luke is referencing is this guy who gets blown
up during the attack on the Death Star.
In the original release of the movie, he appears to be just another rebel pilot.
But in the 1997 special edition, George Lucas added back in a deleted scene showing Luke
and Biggs reuniting before the battle, where they appear to be old friends who haven't
seen each other in a while.
Hey, Luke!
Biggs!
I don't believe it!
Hey!
How are you?
Great!
How'd you get here?
Hey, you coming up last?
I'll be right up there with you.
And have I got stories to tell you?
You sure you can handle this shit?
Sir, Luke is the best pushed pilot in the Outer Rim Territories.
You'll do all right.
Thank you, sir.
I'll try.
I gotta get aboard.
We'll hear all your stories when we get back, all right?
All right.
Hey, Biggs, I told you I'd make it someday.
It'll be like old times, Luke.
They'll never stop us.
Now, the 1997 release was the one that I saw when I was a kid, but even back then, it felt
like there was some missing setup for Biggs.
And there was.
There's a long deleted scene that takes place at Toshi Station, where Luke and his
group of friends, including Biggs, use binoculars to watch the fight between the Star Destroyer
and the Counselorship at the beginning of the movie.
Afterward, Luke has a pretty interesting conversation with Biggs about the trajectory of both of
their lives.
I was so close, I thought I was going to fly in my instruments.
Otherwise, I busted up the Skyhopper pretty bad.
And I'm all in?
Furious.
He wound up grounding me for the rest of the season.
You should have been there.
It was fantastic.
You ought to take it a little easy, Luke.
You may be the hottest bush pilot this side of Mars Isley, but those little Skyhoppers
are dangerous.
Keep it up.
One day, Whammo, you're going to end up a dark spot on the downside of a canyon wall.
Look who's talking.
You've been hanging around the Starfleet so long, you've been sounding like my uncle.
You know, you're getting a little soft in the city.
I've missed you, kid.
Yeah, well, things haven't been the same without you, Biggs.
It's been so quiet.
Luke, I didn't come back just to say goodbye.
I shouldn't tell you this, but you're the only one I can trust.
See, I may never come back, and I just want someone to know.
What are you talking about?
I made some friends at the Academy.
When our frigate leaves for one of the central systems, we're going to jump ship and join
the Alliance.
The Rebellion?
Quiet down.
You've got a mouth bigger than a meteor.
I'm quiet.
I'm quiet.
Listen to how quiet I am.
You can barely hear me.
My friend has a friend on Bestine who might help us make contact.
You're crazy.
You wander around forever trying to find them.
I know it's a long shot, but if I don't find them, I'll do what I can on my own.
It's what we always talked about, Luke.
I'm not going to wait around for the Empire to draft me into service.
The Rebellion is spreading, and I want to be on the side I believe in.
Yeah, meanwhile, I'm stuck here.
You'll get your chance to get off this rock.
You're going to the Academy next term, aren't you?
Not likely.
I had to cancel my application.
What for?
My uncle needs me.
Oh.
No, I'm serious.
The Sand People have been getting really crazy.
They've even raided the outskirts of Anchor Hunt.
Come on, Luke.
Your uncle could hold off a whole colony of Sand People with one blaster.
I know.
But we've got almost enough evaporators to make the place pay off.
I have to stay one more season.
I can't leave him now.
What good's all your uncle's work if the Empire takes it over?
You know they've already started to nationalize commerce in the central systems?
It won't be long before your uncle's just a tenant,
slaving for the greater glory of the Empire.
No, that's not going to happen here.
You said yourself the Empire won't even mess with this old rock.
Things can change.
I wish I was going.
Are you going to be around long?
No.
Leaving in the morning.
I guess I won't see you.
Maybe someday.
I'll keep a look at it.
Yeah.
I'll be at the Academy next season, and then who knows?
I won't be drafted into the Imperial Starfleet, that's for sure.
Well, take it easy, buddy.
You'll always be the best friend I've ever had.
So long, Luke.
Alright, weird ass-pad aside, there's two notable things about this scene.
First is that to understand Biggs' role in Luke's life, you kind of need this scene.
Luke's later frustration at Biggs' words now makes a lot more sense.
Luke's reunion with him at the end of the movie actually carries some weight,
and Biggs' death actually means something.
I'm guessing these scenes were left out because George Lucas wanted to tightly follow R2-D2 in C-3PO
until they joined up with Luke and Obi-Wan.
The first cut of the film had the intercuts of Luke on the planet with what was going on in space,
but it just wasn't the movie I wanted to make.
I wanted to make it about this kind of odd couple and tell the story from their point of view.
But man, working them in somehow would have improved the movie quite a bit.
But secondly, there's also the political component of Biggs' speech.
Biggs states that the Empire has been nationalizing businesses,
and that the former owners of those businesses become tenants of the Empire.
His dialogue crafts a link between the idea of nationalization and the idea of landlordship,
where being a renter is the same as being a government employee,
and the thing that links them is the lack of personal ownership.
Biggs also makes it sound like it's at least somewhat common
for young people to join the Imperial Academy to get training,
and then defect the Rebellion when they get a chance.
Now, the Empire is obviously supposed to be a stand-in for Nazi Germany.
The historical stormtroopers, from which the Imperial stormtroopers get their name,
were the Brownshirts, the Nazi Party's paramilitary wing in its early years.
Demographically, the Brownshirts were overwhelmingly young working-class communist-aligned men
who believed that national socialism could be an alternate path forward
for the socialist movement instead of the communist international.
Nowadays, the idea that fascism is capitalism in decay is one that the left clings to,
despite it being resoundingly false.
A fascist totalitarian government rolling in, pointing guns at you,
and telling you that you work for them now, that's not capitalism.
In fact, that's the opposite of it.
But back in 1977, when A New Hope came out, World War II wasn't so old,
and academia hadn't yet been completely subverted,
such that multiple generations of people no longer understood how politics worked.
People back then knew that fascism was socialism in decay,
even if they didn't use that language to say it.
And this knowledge was reflected in the political undertones of the pop culture of the time.
Here, let me use another example.
I don't commonly get into Archie comics on this channel.
He's not so popular now, but he was a pretty big deal in the early post-war period.
There's a story that was printed first in 1972 called Mark My Words,
where Archie has a brand new set of markers that are stolen from him,
and then graffiti is drawn all over the school with the markers.
This was back in 72, remember? Markers were invented in 1953.
Getting a hold of them was easy enough, but they were considered specialized tools,
not something that everyone would have just lying around their house like today.
So, Principal Weatherby naturally blames Archie for the graffiti,
and then in response, the other students casually declare Weatherby a fascist.
They then say that the downtrodden rising up
would require the student body to make more and worse graffiti.
Archie stops them and says that even if he didn't do it,
suspecting him isn't unreasonable given the evidence,
and if they really wanted to help fix the situation,
they should help him clean the mess.
And it's this show of virtue that convinces the principal that Archie is actually innocent.
Now, I'm not here telling you to get your serious political analysis from Archie comics,
nor am I saying that this comic presents the true fascism or whatever.
What I am saying is, when I first read this comic,
I was surprised at the use of the term.
In today's pop media, it's so often the case that if fascism is brought up,
it's done to point fingers at the right, even the libertarian right.
But here, that's clearly not the context.
Here, it's done to point fingers at legitimate authority that has made a mistake.
And their prescription for fixing the situation
is to actually do the thing they were mistaken for doing.
The ethic this story is exemplifying for the reader
is that even in the face of injustice,
the best thing you can do is act virtuous.
The people who wrongly call Weatherby a fascist aren't rewarded for doing so.
They're vilified for exacerbating the situation.
In a more general sense, there was a broad understanding by people of this era
that socialism and fascism were feuding brothers,
and that each of their reactions to the other made society worse.
While it was liberal democracy standing apart from the two
from a totally different political school of thought
that truly had an alternative, more constructive path forward.
And this can also be seen in the political science writing of this era as well.
Before the Soviets had begun infiltrating Western universities
with their active measures program,
you had papers like, for example,
A Premature Fascist, Sorelle and Mussolini by James Meisel,
which documents the clear ideological progression
from the socialism of French syndicalist George Sorelle
to the neo-socialism and later fascism of Benito Mussolini.
With this knowledge, let's return to the cut scenes from Star Wars and New Hope.
Biggs' assertion that nationalization leads to everyone becoming tenants
where nobody truly owns their own means of production
in an exclusive individualistic manner
and the collective dictates to the individual
what is the greater good for the people.
That principle is the handshake between socialism and fascism.
Meanwhile, in the Wild West environment that is Tatooine,
with all of its many problems,
there's still ultimately more freedom there than within the empire.
The small landowners and businessmen who exclusively own property,
they're less well-off materially than the citizens of the core worlds,
but they're free, at least for now,
and they want to keep it that way.
The rebellion is a liberal individualistic uprising
against a socialist system in decay
and George Lucas wrote that story
within the context of a larger cultural backdrop
that still understood the natural progression
between a socialist revolution and a fascist state.
Now, maybe you might say that deleted scenes don't count.
They don't really represent what Star Wars is all about
because they were, you know, deleted.
And so, not only their plot points but their underlying morals
should be disregarded.
The problem is, Biggs' speech slots in quite well
to what we know about the empire's economy,
as told on screen in The Empire Strikes Back.
So you see, since we're a small operation,
we don't fall into the jurisdiction of the empire.
So you're part of the mining guild then?
No, not actually.
Our operation is small enough not to be noticed.
Fascist political theory describes what they called
a corporative economy,
where guild-like bodies, called corporations,
would bring together the managers of government-led business
and representatives from nationalized unions
to determine how best to implement state policy.
In this scene, Lando is expressing gratitude
that his business is small enough not to be nationalized
in the way that Biggs described
under the jurisdiction of the mining guild.
And later in the movie,
the empire does actually roll in and take over the business
because Han and Leia's presence shines a spotlight on them,
just like how, in reality,
fascists would march into businesses, point guns at them,
and tell them that they work for the state now.
Again, this is not capitalism in decay.
It is, in fact, state socialism.
That idea is disproven on the very first page
of the book Hitler's Beneficiaries
by German historian Goetz Ali.
Ali describes the efforts of Stuart Elliot Eisenstadt,
an American who has spent much of his life
negotiating reparations for victims of the Holocaust.
In fact, he's been the federal government special advisor
on Holocaust issues under Obama, Trump, and Biden.
Part of Eisenstadt's work involved securing compensation
from private German businesses
that profited off of Nazi slave labor.
And Ali immediately agrees
that Eisenstadt was fully in the right to pursue damages.
But despite this,
Eisenstadt's highly public negotiations with these companies,
widely publicized in the media in the 1990s and early 2000s,
led to a distorted view
of just how complicit German captains of industry were
in the horrors of the Nazi regime.
The Nazis had no problem pointing their guns
and making demands of private owners of business
if it meant getting what they want,
a fact that first came out during the Nuremberg Trials.
And while German industry is responsible for what it did,
it's also important to recognize
how little of a choice the individuals involved had.
But that nuance doesn't work very well as a headline.
And even back then, headlines are all that people read.
But none of this context would be alien
to Star Wars viewers of the 1970s or 80s
who didn't exist within a wider culture of leftist academics,
successfully subverting the knowledge
of what fascism actually is,
and replacing it with that false notion
that fascism is capitalism in decay.
So, the idea that fascism is capitalism in decay
was ultimately spread by neo-Marxist academics,
following the cultural theory of Antonio Gramsci,
who successfully dismantled our previous cultural understanding
of the links between socialism and fascism
as a part of a multi-decade project of Soviet subversion.
They then replaced that previous knowledge
with a new theory
that corporations are themselves fascist,
relying on the modern definition of the word corporation
and ignoring the very different definition from the 1920s
when Mussolini was actually writing about the corporative state
as part of fascist political theory,
and then backed up their new construction
by misinterpreting Eisenstadt's good work.
Now then, because Star Wars is political,
we can go back to the original movies
where the broad cultural understanding
of the true nature of socialism is still intact
and see that understanding shine through in the narrative.
Afterward, we can go to the newest movies
witness the end result of progressive subversion
and notice how all the ethics, all the morals, all the heroism
has been entirely flipped on its head
and how that roughly corresponds
with the loss of broader political knowledge
regarding socialism's true nature.
But, if a progressive were to hear that analysis
about how Star Wars is political,
I would be labeled a racist, bigoted, boot-licking chud
who is too stupid to understand politics
and I'm taking Star Wars too seriously and...
Don't ask questions, just consume product
and then get excited for next product.
Yeah, that.
The honest truth is, everything can be political
Prague's are right about that
but it's an active choice to politicize something.
All of these political interpretations of Star Wars
they're all valid
but you can also just shut your brain off
and watch the movie if you like.
And that's just as valid a choice
because its purpose is entertainment, not cultural change
no matter what a gramtiate might tell you.
Let's say, for example, there was a Star Wars club
at your university or something.
I don't know what you kids do nowadays.
And let's say that there was a club rule to keep politics at the door.
And let's say some whining Prague
said this rule was unfair because Star Wars is political.
The correct response is to say
maybe so, but this space isn't.
Political neutrality cannot simply be assumed anymore.
There's too many subversives in the West right now.
It has to be actively enforced
as a moral good in its own right.
And the reason it is a good
is because a neutral space is the only place
where ideas can truly be explored
where new things can truly be invented.
In a world where every space is a socialist space
it wouldn't be possible to explore ideas
beyond socialism.
Which is, by the way, the point of what they're doing.
Building the cultural hegemony that I've been talking about
for the past half hour.
If you want to know what that process looks like
all you have to do is look around.
The subversion of Star Wars
the loss of old political knowledge
for the sake of the Left's expediency
that's only one symptom among many.
The bland, grey, lifeless, algorithmic sludge
is the product of that cultural hegemony.
Where because everyone's views are enshrined
no prescriptions can be made.
Nobody can get offended.
And there is only a facsimile of emotional impact.
With this understanding, let's look at the wider culture.
Here's an advertisement from a theatre back in the day.
Compare that to this schedule from an AMC in Times Square
showing 70 different screenings of Doctor Strange.
The Contemporary Music Super Study
has shown that overall
the number one song since 2017
has been Ed Sheeran's Shape of You
every single year for the past five years.
It's funny, but that song is generic as fuck.
UMG, Warner, and Sony
control the content on Spotify.
Every alt, counterculture, rebellious song
about smashing the system or raging against the machine
is now owned by a hedge fund.
The consolidation of news media
is continuing at a breakneck pace.
The biggest upcoming films are simply rehashes
of big films from the past
and elite awards for creativity
are dominated by these rehashes.
In online streaming, niche options are gradually pruned away
and suggestions push people towards the mainstream
including platforms like Netflix
and user-generated platforms like YouTube.
In book publishing, five companies control the market.
In all creative industries
the banal word of content
is used to describe every single type of creative work
with the implication that artistry
is generic and interchangeable.
It's no longer books and movies and TV shows and video games
and YouTube videos. It's all just content
something for you to consume.
Leftoids may look at this wider state of cultural affairs
and claim this is the natural end stage of capitalism
monopolies consolidating and corporate power
and making profit to the point of destroying the market.
And fair enough, that's probably part of it.
But the issue is, this is the Left's capitalism.
The thematic elements of all of this content
as I have gone to great pains to show in this video
is radically pro-left
pro-progressive, anti-capitalist
anti-cop, pro-revolution
academia is also radically pro-left
and out of that environment comes cultural studies
where the well-educated
left-leaning ivory tower elitist
is given the job of properly interpreting culture
so that the masses may consume it
in the correct progressive approved way
in much the same way that back in the day
only priests knew Latin and could read the Bible
while commoners simply had to listen to them.
Despite the claim that the Left's ethics
is centered on supporting the working class against the bourgeoisie
the Left's elitism shows that
they desire to be the bourgeoisie
that indoctrinates the working class
in the correct way of doing politics.
The Left's cultural victory as well as their continued
insistence that they are still the counter-culture
has created a very strange monoculture
where there is no real alt-culture
where action and reaction have been
synthesized into one amalgamation
where the cultural hegemony has expanded across everything
and become a totalizing ideology
the creative world feels bankrupt
there's a sense of sameness in everything
nobody can be offended so nothing can be interesting
and this perpetual limitation is rewarded
while some alternative voices might exist
they never truly break through anymore
their cultural impact is zero
we now exist under an overarching
totalitarian cultural hegemony
that actively pushes progressive politics
into every possible space
because neutral ground is viewed as simply
another opportunity to create the next
generation of young revolutionaries
it is for this reason that Progs treat
centrists or politically disengaged people
the same way they treat those who actively
hold different politics than they do
and Star Wars, having been stripped of all of its meaning
now only exists as a tool
of this process.
You know, I think this might be the end of
Star Wars for me.
Now that I've finally done this video
I've got four hours of recorded content for this video
I know it'll be trimmed down in post
but I've been here a while. But now that I'm done
I think I've said everything that I want
to say about Star Wars. It feels like
this is my goodbye. I really liked the original trilogy
as a kid, and I was young enough to not be able to see
the glaring flaws of the prequels. It was just
fun to be along for the ride, you know? I didn't understand
that Star Wars was, at its heart, a morality
play, but that's okay. We absorb ethics
even if we don't recognize them, and that's what
subversives are hoping for. I was hopeful
yet worried with The Force Awakens. I was
flexed and disgusted with The Last Jedi, and I was
resigned with The Rise of Skywalker. The first season
of The Mandalorian was legitimately good, but then
Disney desperately hitched like ten fucking
properties to the second season and ruined it.
And at this point, with Kenobi, my
grieving process is over. The soul
of Star Wars is gone, replaced by an
algorithm. I'll probably still watch some stuff
if only to make fun of it with my friends. I'll pirate
it, of course. But Star Wars is no
longer the once-in-a-generation cultural phenomenon
that it once was. At least not to me.
And it's because of what Disney has done to it.
They've stripped out what made Star Wars
Star Wars, and replaced it with progressive activism.
And I'm just not here for that. I'm getting older.
My time on this planet is running out. All of
ours is. And I just don't want to
waste my limited attention caring about
a thing that they clearly don't care about
themselves.
If you look at my channel's release schedule,
you should probably notice that I put out a video
or I did a stream or something for every day
in July. I committed myself to once a day
on SFO for a month, and I did it.
Even if a couple videos were jokey ones, like my
editor's a communist or whatever. There was still
one piece of SFO content every day.
But even while I was doing that, I was still spending
like an hour a day working on the Kenobi review.
As the end of July approached, I only had
like half the script written. And I realized if I didn't
knuckle down and devote some real time to this video,
it was just never going to come out. At least,
not in any timely way. So you
should also notice that my release schedule in August
has been absolutely nothing at all.
TUBCASTS and Weekly Sips came out, but
beyond that, I've been pretty much radio silence.
On Discord, on Twitter, everywhere.
I've done almost nothing but work on
Kenobi this whole time. Wake up, work,
eat, sleep. For nearly two weeks
now. We're talking like 12
to 16 hour days. And as I worked,
I realized this had to be about Star Wars, not
just Kenobi. I couldn't say what I wanted to say
using only Kenobi. It had to be broader than that.
Which is why the video opens up in the second half.
It was actually pretty grueling doing something
this big, I'm not going to lie. I don't think I'm going to
attempt anything quite so in-depth
again. Not without a sponsor for the video
or I have the money to hire support staff or
something. I enjoy doing it. I don't regret
doing it. But I do feel like it's taken a little bit out of
me. Also, I highly doubt that Disney's going to let
me keep a cent of this. So if you want to support the channel,
please consider my Patreon, my SubscribeStar,
my Twitch sub button, or the YouTube membership button.
Every little bit helps and I greatly appreciate the support.
I'm going to take a short SFO vacation
now that this is out. I will return to the daily video
grind on Monday, but I think I'm just going to relax with
some video streams for the next few days.
And yeah, I'll do the Minecraft server too now that I'm
finally free from the editing dungeon. But yes,
this was the fabled Kenobi review.
I hope you enjoyed it, because if you didn't, I just tortured
myself for weeks over nothing.
I'll see you guys next time.
I love you.
