You guys heard about Vertigear? They're the ones who make those mega awful gamer chairs.
You know, they all have different brands on them but they basically just look alike. They're
overpriced, uncomfortable, low quality, and just all around not worth the buy. Yeah, those
guys. Well, regardless of the quality of the product, this happened recently. The official
Vertigear Twitter account posts, is this accurate? And it shows a male streamer. Normal twitch
setup, right? Gameplay, facecam, mic, female streamer. Where it's inverted, the focus is
clearly on the woman and not the gameplay. This is actually just a recreation of this
ancient meme from like 15 years ago. You'd see this floating around all the time on year
1 4chan. It's making fun of a certain little bit of human psychology which, if you're able
to accurately observe the world, you have to admit on some level is true. Not for everyone
obviously but in general. Well of course it's not 2007 anymore, it's 2021. This absolutely
blew up and now everybody is trying to dig into Vertigear to find all the problematic
things they've said. And oh boy are they finding a lot of them. And by a lot of them honestly
it's just regular memes that only terminally online people would complain about. And of
course because it's 2021, after going viral they immediately cucked out, gave in, and
posted a big long tweet about how sorry they are and how they're committed to diversity
and inclusion and blah blah blah. And they posted a second one. But in this one they
actually admitted that the poor intern who was running the account got fired. I mean
there was no reason to ever buy these products before but there's certainly not one now.
To nobody's surprise, Karens are coming out and trying to get the other companies that
work with Vertigear to stop doing so. Said Karen is also accepting donations for her
brave activism. One such individual is Miss Henley TV. You deleted it but you can't pretend
that it wasn't tweeted Vertigear. You owe the women in the industry a major apology.
How dare you say that women only use their looks on Twitch?
Also from Miss Henley, here's her OnlyFans. It's currently 60% off. And she also streams
Call of Duty Black Ops along with a Bikini Pool stream if she gets enough donations.
The exact people who were getting mad at Vertigear for making this post are the very people that
it was criticizing. And if there is a serious problem with Twitch it is the open brazenness
of the thoughts. Some will lie around all day and take donations to fart into their
microphones. Oh and by the way, the farter, the one who's currently writing donators
names on her body. In 2017 she said, I'm ashamed to say that Twitch is a platform that
supports lazy females selling their bodies for cash. You are teaching little girls to
sell sex, make them wear t-shirts and pants, compete on the same playing field as men,
feminism is equality, spread the word. Where did that go? You've got Amaranth making
totally not sexual content, dressing up like this and licking her microphone, or even better
bouncing around on a bed in what looks like some kind of Spiderman costume I think wearing
a horse head. What the fuck are we watching? These two girls did get banned but only temporary.
Felinity is well known for controversy after controversy. She had a nip slip on air, full
on wardrobe malfunction, she's abused animals on stream, throwing her cat around, giving
it vodka, and also her dog decided to inspect a little bit during the stream. Now I don't
know much about dogs but I have heard that dogs generally won't do this unless you train
them to so I don't know how to feel about this one guys.
And man if you guys only knew how to speak other languages. Twitch in Korea is on a whole
other level. You've got people streaming themselves doing lines of cocaine. Some have no problem
admitting to committing crimes on air, no big deal. You've got dudes in full latex
so that you can't actually see any nudity, getting vibrators shoved against their dick
so that they come. But because you can't see anything, it's on Twitch. You've got this
one channel here, Hot Underscore Ghee, streaming Russian fetish porn. Oh and by the way, the
channel is still around. It hasn't streamed anything, it was obviously a joke but it's
still here. And it really seems like Twitch is promoting this stuff because Twitch's advertisements
by the community for the community has no problem showing off this kind of content.
Twitch's own Let's Chat stream discussing the health of the community during a section
where they were actually talking about hot tub streams, shows off hot tub streams in
the front page recommended. So to somebody outside of the know, it seems like Twitch
really promotes this kind of behaviour. And at the same time, the guy who just live streamed
a bunch of dancing Asian videos and then cut in to tell all of his viewers that it's not
real and that they were all losers? Yeah, he got banned.
By the way, this clip's from It's a Gundam and that is a great puppet dude. Dark Side
Phil got banned and I'm not even sure what for, but I'm pretty sure it wasn't for swinging
Hannah's dong around, though then again, who knows.
Justaminx got banned from Twitch for using the words virgin, incel, and simp during her
live commentary. A professional Valorant player got banned because she went off to go to the
washroom for a break, her 3 year old child wandered into the room, and it is against
Twitch's rules to have unaccompanied minors on stream. People have been banned because
they've been doing IRL streams and completely outside of their control they get attacked
or mugged or shot at during those streams. Caleb got banned at one point for taking his
shirt off in order to show his fitness progress, and the only reason he got unbanned is because
his community was very large and managed to kick up a big fuss. And frankly, same with
Destiny. My pal Dimitri Munro was perma-banned off
Twitch because of some of the things he retweets on his Twitter account, not even for anything
done on Twitch. But some of these women straight up show full ass and pussy spread live on
Twitch and only got banned for 3 days. You use the wrong words, you make the wrong jokes,
you be the wrong person, and you're fucking out of there.
There is no serious rhyme or reason as to why this happens. It might be tempting to
assume it's about something like politics, where the political slants of the streamers
might have something to say about it. And there is a little bit of evidence for that,
but it seems to be more that if you have enough people on your side, enough viewers, enough
of a community, then Twitch will simply side with you, which ultimately boils down to how
many subs you have. If you are popular enough, you can do almost anything and get away with
almost anything. Twitch will simply let it happen. And if you're not, you can't. It's
that simple. Do you think I could get up there and spread my asshole on stream and not get
instantly banned off the platform? No. And at some point there was a whole bunch of rumors
floating around about how some of these women were actually getting with Twitch staff, which
meant that Twitch updated their terms of service. You can now get banned for suggesting that
a person's channel is only popular or has not been banned due to sexual favors. They
don't solve problems. They simply make talking about the problems against the rules. Of course,
you do get some girls that are just straight up honest. Chickenwingcandy says, no, I don't
have an OnlyFans. No, I'm not making one. No, I would not have viewers if I wasn't attractive.
This was proven by two failed channels over two-ish years in which the visual was focused
on gameplay rather than me. Blame yourself and your buddies for what you create. She's
making her money. Good for her. But Twitch has become this awful place, hasn't it? And
on the flip side of that, you do have these legitimately attractive women who are not
selling themselves in this way and who are also lamenting what Twitch has become.
I'm always going to speak my mind. And this is the one thing. This is, this is, this is
crazy to me. This is crazy to me. And I know I'm not the only one that feels that way.
I know there's a lot of women that feel that way, but they're not going to say anything
because God forbid anybody says anything. Then we come off being sexist because you
know what, if it's not hurting you, if it's not hurting you, then, then why do you care
so much? Now I care because this is the platform I'm fucking on. And what you don't understand
is when you open a door like that, those doors are going to keep opening. They should have
that hot tub meta that's happening. Great. I'm so over it. Like do what you want to do.
Even though I feel like there's other platforms for it, but that's fine. They got their own
category. Great. But when you allow that you're going to, you're opening the door up, right?
They're literally bending over doggy style, sucking on a microphone and making this
ear licking noises and staring at the camera, making eye contact
in the ASMR category.
If you're a female streamer on Twitch, the admins don't actually care. They just want to see your
ass. That's all it is. And every time they've added new sections of the site, these types of
people have moved in and taken up space for themselves. When they added just chatting,
like eight years ago or whatever it was, a lot of women on Twitch said, thank God,
I don't have to worry about faking playing a game anymore because they knew what their
audiences were there for. At one point, they added the art category so they could accommodate those
Bob Ross videos that are playing for a while. Okay, fair enough. Then you had Twitch thoughts
who were painting their boobs and saying, it's art. Stop sexualizing me, silly boys.
And they added the IRL streaming, the hot tub stream. And the thing is like, I'm not a prude.
I'm not against pornography, but shouldn't it happen on a site different from the one that
frankly is made for video games. At this point, Twitch has become chatterbait, but it has a
gaming subcategory. And even then not consistently because you walk the wrong tightrope, you get
banned. In fact, even project melody, the original vtuber thought from chatterbait plays games on
Twitch and does her sexual content on chatterbait. The internet's first fucking virtual stripper
uses Twitch for its intended purpose. While generic hoe number 8975 is constantly bending
over saying, oops, I dropped my mouse. He better shove my ass right into the camera.
VertiGear got canceled, not necessarily for being offensive, though, I guess to some people,
it's most certainly offensive, but because they were offensive and also correct, they were to
borrow a leftist phrase, speaking truth to power and the powerful didn't like it. It's as simple
as that. Now I still stream my gaming content on Twitch. In fact, after this video goes up,
I'll be streaming. So make sure to drop by. But I think I do so out of a nostalgia for the Twitch
that used to be, it wasn't just that you could get organically discovered on Twitch back then.
It was also that it had its own unique subculture, its own memes, its own personality separate from
the wider internet. But as the internet has slowly become centralized by a handful of
monopolizing companies, Twitch has lost a lot of its charm. Not all of it though. There are still
old school gaming channels on Twitch that are happy to keep that feeling alive within their
own communities. And my channel is absolutely one of them, but the wider site has largely lost its
unique edge, replacing it with cosplay tits and vapid political content. It stopped being a site
for gamers and instead became a site for Coomers. There's also evidence that Twitch is falling apart
internally as well, and I think I'll do some future Why Twitch Sucks videos so I can go into
those topics in more detail. But basically, the sub button on Twitch is an easy one-click button
that allows you to donate a recurring $5 monthly payment to your streamer of choice. Amazon Prime
comes with one free sub click as well, making it a popular option for people who want to support
somebody, don't have any money, but do use Amazon Prime. By the way, you know where to click if you
want to support this channel, right? It's right here. Right here. To get one of these sub buttons,
you have to sign an exclusivity contract with Twitch. But within the past year,
Twitch has just straight up stopped enforcing them. Small streamers like my pal Kibs,
all the way up to Destiny, all have sub buttons and multistream on YouTube too.
Nobody gives a shit about Twitch anymore, and Twitch doesn't give a shit either. I think at
this point the problems at Twitch are so systemic, it's going to take more than something like a CEO
change to fix them. The community absolutely hates Twitch, for what Twitch's staff has allowed it to
turn into. You know how YouTube pissed away all of its goodwill with its userbase over the last
decade? Twitch is that times 10. Frankly, nowadays most gaming streamers use it only because the
Amazon Prime free sub is a lot of money, including me. But if they're not going to even enforce their
exclusivity deal anymore, then fuck it. If you've ever wanted to watch my gaming streams but don't
actually like Twitch, there's a fair chance that, at some point in the near future, I just might
start streaming on my Game Boomers YouTube channel. Once I can get the monetization,
they're up and running. I love what Twitch used to be, I do want to see it come back. And a role
that I can play in that process is fostering a community that still has that old Twitch feel.
But at this point it's also incredibly stupid to put all your eggs in one basket.
The Twitch thoughts themselves are pretty bad, and they're certainly part of what's ruining
Twitch. But they only have so much power. They do what they do because Twitch allows them to do it.
Twitch has content moderation policies, but they regularly fail to enforce them against creators
as long as somebody in their office is having a wank to them. Twitch is rarely clear about
why you get banned, because they know every single time they've provided a concrete answer,
regular people have been able to use that to point out hypocrisy. And Twitch's only real
unbanning process is getting enough people to tag them on Twitter and shriek about it
until somebody higher up notices. So fuck it. If you want to watch and support my content,
check out Game Boomers on Twitch. But sometime, coming soon, also check out my gaming YouTube
channel. If they're not going to smarten up, I am. And if you're watching this video on release,
I will be doing a gaming stream shortly, so I'll see you there. Have a good one. I love you.
