What if the world you knew wasn't as it was?
What if all the people, the names, the faces, the emotions, were not real?
What if your idols were just blueprints?
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time.
And something told me this had to be done, today we talk about story time, animators.
And it came from an interesting source, you see I have goodfellas who's content I support
and so I'm going to drop it a view and send them some constructive feedback.
The video I decided to check out on the 17th of August 2018, was Turkey Tom's video
on animators.
It was a fine enough video, there was definitely insight and information revealed, and I'll
leave it in the description below if you want to go and see it for yourself.
However there was one comment that specifically caught my attention, and it's a passing
one really.
Yes an aside comment about the personas adopted by story time animators, admittedly a genre
that I don't have that much interest in, gave me a simple lightbulb moment.
What is that lightbulb moment?
Well you'll have to be patient, because right now we're going to provide a little
synopsis of what the animation community is, because I'm sure many of you may be unfamiliar
with this swelling group of creators.
To understand the evolution we need to go back a few years, because there was a time
when animation was all over YouTube, it was inescapable, a range of unique creators converging
in this place that supported their individuality, YouTube was almost custom made for it, the
idea that people were expressing themselves, that's what YouTube was all about, and
their effort was being rewarded in one of the most fulfilling ways possible.
In the early days, animators focused mainly on a distinct style to find themselves, in
a video reflecting on this, Quinton reviews depicted the intricate style that each of
them took.
I won't repeat what he said, but in the early days of YouTube there were many creators
who really set themselves apart using information, and you know what, I liked it a lot.
Even though it wasn't as direct and to the point as many other videos, you could see
what was being expressed through the cartoons, personally I'm a big fan of show not tell
storytelling, and even if the stuff seems shallow on the surface, when you broke a lot
of it down, it seemed to reveal interesting layers, and that stuff really rocked the boat
of YouTube.
But then, it just stopped.
I'm sure many of you will know the story, but to those who don't, YouTube run a range
of algorithms that decide whether a genre lives or dies, and whether they decide it
wasn't profitable enough, or just the views began to dip a tad, YouTube decide to pull
the plug, and these animators were left in the dark.
Many moons passed and the sun seemed set on those in the animation genre, no gaps really
opened up, YouTube felt like a different place than therefore was documented by many, however
by 2016 there was a new gap in the market.
2016 was an interesting year, not just for YouTube but for people, we were moving into
a more volatile area, there was an era of cynicism, but one thing I'd say in particular
was that people were becoming more aware, aware of the world around them, aware of the
tactics being used by people who were previously trusted, people no longer sought after those
who pandered to their sympathies, it was a real shift in mentality across the spectrum,
and that awareness of the world around them led to an equally increased awareness of self.
It led to a more brooding generation, a set of people looking more inside themselves rather
than looking for exterior validation from the previous set of superficial creators,
and through this rose a very interesting genre known as storytime animation.
Most people here will probably know the odd ones out who was one of the real pioneers
of the genre, at the turn of 2016 he had little more than 10,000 subscribers, yet by
the end he had over 2 million.
Why though?
Well his content reflected the landscape that I just described you, when looking inside
themselves people found insecurities, things that they wanted to change, and no longer
did they look to these fake smiley vloggers, just gloss over it and show the nice bright
side of everything, they wanted people who would put in that sort of self reflection
into their content.
Now it's not like the vloggers and other content didn't try to put deep moments in
their videos but it was almost always given a contrived gloss or stuck at the end of a
video in which they went out and bought a new Bentley for their second cousin.
It was hard to relate to struggles, that's what I'm saying, particularly when they
were presented in a way that we didn't see them inside ourselves, however by reflecting
on the past the odd ones out tapped into an authenticity, whereas the former class of
vloggers took general struggles and made them personalised, the odd ones out reversed that
formula and took the humdrum of everyday life and presented them in a light that made people
think this guy gets me, he took his own individual situations and tinted them in a timeless sentiment
that appealed to the current generation of our introspective youth, I respect him for
that.
As I've said before I went to VidCon 2018 this year, it gave me lots of individual epiphanies,
moments that just stuck out in my head, one of those was the moment when I was passing
through the merch stands and I remember feeling kinda weird when I saw the merchandising for
Jaiden animations and the odd ones out, just a discomfort.
My logic soon kicked in overriding this gut instinct, at the end of the day, anyone who
has that following should be completely allowed to sell merch, after all, their fans want
to support it too, but it did make me wonder, when something like their content, content
that seems so wholesome and grassroots in their appeal, that speaks to people as sometimes
their most vulnerable, could be taken advantage of and transformed into a cash cow, how long
is it until the wrong sort of people try to jump on the bandwagon?
And that brings us back to our quote, today we will discuss a plethora of questions, why
the animation community is unique in a way, but at the same time how that could both damage
their reputation and make them susceptible to criticism, the problems with their often
dismissive and passive aggressive responses to their critics, and how that for many viewers
foreshadows a worrisome trend noticed in many YouTube genres before it, and perhaps leading
them to the same fate.
So without further ado, I suggest we cut into this spicy piece, let's get to it.
Lack of authenticity has been a problem endemic to YouTube, what is remotely different about
this situation?
Well let's explain that, you see content creators like vloggers may have been disingenuous,
in fact fuck it of course they were disingenuous, but they seldom sold it as anything else,
everyone knew that it wasn't exactly them, and when they did it, it wasn't the crux
of their channel, it wasn't the core appeal, it was just an outlet to their forever dramatising
forced personality, which I have laid into multiple times at this point.
However with these story time animators, it is them, this is who they are, and the struggles
influence their character and the interaction they have with their followers, and that's
important it's not something you should take advantage of, equally it means that in
the genre they set the bar incredibly high for conduct, they can't behave like Joey
Salads because they present themselves as better, and you can tell that they believe
it.
So why are we still talking about the way they respond to criticism, and why does it
matter?
When documenting the original set of animators, Quinton reviews really showed how each of
these individuals had their own personality, channeled through their art, and the beauty
that it really created, and so when the clip that we observed in the Turkey Tom video was
played, it sent up some red flags, how can you summarise a premise of a genre in one
sentence?
The reason I left out the whole sentiment of his video, whether proven or not, was that
there were creators out there who had real trouble taking criticism.
Now obviously it depends on how that criticism is delivered, you're not going to engage
in someone who's rude or attempts to snidely undermine you, however given the behaviour
of some of these animators, when someone makes fairly passable comments, and you react with
great volatility, then it could be a sign of insecurity, I know commentators who are
very aware that the current content they're creating is some part of their ability, it
is written all over their attitude, and I've read it.
Now insecurity isn't always a sign of mal-intent, someone may just be socially anxious, however
it is definitely cause for further investigation, and that's what we're going to be doing
today.
It's also important to note that another YouTuber, Darth Pinya, has done multiple videos
covering the individual YouTubers, and I would definitely recommend checking out some of
his videos, however today we may use certain individual YouTubers as exemplars, but the
greater point will be made discussing the culture that surrounds the genre, and why
surface value innocence is lined with a sharp poison.
For storytime animators, people wanted to move away from the inauthentic superficiality,
so we looked for people to fill in the void of these new characters, characters that we
assessed as deeper, but if the trials and tribulations of these individuals are being
summed up so succinctly, then we might have a new problem on our hands, but at least let's
try to break the formula down into a few more sentences, and work out where the leverage
is being operated.
Now you must understand that due to my status as a prominent cynic, that I went into these
videos expecting to detest most to all of them, nonetheless I watched the old ones out
and came to the realisation that his content was actually pretty great, not anything necessarily
that I would watch, just not really my style, but he was a pretty compelling creator, sometimes
the pioneer of a genre is retrospectively seen as actually a pretty average creator
who just struck gold with the topics, think Trigga Tro, Leafy and so on, not saying they're
bad exactly, but it's clear that there were better creators who knew how to utilise
their topics with more panache, however James here clearly actually has raw talent that
extends beyond the base formula, and so I was pleasantly surprised, his story said more
about himself than he needed to say explicitly, show not tell, he's mastered it, so props
to him for doing that, however I did not expect him to be the target of this video because
he was doing it before it was popular, and that's something that no uninspired leech
would ever do.
So from the old ones out, it inevitably seemed like it was going to go downhill, it wasn't
necessarily a sharp drop in quality though, there were just certain cracks that became
noticeable, that sent off signals that didn't endear me as a viewer, alongside watching
their content I watched Da Pinya's videos about the creators, not just as a monitor
to make sure I didn't miss anything, but also to see how they had responded, that can
be equally as revealing as the content itself, but let's talk about the appeal of the content.
I've spoken about this earlier, but a word I'm using a lot is authenticity, I think
it's safe to say that it is one of the key hooks of the storytime animator, these
people are living life, therefore there are two components that are central to these characters,
honesty and entertainment, if either of these were compromised the fans would be unlikely
to support the creator, what I like about the old ones out is that he manages to make
the mundane details interesting, and this is why in my opinion, he'll always be the
most successful.
This is not to say that no other individuals in this genre have the capability to be interesting,
they're actually completely the opposite, however their personalities in particular
and sometimes their humour seem to lack a pizzazz, in fact if you just stripped them
down to the core personality many of them wouldn't be interesting at all, so how do
you circumvent that?
What I found for many of these creators who may not be so recognisable on the personality
area was that they often used dramatised source material, dramatised source material isn't
a bad thing necessarily, though it gives the actual storyteller less work, coasting on
the crazy plot and clickbait titles.
Why is that?
Well you can't be boring while presenting it as entertaining, because at that point
it just becomes entertaining, but you can be dishonest while presenting it as honest,
you can't really answer the question of whether these things happened or not, nor
can you pick out specific events, but eventually with the clickbait and the sort of embellishment
that I observed, I began to feel like some of the videos were just Tarnamon Goose on
paper, just with a bit more personality, which is obviously welcome, but it's not impossible
to tell stories, so I don't really rate that alone, once again you can't prove it
as fake, but it's understandable to be sceptical of the idea that all of these people
with such a backlog of interesting stories remembered so well in their memory, down to
specific details have all converged in one community, hella fucking coincidence.
And in fact if you don't want me to spell it out to you, TerryTV Will, another youtuber
reached out to me saying he made a video on him that hadn't even accumulated 100 views
when good old Terry went on his little diatribe, for the record TerryTV is a trend hopper creator
who recently decided to jack storytime animation, and use the fact that he had mentioned that
his series were exaggerated as a defence for exaggerating, fair point of course, until
you dig further and realise that he only announced it was exaggerated in the last two minutes
of the final video of the series, after an unofficial outro.
I know a lot of you guys have been asking in the comments if these stories are true,
the answer is yes, to an extent, they are based off of my life, but as some of you guessed
in the comments, yes, some things that happened in the story were exaggerated a little bit
just for comedic effect, or just to make the story a little more interesting.
And after, he'd accumulated over 2 million views, kinda like me conducting a series of
pranks and then declaring them fake in my final video after reaping the sweet ad revenue.
He said he wanted to address the claims, but I wonder why he didn't address them at the
end of the second video at least.
In fact, TerryTV seems quite sure that he made it so obvious that it was exaggerated,
which does make me wonder why he even cares about someone calling him out for it.
It's Hollywood guys, storytime animators are Hollywood, put that quote on a wall lads,
I'm sure that's exactly what people like the odd ones out want to hear.
Now make no mistake, TerryTV is a trend hopper, and his movement to animation is the perfect
embodiment of what we're going to be talking about today.
In a recent video, Darkpina very briefly showed that somehow a YouTuber had managed to expose
himself as faking his stories, as this guy who had two accounts, Fox Goodman and Matt
Spicer had released two videos on the same subject, both telling different stories.
The fact that in a discrete environment, someone has nonetheless managed to show themselves
as falsifying stories should say how easy it actually is.
The problem is beyond the concept and combination of animation, the content exists on a spectrum,
it's easy to see the difference between the best and worst creators.
This is fine, in fact, clip baiting, telling exaggerated stories, having lower quality
and even being emotionally manipulative in certain scenarios is not unreasonable, if
you are fairly lazy with your animations and it attains views then more power to you.
The point is that no genre is truly above criticism, you do not have the sole ability
to be better by any excuse, but the problem is that they seem to adopt this holier-than-thou
attitude when responding to criticism, because there are people who will take problems with
all of the things that I've just listed, and that's the simple fact of the moral
compass, some people view things as acceptable, other people don't.
What matters to the viewer, is consistency.
One of the points that I saw made from time to time was that because animation videos
as a basis take more effort than per se, Fortnite videos, thanks James, that you cannot call
animation lazy, because there are other genres of video that take less effort at their best
than animation at their worst.
Though James my friend, that is just subjective commentary, individuals are compared to others
within their own genre, because that's where the appeal lies, however under the precipice
of content superiority, this bizarre standard has been adopted.
Let me ask you this, is Beethoven's 5th better than Lose Yourself because it took
longer or more effort?
Does it not want criticism?
No, because an unbelievably high amount of effort is assumed in the premise of the former,
it does not push the genre of orchestral symphonies above criticism.
You can defend a genre from criticism on its own, you can defend an individual creator
from criticism on its own, but to use a genre to create an umbrella defense for all its
animators is a fallacy of division, assuming all components are good because the greater
product is good.
This partly explains why until the last month, storytime animators seldom receive the same
level of scrutiny as other communities, but there's also more to say about that.
With storytime animators, everything is drenched in a level of emotional depth that makes it
hard to criticise, everyone seems more wholesome, if you criticise them, you're criticising
a character that has developed more intricate relationships with the audiences, and you
do feel bad for criticising that.
However, regardless of the level of effort in videos, every creator should be open to
some level of criticism, no matter how fantastic their character is, talking down their content
or argumentative points is never off the table.
In case it hasn't been discussed enough already, some of these creators do not like
receiving criticism themselves, in fact their response in certain instances has been bemusing,
whether it was dismissing it as subjective commentary, blocking individuals, or downloading
a video so as to not give a creator the views, that last one is truly hilarious because of
the effort it requires.
None of my points previous are trying to show the animators as quote bad human beings, however
the self-appointed sanctity that they give themselves is rather unfounded, as undoubtedly
many of them participate in the same behaviours that any other non-animation YouTube genre
has profited from, if someone chooses to criticise them for that, the fact that its animation
doesn't absolve them.
The reason why some of them do have trouble responding to criticism is something known
as the good guy complex, the fact that whether these people are good or bad within the community,
they have developed such an idea focused around being the protagonist, the criticism against
them is seen as unjustified because of their greater morality.
This is something we have encountered constantly on numerous occasions, from Greg Paul to Fouseytube,
the idea that there is a greater good that justifies the little mishaps.
Although their attitude is harder to point out as they don't explicitly say it, often
it's just little side references where you know you've gotten under their skin.
Most of these demonstrate animators setting up strawmen over how their criticism is delivered
and then telling their fans that these ridiculous ideas are not worth engaging with, while implying
some generality in the idea of these critics.
Probably one of the best examples of this was when something else YT made a video titled
Ripoffs, in which he decided to define ripoffs before explaining why he couldn't be his
own definition of ripoff, which yes, he's not directly copying or plagiarising, but
I feel those claiming he was a quote ripoff were referring to the second definition in
the dictionary, you know the inferior imitation one, and although you may be past that stage,
I understand what people were saying.
He then goes on to say that no one owns a style, and although true in this situation
it doesn't really contradict the idea of ripoffs existing, no one was trying to sue
you.
He then follows this by saying that because Let's Play YouTubers regularly play the same
game and have the same style of editing and are not considered ripoffs, he can't be considered
a ripoff either.
So let me rephrase this logical fallacy for everyone to understand how ridiculous it is.
Because one artist draws with a pencil and another artist draws with a pencil and neither
are ripping off each other, then if one artist's style resembles the other, then that cannot
be a ripoff either.
Sounds a bit silly now, doesn't it?
On top of that he said, in fact it's all fine because he has a different personality.
Suddenly to this creator, design seems much less a factor, but he seems more offended
at the idea that people were judging him above all, however the tone of the specific video
is what caught my attention.
One of enlightenment, there are a lot of stupid people in this world and something else YT
here is going to sit you all down and provide you with an education free of charge.
How kind.
He is an animator, and because he is an animator and he doesn't directly copy, then to call
him a ripoff is the most audacious thing you could do.
What I'm trying to say is that many of these creators almost seem offended at the idea
that they could be perceived as anything else than what they want their audience to see
them as, even when it's trivial things like ripoffs.
Some may argue that there is no credible argument against such things like clickbait or faking
and exaggerating stories and even ripping off when it's commonplace on YouTube.
Let me tell you, I've come across a few right opinion clones in my time, although not an
unreasonable argument, I think the fact that storytime YouTubers base their appeal and
build relationships, and subsequently profit off the trust and authenticity that their
content pervades, does mean that if a commentator wants to contradict that, to show up an element
that their audience may not have seen before, that may alter their perception, then they
equally have a right to do so.
And if the animators want to act holier than thou, then they're going to be held to holier
than thou standards.
They did this to themselves.
And judging by the little things, when researching through Da Pinya's videos, it's clear that
a few of them have felt guilty about things they've done, one of the minor very telling
changes was the removal of the featuring odd ones out credit on Tim Toms video title, which
blew him up.
After all, putting features when they barely feature is seen by some as marginally objectionable,
and given how sometimes they've complained about it, I understand why.
However, you cannot deny the past, it still happened, and you still did it that way.
If you think that might contradict your image, well, you should have thought about that before.
The problem is, with their success, there are always people looking to profit off it
without the same heart, without the same intentions as you, the good guy.
And even as the good guy, you might make mistakes.
It doesn't mean just because you're a good guy that you shouldn't be held to account
on them.
Almost every community is one that will have good creators and bad creators, good people
and bad people.
A clip from Tim Toms shows him expressing how everyone in the animation community is
just so wonderful.
You see in online communities, there's a lot of vitriol, a lot of anger, a lot of hatred.
And what I've found with the animation community on YouTube is that that couldn't be farther
from the truth.
But I don't agree with that, though I do understand why he perceives it that way.
The problem with the animation community is that the stock persona is inherently good,
deep and likeable, and the little exaggerations are very subtle, so it becomes impossible
to distinguish between those who are positive givers and helpful people, and those who are
sucking out the energy of the community, those who may be participating in disingenuous practices,
or those who are taking advantage of the kindness of others.
It all becomes indistinguishable, which is rather dangerous for a community, because
as a creator or as a viewer, you no longer know who to truly trust, you either put your
faith in everyone, or you play your cards very carefully.
Without catering to too many memes, there's this great Ted Talk, which discusses the concept
of givers and takers, I'll leave it in the pinned comment though it may be among other
links so you might have to control efforts, type in Ted or something.
But obviously takers are people who always contribute the least while wanting to take
the most, and there are also those who cater into the agreeable and disagreeable factions.
The problem is the existence of agreeable takers, those who behave nicely while still
taking advantage of others around them.
To be successful in the animation community, your persona has to be inherently agreeable,
so regardless of if you're a giver, taker, or a matcher, people cannot tell the difference.
To suggest that through chance there has been this utopian community created where everyone
who tries for success are just fantastic human beings, to me, and probably to many others,
would be delusional, and it's only a matter of time until the leeches begin to pile on.
And this is where everything comes full circle, because where there is success, there is a
formula.
There is the community circle, people want something more original, more organic, however
as soon as people realise the opportunity, and as soon as the formula became clearer,
and use that nature to create personas, that wholesome appeal will be undermined, and the
flaws will start to show, even for the best.
Eventually it's only a matter of time until people start to point out the flaws, that
something's polluted and you can't run away from it, the problem is that publicly, it's
very difficult to tell who's real and who's fake, but it won't stop people from trying,
and so when responding to this, they have to keep this in mind, that the person who's
criticised them may make some very compelling points.
However, in this instance behind the agreeable facade lies a much more chronic problem.
So recently, in spite of the absence of abhorrent scandals, they still have been receiving a
significant amount of criticism.
Why is that?
They do seem to have the belief that they know their community better than me, which
is probably true, but I know human nature better than them.
You see, I've watched a lot of videos and seen a lot of legitimate criticism levelled
against these creators, and I've levelled a lot of criticism which I think is fair,
not just current but speculative, but I don't think they'll be acknowledged because of their
nature to respond in an interesting manner.
We're going to fall back to the Something Else YT video.
So I left this final part out of his response to the allegations against him that he was
a rip-off because they're most relevant here.
Basically, he not only says himself, but he features Jayden Animations, another YouTuber,
to say he's not ripping off anyone and they don't mind because they're there to help each
other out.
So writing mean comments calling people rip-offs is not helpful at all to the community.
The greater good.
And this is a problem, the storytime animation community sees themselves as one huge collective
as they all note on multiple occasions stepping on each other's toes would be disastrous for
the algorithm, or THE ALGORITHM as some like to brand it, so it only makes sense that they
help each other out.
On top of this it means defending each other which is something that they have done on
multiple occasions, they all seem to be in a consensual business friendship with each
other, if someone's leeching a bit then that's alright because even if they do it helps everyone
out, using tags for views, sure, go for it.
That's all good but you can't be surprised if someone calls you out for it, and saying
that it's all alright because everyone in the specific context was fine with it just
won't wash with many people, why is that?
Because it doesn't contradict a greater narrative that may be implied about their character,
and that's why the criticism against animation has been slowly grown, because in spite of
their half responses they never work out how to actually contradict the narrative.
Sometimes if you consent to something that could be perceived as bad, instead of cancelling
the narrative it actually just extends to you as well, though it depends on the context
of course.
Jaden is perfectly embodied in Darth Pinya's content, a lot of his previous videos never
gained much traction, because although his greater narrative contradicted the image that
the storytime animation community tried to emulate, he never successfully disproved it,
and in some instances he even received quite severe criticism such as his video on Jaden
Animations, a video which I feel was quite misguided in its points.
However with the recent drama slowly escalating, harsher criticism and more intense videos
documenting more universally agreed wrongdoings such as tracing, neglect of credit to artists
and just complete deflection of criticism on the back of simply awful reasoning, people's
minds will slowly be changed, and every single one of his videos on that topic has slowly
gained more credibility, and people will begin to doubt the rhetoric espoused by many others
in defence of these creators.
The reason is because the idea of just permitting it within the community exists beyond an inner
circle, people begin to see how if kept up this could create disingenuous characters
who not just exploit those within their circle but those outside, artists, fans and so on,
it's probably happened already.
People don't like the idea of that, people don't like the thought that they'd be
contributing to something like that, even if everyone in that specific scenario is in
support of it.
If I gave someone permission to stab me, and they stab me, would it necessarily absolve
them?
If anyone here has watched Hot Fuzz I compare the animation community to Sandford, the sort
of place that works so hard to keep a lovely image that it requires questionable action
sometimes to preserve it, and they can feel the pressure and the harder they try to defend
it the more I feel they have something to hide, and the more the cracks begin to show.
A really interesting example of this was when a YouTuber by the name of MangaKamen made
a response to Turkey Tom, the video was fair in many points, and it also brought up some
tweets that Tom had subsequently deleted that would have given more context to his video.
They were distasteful comments directed at someone's physical appearance, I am glad
he removed them, and subsequently was made to apologise over them, people shouldn't
just run away from these, and although I do have problems with the video I am almost certain
they will be mostly discussed out by other YouTubers at this point, including Tom himself.
Point is, his tweets were something that should have been included as a disclaimer given its
relevance, and as he hadn't publicly apologised for them it is credible that it served as
an alternative explanation for a server ban, and on top of that it looked like he was being
a dick in a public Discord server, I might have banned him too.
However no, what I found most interesting was the odd ones out's response in the comment
section.
Wow, I had no idea the stuff on Twitter happened, thanks for showing us, really makes me wonder
why Tom left it out of his video, I've been binging your videos for a while, I think they
are really good, I like that you have actual criticisms and bring up new things to the
conversation.
Well, James you're gonna love this next part.
I have sung my praises for the man, and his content, but this is where it ends for now.
James has no love for Tom and to be honest, if I were in his shoes I probably wouldn't
either.
But I don't like these comments, they're what I like to call an empty lead, it's a classic
rhetorical tactic used by people when they want to take credibility from their detractors
without giving them any way to respond to them, they firstly blow up whatever information
or react in an emphatic manner, saying something like wow, amazing, and then imply that something
worse must be behind it without explicitly saying what you're thinking.
Like what on earth do you mean makes you wonder, Cayman here just spent a whole fucking video
explaining it.
This is the most that James can really exert influence, any greater acknowledgement of
Turkey Tom would just be publicity for him, but my god does he try hard with everything
he has.
So I said to Tom in a group chat that it was a fair video on him, but what was with the
old ones out comments, and boy, there was more.
The old ones out had actually approached Tom and given him a whole lecture about the situation
and how the tweets, the specific tweets, had ruined his reputation, and could follow him
forever.
No, that's what you wanted to do.
It only vaguely compromised the points he made about the Discord server, everything
else was presented in videos before anyway.
And yes, as a joke it was poor form, but you're setting the bar pretty low if you believe
those sorts of jokes ruin reputations, considering it has been fairly prevalent in many YouTubers,
whether funny, or unfunny.
And yes, he was specifically referring to the tweets to see the question, now James
isn't stupid, and he knows that his mates have derided people's images in the past,
and that although the targeted nature in this instance definitely makes it worse, it's
not career ending.
So why on earth would he make such a song and dance about it?
Well to understand that we have to look at his second comment too, he was considering
following Tom, but now he can see that Tom is no one that he should be associating with.
That damn disgusting tweet is enough evidence to show that he is in fact a cretin, but if
you genuinely believe that, you wouldn't have said that, simple as.
No one says that if it's not on the table in those circumstances, in fact the follow
here is clearly being used to put Tom in a double bind, either Tom grovels for the follow
and admits that they were horrible and affirms James' implications about the comments and
subsequent reputational damages, allowing people to hold it over him and thus tainting
his future statements on the animation community, or Tom stands his ground and forfeits the
follow.
Now it looks like James has dealt with animators too much, you'd probably roll over the opportunity
to get that follow if they just listened to his indirect advice.
Tom is not that sort of person, you clearly didn't watch his Keemstar video, and in
fact I spoke with someone briefly afterwards who had the exact same experience.
They got unfollowed because they put out a mean tweet towards an animator, and then received
the follow when they deleted it.
It's pretty shady leverage being operated, but above all it's just rather immature,
and immature is something that seems to pop up a lot.
After speaking to some people, we kinda agreed that James doesn't necessarily seem like
an unpleasant person, just someone who's never had to deal with a negative image being
portrayed of him, so is just oblivious of how to respond.
Another huge problem is that James and generally the animation community seem to value words
more than action, something that is viewed differently not just in the commentary sphere
but in the general YouTube sphere from what I've seen recently.
We like to ask what something can say about their character rather than just holding items
without context.
But there is still a more glaring point than this, at heart.
TheOdd1sOut has 8 million big fuck off subscribers, why on earth would he care about a commentator
and what he says about some community?
Why would it affect him?
Why would he want to bind his critics?
To respond to my question I just posed, I think this sentence from something else's
video sums it up quite well.
I mean as Jaden said, yeah, we all really depend on each other and actually help each
other behind the scenes.
Everyone really cares about helping themselves, that's fine, and it is definitely reflected
in how they defend each other.
However, if they are defending a community that will eventually be infiltrated by bad
actors, they will have a lot harder of a job retaining that audience, because when
you live as a collective, you die as a collective.
They are collectivists, which works great when everyone is winning and getting loads
of views.
But as the Ted Talk revealed, all it takes is one bad taker getting out of hand to fuck
it all up.
Let's go right back to the start of the video, I spoke about old animation and how
it had a sharp downfall.
Many of these YouTubers who I've spoken about today are probably those who are most
aware of it.
Obviously, as an animator, many of them probably grew up amongst people who inspired them but
fell foul to the algorithm.
A few of the YouTubers within the genre have even alluded to the algorithm, these guys
are not stupid and they understand how much of a prominent part it plays in their lives.
In case you haven't noticed, they tend to collaborate a lot, and they almost certainly
talk to each other.
They've really created a collectivist community that seeks to benefit them all at once.
As YouTubers, they also witness the downfall of people like Leafy and how a brief bump
can begin a domino effect that subsequently destroys the channel, and given the fact a
lot of animators have created this codependency, if one of them was to fall flat it could subsequently
knock a load of them.
So the odd ones out interest and involvement in this topic and those who criticise it suddenly
becomes a lot more understandable.
And I do empathise with his approach, but it doesn't justify the actions always being
taken, nor does it change the fact that there are certain conclusions that can be drawn
from this behaviour.
This is why people do care about the fact that many respond to criticism badly.
As I said, there's a watering hole, and where there's a watering hole, there'll be people
attempting to poison it.
And in fact, I think the collectivist nature definitely poses the question, what happens
when something worse happens?
Because it will.
What happens when someone undesirable gets amongst the pack?
What if it's happening already?
What if it's already happened and it's just been swept under the rug?
How do you deal with that?
Because although what we've discussed today mainly centres around qualms, and a fair amount
of them which could be considered trivial, their response and subsequent philosophy seems
to breed an environment of potential for exploitation, and for all we know it may have already occurred,
I mean you look at things like Me Too and you see how easy it is to conceal things that
seem so unbelievably obvious in hindsight.
That's a conceptual comparison by the way, I'm not suggesting that there are any sexual
criminals within that community, though obviously the truth is out there somewhere.
Given a lot of the criticism revolves around how these storytime animators have conducted
themselves outside of videos, and sometimes even in private, it raises a real question,
the dangerous difference between a public and private persona, and people like Darth
Pinya are growing and their criticism is considered more validated because people are beginning
to realise that these friendly, supposedly more open commentators behind the scenes may
not be any more trustworthy than the previous generation that had been purged.
And bring it back to the original comment, that's what happens when you have a formula,
that's what happens when people realise that all you need is this persona, with some deviations
maybe, and sure there are people who definitely stand out from that, but if anyone can make
it using that, then the community will be infiltrated, Fox Goodman is not the first,
and he is certainly not the last, and as soon as it's been shown that anyone can do that,
then the whole concept becomes dubious to audiences.
Now once again, people will always act on the notion of innocent until proven guilty,
and I think that's the right thing to do, however that protective shield of premise
alone just is not there anymore, the animation community is built on the foundations that
depend on each other, on interdependency and interdependency, interdependency because
their personas are composed of many components of purity which set such a high bar that any
contradiction could cause that image to deteriorate, and interdependency and the fact that they
rely on each other to benefit the algorithm, therefore they need to equally preserve themselves
and each other.
And when things happen like this, it foreshadows something, and people are not reacting just
to what has happened, which is what the animators seem to wrongly construe, they're reacting
to the implications, they're reacting to the character narratives, they're reacting to
the possibilities in the future, and although the collective approach may benefit those
when it is successful, it will be highly detrimental when the pressure sets in and some creators
buckle.
Human nature dictates that.
Every community will have its due date, you can't stop an image being somewhat stained,
you can postpone it, but you cannot prevent it, and by making your content more intertwined
all you do is make it more susceptible when that day finally comes, when you represent
each other at your best, you represent each other at your worst.
There is a mix of hypocrisy, hubris, and even a touch of hysteria, but we can only look
currently from the observation deck, who knows what's going on behind the scenes.
I highly doubt that many of these people I've spoken about today are bad, in fact very few.
When you've spoken to people, and when you yourself have suffered at the hands of systems
structured no different to the one being established within storytime animation, it
becomes difficult to defend, especially when wrongdoings are being committed, and many
people who likely have experienced that too will wake up to the concept.
When you have an accessible community, like any, you have the good and the bad, but the
animation community seems set on only showing the good and hiding the bad, which is kind
of ironic as people kind of turn to the community to address their own imperfections, and as
commentators like the ones we've spoken about today force open the doors they will
show more and more cracks that we previously glossed over, and people's opinions will change.
If I were them, would I be concerned?
I don't know, maybe they're just paranoid, but I might consider changing my behaviour
towards those outside the community, something isn't better just because it takes more effort.
To summarise, when your community becomes accessible to less than talented creators,
and when an easy formula is in place then it's only a matter of time before the negative
starts to flow in, at which point many audiences will look to you to oust those people, however
with the attitudes adopted by the creators they seem to have a problem with that, at
which point the audience will lose that core faith in the creator, and the genre will subsequently
perish, and given how you set the standards, you're not going to make it easy for yourselves.
A genre itself can never be the good guy, and the animators may be able to outrun the
characters in their stories, may be able to outrun the fat kid, but they can't outrun
criticism, they can't outrun the algorithm, and they sure as hell can't outrun me.
The right opinion.
You can't think of anything else to say, I hope everyone as well, I as always appreciate
the support, the very passionate support, it is why I carry on doing this, I really
could have taken a break now, it's the start of the university year and I want to carry
on, I spoke to my parents and they said James, carry on your YouTube, see what you can do,
and so here I am sat here recording another one in a fucking mess of a desk slash mini
recording studio, which is barely, barely workable, but with enough perseverance it
may just pay off.
Next week hopefully the video will be more polished, that's all I can say.
So until then however, I'm The Right Opinion and I'll see you in the next one.
Bye.
Bye.
