I have to come clean.
One big reason you haven't seen many videos from me is because The Legend of Zelda Tears
of the Kingdom came out and I've been doing nothing but playing that.
Now that's not the only reason, I've been doing a lot of E3 streams in the channel too.
Yes, E3 is dead in that the actual event in LA with the booths on the show floor?
That was killed by COVID.
But the E3 season still lives on in the minds of gamers, and the first half of June was
stuffed full of conferences by a bunch of game developers talking about what games are
coming up next, so I spent a lot of time doing prep and streaming those instead.
But the lion's share has been me goofing off with Tears of the Kingdom, yes.
How could I not?
I love Zelda as a series, I love Breath of the Wild, the game that Tears of the Kingdom
is a direct sequel to, and I am fully obsessed with Link's latest adventure.
I know that the Final Fantasy XVI demo was pretty awesome and Starfield also looks really
good, but I genuinely think that Zelda Tears of the Kingdom is going to win Game of the
Year 2023.
It's pretty much the perfect storm of old and new.
Breath of the Wild saw Link waking up after 100 years of stasis with no memories, in a
completely desolate Kingdom of Hyrule.
The various villages dotting the countryside had been destroyed, the great monuments to
Hyrule's royal family in ruins, Hyrule Castle, the seat of power of the entire country occupied
by Ganon's demon army.
Those habited areas that did survive were under siege, or they were cursed, or they
had some other problem afflicting them.
The tone of Breath of the Wild is loneliness.
When you played that game, you felt truly alone.
But the theme of the game is rebuilding after loss.
Link is a hero out of time, and as you recover his memories, you begin to understand what
that means.
All of his friends are gone, well, most of them.
The Zora, the fish people, serve as the Zelda series' elves, being long-lived and building
ornate domains hidden away from human eyes.
And Prince Sidon was a child before Link was put to sleep, and he is now an adult.
Aside from him, though, everyone and everything is gone, and the majority of the game revolves
around Link's relationship with civilization as both familiar and outsider.
You can meet with the descendants of Link's old friends, help them with their struggles,
and watch them grow.
You can bring bandits to justice, and beat back Ganon's army from formerly-habited areas.
You can explore ancient ruins and learn the truth of the past.
Hell, if you want the theme of Breath of the Wild wrapped up in a tidy bow for you, it's
the questline where you found Tarrytown.
The site that Tarrytown eventually gets built on was weird to me the first time I encountered
it.
It had a goddess statue at the center, like all towns do, but nothing else.
As you do quests for Hudson, a hard-working entrepreneur, you eventually help him found
his construction company, and they will build Tarrytown from the ground up around that lonely
goddess statue.
Upon the completion of Hudson's questline, Tarrytown becomes emblematic of the overall
theme of Breath of the Wild, rebuilding after a great loss.
In a political sense, it's both conservative, as a new Link in the great ongoing chain of
civilization, no pun intended, and it's progressive, as Tarrytown is specifically made up of members
from each of Hyrule's tribes, Human, Zora, Rito, Goron, and Gerudo, and they each bring
their own culture and practices to Tarrytown.
Loss is a moment in which both progressives and conservatives have a role to play, the
creation of the future and the honoring of the past.
Tears of the Kingdom is a direct continuation of Breath of the Wild, both in terms of story
and in terms of theme.
Five years have passed and the land is gradually being resettled.
Tarrytown is a thriving hub of innovation, and Hudson's construction company is now
a vital part of rebuilding Hyrule.
Other new villages are slowly popping up again now that the threat is gone, or it was
gone.
There's new problems to solve of course, it wouldn't be a Zelda game without villains
to fight, but Hyrule doesn't seem empty and deserted anymore.
It's under siege again, but this time people, normal people, not just heroes, are pushing
back against the threats.
This time the game feels optimistic, not desolate.
Like yes, things are pretty bad, but we can still do this.
Plus from a gameplay perspective, going back to old haunts is just a lot of fun.
Yeah, they added the sky islands and the underworld as two huge new locations you can visit, but
the surface world is the same as the Breath of the Wild map, with five years added onto
it.
Checking out how Tarrytown has grown, catching up with familiar faces from before, even remembering
noteworthy gameplay challenges like the Great Plateau or Eventide Island, and wondering
what's going on there now.
The world feels like it's grown as well, and if you love Breath of the Wild, Tears
of the Kingdom is full of those continuity moments that you've been waiting for.
Yes I know, my channel is not just a gaming channel.
I'm sure you're waiting for me to get to the point.
And also yes, I'm indulging myself a bit.
There's no other time I'd be able to gush about Tears of the Kingdom like this.
But okay, here's the point.
The reason the game is breaking sales records, and people are calling it the game of the
year, the best Zelda game ever, the best game of all time even, is because Nintendo actually
seems to care about the quality of their games, but also the quality of their franchises themselves.
Check out this article.
Developers agree that Zelda Tears of the Kingdom is a miracle.
What's going on here is that prominent Western developers like Josh Scherr, who worked as
Narrative Director on Naughty Dogs The Last of Us Part II, or Allison Lures, who worked
on Destiny 2, or Corey Brotherson, who worked for Sony before going indie, all expressed
shock and amazement at the stunning quality of Tears of the Kingdom.
Now I don't know what Corey Brotherson's actually done, and Destiny 2 has always been
mid ever since it was called Destiny 1, but I do know that The Last of Us Part II is universally
fan-panned.
It's a part of a long series of millennial-led media where established, beloved characters
and stories are brutally killed off or subverted by the new author's inserted favorite character
as a giant fuck you to the fans.
The creators of this new chapter in the story demand that fans side with their new focus,
when what tends to actually happen is that fans abandon the franchise for greener pastures.
Probably the most blatant example of what I'm talking about is the recent announcement
that Rey is coming back to Star Wars to rebuild the Jedi Order in a new series of movies,
which is exactly what Luke Skywalker's story should have been, and in fact was, before
Disney de-canonized the extended universe.
The message is clear, the new protectors of these properties, these universes, they want
the name, they want the icon, they want the status, they want the clout of those franchises,
but they want to use them as vehicles to tell their new stories rather than continue what
was laid down before.
Why is this?
Sometimes it's just hubris.
Sometimes though, it's to push a political message.
See my Antonio Gramsci video on that.
But not so with Nintendo.
When they make a game, you're pretty much guaranteed to get what you expect, for better
or worse.
Usually better, though as a Nintendfag I'm biased.
Mario is always going to be about an Italian plumber running around a set of themed worlds,
creating blocks, getting power-ups, beating back Bowser's minions, and saving the princess.
Sometimes you'll use fire powers, and sometimes you'll ride a dinosaur friend, and sometimes
you'll jump into paintings, and sometimes you'll use a water pack, and sometimes you'll
go to outer space, and sometimes you can throw your hat to possess enemies, but the game
is fundamentally the same.
The restriction on the core formula allows the experimentation of the other aspects to
really stand out.
The Legend of Zelda as a series is the same way.
Nintendo changes things all the time, but never in a way that feels like a betrayal.
In Ocarina of Time you travel through time and try to change the future.
In Majora's Mask you wear masks that grant you new powers.
In Wind Waker the kingdom is flooded and you sail around the ocean on a ship.
In Twilight Princess you explore an alternate dimension known as the Twilight Realm, exposure
to which turns Link into a wolf, which furries absolutely loved.
In Skyward Sword the game takes place on floating islands and you zip around in the back of
a huge bird, but in each of them the core of what makes Zelda Zelda is present.
Link is a hero, Zelda is a princess, Ganon is present in some way, either as Ganondorf,
his mortal form as the King of the Gerudo, or as the Demon King himself.
These three eternal characters represent the three virtues of the Triforce, courage,
wisdom and power, and the relationship between the three plays out in an appropriate manner
every game.
The changes make the games fun, but the continuity makes the games meaningful.
Even in small ways there's a lot of continuity in fact.
Breath of the Wild saw players really fear the Lionel, the most dangerous of the Dark
Lord's ground forces.
Standing at about 20 feet tall, thousands of pounds of muscle, Lionel's have the lower
body of a horse, the upper body of a man and the head of a lion.
They carry some of the best equipment in the game, steel swords forged in the lava
of Death Mountain larger than any claymore, bows with metal drawstrings that no human
could possibly pull back, firing multiple short spears every shot.
They're ridiculously hard to defeat, and YouTube is filled with many a video of new
players accidentally finding one, freaking out and getting completely destroyed.
Taking down a Lionel is considered a true feat, both in the lore and among players.
And Lionel's got their start back in the original 1986 game as these little guys.
Doesn't exactly inspire fear, does it?
But it's the continuity that matters, knowing that that's what they were then and this
is what they are now.
Here's what I mean.
Moblins are these little pig-dog goblin monsters that have been in pretty much every game.
Even if you aren't a Zelda fan, if I show you this picture and say, this is a Moblin,
you can probably understand intuitively that he's a basic low-level soldier in Ganon's
army.
Nothing too scary.
That's how you know you're dealing with something iconic.
The context comes with the design.
Moblin is an Anglicization of the original Japanese term, Mori Burin.
This is a portmanteau of the Japanese word mori, which means forest, and goberin, which
is a Japanese pronunciation of the English word goblin.
So Moblin literally means forest goblin.
If you've ever played Japanese RPGs, have you noticed how their orcs are often pigmen
and their kobolds are often wolfmen?
Even though in the West, orcs are green-skinned barbarians and kobolds are lizardmen or sometimes
ratmen like in the case of Warcraft.
In my video about Yoshi-P a few months back, I talked about the history of Western-style
fantasy in Japan.
How the earliest Western fantasy games based off of D&D like Ultima and Wizardry were hugely
popular in Japan and how they heavily influenced the first Japanese fantasy games Dragon Quest
and Final Fantasy.
In D&D First Edition, things weren't exactly clear on what was supposed to be what.
For example, these are official First Edition orc miniatures showing them to have pig-like
features.
When Ultima and Wizardry were created, exactly what orcs and kobolds looked like hadn't been
cemented in D&D or in terms of the wider culture yet, and they went off of the earliest
depictions, which changed in the West over time.
Newer Western games used these newer depictions from newer versions of D&D, but Japanese fantasy
games are directly descended from Wizardry and Ultima, which both used the old designs.
Further complicating the matter is that orc and goblin are used interchangeably when talking
about the creatures in Lord of the Rings, which D&D was based off of.
Future fantasy properties would differentiate them, again most notably Warcraft, where goblins
are tiny green midgets that evolved from an animalistic state due to their contact
with a rare powerful material, while orcs are aliens from another planet that evolved
from rock giants getting infected by a weird hive-mind spore.
Yeah, Warcraft lore is weird.
But in Japan, since their entire Western fantasy canon came from Ultima and Wizardry, orcs
and goblins remained as interchangeable terms.
It also helped that in Japanese mythology, there was a creature called the Butato, a
barbarian pig-man who wore armor and used spears.
The Butato look very similar to the original depiction of orcs in the first edition of
D&D, which is why in the Zelda series, the Moblins, forest goblins, have pig-like qualities
and use spears, and why orcs in other Japanese games and anime are pig-men.
When I said that Moblins are iconic earlier, this is what I was getting at.
Both Western and Japanese players look at the Moblin and instantly see all of this context,
if only subconsciously, and they immediately get what they're all about.
The two different types of players are seeing the Moblin in a different cultural context,
but due to the convergence of factors, they're nonetheless pulling out more or less the same
information.
And this state of affairs persists across all of the Zelda games, across all of the
Moblin designs.
And not just Moblins, but Darknuts, Wizrobes, Stalfos, Wallmasters, they've all got a
detailed origin story that can be understood through simple intuition, and each iteration
builds on the previous all the way up to the present day.
This is how you know that Nintendo is masterclass at what they do, and that they truly care
about their games.
It's this continuity of meaning that drives people back to Nintendo's games time and
again, and Zelda games in particular, something that can only be built up through decades
of iteration.
And unlike with, say, The Last of Us Part II, they haven't sacrificed all of that
denseness and meaning to serve as a political message.
And I think it's that lack of a political message that drives Western progressives to
desperately try to overlay one.
A guy I follow on Twitter, Manlit Thorin, great name by the way, compared Nintendo Woman
to PlayStation Woman, showing the scientist Pura from Zelda, and Bayonetta from, well,
Bayonetta, versus Aloy from Horizon and Abby from The Last of Us Part II.
Funnily enough, Aloy was actually more attractive in the previous game, she's not a 10 out
of 10 or anything, but they're making a more realistic post-apocalyptic tribal game,
so fair enough.
But they actually hit her with the ugly stick for the sequel.
The point here is that Nintendo isn't afraid to put in attractive characters into their
games, even if they're in an anime style like Pura, while Sony is on this kick of
normalizing ugly characters.
This is just hilarious to me as a 90s kid, because back then it was the other way around.
Nintendo was very puritan about both sex and violence, while Sony was courting that edgy
90s crowd by leaning into exactly those things.
What's going on here is representation, a topic that I'm going to have to do a deep
dive on eventually.
Yes, Sargon, I picked up Pitkin's book on the subject, it's on the list.
Attractive women in media, like Pura or Bayonetta, are the norm.
Non-attractive women like Aloy or Abby aren't.
So in the name of equality, progressive logic insists that we should be normalizing non-attractive
women taking center stage.
The most recent video game related instance of this happening was Fable's reveal during
E3, and it went down about as you can expect.
Ugly female character went viral, fan artists made her more attractive, progressives shit
themselves over it.
Horizon and The Last of Us are made specifically with progressive politics in mind, at least
partially.
This is why people generally aren't running around on Twitter or Tumblr making up head
cannons or screaming about how everything is political and so these games must also
be political.
We already know that they are.
Frankly, it's why the libertarian gay romance at The Last of Us TV show didn't actually
bother non-leftists all that much, at least for the gay thing anyway.
The episode was actually a huge waste of time and didn't progress the story at all, but
we expected it because that's what The Last of Us is, because Bill and Frank were gay
in the original story.
However, because Bayonetta and Zelda aren't made with political themes in mind, you see
the Progs desperately trying to make them political.
I covered this article on a past Weekly Sip, so we don't need to go too much into detail
with it.
Plus, it's also really cancerous.
From our friends over at Polygon, Link is a gay icon and Zelda fans know it.
The Legend of Zelda's queer themes are more than just subtext.
This is the kind of article you write when a property doesn't actually have queer themes
and you desperately have to spin it as if it does, in order to bring it into the progressive
fold.
No one writes articles like this about Horizon or The Last of Us, because there's no work
to be done there to whitewash them as overtly woke.
They already are, but because Zelda is not, they have to make it so.
The examples given by the Progs are weak ones, of course.
Some people have tried to spin two side characters, a master archaeologist and his apprentice,
as being in a gay relationship, but that questline shows that while there's a lot of professional
admiration there, it's not romantic, and you really have to squint your eyes to make
the claim that this is the first gay character of the series.
Some fans and shippers have also paired up Link with the post-100 year slumber aged up
Prince Sidon due to their banter in Breath of the Wild.
But Tears of the Kingdom has us return to Hyrule to meet Sidon's fiancée, and the
Progs are not happy about it.
Listen, he's the prince of the Zora.
Why did you think he wasn't going to carry on his bloodline with a proper fish girl and
instead engage in a gay interspecies relationship?
And of course, Zelda's voice actress confirmed that Link and Zelda are, in fact, in a heterosexual
relationship this time around, which can be corroborated in-game.
In Breath of the Wild, you can actually save up and buy a house in Hateno Village.
If you return to that house in Tears of the Kingdom, you'll find signs that Link and
Zelda both live there together as a couple.
Not every game makes Link and Zelda's relationship explicitly romantic.
While they certainly are in Skyward Sword, in Wind Waker they're more like friends,
and in Twilight Princess, Link's romantic arc is clearly with Midna, the princess of
the Twilight Realm.
But this time around, in the Breath of the Wild continuity, they are officially together.
The most diehard fan theory, and the one that almost all of the online Link pornography
revolves around, is the idea that Link is gay or trans or both or something.
In Breath of the Wild, the Gerudo City is a woman-only location, as the Gerudo are a
woman-only species.
The women of other races are allowed in, but not the men.
Gorons are allowed in because they're gender neutral, even though most Gorons look pretty
masculine.
And one of the Gorons inside the city is actually really confused about the whole affair.
But Link has to go into the city as part of the main story, so you have the opportunity
to cross-dress.
Final Fantasy VII comedy has been a staple in Japanese entertainment for as long as I
can remember.
There's the famous brothel scene in Final Fantasy VII, countless anime have done jokes
about it.
Hell, I played Star Tropics on my dad's old NES when I was like five years old, and
there was a scene there where the hero had to cross-dress for a mission.
All of the usual jokes apply, like almost getting caught while you're undercover,
or getting hit on by straight men who don't know that you're not a girl.
It's played for laughs, and it's embarrassing and uncomfortable for the characters involved,
but it's never portrayed as hateful.
In Breath of the Wild, even if you choose to tell the cross-dressing man you can buy
the clothes from that you can see he's a he, that doesn't lead to trans violence,
regardless of what the mouth-breathers at Polygon say.
The Japanese still have a sense of humor about gender-bendy stuff, and it's honestly refreshing
to not feel constantly policed on the topic.
But it's this scene that has spawned tons of gay and trans Link porn.
From Link transitioning, to Link bottoming for Hyrule soldiers, to Link and Zelda both
fucking Ganon, to Link getting kidnapped and gang-raped by the Yiga, this stuff is
all over the internet, and it's gotten to the point that the progs are taking it as
canon.
It's not, though, their brains are just porn-addled.
In an interview with Time Magazine, Zelda head honcho Eiji Aonoma said,
Back during the Ocarina of Time days, that was 1998, I wanted Link to be gender-neutral.
I wanted the player to think, maybe Link is a boy or a girl.
If you saw Link as a guy, he'd have more of a feminine touch.
Or vice versa.
If you saw Link as a girl, it was with more of a masculine aspect.
I really wanted the designer to encompass more of a gender-neutral figure, so I've
always thought that for either female or male players, I wanted them to be able to relate
to Link.
And yeah, that makes sense.
In Ocarina of Time, you play as both child Link and adult Link.
Child Link is more feminine, and adult Link is more masculine.
In Wind Waker, Link is a child and he's very cartoony.
In Twilight Princess, Link is a bit more realistic, and probably the most masculine we've ever
seen him.
In Skyward Sword, though, Link's got an almost exaggeratedly feminine face.
In Link's Awakening, at least the remake, he's a diorama toy.
Nintendo has had no problem with drastically changing the style of Zelda games over the
years.
And that includes both Link's age and his gendered features.
And yes, there's also been a girl version too.
Hyrule Legends introduced Linkle, who is explicitly female.
In Breath of the Wild, Link is quite androgynous, and that carries over into Tears of the Kingdom.
I guess, even though it's been five years, he hasn't yet suffered from twink death.
Here's the thing.
If Nintendo actually made Link canonically gay or trans or something in the next game,
I don't think I'd care that much.
Like I said, they've always played around with Link's design.
They've played him off as androgynous, they've made him more masculine or more feminine.
So making a gay Link or a trans Link or another girl Link, that would just be in line with
what Nintendo seems to do.
But, they haven't made him gay or trans yet, and the attempts to claim him just seem
to be porn-induced cope.
And because Nintendo hasn't bent to their whims yet, people are actually saying that
it's homophobic or transphobic or some type of queerphobic that Link and Sidon aren't
a thing, and that both have canon straight partners.
In the same way that they said it was queerphobic, that Bayonetta and John were canonically revealed
to not be a couple in Bayonetta 3 last fall.
There's a lot more to this topic beyond just Zelda, that progressive machine that queers
straight cis characters, and then demands that the authors and creators of those characters
canonize their delusions.
Let's start off with this legendary old Twitter thread from the Gamergate era.
Ugh.
They don't want us to take poison away from us, y'all.
They don't want us to have Samus, they don't want us to have poison, fuck that.
I'm not gonna be left in a world where the only single transgender woman treated with
dignity in a game is Vivian.
Fuck that.
Samus is trans.
Poison is trans.
Link is trans.
Zelda is trans.
Tails is trans.
Your faves are trans.
That's it.
I don't care about canon.
I don't care about authorial intent.
I demand queer representation, and I will subvert and take away your spaces.
I don't give a fuck.
This is revolutionary queerness.
This is dismantling the pointless colonial binary.
You can't have this.
Here's a TLDR of what's going on here.
Poison is, in the Japanese version of Final Fight, a woman and a common enemy that you
come across.
Because, in Final Fight, you brutally beat the shit out of every enemy, when the game
was localized to English in the 90s, the translators changed her character and made her into a
cross-dressing man, at least in the dialogue, in order to avoid a violence against women
in video games charge, which was all the rage back then.
So in Japan, poison's a cis woman.
In America, Poison is a cross-dressing man.
But in neither version is she trans.
Vivian is one of the three shadow sisters from Paper Mario the Thousand-Year Door.
She is abused by her two older and uglier sisters, and she eventually joins Mario's
side and fights against them and the other villains of the game.
In the English localization, she's just a female character.
In the original Japanese, she's an otakonoko, meaning male daughter.
This isn't a trans identity, it's more like a man who cross-dresses and also takes
up a feminine gender role, but is still a man.
The joke is that despite not being female, Vivian is far more feminine than the other
shadow sisters.
And while the sisters abuse Vivian for being an otakonoko, Mario doesn't care one way
or another.
So in the original Japanese, she's an otakonoko, which some people think is trans, most people
think it isn't, while in the English version, she's just a cis woman.
Samus is the hero of the Metroid games, a genetically modified human female who is stronger
and larger as a result.
She wears power armor and fights aliens and giant monsters and robots.
In the original game, it was hard to tell what Samus was.
When you died, you got a brief flicker of the armor breaking and a vaguely female shape
getting vaporized, but if you 100%ed the game, you got to see Samus out of her armor and
waving at the player.
Most kids back in the 90s thought Samus was a man or a robot, and only the true gamers
knew she was a woman.
In one interview, a background designer made the claim that Samus is trans as a joke, and
the co-creator of Metroid later clarified that Samus is a cis woman.
In fact, Samus was inspired by Ellen Ripley from 1979's Alien.
You've of course already covered Link and Zelda.
People think that Tails is trans because Tails, being a 12-year-old fox boy, is often voiced
by a woman, and the online Sonic community is rife with gay furry porn.
The point is, the revolutionary queerness that Katie-Bat is talking about consists of
taking any and all characters who play with gender in any way, even if only a little bit,
even if in only one version or one localization of the game, and declaring them as trans.
Random characters are made trans with no real reasoning behind it, and Twitter laps it up
as praxis.
The most famous anime traps and cross-dressers are declared trans unilaterally, even as those
characters call themselves boys or men.
Naoto from Persona 4 is a tomboy who feels feminine desires and refers to herself as
a girl, but nonetheless still chooses to adopt a more masculine appearance and behaviors.
Those were so mad that she wasn't turned into a trans man in the western localization
of the game that they made a mod for the PC version to do just that, completely missing
the point of her character arc.
Naoto's story is fundamentally a feminist one, that the professional workplace in Japan
is so rife with sexism that talented, capable women who want to engage in that world feel
forced to be more masculine than they actually are.
Making Naoto a trans man is basically admitting defeat in the face of patriarchal oppression,
saying that women actually have to become men, in the progressive transgender sense,
in order to even have a career at all.
And of course we've already discussed Cloud from Final Fantasy VII.
Because he cross-dresses to sneak into a brothel, and isn't happy about it really, he's
now trans, and there's almost as much porn of him as a bottom as there is of Link, because
of the way the cross-dressing scene was made up during the modern remake of the game.
Forget about video games though, what about movies?
Indiana Jones has a strained relationship with his father, who refuses to call him by
his chosen name?
I guess Indy's trans now.
How about comics?
Let's make Harley Quinn trans.
Why?
Well, because she's mentally unstable.
I guess that's enough for the progressives.
This one's actually really funny.
The idea that transness is a mental illness is transphobic, but now they're using mental
illness as the primary marker of transness for Harley.
Hey, how about real fucking people?
James Allen, a woman who cross-dressed and presented as a man in order to hide her lesbian
relationship, but who actually was a woman in private, has been reinvented as a trans
man by modern activists.
Joan of Arc, because she was a woman doing something that only men did in that era, is
now also a trans icon.
These characters, these people, they're not trans, what's actually happening here?
It's a concept known as the trans umbrella.
You probably know that the number of trans people is rising steadily right now.
Part of that rise can be contributed to more people being out of the closet than before,
whether that's because they're more educated about gender stuff now and they can come to
the realization sooner, or because they have more affirming families and friends who won't
cut them off for coming out.
However, part of that rise can also be contributed to social contagion.
In progressive areas, being trans now gives you social clout, and so we see more people
in schools, particularly girls and young women, declaring themselves trans because they have
short hair and wear jeans instead of dresses, and their teacher told them that that's what
it meant.
But another part of what's going on here can be due to the trans umbrella.
When I was in school, when a woman was a tomboy, she was still a woman.
A more masculine presenting woman, but still a woman.
We had a similar thing for men, the pretty boys and the emo kids of the 2000s.
And to go back even further, the metrosexuals of the 90s.
This era was an expansion of possibilities regarding what you could do as a man or a
woman.
You could be a pretty man, you could be a tough woman.
But with the rise of trans stuff, that progress has been rolled backwards.
Now progressives have very strict gender roles, except that if you happen to align with a
gender role that is not correlated with your birth sex, you're trans instead.
So masculine women can't be tomboys anymore, they're trans men.
Feminine men can't be femboys or traps anymore, they're trans women.
And in fact, femboy or trap is considered a slur for trans women now, as part of erasing
that identity.
Before, there were many types of gender nonconformity that were accepted as different ways to be
men or women.
But now, all gender nonconformity is under the trans umbrella.
This is why, to the trans activists, men who do any sort of gender bending are actually
trans women who are still in their eggs, and they need to be hatched.
That's a huge conversation, the egg hatching thing, it's not going to fit into this video.
But the reason they're coming for fictional characters and historical figures is to normalize
that process using entertainment media and culture.
Samus is a cis woman doing something traditionally masculine.
By my normie liberal 2000s era standard, she's a tomboy.
Hell, in some games, she's actually presented as being downright motherly and feminine.
But per the progressive modern standard, her engagement with a traditional masculine role
makes her trans.
Whether that's a trans man or a trans woman depends on which specific progressive you're
talking to and what fetishes they have.
In any case, she's some type of gender nonconforming and therefore she's trans now.
Men and Vivian were crossdressers in one localization and cis women in another.
But because they were some type of gender nonconforming somewhere, they're now trans.
Because Link and Cloud are both crossdressed specifically to infiltrate somewhere and not
because it's who they are, and the internet made a lot of porn out of it, they are some
type of gender nonconforming and therefore they're trans now.
Considering how long it took trans people to ditch the idea that they were just male
crossdressers with a fetish, you'd think that trans activists turning all of these
instances of male crossdressers into trans icons would be seen as extremely insulting.
But the majority of trans activists aren't actually trans, they're either misguided
allies or weird fetishists themselves.
Of course, they'll obfuscate all this by saying, hey, it's just fan-made porn, it's
just a headcanon, it's just entertainment, why do you care?
Let people enjoy things.
Sure, fair enough.
But they're not saying that in good faith.
That's just to get you to shut up.
Why do I think this?
This is Tracer, the star of Overwatch, the character on the cover.
She is canonically a lesbian.
There is tons of porn on the internet of Tracer getting dicked down, getting gangbanged,
her and her GF sharing cock, all of it.
There's so much Tracer porn out there that most people actually forget that she's exclusively
lesbian in canon, and progressive Overwatch fans have screamed bloody murder about that
for years.
But hey, it's just entertainment, it's just headcanon, it's just porn, who cares?
Well, they do.
Because they don't think it's just entertainment.
Even as they tell you that, everything is political, including normalization of values
through pop culture.
This example is about race, not gay or trans stuff, but it still fits the bill.
When The Little Mermaid was race-swapped to be black, progressives told people that it's
totally fine and to stop freaking out about a children's movie.
But when an artist race-swapped The Little Mermaid back, she got lambasted for being
racist.
It's just a children's movie, what are you freaking out about?
This double standard puts their actual goal on display, normalization.
They view it as a culture war victory every time a character is canonically made trans,
even if it completely destroys the character, like with the Bridgette fiasco from Guilty
Gear last year.
They do it because normalization brings power.
My pal Arch talked at length about this tweet, where an activist demanded that Warhammer
bring in female space marines, in violation of the lore and the fan's love for the series,
because space marines are the main characters in the poster child.
Representation is power.
They use that power to normalize certain values in media as a part of a larger push to normalize
those values in real life.
They only care about manipulating popular femboy or trap or otherwise gender nonconforming
characters in order to make them into trans icons as a part of that normalization and
control.
Positive, happy characters that are traps or femboys or hell just pass well when they
cross-dress like Link.
They are specifically targeted by activists because one, they're easy to pornify as
trans, and two, because they're feminine men who are nonetheless happy with being men,
something that trans activists hate.
And this spills over into the treatment of real-life feminine men who are happy with
being men.
In order to accomplish this normalization, they do all of the weird stuff that rightoid
transvestigators do.
Look guys, there's a trans flag in the background, this character must be trans, look at her
jaw shape guys, look at her hand, trans trans trans.
This is all very weird.
At the end of the day, it is just a video game.
Zelda is a game in a canon that I care about, but like I said, if they made Link a girl
or whatever next time around, I wouldn't care, as long as the game itself is good.
It doesn't matter to me if they make Samus trans as long as the game is good.
It doesn't matter if The Last of Us has gay characters as long as it's good, and
the TV show wasn't.
I personally don't care all that much, but I do know that their ultimate designs aren't
on media.
That's a means to an end.
Their designs are on real people, something that we'll have to talk about next time.
And that's a lot more important.
Anyway, Tears of the Kingdom is a great game, Link is straight, Sidon is straight, Final
Fantasy 16 only has white people in it, and the best games coming out nowadays don't
give a shit about representation.
Stay mad, faggots.
