What's up, guys? Dev here, doing some more TikTok Tuesdays.
I just got back from visiting my family for Christmas.
Yeah, I know Christmas is next week, but I did it early,
so I got some things going on.
And in fact, actually, I tried to record this on a laptop,
you know, back in my hometown, sitting in the old rec room,
trying to do it with people around me.
It just wasn't working.
So I'm back now. I got back to my place this morning,
and I'm doing this now to come out in the evening, hopefully.
So let's watch some TikToks.
OK, here we have a master criminal at work.
Oh, his voice over this one guy says, but you can have it.
It's a company car that makes his getaway.
He just walks away. One problem.
He can't drive a stick.
What are you going to do now, bro?
Hey, your buddy done left you.
You're on your own now.
Oh, my God.
Let's read that for a second.
Oh, man, someone's reacted to my TikToks.
You guys are sending them to be pre reacted to.
Damn. Anyway, that is pretty funny, though.
He's he's just stuck there with a car that he can't drive.
Good job.
I care about the planet, but guess what?
This fucking pisses me off because this is a paper straw.
Now, this paper straw is going to fall apart
and make your drink suck halfway through it.
Yeah, it's going to start getting disgusting, right?
Yeah, but the thing that makes me mad about it
is it came in a plastic cup with a plastic cover.
This radio must be 20 to one.
How about you give me a plastic straw and a paper fucking cup?
Then we can help the planet and get to join my fucking drink.
Yeah, why not? Why not?
Listen, that's completely true, right?
Ever since the paper straws have come in.
They've been they've been terrible.
Oh, man, fuck the paper straws, man.
You go to like a McDonald's or any of these fast food places.
They got paper or at least they had paper cups.
What the hell?
Why not just use those like paper, but wax covered,
you know, like use those for your drinks.
Isn't that better, man?
I think what's going on, though,
is that you see those pictures of turtles
that have plastic straws in their noses or whatever.
They want to avoid that because the shape of the plastic straw
is specifically harmful to wildlife.
But nonetheless, man, I hate I hate paper straws.
They're so god awful, man.
Whoa. Oh, my God.
I can't I can't do the music thing, but Jesus, what the fuck?
I got I got to play that again.
What are we looking at here, dude?
I thought it'd be a couple of pounds of metal in her face.
How is she getting through any sort of metal detector?
OK, hold on.
I'm playing it once more.
Look, imagine getting your dick sucked, fellas.
There's no fucking way.
There's no fucking way.
Who like, you know, I get it.
Like any little nose ring, the lip ring.
It can look kind of nice sometimes depending who the fuck thinks this is good.
This is way too fucking far, dude.
I promise to smack every chance I get.
That's all I got.
What is it all you have for your wedding?
What, really?
I didn't write nothing down.
That's what you're going out with?
That's what I'm going with.
Cool.
We've made it this long.
Oh, my God.
Listen, listen, ladies, would you marry a guy where that was the vows?
I promise to smack that like that's it.
Oh, my God.
Oh, I'm dying of cringe already.
Jesus.
You know, I look fucked up right now.
It's because I've been sobbing.
I was just talking with customer support.
Let's go on, dude.
I was called out to make stuff.
The lady, like, was super nice.
Yeah, so she called me Mr.
Carter, which is I mean, like, my voice is deep.
I get it.
It's like, yeah, actually, it's Miss Carter.
And she's like, oh, sorry.
Oh, she just proceeded to call me Carter.
But she kept saying, sir, it is accidental and incorrect herself.
But at some point during the call,
I just started sobbing because like, you know, that the dysphoria has been a lot lately.
I feel so bad because she she heard me sobbing.
And she's like, I'm so sorry.
I know how it feels, sir.
I mean, ma'am, God, oh, that's brutal.
When I when this when that clip first started,
I thought they were going to be like, fuck this woman.
She's transphobic.
She doesn't get it.
She's being a bigot.
No, you know, surprisingly didn't do that.
All right.
This is someone who just seems to be suffering because they don't pass.
And the person on the line was empathetic, but you know, that's just how it was.
And I mean, that's a that's a bad deal,
regardless of how you feel about the the political side of trans stuff.
It's not hard to point out when someone's just manufacturing outrage
and when someone's actually suffering.
I just taught my daughters the first lesson about white men.
There's going to be some racist shit, isn't it?
A little white boy, but here we go.
My daughters are happily playing on this park equipment
and here comes this little alabaster crotch fruit.
He can walk over races as fuck, shimmy his way in
and then look at my five year old and say, push me.
I asked running across the park,
but somebody's about to take my time.
What five year old dead?
I said, you start pushing a little boy right now.
And it was one of them instances
where I raised my voice because I'm hoping the mama hear me.
Yeah, I said that little alabaster crotch is rude.
You do not let anybody treat you that way.
Definitely not that little boy.
So then as he was on the park equipment,
I just sat there and I just looked at him.
So this is a message to the alabaster women
who are raising alabaster crotch fruit boys.
If you don't get your son,
do you best believe I'm going to teach my daughter how to get him?
This person has way too much fucking time on their hands.
Holy shit.
See, now this was a case of someone trying to manufacture outrage.
I do not believe this person when they described this event as it went down
and honestly, I think they're bringing their kids to the park
that something can happen and they can go viral on TikTok.
All right, this person is just out here trying to cause trouble.
Whoa, what the fuck?
How many Brazilian butt lifts is that lady?
Listen, I know that big asses are in right now,
but that's that was fucking grotesque.
What the fuck?
OK, dude.
Oh my God, speaking of grotesque.
Is this going to be in the rap video?
Because I feel like those the tires on that car are going to pop soon.
Listen, listen, as a fellow fatty, don't do this shit.
You're not good looking. Don't do this shit, OK?
Oh my God, I can't believe this is the first thing I'm doing
when I come home guys is is watching TikTok for you.
I mean, I was sleeping in like the stiffest bed.
I got no sleep. My back is fucked.
God, I hate I hate going back to my hometown.
Fuck. What else do we got?
Not doing nine to five. I can't do it under five.
OK, I know this is going to sound like some artsy creative who, you know,
just doesn't want to put in the hard work and hours,
but I physically do not think I can do it.
I start to cry if I have more than like three non-creative tasks to do in a day
and imagining doing eight hours a day of something that I don't really love
for the rest of my life. Yeah, so there's no other option.
Yeah, get good. Yeah, get good. Take off. Take off or suffer.
Absolutely. People like us can't live normal lives.
If we try, it kills us.
And honestly, I am throwing myself into that category.
Yeah, because I think I will simply die.
So if you want to die and help be, you know,
one step in the process of me not literally dying, please stream it.
I love you guys. I don't know who this person is or her music.
But here's the thing. When I saw this go viral online,
I'm pretty sure everyone took it as like this,
you know, sheltered cushioned hipster art hoe girl who just can't make it in a real job.
And you know, fair enough, right? There's a whole bunch of those out there.
But everything that she said in there was completely true.
There are some people out there who just can't do the nine to five work for someone else.
All right. I'm one of them. I've done nine to five jobs.
I've done like white collar jobs, blue collar jobs.
It's like it's killed me to do some of these things.
It has deadened me inside.
So what she's saying is actually completely completely true.
But what the solution then is the solution is to work hard at the thing that you actually want and make it take off.
All right, you have to be the absolute best that you can be whatever your craft is
and you cannot give up and you can't be like, oh, I should just have a career handed to me.
No, you shouldn't actually. If you are going to have the luxury of being someone who can live off of their art,
and it is a luxury, you must work at it way more than a nine to five.
You aren't owed a creative career. You have to, you have to grab that.
You have to wrestle that. You have to, you know, extract that from the universe and make it your own.
Yeah, like I get the presentation is like hipster art hoe who can't work,
but there's truth in this for sure. What?
What? Oh, my God.
The older part sounds kind of inappropriate.
So I'm going to stop the song there and keep it kid friendly for all my young followers out there.
This is kid friendly. Beautiful and stay kind.
Okay. Was that real or was that a troll?
Is this an actual person who thinks that they are a trans girl and they're little and cute?
Or is this someone who is like specifically making a video like this to troll?
And I don't know, dude. I don't know.
The world is a weird fucking place nowadays, dude. I don't know.
Imagine going on a date. Oh, my God.
Got to get that perfect Instagram video for your food.
Oh, you know, I know that like I'm an influencer.
I know I know that's what I am, but I could never be someone like this.
Oh, my God, influencers, people who actually behave like influencers.
They are just some of the worst, most self-absorbed fucking people in the world.
I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it, dude.
I know like I'm out here making videos. You guys watch them.
I'm technically an influencer, but like I'm if I count as one, I am ashamed to be one.
Okay. And that brings us to the end of TikTok Tuesday for today.
I hope you enjoyed. I know I missed a few working on the skullgirls video,
but hey, we're back. We're back in form.
Oh, and I announced this on the weekly set, but I'll announce it real quick here.
I'm going away for Christmas yet again. Sorry, but that's just that's the season,
you know, so I just came back from a Christmas travel.
I'm going to go away again for another family Christmas travel
and I'll pretty much be gone the final week of December.
I'll try to I'll try to make some videos ahead of time
so that they can at least come out like while I'm gone, but I will I will not be present.
So I hope you all have a Merry Christmas or whatever other holiday you celebrate
and I will see you next time. Have a good one.
I love you.
