Hey guys, Dev here.
A lot of you who've been watching our channel for a while have probably figured out that
we have used the same camera for the past six and a half years.
It's a Canon HG-10, it's pretty reliable, it survives several house moves, we've filmed
outside in the winter with it, we've filmed on the go with it, and it's largely been a
pretty good camera.
But it's finally starting to die, we recorded a session of Sonic Adventure 2 and it just
failed to record, I mean it showed us the red light saying it was recording but it didn't
actually record any of the footage to the hard drive.
And we thought this might just be a random error with the camera not recording to its
hard drive so we tried playing a session of some Kirby games and that actually did record
but the truth of the matter is, it's just not reliable anymore, we can't be filming
stuff and then lose a whole session of something.
So we're going to keep this camera as a backup but we actually got a new one in the mail
and thanks to everybody who made this possible, this is actually a very nice camera.
What's up?
You're actually awake.
I've been awake for a while.
Here, take the scissors, do you want to open it?
Instead of me doing this myself?
Okay.
Don't fucking break anything.
I shall not.
Don't like stab the scissors through the box and then like ruin it.
You fucking ass.
Off to an amazing start.
I was already getting paranoid.
Straight from Japan.
You should go downstairs and wake up Cam.
Fuck that.
Actually the guy coming up the stairs to deliver actually woke me up.
Oh yeah?
Yeah.
Okay so look at all this high quality paper that he packed it with.
Each sheet is worth five dollars.
It says 1405 Canon V, sorry XA10, 00A34.
And then some Japanese.
Random, random characters.
It's Japanese, you don't be a fucking racist.
Well it's random to us.
Oh what's this?
Ah!
It just has a postcard.
You didn't write anything on the postcard but you sent it as a postcard from Japan.
Thanks Packer.
Is that like the Himeji Castle?
I don't fucking know.
You want to go there one day?
Himeji?
It might actually be Himeji Castle.
You didn't even know what Himeji Castle is.
Yeah it was featured in New England Toys.
It was featured in Civilization V, that's how I know it.
I saw it first.
Value of bubble wrap, which we will pop later.
Okay.
Let's try and see where it's taped.
Yeah.
Just stab your scissors through it.
I thought that was the point, not stabbing it.
We did buy it used because it was like, I think what it was, it was like a store model,
you know?
Like never actually used.
Transfer utility.
Video.
Video.
Power cables.
Yes.
Amazing.
Dude, just fucking cables.
Looks like a lens cover or something.
No not a lens cover, it's what you put on the lens, like you attach it to, well I can't
put it on this fucking camera, but you attach it to the lens to make it work.
You guys see some kind of stand or?
Battery charger I think.
Battery charger I think.
We can, you can unwrap these things and look at them.
I suppose I can.
What do you think we're here for?
The camera, not the accoutrements.
This is the audio module, I know what this is.
This is the audio module, and this, let's see if I can get a good picture of it.
You can put two mics in here, and the controls for them are right here, come on focus, focus
please.
There you go.
Perhaps we should use the new one.
And you can put the two mics, there's the controls for the two mics, and you can basically
have a miniature soundboard on the go, it's good for like on the go interviews, which
hopefully we'll be able to do one day.
Yeah, sure.
Let's go over here.
Yeah, I totally just said that.
You can also attach like a shotgun mic or a light to this fixture here, and also this
fixture here.
And now what's left in there Dave?
Um, looks like the battery pack, sorry, battery charger, and another power cable, very nice.
I wonder what the hell.
And another, dude, dude, look at our own, it has two pieces.
That's true, that's true.
Every fucking power cable nowadays has two pieces.
Another battery pack?
Well, that's the remote.
It looks pretty similar.
Yeah, it's like identical to our, just in black, but it's identical to our other remote.
Oh, that black would look better.
The remote for the HG10s, that's identical.
This covers the battery upper use.
I wonder if like the remotes are compatible.
Like if you use the HG10 remote, it'll actually trigger on the, on the XA10 camera.
I don't know.
They're very simple signals though.
Yeah, they are.
Probably.
A lot of remotes like from TVs work on their TVs, you know?
Yeah.
Well, that's why universal remotes.
Yeah.
I remember there was once a time when like I stuck my remote out a window of a place
I was at and I changed my neighbor's TV.
It was kind of funny.
Asshole.
See, I didn't have the same TV as him, but I had like a similar one and the remote was
compatible.
Yeah.
Oh, you mean like it was the same brand?
Yeah.
And as Dave struggles with his life, he will cut away to an ad from McDonald's.
And here is the Canon HG10.
It's slightly, no, no, I'm sorry.
I'm holding the HG10.
Dave's holding the XA10.
It is, um, it is slightly bigger.
Don't fucking break it already.
It is slightly bigger than the HG10.
It's longer, but it's otherwise like relatively the same size.
And the handle, once you get it on, will attach to the top like right here.
And that's sort of how you carry it around.
And then this attaches right there.
Once we get the cap off.
And that is the full Canon XA10 experience.
Check it out, check it out.
Even this is wider.
It's also a touch screen, dude.
Yeah, it's a touch screen.
It has two SD card slots if you wanted to use SD cards, but it also has an infrared
so you can shoot at night.
Yes, it has an infrared switch.
And I've actually seen some infrared footage on YouTube for this thing.
Me too.
It's pretty good.
It is.
It's pretty impressive.
Um, it has, shut up, a 64 gig hard drive.
The HG10 only has a 32.
Um, but most importantly, it shoots in significantly higher quality.
Well, 1080, compared to the 720 on this magnificent piece of machinery.
Yeah, yeah.
The HG10 could shoot in 720 or in full screen 1080, not in widescreen.
While this is a fully HD camera, and the quality of it is significantly better.
We were looking at other cameras as well.
There is, what is it called, the HGX10?
Or the HGA10?
There was another camera that was basically this camera for a thousand dollars less.
A thousand dollars less, but it didn't have any hard drive space, it didn't have the audio
module, and it didn't have the touch screen, and it didn't have the infrared.
And we were like...
And then, hold on Dave, hold on.
And then it turned out that, um, you look at the XA20, the models that were more expensive
than the XA10, and it didn't have any hard drive space, it just had more SD card slots,
and it didn't have infrared.
And I'm like, how come these more expensive models are lacking features?
You know, I don't quite get the camera scene, but basically we decided that the XA10 was
the professional camera that we wanted.
It normally runs for about $2,700 in Canada, we managed to get it for $14, which is quite
nice, because it was technically used, but it was a store display model, so it was never
actually used, it was only unpackaged and put on a pedestal for a while.
So, it's pretty good.
It's pretty fucking awesome.
Don't break it Dave.
Alright Dave, so do you want to actually...
Let's turn it on and see how it looks.
Okay, turn it on.
I actually already did, but...
I know, I heard the beat.
Check it out.
Camera model.
Camera model.
Holy crap, that looks so much clearer.
Yeah.
There's the component and audio out if you wanted to watch it on your TV.
I'm hoping there's an HDMI hookup, it said that there was.
It's probably on this side, probably underneath Dave's hand or something.
Because we want an HDMI output on this.
Yes, we want an HDMI.
There it is, okay.
I'm not opening that now because I'll drop it.
We do actually have some expansion plans for the show and it's going to require a camera
that has an HDMI out.
It's nice that it does.
Yes, this one did too.
The HG10 also had an HDMI out.
It's on where my fingers as well.
But we never actually ended up using it.
So this is how it actually records.
Let's see...
It took like 20 minutes.
Trying to figure it out.
It is like the simplest thing.
Well, let's see if it's actually any better quality.
I guess you'll see in the video, but I don't fucking know.
We'll have to play back on something a little bigger than this.
Okay, in any case, what we're going to do is we're going to shoot probably kind of like
how we did Mario Party 8 with the sound stuff.
We just kind of recorded a meaningless short series of goofy shit to see if the sound would
work.
Because if the sound didn't work, we were just going to check out the session.
It's not that big of a deal.
We're going to do the same thing with this camera.
We're probably going to record...
I think it'll be Mario Tennis with this camera just to see how it works.
And if we get everything set up properly, then you guys will see Mario Tennis.
And if not, then you guys won't see Mario Tennis.
In fact, if this camera that I'm holding fucks up, you won't even see this video.
So there's that.
We are going to keep the HG10 around as a backup because it still works like some of
the time.
It'll be nice to have like a second angle sometimes or whatever, just like as an auxiliary,
right?
But we're definitely switching over to the XA10 as our main camera.
We have shot a lot of footage on the HG10, so some videos will still be in lower quality
for a little while.
But we'll gradually make the switch over to the new camera.
In any case, I'm going to turn this off now and take it from Dave before he fucking breaks
something.
Goodbye.
Thanks.
Thanks.
