We haven't checked in on the garden a little bit.
It's currently raining like mad, but things are actually going pretty well down there.
It's time for another chard harvest.
Cucumbers are looking good, for the most part.
Tomatoes are looking good.
It's time to weed again though.
We can't do it today.
Too much rain.
Oh also, god dammit, the laundry.
It just started raining out of nowhere.
Like it went from zero to a hundred on the rain in about thirty seconds and the laundry's
already ruined.
Like it's, it's, it's done.
Okay guys, while Naomi goes and fills out the watering can, I'm going to give you, I
just sprung that on her.
I'm going to give you the update for the garden.
It is the beginning of the second week of July and things are going okay.
We have a lot of weeding to do again as you can see.
In fact, look at this giant weed right here.
Look at this thing.
I should just, just grab that out right now, eh?
It grew into the lattice, oh my god.
Wow, I might like destroy the lattice taking this thing out.
There we go.
So basically there's a lot of weeding to do but the plants are actually doing kind of
okay.
The chard grows just as wild as the kale does.
We're constantly cutting and eating it and it's just, it just comes back after a few
days.
The peppers are going slow but the peppers always go slow.
Three out of the four cucumber plants, this one, this one, and this one have begun to
grow but that one is turning kind of yellow and not really moving.
I don't know why.
The four tomato plants are going okay but this one kind of sucks and as for the beans,
they seem to be going okay as well but this bean that was right here in between these
two, that one died.
But the beans are definitely going way slower than the peas.
Well, Naomi's back with the water, I guess.
Don't water yet, it's weed first unless you want to like...
How did you make me get water?
Um, it was kind of cinematic for the video.
Anyway, we're gonna weed some of this stuff out and um, maybe cut some kale for tonight
for our salad for dinner and then we'll, we'll uh, get out of here.
Kale?
Oh, right.
Chard.
Jesus.
Oh dear.
When you start growing kale.
You know what I'm actually thinking, we should do what my dad did for his garden and take
a year off.
He said that like, it does help like replenish the soil if you just take a year, only throw
compost into it, it's probably a good idea because the garden is definitely doing not
as well.
Also, the fact that we might be moving, right?
So you know, if we still are here next year, maybe we just shouldn't do anything.
Yeah.
Actually, here's kind of a funny question.
If we do move, should we take the garden with us?
Like just put, like it's all good earth, just put all the earth in totes and just bring
it to our new place?
Why not?
I'll, I'll shovel it out.
I'll just build a new garden, it'll be better than that.
Yeah, but the earth costs us some money.
Oh boo.
One thing I should do is take this cucumber vine and get it off the tomato plant.
Can I show you?
It's like wrapped around there, you see it?
It's not going to focus, is it?
It's right there.
Okay.
And then we'll feed the vine through the lattice and we'll have it go up.
That's pretty good.
I think this one hand is kind of, kind of tricky.
There we go.
You know what?
I'll probably have to crawl underneath that again like last year and pull out a bunch
of that.
Those like long weeds.
Have you noticed just how much overgrowth is happening back here now?
Yep.
It is kind of nice, but also kind of stifling a bit.
We probably had our best year back when, uh, there was no trees.
Pulling like dandelions and weeds and stuff out of the lattice sucks because it's all
just in there, you know, and it's all wrapped around.
Hey, the bird nest.
What?
On the lattice.
On the lattice?
Ladder.
Oh.
I was wondering why there's been so many birds around here lately.
Yeah.
There's like a bird nest on the ladder, dude.
He's just hanging out.
It shows how much this ladder gets used.
Hope some birds don't attack us.
We're good.
Haven't you guys taken out the compost like several times and you haven't noticed?
No.
Wow.
Oh, there he goes.
Jesus.
Please don't make the bird attack us.
I mean, it really shouldn't be there, but we'll just leave it for this year.
We'll clear it out in fall or something when the birds leave.
So while weeding, I'm starting to wonder if some of these are actually seeds from last
year because this looks like it might have been like a tomato sprout.
Does it look anything like a tomato sprout?
It kind of does.
Definitely.
When I used to grow from seed, it kind of looked like this.
I think that you're mistaken grass for tomatoes.
Yeah, maybe.
I think there's a bunch of bugs in here.
Oh, Naomi, the bugs.
I'm leaving.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Those are the bugs.
Just wait.
Let me go.
Just wait.
I'll pour some water on you instead.
No, that makes it worse.
Okay.
I think we're done for today.
The garden.
I mean, it's one of those situations where it's not my best garden.
The best garden was two or three years ago, but I think it might be going better than
last year, maybe.
I don't know.
How do you feel about it?
I'm in the blink.
I have no idea how gardens and plants work.
Really?
You've been doing this with me for a while.
I don't know.
I don't retain knowledge.
Oh, yeah.
I figured that out, actually.
Dude, even that extra bit of kale turned into its own plant.
It's kind of wild.
I got five for the price of four.
Kind of wild.
What is it?
Sorry.
Charred.
Right.
It looks nothing like kale.
It has a giant red veiny scent.
I'm the one who can't retain any knowledge.
Okay.
Are you fucking kidding me?
We're not even at the house right now.
There's nothing I can do.
We're just going to lose the garden.
Okay, this is future dev editing the video here.
This is some footage of the garden that Dave took from the kitchen window while we were
gone.
It turns out that it actually mostly survived.
It was more heavy rain than hail in our area, but for a while I was definitely worried.
Hey, guys.
It's August 1st, and as you can see, the garden's actually going pretty well.
There's finally some peppers coming in there and there.
There's a tomato that fell.
Pepper plants looking great.
We have been eating the Swiss chard, by the way.
I know it doesn't look like it, but it grows even faster than kale does.
The cucumber there just didn't take off, but these ones are going okay, especially
the ones that I put up the lattice, so I guess we'll see.
And then there's the beans.
There are some beans here.
There's a bean, but it's not growing like a vine would.
I thought it would go up the lattice here, you know?
I don't know, man.
I guess I don't know enough about beans to really figure it out, because when you look
at them, it looks more like a regular plant than a vine, and I always thought that beans
grew on vines.
Let's put grass out of here.
It's producing beans.
It's just not growing up the lattice.
I don't know.
Looking at the cucumbers in the back, they look pretty good.
Let's see if I can get another one to go up.
Yeah, here we go.
Rather than growing on top of each other, guys.
Ow, it's pokey.
Come on.
Grow this way.
Yep, that one cucumber just didn't grow.
Don't know why.
Everything else is doing okay, though.
There we go.
Putting it all inside the cages.
Those beans down there look pretty developed.
Maybe I'll grab them for dinner tonight.
Those ones over there, too.
And here's the one tomato that fell off on itself.
Anything wrong with it?
Nope, it's just green.
So maybe what I'll do is I'll just see if it ripens up inside.
You see that?
Severe thunderstorm warning.
Oh, the garbage can fell over.
Let's hope the garden's okay.
It'll probably be fine, to be honest.
It really needs the water.
I also just noticed, dude, that bird's nest by the garden right there in the ladder, the
birds are coming.
I think you just missed them.
Maybe they'll come back while I'm recording this, but the birds have been coming and going
constantly, getting stuck in the rain.
Oh, there was a lightning flash.
It's quite the day.
Hey, guys, the day is August 5th, though it's the middle of the night, so I think I actually
might be early August 6th at this point.
It's Saturday in any case.
I think it's Saturday.
I've been keeping some pretty late nights, doing a lot of work recently, so I've come
down to the garden, grabbed some kale for dinner.
Got to go into the shed and grab those pink snips also.
Oh, the bird's just hanging out.
I think there's actually a family of them now, you know?
I wonder if he doesn't like the floodlight from the house, keeping him awake, but I think
there's a family of them.
Like, I think there's two adult birds and several children, I think.
In any case, let's go to the shed and get the snips that Naomi makes me use because
she doesn't like it when I bring out outside scissors.
Ah, geez, new lawnmower in the way.
I have too much stuff in here, you know?
Can't even reach them.
Oh, I'm so close.
Wait.
Yeah, there's a square here, if I can just, like...
Oh, bingo.
I might as well show you the place, eh?
Even though it's the middle of the night.
Cucumbers growing up nicely.
I still don't quite know what to do with the beans, but I guess they're okay.
Tomatoes coming along very well.
Peppers as well.
In fact, some of these might actually be good to grab soon.
There's one, I don't know if you can see it with the shadows, but there's one.
I'm pointing at it with my, uh...
I can't see anything with these shadows.
Right there, you see that?
Today is time for...
Frickin' hell.
Yeah.
Dinner time, guys.
You take, like, two or three of these leaves, put them in a sandwich.
It's great.
You know, wash them off, obviously.
Especially if there's birds around.
Stuff your sandwich full of these, you won't go wrong.
There we go.
Good for salads, good for soups, good for sandwiches.
It's a good lettuce replacement, even though it's kind of bitter.
But you know what?
I'll take it.
Man, the back deck's kind of spooky at 2 AM, eh?
Sorry for disturbing you, buddy.
In any case, this will probably be the last garden update, at least until the fall harvest,
because there's not much more to do, eh?
The hail is over, like, all the big disasters of the year seem to have run their course.
Things are definitely set in motion, you know, things are kind of growing on their own.
Not much more to say until we, uh, we see what we get out of this.
Thanks for being here, everyone.
I will see you next time.
Ah, here's mosquitoes.
Thanks for watching.
