Let me set the stage for you.
It's January 18th, about 11.30pm, Naomi's tucked away asleep, and I'm working long
into the night on a new video.
1am rolls around, January 19th, as I finish up writing the script.
Satisfied with myself, I decide to goof off a bit on social media.
And that's when I see the trending hashtag, ReleaseTheMemo, on Twitter.
Somebody on Skype even said that it was getting about 30 tweets a second.
Well, I guess my other video is going on the backburner.
What's all this about?
Let's ask Steve King, representing the 4th District of Iowa in Congress.
I have read the memo.
The sickening reality has set in.
I no longer hold out hope that there is an innocent explanation for the information the
public has seen.
I have long said it is worse than Watergate.
It was hashtag NeverTrump and hashtag AlwaysHillary.
Hashtag ReleaseTheMemo.
Here's Representative Jim Jordan.
The American people should be able to read what I did in that briefing room.
It's time to ReleaseTheMemo.
Representative Lee Zeldin.
The American public deserves the truth.
We should not hide the truth from them they've waited too long.
Do not pull a wool over their eyes.
Show them the facts.
They deserve nothing less.
And finally, let's listen to Representative Mark Meadows' words on the subject from his
own mouth.
Many of you know we have had a Russia narrative that has been going on because of an infamous
dossier.
And while there's been much reported on it, I can tell you that the Intel Committee has
been fast at work, and Chairman Nunes has been doing outstanding work to get to the
truth for the American people.
Today, I had the opportunity to go into a confidential setting to make sure that what
we can do is understand better what actually took place.
And I'm here to tell all of America tonight that I am shocked to read exactly what has
taken place.
I would think that it would never happen in a country that loves freedom and democracy
like this country.
It is time that we become transparent in all of this and I am calling on our leadership
to make this available so that all Americans can judge for themselves.
Well holy shit, this sounds like it could be big.
Even though we don't necessarily know the contents of this infamous memo just yet, surely
the news is reporting on it, right?
Right?
CNN?
MSNBC?
You guys want to talk about it?
No?
You think the anti-Trump resistance is a year old as a more important story?
Well okay.
Jesus Christ, I never thought I'd have to go to Fox News for actual fucking reporting.
What I read today in that classified briefing room is as bad as I thought it was, and every
single American citizen should have the ability to see that information to know exactly what
our FBI was up to.
I compared it to, I remember the day I walked in two years ago, on the Benghazi committee,
walked in and saw the immunity agreements that were given to people in the Clinton investigation.
I didn't know who they'd given them to.
I opened up that folder and I looked down and the Justice Department officials slid
that folder over to me on that table and looked down and see they gave Cheryl Mills immunity
during the Clinton investigation, Clinton's chief of staff, her lawyer.
Today when I read the material, I had that same shock feeling.
I was like, wait a minute, this actually happened from our Justice Department and this FBI?
That's how serious this is.
That's why we're calling on every bit of that information we got to see today to be made
public for you to see, for journalists to see, most importantly for the American people
to see.
After Jim and Mark Meadows and many others of us reviewed the intelligence information
today, it is abundantly clear that the entire Mueller investigation is a lie built on a
foundation of corruption.
And what is so important is that we get this information into the public square.
The best disinfectant for this corruption is going to be sunshine.
And that's why Jim Jordan and I have joined many other members of Congress in calling
for this information to be released for the review of all of the American people.
And the key reason that all Americans need to see this memo is that it names names.
It says who was involved with who, how different actors and characters we've heard about interacted
with one another.
And that is the type of information that we need all Americans to see immediately.
So it sounds like some serious underhanded shit went down during the 2016 presidential
election.
And really, most of us have already suspected this to be the case for a while now.
But if this is actually true and there's actually evidence for it now, it's no wonder
that the Release the Memo hashtag started trending so quickly.
Oh, how nice of you to purge the trending list by the next morning, Twitter.
Can't let any wrong thing disseminate to the citizens, eh?
Oh, you're also going to ban the official Twitter account of the United States House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the section of government that revealed the
classified memo to Congress?
Yeah, that's a good idea.
Plug up that dam with your thumb, Twitter, and it'll all work out.
Hillary's still got a pass at the White House.
Okay, okay, enough goofing around.
Let's get to the heart of the issue.
You all know I'm not a huge fan of Ben Shapiro generally, but so far, his article titled
Release the Memo Trends as Republicans call for releasing a shocking classified memo showing
FISSA abuses in Russian collusion investigation seems to be the only mainstream take on the
topic so far.
Shapiro writes, So, what could be in the memo?
An educated guess would suggest that the memo shows that the FBI initiated its investigation
based on the so-called Steele dossier, a compendium of opposition research compiled
by Fusion GPS on the instructions of the Democratic National Committee.
If it is indeed the case that FISSA warrants were requested on the basis of DNC funded
opposition research, that would appear to politicize the FBI in serious ways.
Let's define some of the players here.
We all know who the FBI is, the Federal Bureau of Investigations.
Under James Comey, the Bureau handled both the investigation into Hillary Clinton's
email server during the 2016 election, and later the possibility of Russian interference
in the election in 2017.
President Donald Trump sacked Comey on May 9, 2017.
There's some confusion surrounding Comey's dismissal, with Trump supporters believing
that Comey was let go due to the reasons that Trump gave publicly, that Comey just wasn't
doing a good job and that Trump was acting on the recommendations of his senior staff,
while others believe that Trump was trying to cover up collusion between his campaign
and the Russian government.
But nonetheless, the investigation continued on, with The Independent publishing an article
stating that Robert Mueller, who is now in charge of the investigation, apparently has
enough evidence to bring criminal charges against Trump's former National Security
Advisor, Michael Flynn, due to these Russian connections.
Mr. Flynn resigned in February after just 24 days in the role when it emerged he had
lied to administration officials, including Mike Pence, the Vice President, about his
communications with representatives of the Russian government.
FISSA warrants refers to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
This is pretty straightforward.
If the FBI requested a warrant for foreign surveillance on the basis of evidence provided
by DNC-funded partisan research, Shapiro is right when he states that the FBI has become
biased toward one political party.
Trump has spoken about the FISSA Act recently as well, predictably through Twitter.
House votes on controversial FISSA Act today.
This is the act that may have been used, with the help of the discredited and phony dossier,
to so badly surveil and abuse the Trump campaign by the previous administration and others.
Disproven and paid for by Democrats.
Dossier used a spy on Trump campaign.
Did FBI use Intel Tool to influence the election?
Did Dems or Clinton also pay the Russians?
Where are the hidden and smashed DNC servers?
Where are crooked Hillary emails?
What a mess.
The long-standing position of Trump's administration is that the Obama administration wiretapped
Trump Tower in an effort to unearth evidence of Russian collusion, and may have broken
the law in doing so.
The memo is referred to in the Release the Memo hashtag, sounds like they may actually
contain evidence proving this to be the case.
Well, what is this DNC-funded opposition research that the FBI apparently used as its basis
for a FISSA warrant?
That would be the Steele dossier, and we all know this document quite well.
It's that ridiculous Donald Trump fanfiction from 2016 alleging that Trump went on a hooker-fuelled
binge in Moscow that was pretty clearly fake from the get-go, and that only Buzzfeed decided
to publish because Buzzfeed is a piss rag.
Mark Alias, an attorney of record for the Democratic National Committee and a part of
Hillary Clinton's campaign, hired the company Fusion GPS to do opposition research on Trump.
Fusion GPS, in turn, hired the British intelligence firm Orbis Business Intelligence.
Orbis' co-founder Christopher Steele, a retired MI6 officer, compiled the Steele dossier,
and eventually passed it on to not only his clients, but the American and British governments.
On the one hand, Steele has a long history of quality and integrity in his work, and
the dossier does include some troubling allegations.
On the other hand, the dossier also alleges that Trump requested a room in a hotel that
Obama specifically stayed in and hired hookers to piss on the bed.
There's obvious problems right from the get-go if the FBI took the Trump piss orgy
story seriously.
But more importantly, the Steele dossier was funded by the Democratic National Committee
and Hillary's campaign.
The FBI's obligation to be an apolitical organization has been violated if the FBI
used the Steele dossier to obtain the FISA warrants necessary to act against Trump's
campaign, considering that the Steele dossier was entirely funded by Hillary's campaign.
Like Trump said in his tweets, an extension of the controversial FISA act was voted on
recently, and now those papers sit on Trump's desk, waiting for either a verification or
a veto.
If hashtag release the memo's fear is to be believed, then the FISA act has clearly
been abused.
Against Trump.
In my opinion, if we see a Trump veto, that's likely another sign that whatever is contained
within the memo is both legitimate and serious.
Oh hey, while I was writing this script, both the Washington Times and the Business Insider
decided to publish stories on hashtag release the memo.
Finally, some mainstream media coverage.
I wonder if it's going to actually address the issues or just blame everything on the
Russians.
Interest in the classified House Intelligence Committee memo, which reportedly outlines
how the anti-Trump dossier was used by the FBI to justify surveillance against Donald
Trump's presidential campaign, has caused an online frenzy.
Last Thursday, WikiLeaks jumped into the proceedings, offering a reward of up to $1 million to anyone
who could send them a copy.
Meanwhile, reports emerged that the Twitter hashtag calling for the memo's public release,
hashtag release the memo, was receiving a major online push by Russian-linked Twitter
accounts.
Yeah, I think we all saw that one coming.
Guys, I guess we're all just Russian Twitter accounts.
I'll just have to go get my Canadian birth certificate and passport switched over.
On Thursday, the House Intelligence Committee voted along party lines to release the FISA
abuse memo.
According to sources close to the committee, it addresses text messages between FBI agent
Peter Strzok and FBI lawyer Lisa Page, which proved the dossier was used to justify FISA
warrants.
Well, the Republicans wanted Congress to see the memo and the Democrats didn't.
That's no surprise, considering that the memo would indict the Clinton campaign, the
FBI, and Obama's White House.
A Democrat on the committee, Adam Schiff, described the memo as a profoundly misleading
set of talking points drafted by Republican staff attacking the FBI, and that it was rife
with factual inaccuracies and referencing highly classified materials that most of Republican
Intelligence Committee members were forced to acknowledge they had never read.
Okay, so the Democratic position is that the memo is just false.
That's fine.
But if that's the case, then why did the rest of the Democrats in Congress refuse to
even view the memo with their Republican counterparts?
What's interesting is that this morning the Democrats decided to vote against releasing
this memo.
That's number one.
Number two, when I was in the room, and I've heard from other members of Congress, when
they were in the room, there were no Democrats who actually came down to look at this memo.
So they were so interested in the Russia collusion story until their Russia collusion story actually
started unraveling.
So now that we have some information that is being provided to every member of the House,
they are unwilling to release it or to even look at it.
I mean, if it's fake, there's no harm, right?
Come on, I thought you guys cared about Russia, don't you want to see the evidence?
Why hasn't some Democratic small fry in Congress leaked it to CNN yet, like every other scrap
of Russian news in the past year?
Maybe it's because the memo actually vindicates Trump.
Maybe it paints Obama or Hillary in an exceptionally bad light.
Those who have seen the memo have said that people may go to jail over this.
And if you think it's a bit conspiratorial to link Obama to all of this, let me remind
you of this 2014 interview of Democratic Congressman Maxine Waters.
An organization that contains the kind of database that no one has ever seen before
in life.
That's going to be very, very powerful.
And whoever-
In terms of the organizing for America, that he's now shifting to become a 501c4.
That's right.
That's right.
And that database will have information about everything on every individual in ways that
it's never been done before.
And whoever runs for president on the Democratic ticket have to deal with that.
They're going to have to go down with that database and the concerns of those people
because they can't get around it.
And he's been very smart.
I mean, it's very powerful what he's leaving in place.
And I think that's what any Democratic candidate is going to have to deal with.
We have two positions here, two big questions.
The Democrats are asking, was there collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian
government?
And is there currently collusion between the Trump administration and the Russian government?
The Republicans are asking, did Obama's FBI dress up Clinton campaign funded research
from Fusing GPS to look like an intelligence document in order to justify spying on the
Trump campaign using the FISA act?
These two questions have been kicked back and forth for a while now.
But the answer to both of them is in the memo.
And it's telling that the Republicans want it released while the Democrats do not.
That Washington Post article from earlier stated that the memo could be released next
week provided that the White House does not object.
And let's hope that Trump doesn't object.
This is David Nunez.
He's been working on the memo for the past four months.
Maybe its contents are fake.
Maybe they're not.
We'll only know when we can see the memo for ourselves.
Maybe the memo is just a big fat distraction from the upcoming government shutdown.
And Republicans, please stop whining about it.
Your party also took on the role of an obstructionist when you attempted to shut down Obama's government
as well.
Or maybe the memo is real and the Democrats are throwing up as many roadblocks and distractions
as they can in order to protect their star players.
Hell, maybe the shutdown is a stratagem designed to prevent a congressional vote on the memo's
release.
I'll leave you with a Hillary Clinton quote directed to Donna Brazile.
If that fucking bastard wins, we all hang from nooses.
Lauer's finished.
And if I lose, it's on all your heads for screwing up.
You'd better fix this shit.
The American people deserve, they must, they want to know what's in this document.
Release the memo.
Release the memo and all of the related materials sourced in the memo.
Release the file.
There's no concern there should not be for compromising any good sources and methods
by releasing the memo and releasing the file.
What it would reveal is the Fed's reliance on bad sources and methods.
