The thumbnail for this video was made by Jinjango, a viewer of mine and a really cool artist.
You can check out his artwork at the website on screen and in the description.
Thanks very much, man.
Every year around this time we have the privilege of watching the Game Awards.
The show is, as you might expect, a yearly awards show for the best video games released
that year, considered to be video games' own Oscars or Emmys, in fact, sometimes directly
compared to them.
The Game Awards began as Spike TV's Video Game Awards, or the VGAs, starting in 2003.
It was honestly a nightmare of a show that most fans consider to be a mockery of video
games, hosted by celebrities that did not care whatsoever about games, and stuffed
to the brim with advertisements and meaningless musical numbers.
And actually, the modern show is much the same, showing that some things really don't
change all that much.
But there was one big change.
The Spike TV era of the VGAs, from 2003 to 2013, was produced by Game Trailers host Jeff
Keeley, who was known to gamers for his impassioned defense of Mass Effect on Fox TV in 2007,
in regards to that game's sex scenes with the blue alien Liara.
That version of the Game Awards, already not popular with gamers, suffered a complete
crash and burn after the infamous Dorito Pope incident of 2012.
Keeley, in his capacity as the producer of the VGAs and official representative of Spike
TV, gave a heartfelt speech about what video games meant to him and how much he loved the
industry, and the medium, and his job, and the people he works with, while surrounded
by an avalanche of Doritos and Mountain Dew.
The look on this man's face as he desperately tried to convince everyone he was not actually
a shill is basically what single-handedly tanked the whole project.
It's no surprise to me that the VGAs only ran for one more year, but they didn't die
along with the rest of Spike TV.
In 2014, the first year after Spike had axed the awards, Keeley started up his own show
titled just The Game Awards, or TGAs instead of VGAs, though a lot of people still use
the VGAs to refer to the show.
This was Keeley's passion project.
As a teenager back in 1994, he was tapped to provide material for Cybermania 94's
hosts William Shatner and Leslie Nielsen, who didn't know much about video games and
relied on Keeley's additions to their scripts.
Although Cybermania was a short-lived failure, it planted the seed in Keeley's mind that
video games should have its own awards show, just like every other medium.
And when it came time for the VGAs to break away from Spike TV, Keeley invested one million
dollars of his own money to get the 2014 show off the ground.
This is his baby.
Despite my complaints about how bloated the show can be sometimes, it's still a pretty
fun spectacle.
Gamers are a rowdier crowd than most media consumers, and game devs are a lot less professional,
leading to each year's show generating at least one lasting meme.
And 2022 is no exception.
Like, for example, when the voice actor for Kratos in God of War gave a ten-minute monologue,
clearly drunk or high or something, causing Keeley to quip that he was trying to give
away more Steam Decks.
Steam had a deal with the Game Awards to give away a Steam Deck to a random viewer for each
minute of airtime.
Or when Al Pacino came out on the stage, looking like he had one foot in the grave, and gave
him meandering speech about being too old for this shit, but his kids like video games,
and that's nice.
Or the epic flute guy in the orchestra, who went absolutely wild every time the camera
was on him.
Or how angry everyone was at literally every single winner of every award, most notably
the Player's Choice Award, going to Genshin Impact instead of Sonic Frontiers.
But these aren't the memes you're here for, right?
Like, these are pretty good, but they're not what stole the show.
You're here for this.
Alright, well, that's right, a random kid snuck on stage, got a hold of the mic, and
said, I want to nominate this award to my reformed Orthodox Rabbi, Bill Clinton.
I was streaming the awards live with my friends, and we couldn't believe it.
We had to rewind back and see it again for ourselves.
During the stream, I had a feeling something was off.
The Elden Ring team had won previous awards, and it was the same guys going up to the stage
to accept it each time.
To have this random kid with them in the background, who is clearly not an adult Japanese game
dev, but just blending in back there like he's part of the crew, it struck me as odd.
Like what is this guy doing here?
Is he the son of one of the developers?
Maybe they have a white wife or something.
Is he Joseph Perez's son?
The winner of last year's game of the year, and the announcer of this year's?
What is he doing there?
Watching the stream back, you can see the moment when he just slips into the crowd from
another aisle.
This became the breakaway meme of the 2022 game awards.
There's just too many memes to go over them all.
It went viral like mad.
People are making Elden Ring invasion references, people are making references to that old public
access cable show gaming in the Clinton years, plus the usual sneak 100 and Among Us memes
that you'd expect.
People will be laughing about this for a long time.
And some people weren't laughing.
Keely for one.
That's understandable.
After all, this is his passion project.
And look at his face after it happened.
He was pissed.
The individual who interrupted our game of the year moment has been arrested.
There were widespread calls, mainly jokes, of course, to free our bro.
And if you turn up the background audio on the stream, you can hear the moment where
security apprehends him.
There is, of course, a real security concern here.
If he actually wanted to do something malicious and not just be a troll, he clearly had the
opportunity.
Security wasn't rushing the stage or anything.
In fact, they just slowly walked toward the mic while he was talking, let him finish up,
and then lead him backstage after the fact.
But some people are taking what is clearly just a teenage kid fucking around, maybe fucking
around on a bit too big of a scale, but still just fucking around and turning it into a
whole political issue.
I'm finding it very surprising that in 2022, some people thought even for a second that
the Game Award Kid's speech, which references Jews and Bill Clinton, was just a fun joke.
Jesus Christ, man, they're even doing the shoe phrenology thing to discover that he's
wearing Kanye's shoes.
The leftoids are really trying to make this guy into a political story because of the
whole Jewish question thing happening outside of gaming right now.
The question remains, who is the Bill Clinton kid?
According to a journalist working at the Washington Post, who was in attendance at the awards
show, nobody there even knew who he was.
Well, there's a few people online who know.
Here is a text exchange between two of his friends.
Look who's behind the Elden Ring, guys, it's my homie.
Bill Clinton?
That's him.
That's the same kid who was on Infowars with the free Taiwan thing.
Did he just walk up there and no one stopped him?
He told me his plan four days ago while I was playing Warzone with him and I said, zero
chance it happens.
Dude, if I were still a teenager and this were my friend, I would be reacting in exactly
this way, shitting myself laughing at what my bro managed to pull off.
As for the Infowars thing, yeah, it turns out he actually was on Infowars four years
ago, looking and sounding much younger.
For a while, people didn't think it was truly him, but I guess puberty really hit
him like a pile of bricks.
There's a video on his Twitter account that is also two years old.
And yeah, if you line it all up, you can see the age progression.
As for his voice, that's a jokey accent he puts on and you can hear him do it over on
his TikTok account.
You're very stupid because you don't speak French and you don't speak Italian.
I don't speak French because I don't speak any other languages.
I don't speak any other languages.
You're very stupid because I don't speak a lot of French and you don't speak a lot of
French.
I don't speak French because I don't speak any other languages.
Ah, I see.
Great, so do you want to talk on abortion?
Not with someone who's 12.
I'm not 12 years old and you know, that's pretty disrespectful.
No offense, but you sound like you are underage.
But it's the Infowars appearance that leftoids are leaning on to insinuate that this kid
is not just a troll who maybe got in a bit over his head, but instead is actually a raging
anti-Semite indoctrinated by Kanye and Nick Fuentes and is dog whistling to all the other
gamers out there by telling a Jewish Bill Clinton joke and getting instantly arrested.
I guess that was his grand plan to bring about the fourth Reich.
The thing is, I watched the Infowars video.
It seems like the host, it's not even Alex Jones, it's some other guy, is trying to turn
this kid, his name is Metan Evan by the way, into another Soph.
Soph is a right wing YouTuber who went viral when she was like 9 or 10 and has continued
to make content into her teen years.
She's like the right wing as Greta Thunberg, though unlike Thunberg, Soph is at least partially
self-produced.
I think every political ideology likes to see young people getting involved with their
movement and often tries to center them as mouthpieces when they can.
But Evan wasn't exactly playing along with the Infowars guy.
He had a lot to say about Hong Kong and Taiwan, but he passively refused to engage on most
other right wing culture war topics, either redirecting back to China or just trolling.
It's his behavior on Infowars that really makes me think he's just taking the piss.
And the idea that this kid's life should be ruined over what is seriously just a prank
is wild to me.
He's clearly not an anti-Semite.
His friends even confirmed.
He's fucking Jewish.
Jokes aside, here is the serious dev take.
Should he have been arrested?
Of course.
You can probably hit him with a trespassing or a disturbing the peace charge, but at the
same time, he's a kid.
He looks to be what, 14 years old?
How much ridiculous shit did you or I get up to when we were 14?
And what happened to us if we got caught?
Generally it was a slap on the wrist.
Enough to scare us straight, not enough to ruin our lives over a dumb prank we pulled
while we were in high school.
The people calling for this kid's head are delusional, man.
Imagine not being able to get a job in your 20s or 30s because you wandered up onto a
stage at the Game Awards when you were 14 and made a joke about Bill Clinton.
That would be insane.
No, I don't think Matan Evan is an anti-Semite or a raging crypto-gripper or anything like
that, and I hope for once in their lives the chained monkeys over at Kotaku have some human
fucking decency and leave this kid alone instead of choosing to publish hit piece after hit
piece about how he proves the alt-right is ascendant and taking over America, whipping
up Twitter into a witch hunt in the process.
He's clearly a kid who was fucking around and got a little bit over his head.
Probably a lot over his head.
Give him a slap on the wrist and let him go.
Nobody deserves to have the internet follow him around for something like this.
In any case, Matan Evan is giving interviews.
For example, he just spoke to Jason Schreier, who also agrees with my assessment that he's
just a prankster.
But hey, don't take any of our words for it.
Come back to my channel tomorrow and you can hear it from him yourself.
