What is a Fascist?
In my last video titled What is a Fascist?, I discussed what a fascist isn't.
Notice those quotation marks in the title, lol got em.
The point of that video was to go over the long list of things that are clearly not fascism.
As in, they cannot be found in the works of classical fascist political theory by Benito
Mussolini, Giovanni Gentile, Alfredo Rocco, and yet these things are routinely and incorrectly
called fascist by terminally online brainlets who don't know anything about politics beyond
what their favorite talking head tells them to think.
To these people, fascist has come to mean almost anything.
Anything on the right, certainly.
Anything remotely capitalistic, including liberalism, as dumb as that is considering
actual fascist economic thought.
Anything that has even a whiff of the non-material, as Marxist historical materialism demands
that only material conditions are factors in historic events, and that ideology is always
secondary, which is clearly stupid.
And yes, anything that's funny, because the issues of our time are so serious that
there cannot be any levity, because levity means taking a break from being an always
on, always political agent, and as we know, everything is political.
Now that sounds like crazy talk, surely even the most extreme of leftist activists have
downtime.
And yes, they do, but to the extent that they do is the extent to which they are hypocritical,
because this is the natural end result of their politics.
Let me show you how.
This tweet went viral last week, and it's the centerpiece of what I'm talking about.
Conspiracy theories are everywhere, and people don't understand how harmful they are.
Check out this chart.
At the bottom we've got grounded in reality, and the first section is labeled things that
actually happened.
And yeah, these are real events that were covered up and then later revealed to be true.
Nobody's going to argue that Nixon had his slammy paws in Watergate, or that the FBI
spied on MLK, or that the government experimented on black Americans in Tuskegee.
This is all stuff that we have proof for.
Right above that is the speculation line, and the next section is labeled we have questions.
Here we've got unsolved mysteries, or at least stories with some unknown components,
like Epstein didn't kill himself, the Iran-Contra affair, and UFOs.
The next section is above the leaving reality line, with the implication that the creator
of this graph believes everything above this mark to be untrue.
This section is titled unequivocally false but mostly harmless, and contains some really
goofy stuff, like how Prince Charles is a vampire, Ted Cruz is a zodiac killer, and
Elvis lives.
Next up, past the reality denial line, is dangerous to yourself and others, and this
is where some things start to get weird.
Okay, Antifa did January 6th is obvious nonsense, and people who actually believe that are just
huffing copium.
Additionally, I highly doubt that vaccines contain microchips, but as far as I can tell,
it's really only extreme crazies who actually believe it.
Most people say it as a joke, it's a meme.
It's fun to larp as somebody who's crazy, especially online.
Same thing with the moon landing being fake.
Same with jet fuel doesn't melt steel beams, that's literally a 4chan meme.
Same with soy boys, that's just a funny observation showing a mostly coincidental connection between
soy consumption and effeminate men on the left.
And what the fuck, Biden's a robot?
Who has ever said that?
If he was a robot, you'd think they put something faster than a Pentium 2 in his brain.
And a lot of these are just… odd.
The US presidential election was stolen is way up here, presumably referring to 2020,
but if this chart were made in 2016, I guarantee you this person would put that right at the
bottom, because randy lefty twitter accounts absolutely spent years screaming about morussian
interference.
And feral people in forests?
That's actually true.
Talk to anybody who's gone camping or hiking or trailblazing, it's reasonably common
to walk off into the bush and encounter random homeless junkies who are just out there losing
their fucking minds.
Right at the top, past the antisemitic point of no return, no idea why it's suddenly
antisemitic specifically, is the hilariously named section World Ruled by Supreme Shadow
Elite Promotes Hatred and Violence Towards Marginalized Groups.
Alright, let's see what's in here.
Illuminati, Holocaust denial, deep state, QAnon, great replacement, new world order,
secret satanic rituals, reptilian overlords, this is literally just a list of memes for
most people, there are obviously real QAnon types out there, there are obviously real
holocaust deniers, but a lot of this shit is actually said in jest.
Most people who say this stuff are just having a laugh, Shirley ContraPoints isn't up here
because she used the reptilian overlords meme in her capitalist video, right?
Some of this stuff is clearly just jokes, like nazis on the moon.
The extreme absurdification of nazism has been a cultural trope for 50 years now, starting
with the legendary naziploitation movie Ilse, She Wolf of the SS, from 1974, where a smoking
hot german woman ran a concentration camp and performed sexual experiments on the hot
american prisoners of war that were brought under her control.
It's a ridiculous, hilarious movie known for shock and schlock, but it was still wildly
popular because of how over the top it was.
It turns out that people like to see depraved fucked up shit, and they often find humor
in its absurdity.
Directly downstream from this absurdist view of nazism are things like the nazi vampires
from hellsing, the mecha hitler from wolfenstein, the cryogenically frozen hitler clones in
argentina and a variety of shitty movies, nazi obsession with ancient relics and artifacts
with occult power like in the marvel movies or indiana jones, nazi werewolves, nazi ufos,
and yes, nazi moon bases.
You are not describing a real conspiracy theory here, you're describing a cultural trend of
mocking nazis to the point of rendering them absurd, treating them like the jokes that
they are.
And, just like last time, you get a few things that actually have a ring of truth to them.
The specific pizza shop surrounding pizzagate probably had nothing going on, but do you
actually doubt that those among the rich elite of the world with an interest in children
wouldn't be able to obtain them if they wanted?
While hollywood is turning your kids gay is a bit too on the nose, do you think that there's
not some sort of byproduct of the push to normalize alternate sexualities that might
come in the form of people adopting identities they're not fully comfortable with in order
to fit in?
Especially when activists sing about it?
Are you really going to say that cultural marxism is a conspiracy theory?
When academia even just 10 years ago had no problem talking about it and analyzing
its effects, while nowadays everybody screeches that it doesn't exist while citing sources
of the people who are actually involved in it saying that it doesn't exist?
This is some we have investigated ourselves and discovered we've done nothing wrong
type of shit.
You should notice that all of the conspiracy theories that ended up being true but benefiting
left wing causes are at the bottom of the chart, while all of the conspiracy theories
that ended up being true but benefiting right wing causes are at the top.
The more apolitical conspiracy theories are largely accurately placed, but when politics
are at play there is a clear bias.
And the really crazy leftist conspiracy theories, the ones that absolutely do belong at the
very top of the chart as well, like how America or the CIA or whatever has caused every single
instance of socialism to fail, or that dark money is flooding in and preventing shitty
progressive candidates from getting elected, all of that stuff is noticeably missing.
It's not on the top, it's not on the bottom.
It clearly belongs on the top and if this person put it on the chart at all, she would
have to put it on the bottom as per her biases, and that would be a glaring red flag, so I
think she just left them off and hoped no one would notice.
But the truth is, most people do not believe most of this stuff.
Most people could understand that a lot of conspiracy theories are just fun schlock,
fables that people tell each other to have a good time.
This chart, in practice, acts as a list of these stories, with the approved ones at the
bottom and the banned ones at the top.
The ones at the top have been placed there because they delegitimize, depoliticize and
make light of progressive and socialist causes and goals.
In my previous video, I showed a bunch of articles and takes, and it's time to go over
a few of those in a bit more depth.
Consider this.
Astrology is a gateway to fascism.
All such mysticism that seeks to explain human behavior as inborn and predetermined rather
than as a result of material conditions is like this.
It is not misogyny to point this out.
Why would somebody believe this to be true?
I mean, okay, she says it in the tweet.
She says all such mysticism that seeks to explain human behavior as inborn and predetermined
rather than as a result of material conditions is fascist.
That is the Marxist view taken to its extreme again.
But why does she think that a rejection of Marxist historical materialist view is fascist?
Historical materialism seeks to scientifically understand history, and I say that with the
biggest air quotes I can muster, by stripping history of its ideological framework and looking
only at the material conditions of the event.
In other words, all historical wars must be wars of resources, not wars of ethnicity,
nationality, religion or political persuasion.
Any belief counter to this must conclude that material conditions is not the only variable
and that there must be other causes determining human behavior, whether that's an appeal
to genetics or faith in an ideology or anything else.
It must be fascist.
And so because astrology is an analysis of the world that rejects materialism, it must
be a gateway to fascism.
And no, this isn't just some dumb fuck Twitter user saying this out of nowhere.
In Theodore Adorno's The Stars Down to Earth, he writes, the tendency to occultism is a
symptom of the regression in consciousness.
This has lost the power to think the unconditional and to endure the conditional.
Instead of defining both in their unity and difference by conceptual labor, it mixes them
indiscriminately.
The unconditional becomes fact, the conditional an immediate essence.
By its regression to magic under late capitalism, thought is assimilated to late capitalist
forms.
The hypnotic power exerted by things occult resembles totalitarian terror and present
day processes the two are merged.
The power of occultism, as of fascism, to which it is connected by thought patterns
of the ilk of antisemitism is not only pathic, rather, it lies in the fact that in the lesser
panaceas, as in superimposed pictures, consciousness famished for truth imagines it is grasping
a dimly present knowledge, diligently denied to it by official progress in all its forms.
It is the knowledge that society by virtually excluding the possibility of spontaneous change
is gravitating towards total catastrophe.
In other words, fascism is capitalism decay.
The occult is part of fascist thought through both of their gravitation towards irrationalism
and the rejection of materialism and embracing the spiritual is a mental pathway to fascism.
Again, none of this is a part of fascist political theory.
The embracing of the occult, as well as irrationalism as a way of thinking, is one of the major
differences between Italy's classical fascism and Germany's national socialism.
And by the way, when I said that by the strictest definition of classical fascist theory, the
only true fascist states were Italy and Spain, I was correct.
In pre-Nazi Germany, individuals who would later become major players in the Nazi government,
notably excluding Hitler himself, were part of the Society of Thule, an occult organization
that ran from 1918 to 1925.
The views of this secret society would later provide the ideas of blood-purity and the
Nordic racial mysticism to Nazi political theory, and became the source of the mystic
elements of Nazism as seen in the previously mentioned pop culture references.
After World War II, a strand of thought came about called Esoteric Hitlerism, where New
Age religious movements adopted the more mystical aspects of Nazi ideology.
This is where the Black Sun symbol comes from, that you might see in both memes and legitimately
far-right stuff, as part of this belief system is in the mythical land called Hyperborea,
the ancient home of the original Aryans, a race of blonde-haired, blue-eyed, noble-blooded
giants, that Hitler's use of the swastika marked him as the 9th avatar of Vishnu, and
he ascended as a deity after his death.
And listen, there's way more to this than that, and it's all absolutely nonsense.
But this isn't a video on Esoteric Hitlerism, maybe we'll do one another time, but it's
really fucking dumb.
All you need to know for the purposes of this video is that it's all occult mumbo jumbo
that doesn't actually map onto anything in reality, and its adherents are part conspiracy
theory believer, and part spiritual nutcase.
And it's this specific strain of thought that uneducated leftists use to link up conspiracy
theories, the human capacity for spiritual experiences, and Nazism, and by extension
fascism, since they believe that Nazis and fascists are the same thing in all respects.
Even though fascist's spiritual component is explicitly worship of the state, and not
any of this racial mystic garbage.
Oh, and also, a lot of this comes from Julius Evola's writing, so when people call Evola
worshippers fascists, they're incorrect, but when they call them Nazis, that's actually
got a lot more weight to it.
They may not be economic Nazis, they may not be statist Nazis, but they are certainly spiritual
Nazis.
And this point is just for me personally, I recently played a terrible FMV game on stream
called Black Dahlia made back in the 90s, about an Aryan wizard who was given a final
set of orders by Hitler to use a magic crystal once wielded by Germanic crusaders, the Black
Dahlia, to take over the world and conquer America.
The game is steeped in Nordic runes and old Germanic families and all that occult stuff,
and it actually knew the difference between fascism and Nazism.
Man, that feel
when this garbage knows more political theory than people who claim to be politically engaged
nowadays.
Okay, that's enough dev ranting.
At this point, you should now understand how the left conceptually links fascism, Nazism,
spirituality, and conspiracy theory.
However factually inaccurate that may be, you now get their logic.
Okay, now you know why they view conservatives as fascists, because conservatives tend to
be more religious and more spiritual.
Now you know why they consider religious belief, or patriotism, or close ties with family or
culture or ethnicity, to be gateways to fascism, because these are beliefs with non-material
components.
That dreaded spirituality in religion, devotion to the bourgeois construction of the nation,
the homeland, in patriotism, and preference for the specific over the universal, valuing
metaphysical bonds with other particular individuals rather than treating people as atomized, faceless,
and replaceable.
If a thing has a non-material component, and love, relationships, friendships, honor, patriotism,
nostalgia, and spirituality all have non-material components, it's either fascist or fascist
adjacent, at least in the eyes of the most extreme of the left.
And so this view renders almost everybody and everything fascist.
Which is why they're calling everybody and everything fascist.
There's one final piece of the puzzle.
I went over these articles in other videos, we don't need to revisit them in too much
depth.
But I'll just remind you of them.
Trump and the Nazis, our troll in chief, has a deep affinity with the alt-right, and with
their ancestors.
After the outrage in Charlottesville, Donald Trump emerges as the leading alt-right troll,
a Hitler of lulz.
This article tries to link Trump to Nazism through online trolling, as if trolling itself
were a core component of Nazism.
Racists are recruiting.
Watch your white sons.
Parents need to understand how white supremacists prey on teen boys so they can intervene.
This is an opinion piece about a mother who almost crashed her car because her sons laughed
at a meme on their phone that used the word triggered, and how Nazis were recruiting feeble
young minds using memes.
From NPR, memes are the final boss level of appropriation.
What the hell does this all mean?
It turns out that most people who talk about conspiracy theories don't actually believe
in conspiracy theories.
Consider Armoured Skeptic.
He's largely abandoned politics videos and he now makes conspiracy theory content, talking
about bigfoot and UFOs and ancient aliens and the pyramids and whatever else.
It's all good fun.
It's nonsense.
Nobody actually believes it.
But telling tall tales for the entertainment of an audience, embellishing stories, creating
these new mythologies to influence people, it's all, technically speaking, lying to
people for fun.
Bigfoot doesn't actually exist.
But when you take on the role of a storyteller around a campfire, telling a very real story
about Bigfoot, I saw him with my own eyes you guys, you're doing multiple different
things.
1.
You're lying for entertainment.
2.
You're evoking an emotional response in your audience.
You're stirring their souls a little bit, if you're a particularly good storyteller.
You're grasping at the metaphysical aspect of them, because there's clearly no material
Bigfoot.
3.
There's a new technology, a new belief system that is fundamentally inaccurate about the
world.
And no, it doesn't matter if people don't actually believe it, because it's still
got a place in that conspiracy theory chart in the end.
In indulging the non-material, the irrational, even just for fun, to these people you are
creating a space for fascism.
Does this make armored skeptic a fascist by their ridiculous definition?
Well, yes.
It makes everybody but their purest members a fascist.
So when 4chan makes jokes about chemtrails or jet fuel not melting steel beams, even
though it's comedy, it's also technically not true, making it a conspiracy theory, making
it an irrational belief, making it a component of the irrationalist wing of Nazism through
esoteric Hitlerism, making it fascist.
You got all that?
I'm not saying this is the exact, direct thought process of every single dyed hair
hipster latte-sipping journo who write such articles as how to stop your child from being
an online internet troll, they're not actually smart enough to know all this shit, but the
underlying philosophy that guides them, the people who influenced them back when they
were at university, this is the ideological framework that they're operating from within.
All trolls and pranks are therefore, to them, fascist.
Edgy YouTubers and streamers, the prank-centric, shock-humor, gross-out content of the 90s,
it's all just latent fascism, and nobody knew it until the professors told them.
Pepe must be a fascist, the okay hand symbol's fascist, milk drinking is fascist, places
that still find trolling funny, 4chan and Newgrounds, they're all fascist enablers,
nobody user a nazi, and so every time somebody pulls a prank, it's gotta be them darn far
right neo-nazis again, it can't just be kids having fun.
The point of my last video was to describe at least some of the infinitely long list
of things that the left views as fascist.
The point of this video is to describe to you why they view it as fascist.
I'll leave you with a prediction.
The ways in which the left embraces spirituality nowadays, if the progressives are still wielding
hegemonic cultural influence in 20 years, will be considered highly problematic by that
time.
We've already seen the beginnings of this, because also on that conspiracy chart was
Essential Oils Cures Everything, and that was considered a leftist position up until
very recently.
The Essential Oils thing was only believed in by the hippy-dippy, anti-vaxx, all-organic,
peace-and-love style progressives.
You've got stoners and trippers, almost always more left-leaning than right, who do
self-research into psychedelics and buddhism and ego-death in order to find themselves
and induce spiritual experiences and whatever else, and the non-material realizations that
come from those experiences will only be more demonized by materialists over time.
You've got trans-spiritualists too, who spout nonsense like, trans people have fundamentally
different spiritual experiences than cis people, and religious ecstasy has more in common with
sex than anything else.
These might actually be true statements, I don't know, but a political persuasion that
rejects the metaphysical will not tolerate this point of view indefinitely.
I've made jokes in the past about how Aboriginal activists are actually Nazis, but I wonder
if the left will eventually reach that logical conclusion.
They are heavily spiritual, and that spirituality is intrinsically tied up in their ethnicity.
Their connection to their land is based on their blood and their race, and they certainly
spend a lot of time calling for living space.
This is some blood and soil shit.
The most insidious thing of all, this linking of the spiritual, the conspiracy, and the
Nazi, is how all you have to do to be considered a Nazi now is just ask questions that aren't
approved of.
For example, if a year and a half ago, you said that you believed there would be vaccine
passports or mandatory vaccination requirements as a result of the pandemic, not only were
you told that it wasn't going to happen, but you were told that just for thinking it,
just for voicing it, you were a conspiracy theorist who was dangerous and needed to take
off the tinfoil hat and stop being a Nazi, even though those very things are actually
happening right now.
If a conspiracy theory is no longer a conspiracy theory, but has in fact become reality, are
you really a Nazi simply because you were thinking ahead of the curve?
Or is it that the left's view of Nazism is fundamentally flawed, and purposefully so,
that it may be used as a tool to silence good faith questioning and bludgeon non-compliers?
The answer to that question is pretty easy to find.
Just tell any of these people no, and see what happens.
Alright guys, that about does it for me today.
I hope you enjoyed the video, and I hope you excuse me for taking as long as I did.
Hopefully you understand why the wait was required.
I'm streaming tonight on the gaming channel, twitch.tv slash game boomers, make sure you
drop in, and I will see you there.
Have a good one.
I love you.
Bye.
