Blackface is a form of theatrical makeup used predominantly by non-black performers to represent
a caricature of a black person. The practice contributed to the spread of racial stereotypes
about black people, and blackface minstrel shows had become a distinctive American art form.
However, by the present day it's largely fallen out of favor and is generally considered offensive
and disrespectful. That is Wikipedia's definition of blackface, and, helpfully included in that
Wikipedia article, is a historical drawing of somebody dressing up in blackface, presumably
as an advertisement for his show, and it's probably pretty easy to see why, yeah, this
could definitely be construed as racist. But nonetheless, blackface has a history of its
racism. You can actually go back over the past 200 years and trace its origins. To contrast,
here's Wikipedia's entry on brownface.
Racial brownface is a variation of blackface in which a person imitates a person of Latin
American, Middle Eastern, North African, Polynesian, Native American, and or South
Asian ethnic origin. This can be done using makeup, hair dye, or by wearing traditional
ethnic clothing. It is typically defined as a racist phenomenon whether or not the offender
intended to be racist. This seems to be the ideological root of cultural appropriation,
because let's say that you're a white guy in Japan and you decide to throw on a kimono,
you are wearing a variant of racial brownface because you're wearing traditional ethnic
clothing. And while both blackface and the complaints against it have a long history,
people have only really been talking about brownface for the past couple years.
The first example in the article, in fact, is The Simpsons coming under fire in 2018
over the character Apu, even though Apu has been in the show for 25 years before that.
Of course, to simply say that brownface doesn't exist seems to be a little bit absurd as well.
Remember when John Wayne played Genghis Khan, because that was back during the era when
Hollywood didn't actually like brown people acting in anything? And yeah, I guess in some of these
pictures they threw some makeup on him, but for the most part he just looks the same.
In any case, the discussion on blackface resurfaced a couple months ago because of
my prime minister, Justin Trudeau. Old photos of him acting as a drama student and as a drama
teacher were found wearing various costumes, including blackface. And so, many articles
were published like this one. This is why brownface and blackface have always been
offensive and always will be. I guess we're just going to skip over the fact that brownface does
not have nearly the same historic implication as blackface does, but whatever, fine, it's the same
thing now, I guess. I chose this article, though, because they seem to at least implicitly understand
that brownface and blackface aren't the same thing, yet they still insist on lumping them
together. What is blackface? Blackface is the art of painting your face in a darker tone to
resemble a black person, while the practice dates back to the racist minstrel shows of the 19th
century, etc. etc. What is brownface? Brownface is different from blackface in that the person is
trying to resemble someone who may be Latin American, Middle Eastern, Polynesian, Native
American, or Indian. Why is it so offensive? Blackface is a practice rooted in history,
yes it is. It's about so much more than just painting your face a darker color, absolutely.
It's surprising, therefore, that in the context of this well-known history, people still find
it acceptable to black up and perform blackface and brownface at parties. Um, nothing here has
described why brownface is so offensive. You're literally just lumping it in together as if it's
the same thing and it has the same historical connotation. Now you might just say, Dev, give
him a pass, it's similar enough. Yeah, the racists of the 19th century didn't conceive of Latinx
face or whatever, but we all know that if they had, they would use it the same way they used
blackface and it would have the same connotation today. And you know, you're probably right,
fair enough. But what about whiteface? Well, Nick Cannon, a black musician, put on whiteface
and there he is. He's got, he's got the white skin, the red hair. He actually got in a little
bit of trouble with this, believe it or not. Not nearly as much as Justin Trudeau putting on
blackface, but still a little bit. But I do think it's telling that, that Nick Cannon went ginger
instead of say black haired or brown haired or blonde haired, but red haired. Because there
definitely seems to be a sort of soft white face happening in Hollywood nowadays. Maybe it's a
hiring white face. I'm not sure. I mean, you've got Halle Bailey, a black woman playing the little
mermaid who was at least in the adaptation that they're going off of a ginger. You've got Anna
Schaefer, who's a half black woman being cast as Tris Merigold, who is again, a ginger. In fact,
there just seems to be a whole lot of instances of white characters, especially white ginger
characters being replaced by black actors and actresses. Don't you dare go the other way around
though. Even if it's just voice acting, if you have black characters, make sure you hire black
voice actors for that job. In general, the flow of outrage regarding race swapping seems to only
happen one way. For example, thousands of black actresses have cosplayed as Sailor Moon, a white
or at least Japanese character, though, to be honest, I'm willing to say white because of the
blonde hair. Meanwhile, if you're a white girl cosplaying as a black character, expect to get
dragged all over the internet. And yes, this picture actually does show the same person.
It doesn't matter that this is a woman who is cosplaying as a man, nobody cares about that.
It's the fact that it's a white girl cosplaying as a black character. Unreal. And even if it's
historically inaccurate, that's okay because it's diversity, you see. That's the thing that's valued
and it doesn't matter if we're talking about cosplay, if we're talking about acting choices
and casting choices, or if we're talking about artwork, doesn't matter. You can find examples
of this nonsense happening all over the internet. Here's a screen grab from that rather mediocre
reimagining of She-Ra the Princess of Power. Well, someone decided to take this exact scene
from the show and redraw it in the old art style with the old character designs, which ended up
turning at least one of the characters white again, since that was their original design.
And as you can expect, the backlash on Twitter was immense, even though this technically isn't
whitewashing because the character was originally white. It happened with Pokemon too, but
even stupider. This is Nessa, the water gym leader from the newest Pokemon games. She is obviously a
darker-skinned woman. A Japanese artist drew her in a pastel style, which had the added effect of
making her skin not as dark as it originally was. And the entire internet basically blew up,
screaming about whitewashing and racism and this and that. And how dare they take a character that
is a person of colour and make them white. Even though to be honest, when I look at the original
artwork, I don't really see that. Do you? Of course, the internet, being what it is,
in response to this, actually started drawing Nessa as white and even went so far as modding
the game to make her white. Nessa is the only Pokemon character I've ever seen with skin like
mine. And I know this sounds cheesy, but I almost cried when a bunch of artists started making her
a white person or with light skin. You all hate us so bad that we can't even exist in fucking
Pokemon. You know, Pokemon is a series of games that takes place all over the world. It's set in
Japan, the UK, France, New York, Hawaii, and as such, there's a lot of people in the series of
every single race. Nessa was not the first black person to appear in Pokemon. But things devolved
into colourism rather quickly, because here's a person who got a deep tan to cosplay as Nessa,
and then here's a black cosplayer who, by the way, is quite light skinned herself for a black
person saying, my dude, listen, tanning is still blackface when you go out of your way to tan to
be a black character. And here's that same woman on a different day. Hey guys, I got called white
face scum because I'm not dark enough to be considered black by them. Please these internet
trolls try so hard it's fucking hilarious. No, they're literally operating off the same rule
set that you operate off of. You have nothing to complain about. Though I think the funniest
instance of all is an artist not knowing who Black Panther was and only understood his suit,
drew him as a white guy. And the resulting fallout was amazing. I don't know if you can read it here.
You literally whitewash, disrespect, insult, spit on black people and expect to be praised for it.
And you have the fucking nerve to call us hypocrites. Well, yeah, actually I do.
When white characters are being changed into black characters, you don't bat an eye. Unless
they're doing blackface, of course, unless it's a white person wearing wearing blackface. That's
different, even though it's still white going to black. I mean, here's the Sailor Moon argument
again. There are thousands of bits of artwork where people take characters that are either
white or Asian. I mean, it depends. It's anime, right? But white or Asian and make them very
obviously not either of those things. No one cares. No one bats an eye. No one shrieks racism
at this. But do it with Black Panther and oh shit, it's on. Because we're talking about the
radical left here and because the radical left values only power as shown to us by their love
of power politics as the ultimate descriptor and predictor of everything that they do as the lens
through which they see the world. Blackface and brownface or whitewashing and blackwashing,
depending on what we're talking about, all of that stuff is only bad depending on who has the
power in the situation. So when someone who is white transforms into someone who is black,
if it's done in a way to say mock black people, if it's done in a way where the white person has
the power, then it's racist and it's terrible. But if it's done not to mock black people, but
to erase white people, well, then it's fine. Even though you're still taking a white figure
and making it black, it's actually OK in this instance because the black person has the power.
This is why Nathan Grayson believes that Twitch has a racist emote problem because there are
emotes of black people on Twitch and white people use them. That is, in essence, a white person
presenting a black message. The whiteness is going to blackness. But because the white person
has the power, that's the problem. That's why The Guardian thinks that it's digital blackface
when black people reacting as part of memes online got so popular around last year or so,
because it's not actually a black voice. There's no black power involved. It's simply,
presumably, again, a white person using a black person's face, hence digital blackface.
And if we're really going down the logic of cultural appropriation, if it is the case that
a white person taking something from the domain of the black and using it for their own ends is
blackface, even though a black person taking something from the domain of the white and using
it for their own ends is empowering or something, then there's many more forms of blackface than
what we thought, not just the digital blackface. How about mispronouncing names? You've got the
three authors of this article, Kaya Roy, Zahira Ali and Medha Kumar. I probably mispronounced all
of those, but I took their black name and I made it white with my mispronunciation. This is
linguistic blackface in a sense. Or what about political blackface? Here's a white woman saying
that black Twitter ain't having no Bernie. I mean, she would know, right? But then we come to the
most insidious form of blackface of all, intellectual blackface. Diversity of thought is just a euphemism
for white supremacy, a breakdown of why free thought actually translates to white thought.
There's an epidemic out there of black people who are thinking white. And if they're thinking white,
that means that it's white people who have the power parading around those black faces and black
bodies inhabited with white thoughts. The angry black woman stereotype is making it damn near
impossible for black women to get mental health care. Well, as far as I can see it, mental health
care is probably a privilege, which means that you're going to be thinking white, which means
that if you want it as a proud black woman, you're gonna have to think white to get it. And you have
to understand, you need to stay in your lane. PSA Sitch recently linked on his Twitter account a
very interesting study talking about just how many black people are inhabited by white thoughts.
Because as it turns out, between 2006 and 2007, every 100 bachelor's degrees conferred on black
men, 196 were conferred on black women. And as Sitch says, the SJW idea that black women are
the most disenfranchised, thus deserve the most power in their movement, may be completely
backwards. Oh, oh, are black women more on top than they thought? Well, it's because all of those
offending black women who dare to excel, they're inhabited by white thoughts and their racism needs
to be stopped. This whole attitude can basically be summed up by this headline. Liberals clarify
they only want black voices to be heard when they're saying liberal things. But Dev, you may ask,
that's from the Babylon Bee. It's a joke article. Yeah, but it's still the truth. Do you want to
hear it from their own mouths? Here's a member of AOC's squad, Ayanna Pressley, saying basically
the same thing that I've been saying this whole video. For whatever lived experience and identity
that you represent, if you are not prepared to come to that table, and to represent that voice,
don't come. Because we don't need any more brown faces that don't want to be a brown voice. We
don't need black faces that don't want to be a black voice. We don't need Muslims that don't want
to be a Muslim voice. We don't need queers that don't want to be a queer voice. So you see,
it's not enough to just be a black person. You have to be a black person with black thoughts.
If you're a black person with white thoughts, you're not welcome. You're not really black
anymore. And you know what? This logic can be applied to anything, really. Anything that's
not you is a face. Am I the only person fed up of drag shows, a parody of what a real woman is,
like blackface? And really, you can't argue with this, can you? If the original definition of
blackface was basically a theater style where white people would dress up as caricatures of
black people and look exaggerated and act exaggerated for comedic effect, then how does
that not describe the relationship between drag queen shows and women? Really, at this point,
with the way things have gone, with the way definitions have been stretched, any facsimile,
any act, any bit of deception, it's all a face. I mean, any woman that you see wearing makeup,
is she wearing like beautiful face or something because maybe she's not quite that good looking
underneath? I don't know. However, like I said earlier, it's all about that power,
which is why it can go one way from the privileged to the oppressed, but not the other.
As the very helpful social justice YouTube channel NowThis News is going to teach us in
The Myth of Blackwashing. From Liam Neeson in Batman Begins to Scarlett Johansson in Ghost in
the Shell and, well, pretty much any US anime adaptation ever, whitewashing is when Hollywood
takes a character who is a person of color in the source material and casts a white actor for
the final portrayal we see on screen. Yeah, it took Hollywood a long time to actually accept
people of color as people. I guess that's what happens when you're run by 1940s Democrats.
What about when a white character is played by a person of color on screen?
Representation might upset some people who can't accept popular comic book characters like
Nick Fury, Johnny Storm, and Domino as people of color, but this thing some people call
blackwashing is not a problem. It's not even a thing. But let's start with why whitewashing
is so harmful. See, so blackwashing doesn't exist, but whitewashing does because it's all about
representation. It's all about the direction of the flow of power. Taking a character that
is a person of color and making them white? Well, you might as well be slapping on the blackface
makeup yourself. But taking a white character and making them black? That's just balancing the
scales. It's just punching up. And Zazie Beetz could do the same for Domino. I grew up watching
Domino on Wolverine and the X-Men, where she's portrayed with comics-accurate pale blue skin
and a black circle around her eye. Now she's a black woman with natural hair and her traditional
look is still there right down to the eye tattoo. It's just inverted now. But see, that looks lazy.
And it's not because she's black. It's because the original character was blue.
Like, you could have taken this black actress and made her blue. Still have her played by a
black woman, but the character is supposed to be blue, so make her blue. Or does blackness just
not count if the character is not actually black, even though they're played by a black person? Oh
wait, that's exactly the case! We're yet to see a black woman wield a lightsaber in a Star Wars
movie! Well, I mean, there's this one. Does she not count because even though the actress is black,
she's blue? Well, there's also this one. But does she not count because even though she's a black
actress wielding a lightsaber, she has alien tentacles growing out of her head? But like I
said, it's all about who has the power. And I guess more specifically, who that power would benefit,
and how. When news outlets take black or brown criminals and make them look whiter or paler,
no one complains then. No one screeches about white washing or white face or black representation
or whatever the fuck. Because at the end of the day, black people and brown people have the
privilege of face. They can do things, say things, and think things that if white people did it,
would be racist. And the liberalistic, individualistic, democratic idea that black
people be judged not by the colour of their skin, but by the content of their character,
well that might have sounded pretty good on paper about 60 or so years ago, but progressives have
since discovered that asking them to do so is like asking them to think white. We know better now.
You see, we understand that asking black people to be responsible moral agents
is asking them to wear intellectual blackface.
