Blizzcon is just one week away, and things aren't looking good for our pals over at
Blizzard.
Overwatch's Mei has become a symbol of Hong Kong independence.
The Western Hearthstone protesters were ultimately banned after several weeks of deliberation,
because I guess they prefer to crack down harder instead of absolving Blitzchung.
And Blizzard's cancelled several high-profile events, where the fans could conceivably have
had a public voice.
Like the Overwatch Switch launch event at Nintendo's New York store, or the World
of Warcraft 15th anniversary event in Taiwan.
But they can't cancel Blizzcon, a major 4-day event with thousands of attendees, games
to announce, expos to set up, and so on.
So the rumour on the street, at least right now, is that the legendary Blizzcon Q&A sessions
– you know, the source of so many great memes and videos, the actual reason to attend
Blizzcon or watch anything about Blizzcon online beyond just the trailers on YouTube
– those Q&A sessions are either being removed outright or tightly regulated.
Who knows what that means?
It might mean the lineup is filled with paid actors and planted questions.
It might mean the questions are filtered through a suggestions box, and only questions Blizzard
wants to answer will be read aloud.
It might mean the fans have to tell their question to a moderator, who then chooses
whether or not to ask it.
Here's what I'd bet money on, though.
Diablo Immortal was bad enough.
Like this Hong Kong stuff, Blizzard is not going to allow a repeat of last year.
And if that means they censor their own fans, so be it.
Your average Joe will not be allowed on the mic again.
But hold on a minute.
Give that a second thought.
Blizzard censoring their own fans.
This isn't Blizzard censoring their haters.
This isn't Blizzard censoring casual players of their games.
Blizzcon attracts only one audience, the diehard Blizzard fan.
The one who's grown up on Blizzard games.
The one who is primarily invested only in Blizzard properties.
The one who will play anything Blizzard makes, regardless of genre or accessibility.
Why is the demographic that loves Blizzard the most also simultaneously the one Blizzard's
the most afraid of?
I think the answer can be found, weirdly enough, in this unrelated article from Buzzfeed.
At VidCon's 10-year anniversary, influencers, fans, and brands all seem ready to leave YouTube
behind.
Unsurprisingly, it's about VidCon 2019 from this past summer.
And as VidCon has turned more and more social justice-oriented over time, it's switched
from a gaggle of interesting topics and panels and creators to a curated, SJW-approved propaganda
mouthpiece.
How dark do you want to get?
YouTuber Lindsay Ellis asked the moderator of one of the first panels at VidCon about
how online video communities have changed over the years.
It was fun, said Ellis.
And now it's like, okay, how do we protect ourselves from our audience?
Lindsay Ellis, despite her many attempts to get away from the name, is most well-known
as the Nostalgia Chick, a female counterpart to Channel Awesome's Nostalgia Critic.
Back when That Guy with the Glasses was relevant, the online video creation space was indeed
very different.
YouTube monetization didn't really exist.
Neither did copyright strikes or appeals.
Videos affected were usually just deleted.
BlipTV was bigger than YouTube and offered a flat, reliable, one-cent-per-view of a monetized
video.
However, Blip was only a video hosting service and lacked reliable channel pages, a front
page, or a search function.
In order to ensure people actually watched your Blip videos, you had to have a website
to embed them on that actually got a lot of traffic.
This is what led the larger creators of the time to simply post trailers or announcements
on their YouTube channels and link off-site to Blip in the video description.
The video ecosystem of the time was one where a popular creator could actually run their
own community directly, or in the case of TiguaTig, join a team of creators who cross-promote.
Lindsay Ellis as the Nostalgia Chick was one of the bigger names during the BlipTV era,
and that success did carry over to her YouTube channel after Blip's decline.
When she says it was fun, I think she's referring to the state of video creation during
her rise.
Yes, she had more direct control over her community, but frankly she was also younger,
more energetic, and a lot funnier.
But more telling is the line, how do we protect ourselves from our audience?
Well, why do you need protection from your audience?
Your audience loves you, presumably that's why they're your audience.
Why do you need protection from the people that caused your success?
The people that watch your videos, click your ads, donate to your Patreon, buy your merch?
I know that there are some creators who just get hate-watched, like Dark Side Phil, but
the Nostalgia Chick was never that.
What happened to you, Lindsay?
What did you do that you require protection from your own fans?
The Buzzfeed article goes on to talk about panels devolving into group therapy sessions,
as YouTubers commiserated over shared experiences with harassment and exploitation.
The YouTubers people care about can't be invited because they're all out of control.
And the safer creators they did invite are all traumatized.
Keemstar, the massive influencer and vlogger behind the 5 million subscriber strong YouTube
gossip channel Drama Alert, spent the week around Vidkong derisively tweeting about
how irrelevant the conference is now.
When Vidkong sends its YouTubers, they're not sending their best.
They're sending YouTubers that have lots of dead channels.
They're bringing in fidget spinners.
They're bringing in hoverboards.
They're randoms.
I know that the media likes to demonize fans.
They like to say their ire is irrational.
They're entitled, as we've seen them call gamers time and again.
They're dangerous, as Lindsay Ellis likes to imply.
I'm sure somebody inside Blizzard right now is calling them fickle.
Maybe on some level, at some point in time, all of these criticisms might be true.
You know what's way more relevant, though?
Anyone who's ever had their entire fanbase turn on them has been perceived by that fanbase
to have behaved so badly that a variation of the consumer revolt, a fandom's revolt
maybe, was in order.
Sometimes it's undeserved.
With ProJared, for example, it was probably not warranted.
But I think fans understand this when they see it, because when ProJared vindicated himself,
the people returned.
Mob rule is slow to start, hard to stop, and grossly unjust.
Fan rule, however, is different.
Fans will give the object of their fandom the benefit of the doubt.
They'll be more likely to forgive transgressions if the conversation is honest.
But also, if all of this goodwill is abused?
Yeah, they'll turn on you.
This is what Lindsay Ellis and all of those other traumatized YouTubers are noticing when
they talk about having to keep safe from their fans.
I obviously don't endorse the illegal actions of people's fans, but at some point, you
have to look at your own conduct and wonder how you managed to screw up having half a
million people who loved you.
I've been making videos for just as long as Lindsay, and I've never had cause to
fear my fans.
Lindsay Ellis gave a talk on this at XOXO Fest just a couple weeks ago, and holy shit,
is that actually her?
This doesn't look like a woman of 34.
She looks like a 49-year-old failed small-town English teacher.
Like, I know she's 22 in her older videos, and part of the change is just age, it happens
to the best of us.
It's happened to me.
But man, that's no excuse to let yourself go.
Anyway, listen to her talk about this.
Content warning, there's gonna be some Nazis, but you know, that's just the internet now.
It's great.
What a time to be alive.
I love it.
A friend of mine became the in-thor-so person sliding into my DMs like, hey, there's an
alt-right mob after me.
You know what this is like.
What do I do?
And I kind of had a moment where I'm like, wow, this keeps happening, where people ask
me advice on how to deal with bad faith hate mobs, that kind of had become an expert in
surviving that sort of thing, because it has happened to me many, many times over the years.
It was humiliating, because you had to have all of these people going back and forth being
like, hmm, this seems an awful lot like the thing that happened to Sarah Zhang at the
New York Times last month.
We had to collate all these tweets, we had to mine everything and be absolutely clear
on who said what and when and what the threat was, and it was very awful.
It harmed my relationships, it harmed my marriage, it cost me a lot of productivity and several
friendships, and eventually, I actually ended up at an institution, because everything was
just crumbling and I did not know how to deal with this.
Even if you're not in sort of like a literal physical war zone, is being afraid messes
with your brain chemistry, and then you start having the same responses that you would have
if you had been in sort of a physical danger, like you become jumpy, you become irritable,
you become more depressed.
These people are feeling empowered enough in their own racism that they thought, yeah,
they'd be like, oh, wow, yeah, anti-white racism is a thing, we should probably fire
this person.
There's good faith criticism, and that's true, but to me, it turns into bad faith when people
start using you as a proxy in whatever culture war thing is going on.
How do you deal with it?
I've become an expert.
I don't know if I've become an expert on dealing with it well, but you have to cope, or you
die, because nothing on the internet dies.
What happens is, these people, there's always going to be a subset of people who will see
you existing.
Maybe they'll see you interacting with another Twitter person, and they just kind of take
it upon themselves to slide into the mentions of whoever is interacting with you and being
like, she's an anti-white racist.
I'm sorry, it's funny.
People still are kind of like, you kind of deserve it, maybe.
Maybe there was something you could have done to present it, you know?
And it's just, people can't really help but do the victim-blaming thing.
It also harms your relationship with your audience.
You don't want to make content anymore.
You don't trust people, and it's hard to make content for people when you think that half
of them want you to die.
This is a conversation between Hank Green, Carlos Maza, and me.
Let's unpack this.
Do you guys know who Carlos Maza is?
Yes.
Support Carlos Maza.
So Carlos Maza is another YouTuber.
He and I were like Twitter buds.
We hadn't really met before the Crowdering happened.
But basically, he had been abused and bullied by another much bigger YouTuber named Steven
Crowder for years.
Like a lot of homophobic slurs, a lot of racist slurs.
And one day, Carlos decided, I'm just going to chronicle this.
I'm going to stand up for myself.
And yep, sure did.
So you can guess what happened after that.
Crowder mobilized his army and is continuing to.
This is still happening.
And then you had the exact same thinking happen with Carlos.
If he responds to, in this case, Hank, who is being supportive, sorry for the people
that are harassing me, and now they are invited into your space, and then it's, you know,
everybody's scattered before they see us.
This is the punishment for daring to interact with your colleagues in a public forum.
Carlos was an example where he would kind of like collate and seek out the abuse and
actually highlight it.
And I was like, no, you have to stop doing that because you're re-traumatizing yourself.
You're very good at actually making the trauma you already have worse because they speak
the language of abuse.
I basically have like my Twitter completely, you know, cloistered down.
Get into all of those advanced options, mute everything.
And honestly, that's been a lot healthier ever since I've done that.
Even since like the, you know, the nonsense of last year died down.
There's just such a huge volume of people at you, positive and negative.
And obviously, like, I, you know, it's obviously, but I get a lot of threats.
So we have basically like an inbox for it.
I have someone that handles my YouTube comments for me.
I don't look at them anymore.
And I don't really look at my Twitter mentions anymore.
You should not subject yourself to people abusing you.
You know, it becomes a form of digital self-harm.
And that only makes things worse.
There's an arrogance behind her voice here.
There's this idea that the internet just comes for people irrationally with no rhyme
or reason behind it.
Lindsay Ellis didn't do anything.
Carlos Mazza didn't do anything.
These poor content creators, these innocent journalists have never done a single thing
wrong in their entire lives.
And the implication is that their fame is simply a heavy burden to bear, a price to
pay to be in their industry because everyone who follows them sucks.
You can hear in her voice the extreme disdain for the people who even put her on that stage.
Here Lindsay, let me frame this in a way that an intersectionalist like you would understand.
To those who have had privilege all of their lives, criticism probably feels like oppression
and harassment.
You have the fame, the audience, you're on the stage.
You have the TV show, the 500,000 sub channel, you have the brand, you have the privilege.
Your viewers make up a class of people who don't have that privilege.
And if those viewers are vocal about their problems with you, I'm not surprised that
you felt so harassed and traumatized that you've had to give several speeches on the
topic now.
It's probably mentally scarring to have people you look down upon tell you that you're wrong.
Also as a side note, check out how hard she tries to avoid talking about that guy with
the glasses.
This has happened to me a lot over the years.
And every time, especially like as I used to work for this website that I won't name,
but when I worked for this website and there would be like a flood of this sort of thing,
the people who ran the website would either be to laugh about it, blame you for it, or
ignore it altogether.
Sorry Lindsay, but your biggest claim to fame is always going to be being Doug Walker's
Mrs. Pac-Man.
And speaking of gender swapped characters, you know how Anita Sarkeesian's huge channel
is largely dead now with comments and voting turned off?
Find anyone who was big 5-10 years ago that has since turned into a social justice nutjob
and you'll discover the exact same thing.
It's off.
Voting disabled.
Creator isolation and a lack of community engagement, constant whining in videos or
on social media about how the internet sucks and their viewers are all bigots.
No.
You just changed.
That's the long and short of it.
You were 18, you were 20, 22.
You made content with edgy jokes and witty critiques.
You resonated with people because you were still a member of the community.
But as you isolated yourself in your tower of privilege, as your old jokes and the people
who still like them became problematic.
As every new bit of content you put out began to revolve around Orange Man Bad or how everything
is oppressive, your fans felt betrayed.
And when they complained, you treated your own fanbase as your enemy, as a toxic abuser
you had to escape from.
What did you expect to happen?
This is what Blizzard's scrambling to repress right now.
Not strictly in a social justice sense like Lindsay Ellis or the others, but certainly
in the sense that they've betrayed their founding principles.
And every move they make only fuels the fire.
There's no honest conversation between Blizzard and the fans anymore.
The benefit of the doubt is gone.
The Goodwill's been abused one time too many.
And they'll probably reap what they've sown at Blizzcon.
Fans aren't inherently evil harassing mobs on the internet or whatever.
When you boil it down, fans just want creators to keep creating.
If there's a revolt, then there's a pretty good chance the creator has behaved so inappropriately
that fans would rather burn the whole thing down than keep getting whatever schlop the
creator's putting out.
We've seen this with Blizzard, with has-been YouTubers, with verified nobodies and Twitter
SJWs, with journalists and outlets.
They've all suffered backlash for their bad behavior.
They've all framed it as inappropriate, as harassment, or as oppression.
And they're all going the way of the dinosaur.
