People have been asking me for a while now, when am I going to talk about Limited Run Games?
I guess the answer to that is today. Now for those of you who don't know, Limited Run Games
is a company that releases physical copies of normally digital only games. So usually we're
talking indie games or games released by small studios or games released with a limited run,
which is why they're called Limited Run Games. I actually really appreciate their service because
frankly, considering how the Wii shop went offline recently, the DS shop went offline
a few years ago, eventually all of these stores that I've bought online games on will go offline.
I don't think Steam's going anywhere on PC, but if it's a console and it's a store,
I think they'll be disappearing eventually. Which means that all those games that we've all bought,
they're disappearing too. But if you buy them from Limited Run Games, then you have a physical copy.
No problem. So I think there's definitely a niche in the market for a company like Limited Run
Games. And I also think that they're doing a pretty good service in terms of preserving games
that might in the future disappear unless you pirate them or something. At the same time,
it also seems to be common knowledge that Limited Run Games is staffed by purple haired SJWs.
Unfortunately, you guys remember when this happened? THQ Nordic holds AMA on image board
known for child porn. They're talking about 8chan, by the way, and 8chan wasn't really known
for child porn. They did their best to stamp that shit out. It's the same as the mainstream
media calling Gab a hate speech platform or an alt-right platform, even though places like
Twitter and Facebook also have hate speech and also serve the alt-right. Today, Darksiders
publisher THQ Nordic opted to host an Ask Me Anything AMA session to offer its audience an
opportunity to have questions about its business and games answered. This would be utterly
unremarkable had it not opted to host said AMA on 8chan, an image board known for not-safe-for-work
content of all kinds, including hate speech, child pornography, harassment, and abuse.
Yeah, see, one of those things is not like the other. But yeah, THQ Nordic said we're doing an
8chan AMA and we have no idea why. Come join us. So they posted it on V and they say,
the opportunity was here and we took it. We got approached in a very friendly and polite manner
and were assured said person would take care of the nasty stuff. So here we are.
So yeah, they saw a form, it might have been an anonymous form, but they saw a popular form
devoted to video games and said, you know what, we're releasing a Darksiders game, let's do an
AMA about it. Well, where does Limited Run Games come into this? Well, as it turns out,
around the same time as this 8chan AMA, Limited Run Games has been partnered with THQ Nordic
to bring the game Red Faction to physical format for the PlayStation 4. It's not even the same
game, it wasn't a Darksiders game, it was Red Faction. But nonetheless, this earned the ire
of the idiots over at Reset Era. And posting on Reset Era, Limited Run Games' official account
said, to be clear, we are overjoyed to bring Red Faction to physical format. Agreed that it was
bad wording for the tweet and for that we apologize, it should have been clear. We are not
overjoyed with THQ Nordic's AMA on 8chan, to say the least, and in no way endorse it.
Now, the screeching crybabies on Reset Era are not the main audience of a company like
Limited Run Games, but because they're ideologically aligned, that's who they bow to.
Oh, by the way, in case you need some evidence of what kind of place Reset Era is, this person
got banned for a series of insincere drive-by posts across multiple related threads.
And what he said was, do we have any indication of price or release date yet?
What this person actually did was, in these various threads on Reset Era about Limited
Run Games and THQ Nordic, he refused to jump on the cancel culture bandwagon
and simply asked about the games. He was an outrage, so he was banned.
Now, I personally see no problem with a company like THQ Nordic, or any other company,
running an AMA on a place like 8chan, or 4chan, or reddit, or twitter, or anywhere else. In my
opinion, it's just a forum to talk to fans. The idea that you shouldn't utilize a site
because of some kind of political affiliation that is completely unrelated to your own business
is just absurd to me. But I mean, here we are, welcome to 2019.
The pressure wasn't just on from Limited Run Games or the SJWs over at Reset Era, however.
Here's a Shannon Loftus working for Microsoft Studios,
tweeting at THQ Nordic, why do you still have this link up?
Know your place, pleb. Get back in your lane.
I think what really pissed everyone off, though, was the fact that even though THQ Nordic came out
and apologized under all that pressure, during that actual AMA on 8chan, you can tell the person
who did it was kinda shitlord-y. It was pretty fun.
Here's my old acquaintance, Brad Brown, of the webcomics Blaster Nation and Rockcocks,
also the 4chan v. Tripfag of old, Donkey Kong. Now, I talked about him during my video, Who I
Miss, as being an old friend who I've lost to Trump Derangement Syndrome. And I do say former
acquaintance at this point, because since I made that video, He's blocked me. So very quickly,
he blocked me because he makes porn comics, and I made the argument to him that
being somebody who produces NSFW content, he should probably be more respectful of free speech
rights than he actually is, because free speech rights is the only thing standing between him
and unemployment. But I guess since free speech is a conservative position nowadays or something,
he blocked me for it. So, that's the final end of that friendship.
But anyway, back during the whole AMA, he says, THQ Nordic, or at least their PR guy,
has issued an apology saying they didn't do their research and don't condone the things
that 8chan openly celebrates. Here's their actual posts from their AMA. Don't buy that shit for a
second. This is the guy, this is the guy who used to revel in 4chan culture. And now that he's had
his kicks, and he's grown up a little bit, now he's poo-pooing everybody else who engages in it.
It's kind of like the hippies who smoke weed, and then when they're in their 40s and 50s tell
their kids not to smoke weed and they become like super puritans. It's weird, man.
Anyway, because Brad is now an SJW cuck, unfortunately, he links to Patrick Klepek,
who has provided these four screenshots of that THQ AMA.
Please don't censor any games nor appeal to the social justice crowd. You guys are doing fine
as is. Thanks, we'll try to stay that way. Admitting that the SJWs are encroaching on
gaming and saying that you will resist at all costs? I guess that's worth shaming them
publicly for. Where's the big titty lollies at? You got them already, we'd say. Oh no,
this is the absolute worst crime you could possibly commit. You know, post a picture
of two girls, who are clothed by the way, and then they reply with just a nonsense, nothing reply,
other than public condemnation and shaming and oh, how dare you? THQ didn't clutch their pearls
hard enough. Yeah, Brad, I have no idea how you can endorse this. You draw porn, for fuck's sake.
But back on the main point, Limited Run Games ended up throwing THQ Nordic under the bus
when Cancel Culture came for them, unfortunately, because, you know, I like Limited Run Games. I
have a copy on PS4 of Night Trap. I really enjoyed the fact that they announced all of the old Star
Wars games, like the N64 Shadows of the Empire, other games like that, to be, to be coming to
Limited Run Games. You know, they've done some pretty good work. But, you know, I kind of forgot
about them until this. This just went down like yesterday. Limited Run Games cancelled a customer's
orders, refunded his money, and banned him. Here's why. On November 20th, 2019, it was brought to the
attention of Jeremy Hambley, aka The Quartering, aka My Guy, that Limited Run Games had cancelled
a fan named Brybot's orders, refunded his money, and banned this customer from ordering future
games. Jeremy went ahead and put the information he was sent together and made a video blasting
Limited Run Games for their behaviour. I have actually watched this video, in fact. After
speaking with several people who were in the same Facebook groups as Brybot, I can 100% say that he
did in fact get banned, had his orders cancelled, and was refunded. That is not being disputed by
anyone. However, the why is not because of a meme like Jeremy Hambley states in his video, but
rather for spreading false information. Let's look at the facts. So the story as I understand it,
this person named Brybot was posting memes to I think a fan Facebook group that was run by
Limited Run Games or Limited Run Games was involved, it was about them or something,
and an employee named Sarah from Limited Run Games, she decides to post saying,
I enjoy trolling as much as the next guy, but just a heads up guys, spreading false info and
using company assets is likely to get you banned, if not worse. Uh oh. So what did they actually do?
So this guy, Brybot, he made a meme, which is what the courting asserted in his video.
Now the actual situation is that Limited Run Games is releasing Tetris Effect,
and that's not really an indie game, it's not really a game that needs the clout of a company
like Limited Run Games. So the joke is that, well, if they're not releasing games that require
Limited Run, if they're not releasing games that are indie, why not make it Skyrim? You know?
So he photoshopped it to be Skyrim. Why not make it another game called Return of the Bird King?
Well, here it is, he photoshopped that one too. This is a meme. I know the writer of this article
said that he wasn't banned for memes, he was banned for, what was it, for spreading false
information, but I mean, come on. Yeah, the information in this meme is obviously false,
so I guess that's technically true, but it's still a meme, it's still a joke,
it's still clowning on Limited Run Games. But that was enough to get Brybot banned,
and to have all of his orders refunded by Limited Run Games. And then that same person, Sarah,
decides to post this on the Facebook group. Dude, you got banned for exactly the reasons I warned
you about. I tried, shrug, but yeah, your orders were refunded from what I can see.
Usually takes three to five days to post back to whatever the original payment method was.
Honestly, if I were you, I'd leave it, because if you keep pushing, you'll likely light a fire
under our lawyer's ass. There's a difference between free speech and fragrant misinformation.
What a fucking asshole, dude. Like, this is wild. Imagine when, like, the big Chungus meme came out,
you know, like the really fat Bugs Bunny? Warner Brothers showed up and said, ah,
don't you go posting that meme, because you know what? It uses our original assets,
it uses our company material, so you know what? That's flagrant misinformation.
So the author of this article was technically right, and that, yeah, he was spreading false
information, but it was, like, knowingly false. It was obviously false, you know? When, like,
some terrible comedian shows up on late night TV or whatever, and they're wearing, like, an orange
wig, and they do, like, a really bad Trump impression, and they pretend to be Donald Trump,
and they say all this ridiculous shit, no one thinks that's actually Donald Trump.
We all know that it's a parody, because that's the context of the joke, is that it's a parody.
It looks like the original thing, because that's what makes it funny. So no, it is a meme,
and this is Limited Run Games getting pissed at customers for making memes about them.
And he goes ahead, and he shows off these refunded, refunded, refunded things, you know?
Now, you have to ask, how do we know that these are real, and not just him getting refunds
himself? How do you know he's not just faking all these screenshots and, and drumming it all up?
Well, as it turns out, while I was recording this video, this just happened. From Twitter user
WolfDaddyTX, it's been 13 months since you forked over money. Yeah, it's on us to fulfill our end
of the contract, but since you want to use consumer protection laws against predators like us,
we'll just ban you and sue you. And he's talking about Limited Run Games. This tweet was sent,
let's just see here. It was sent about a half hour ago, at least in terms of this recording. Jesus.
Let's read this ticket thread of his. Hello, I would like to request a cancellation for this
order, as it's now been 13 months since I paid this order, and there seems to be no clear
indication from the developers when it will be ready for manufacture. I've since lost interest
in owning this game, so I would like to request a full refund of my order, including the shipping
costs. Now, in my opinion, that's fair, frankly, if you buy something and it hasn't shipped in 13
months in over a year, get your money back. Yeah. Then here's a Limited Run Games reply.
Hi, unfortunately, per our policy in our FAQ, all sales are considered final. We are unable to
cancel or do a partial refund of your order. Link to this below. I do apologize for the inconvenience.
Well, this confirms that Limited Run Games doesn't actually do refunds. It is a long standing policy
that no refunds are allowed. So I guess that previous guy who has refunds must have come
from them. There's no way he got them himself. But anyway, our friend here replies, as per Australian
consumer law, when a business accepts your payment for products or services, they must supply them to
you within the timeframe they have indicated, or if no timeframe was specified within a reasonable
time. Please, I'd prefer not to have to pursue legal action. I'd like a full refund. And then
Limited Run Games replies with, if you try any legal action, you will be banned from ordering
us again. Wow. Take your money. Don't deliver the product. And then when you bring up that that's,
you know, illegal, they just tell you to fuck off. I have contacted the ACCC, and we'll get
back to you once I've received further advice. And then he just says, sure. Wow. Okay. Limited
Run Games is a piece of shit company. You know, if it was just one, you know, one bad event,
I would understand it, you know, we all have bad days. But this has now become a pattern of
behavior. And it's honestly quite disgusting at this point. You know, this is a company that I
had some serious respect for. I've, I've dropped some money on their products in the past, not
nearly as much as Jeremy. Holy shit, dude. I don't know if you're watching this quartering, but I saw
that collection years. That's a bit nuts. I like the iconic class, but not that much. But yeah,
we are at the point where it just seems like this company is not only run by SJWs. It's run
by completely disingenuous people who will shank their own customers in the back for a buck.
You know, I'm recording this a day before it comes out. I'm recording in the evening
of last night, in fact. And earlier tonight, I was streaming on Game Boomers, Shenmue 3,
which is by the way, a game that I am enjoying very much. But somebody came into the chat room
and said, Hey, hey, Dev, why is it that all the fans of Earthbound are all, they all seem to be
raging SJWs? And I didn't really have a serious answer for him. You know, I didn't, I didn't
really quite get grasped the question because you know what? I am a raging fan of Earthbound. It's
my favorite game of all time. I don't know if you've noticed, but it's in the Super Nintendo
in this video's artwork, you know, that, that is my game. And I had to think about it for a minute.
And I realized it's because Earthbound is a game primarily about childhood and it's bright and
colorful. And it, it really hearkens back to a kid growing up in the nineties. But at the same time,
it's also a very serious game. When push comes to shove, that game is not afraid to thematically
throw down with the best of the adult games, even though it's definitely a game made for kids. And
then I began to think like we have, okay, the stereotype of the 30 year old soy boy with the
giant mouth as he holds his Nintendo switch, you know, Bing Bing wahoo. There's definitely
a market for stuff that looks like it's made for kids, but adults consume it.
That includes Earthbound. That includes Mario. That definitely includes limited run games and
most of their catalog. It includes a lot of indie games. And I had to mull over this a little bit,
but I think if I had to give an answer to that initial question, it would be that these things
attract SJWs basically because SJWs haven't grown up. And I don't know what that says about me
because these things also attract me. And yet I don't necessarily consider myself to be an SJW.
And I'm definitely not somebody who is consistently childish all the time. You know,
we all have our childish tendencies. We all have those moments where we kind of revert to a very
enthusiastic 12 year old when something special comes along. Maybe it's just a difference between
people clinging to their childhood because they don't feel like they have any kind of
serious future and people appreciating their childhood for what it was. And then maybe
part of maturity is learning how to synthesize your current self with your past self rather
than simply overindulging it constantly. I don't know. Maybe I'm rambling a little
bit too much for this video. In any case, limited run game sucks. Don't buy from them ever again.
Fuck them. I'll talk to you guys later. I love you.
