Hello, my friends. Welcome to TikTok Tuesday. No waiting, no nonsense. Let's jump right
into it.
Oh, it's a fight at the cafe. Transphobic.
Oh, is the trans person working there? I think so.
Hi, get out. You are trespassing now. You are trespassing. Get out. Get out. You are
trespassing.
Apparently you are trespassing. Since something sounds phobic.
Did you? Oh shit, she attacked her. Oh. That's beyond the pale now.
You want to leave me the phone. You want to leave me the phone. Let go of me. I've got
plenty of witnesses.
Nope. Listen, you don't get the phone. Even if they called you a slur, you don't get their
phone, dude. Or sorry, dudette.
Man, Karen's versus Tranny's. Whoever wins, we lose. This is one of those cases where
you can't really tell like who actually started it, who's in the right, who's in the wrong.
What I do know is that as the employee of the establishment, the trans person seems
to be in the right to just kick them out. They can do that. They're an employee. They
work there. The customer doesn't have a unilateral right to be there. They are guests and they
can be kicked out at any time. However, the trans person basically loses the encounter
the minute that she decides to attack the cameraman.
You got to remember that even if you might be right in one case, you can't let your moral
righteousness destroy your position.
Looks like an airport. Whoa. Dude, dude. Airports. You don't want to screw around in an airport.
You put on a no-fly list. What are they doing? What warrants this reaction? Oh, the fight's
breaking out. Yeah, this is a fast track to put on a federal list, guys. Come on. My God.
What happened? Was there flight delayed or something? Whatever it was, it can't be worth
getting banned from flying for life. Jeez, you guys got to think ahead to the future,
not just, you know, get mad in the moment.
I got a zero on a project proposal in my class because I use the term biological women, which
is apparently not allowed anymore. She even said it was a good project proposal.
Hold on, hold on. I got to pause this and read this. Olivia, this is a solid proposal.
However, the terms biological women are exclusionary and are not allowed in this course as they
further reinforce heteronormativity. Is this like a biology class? I mean, it's bad anywhere,
but it's especially bad in biology class.
And I 100% know that this is like the most biased grade ever because my project is about
transgenders competing in biological women's sports. How am I supposed to do my final project
if I can't use the word biological women? But that's what my project is about.
I wonder if she used the term cis woman, since that is the accepted progressive speak
for this sort of thing. If she did trans women, cis women and compared them as two different
classes, or would that be like implying that trans women are somehow different from cis
women, even though they are, right? But there is like a push in the very fringe of the activist
ideology to erase all differences between trans and cis women. That's why you just call
them all women. And it's like, well, I mean, some men have penises and it's like, well,
is there a difference between the women who have penises and the women who don't? No,
you bigot. So I don't know. Like she probably could have avoided this, but it's still fucking
retarded isn't it? Like you should be able to say biological women because that's what
they are. I gotta be honest, I'm actually like a little bit triggered right now. I'm
recording some videos ahead of time because I'm going out of town. And so I've done like
three tonight and I'm at like the end of my rope now. I'm like, Oh God, trans activists
dumps bottles of urine outside UK equality and human rights ministry. What? Oh, just
put them in. That'll do it, right? Just put the urine in. Are you going to dump it on
the guy? Or is that the end of it? Nope. Oh, how much piss are you guys pissing? Oh, you're
just dumping it everywhere. Oh, like this is just stupid. Isn't it? I mean, you're putting
on the sidewalk, so it's not going to matter. You don't have the balls to do it inside or
dump it on the windows or anything, but still this is, this is dumb. Ain't it? The UK equalities
minister or whatever it was, you are literally attacking your own progressive institution.
These people are probably like anarchists or socialists. And so they view this as like,
as like bourgeois progressivism or something. Just another example of the left eating its
own. Oh, there's music in this one. Maybe I'll, maybe I'll mute this one. I don't want
to get nuked off YouTube. Let's see. Buildings destroyed in 2020 Minneapolis riots. Let's
see them. That's the police department. Oh yeah. That was gone. They took out a police
department. I remember Sophia Narwhit saying that. That's a liquor store. I assume that
was like looted to fuck. Yep. That's gone. Of course. Is it still gone? Or has it been
the Denny's or do they get the Denny's? Oh, the Denny's is gone. The building looks fucked.
That's Popeye's right. Burn down the Popeye's. Oh, it's just like, it's just gone. The Perkins
restaurant. Yep. That's just man. They, they, the, the riot literally turned this place
into a ghost town. There's like, wow. With the whole building's gone. Like there's just
nothing left. I think this is going to be the famous like anarchist camp, right? Yep.
Where there's people, there's power. Yeah. Whose lives did they actually make better?
Who did they help? It seems like these riots ultimately just made things worse for the
people living in these neighborhoods. You know, these stores are gone. These restaurants
are gone. Where are they getting their stuff? It's the same thing with all like the, the
shoplifting and all the looting videos that we've seen on TikTok Tuesday in the past.
You know, eventually these Walmarts or whatever, they just shut down. They're not going to
keep restocking just so you can go in there and steal everything, you know, and that destroys
your community. Like where are you going to be able to get your stuff? It's, it's ultimately
self-defeating the way these people behave.
This is the alpha guys. You know why this person owns the night? You want to know why?
All day breakfast, baby. You head over at like 2 AM. You got to get some of those breakfast
sandwiches, get some flapjacks. Oh yeah. I'm just wondering what the heck is in our
water supply? What the heck is in our oxygen supply of the metallic oxide salts that create
a rainbow effect in a sprinkler? What? It's just light refracting. It's just like going
through water. Yeah. Why not? Yes, it was. Ooh. Oh. It is a nation. It is a nation. It
is a nation. What's in the water? You're drinking lady. So for most of this video,
I thought it was just like some schizoid, right? But as soon as she said we as a nation,
now I'm thinking it might be like, like a right-oid, you know, someone who's like extremely
anti-LGBT, you know, very plugged into the whole pride discourse. Maybe they just like
scrolling on tech talk. They see all this nonsense and they're like, Oh my God, the
government hates the straight so much that they're putting rainbows in the air to turn
people gay. What would you want his income to be? Oh God hit me with that doomer shit.
Oh my God, lady. These, these bitches don't know anything about money. What? That's like
less, that's like less than 1% of the entire fucking... 150 maybe to 250,000 a year. Most
people make like $37,000 a year or something. I was just having this conversation with my
friend. Yeah. It was like, you have to manifest a husband, girl. My husband needs to be looking
like 600,000. Holy fuck. You said you want 500k, but what do you think the median income is? What's
the median? What's the median? 60k? 70k? It is $45,000. 45, yeah. OMG. I think it's 250,000. Are
you fucking for real? What? No, it's not. Are you fucking for real? Are you bitches for real?
Holy shit. Like, like, okay, this can't be the average one. These have to be like some entitled
fucking LA, New York, Miami bitches. All right. These gotta be girls who are like used to just
money being thrown around constantly. No, no idea what it means to actually work. I refuse to believe
this is the average woman. No, I I'm, I will not take the black pill today. I refuse. Okay. Maybe
everyone but me knew this, but I just learned from the book I'm reading. I'll put it right here.
Okay. That the three meals a day thing. Wait a second. Refusing compulsory sexuality, a black
asexual lens on our sex obsessed culture. This looks more like a slideshow slide than a book.
I wonder if this is a real thing or if it's just like one of those, like only only online books.
Let's just start over real quick though. Okay. Maybe everyone but me knew this, but I just
learned from the book I'm reading. I'll put it right here. That the three meals a day thing,
breakfast, lunch, and dinner is from colonialism. Of course. Of course it is. When the European
colonizers came and saw the indigenous people eating when they were hungry, they were like,
they're savages. They are uncivilized because the white Europeans differentiated themselves from
animals who would graze for their food when they were hungry by setting distinct meal times that
correlated with time of day. I'm not sure it's quite so simple. That is why we eat three meals
a day instead of just eating when we're hungry. Oh fuck dude. I've been getting in touch with my
Aboriginal side this whole time. Fellas, is it white supremacy to not just overly stuff yourselves
and get mega fat? Actually considering obesity rates and race in the United States, maybe it is.
I don't fucking know. But like, this is obviously stupid, right? You know, everything that the
modern world does is white supremacy or is colonialism or some nonsense. And it's like,
no, sometimes people just do things because that way is better than doing other things.
Okay, so this is gonna go mad, but the harsh reality is that trans women are actually
biologically women. No, no, it's like super shocking, but the most important sex determining
organ in your body. It's actually your brain. And there's a lot of
Sorry, dude, but you're not you're not female are very much in alignment with gender identity.
I know shocker. What is this music? Fuck tries to tell you Oh, sex and gender sex and gender. It's
so different. The truth is, it's a lot more complicated than that. And anybody who tries
to call trans women biological males are coping. Nope, you're coping, seething and dilating over
there. Nice argument. But I've depicted myself as the Chad and you as the whoa jack. No, dude, no,
I've gone over this many times before on channel on social media, we're all over the place, right?
Sex is the trait that determines what gametes you produce, because trans women produce either small
gametes, making them males, or no gametes, making them eunuchs. They never produce large gametes,
therefore they are never females. That's how it is. Sorry, between this clip and the one earlier
about the student who couldn't use biological woman in her project early does feel like the
next wave of trans activism is declaring how there's just no difference between a trans
woman and a cis woman. Considering how many L's trans activism has taken recently, you think now
is the time to moderate your position and come to an agreement rather than radicalize further. But
hey, what do I know? Alright guys, TikTok time is over. I hope you haven't lost the will to live yet.
Just remember, the internet is not real life. Most of the things you see are curated and presented
to you for you to be outraged. Don't worry, people out there in the real world, in meat space as they
called it back in the early 90s, they're not like any of the stuff you've seen today. It's generally
alright out there, okay? I will see you guys next time. I love you.
