So, it's been one week, and I don't know if you guys have noticed, but Amazon still hasn't
allowed anybody to put reviews up of this show.
In a very long 72 hours.
I've checked my review, and every time I check my review, it's like, oh, would you like to
publish this?
I'm like, yes, publish.
I'm like, okay, we're publishing it.
Refresh page.
Would you like to publish this?
Maybe reviews are having an effect.
Amazon is scared.
Like, they wouldn't do this if they wouldn't, because you gotta understand how bad this
looks for the normies.
Like hold on.
Why can't I review this?
Why are they holding reviews for 72 hours?
It's been 72 hours.
Why aren't there any reviews?
Like the normies may be sheep, but they're not idiots.
Yep.
It's a big red flag.
Well, do you guys think this will be like the Amy Schumer special where eventually Amazon
just takes out the ability to review because of this?
Like entirely?
Like in perpetuity?
Yeah.
Oh jeez, that'd be funny.
It might be, because it would avoid further headaches, but like it's already too late.
The Rings of Power is a joke, and it is going to be held up as an example of like bad corporate
production for a decade to come.
Wait, what's all that clicking?
Is it, are you like fidget spinning arch or something?
I'm trying to hold it as far away from the microphone as I can, but I've got one of those
grip trainers that I'm using to keep myself awake right now.
Oh, that's right.
We're doing this at 6 AM year time.
Jesus.
Oh my God, hang in there blondie.
Somebody send that man a Coke.
I have had two, but at this point I just need to do something and the grip trainer exhausts
me enough to keep me awake.
Jesus.
So on the, the, the prime video site for Canada, it does show at the very least the IMDB score,
which is 6.7% currently.
Yep.
It shows the same for US.
Yeah.
All right.
And that is off the massive censorship.
Yes.
Jesus.
That's, that's a pretty big oof.
There's still person abuse by the way.
Yeah.
I'm not surprised.
Arch, you and I both talked about hate watching.
I mean, it turns out that putting out reviews does in fact have an effect.
I think we were both correct on that.
Yeah.
Like obviously.
You gotta remember the normies, their only real frame of reference is the reviews.
Like they don't watch us.
They don't even watch the mainstream media.
They look at IMDB, they look at Rotten Tomatoes and okay, is this show good?
And those that do look at reviews, notice that the market's been cornered because Amazon
has removed the reviewing system.
Well, now our reviews are even getting more hits than they otherwise would.
Yep.
And then they'll get suspicious.
Like, hold on, why aren't there any reviews for this show?
And then they might actually go to Google and go like rings of power reviews.
And then the shit will pop up.
Thank you algorithm.
And speaking of actually watching it on Prime Video, I got raked over the coals last week
for because of the fact that like we streamed it from Prime Video.
Listen, I'm going to sell Kibs up the river right now.
It wasn't me.
Kibs is the one presenting this feed to you guys.
I wouldn't watch this on Amazon.
I would pirate this if I was going to do it.
You can definitely blame me for it.
No big deal.
Like I use Amazon because I live out in the middle of Minnesota in the middle of nowhere,
right?
I saw a burn down.
I'm not going to.
So a few things have happened before we start, we'll just I just want to give you a couple
of a little bit more context, okay?
So in the week, the week since since we've all, you know, convened, and the end of reviews
haven't been been allowed to be posted, we've started to see stuff like this, for example,
Amazon's the rings of powers.
The rings of powers is what the is what the article says, is not for purists or racists.
And this article, yes, they're conflating people who care about Tolkien's lore and sticking
to the story with racism.
You might not like it if you're a purist or a racist.
That's how you know a show's good.
Like they have to fall behind that and just accuse anybody who might criticize it.
Well, you just don't like my show because you're fucking racist.
And hey, I admit, I do not like the diversity.
And so far, the diversity has been the only real genuine sign of wokeism.
But the thing is, I don't dislike the diversity, because they're brown.
I dislike the diversity because there's a fantasy setting where they don't exist.
And here's the thing too.
Nothing is stopping them from making a story with a diverse cast.
Like we mentioned the last time they have a village in the Southlands, like in an area
that should be on the border of Rhun or Kandar.
These people should be brown, and yet they are white.
To your villages normally will, but you see, carrying about lower is a sign of racism,
apparently.
Yeah, we don't want that.
So it's got to be an ethnostate village.
See, I had this talk about the light tier movie and the lesbian kids, because a lot
of people are up in arms about that.
And I looked, I was like, this is nothing like it's a loving family.
It's a quick peck on the lips.
This is not a problem.
Yeah.
I don't remember who put it in there, and suddenly it's not just a loving family and
a peck on the lips.
It is the agenda.
There's a reason why it's there.
I still think that wasn't a big deal, to be honest.
It's just whatever.
They didn't do anything with it.
It's okay for me.
It doesn't bother me in the slightest.
I just dislike the underhanded nature.
If they just have it in there and it's like, oh, it's just a thing that happens in the
story.
Not a big deal.
They're only depicting female on female lesbian relationships.
We need full on male, male gay sex.
That's that's what you know.
They're truly brave.
And they got to play it in Saudi Arabia.
Yes.
No, zero censorship.
Well, in the face of all of this racism and all of these racist negative reviews, we had
the official Twitter account of the show post, we stand in solidarity with our cast.
They're doing the same thing that was done in regards to Moses Ingram for the Kenobi
show and every show right now that's getting blasted for being just a terrible piece of
shit.
This always ends up happening, right?
The official Twitter account comes out, posts a big, long diatribe.
Everyone's cheering it on and going, yes, Queen Slakes, it's fucking Twitter and it's
a garbage pile.
You can almost predict these things.
It's like you're in the Matrix and you can just see all of it instead of the code.
You can see exactly what they're going to do exactly what they're going to say before
it even happens.
Well, you can see anybody can see it from a while away is this like it's the go to for
any big corporate project, especially Disneyland.
In relation to all of this, did you guys see the new Lord of the Rings, the Rings of Power
merch?
No, I haven't.
Amazon got together the four original actors for the hobbits, the four hobbits, and they're
peddling these hats and T-shirts that say in Elvish, you are all welcome here.
And then it shows a bunch of different ears, human ears and elf ears of all different colors.
That's the dumbest and boringest thing I think I've ever heard from merch.
It's the cringiest fucking thing I've seen in a while.
Like, not like cool little figurines or soldiers or action characters or maybe like a cool
comic or something that looks atrocious.
That looks so sad.
So if you want to support Rings of Power, you got to buy this T-shirt or else you're
one of the racists.
They also look so old and sad.
Like they don't look like they won't even be there.
It doesn't even jump out and scream.
This is Lord of the Rings.
Come on, Kibs, thirty nine ninety nine.
Show your fucking nine ninety nine for that.
Are you shitting me for a shitty shirt that has some sort of stains on it?
I also need to point out that just like the Riva thing, Ismael Cruz, the black elf, also
had on day one on launch the announcement that he was receiving racist hatred.
Yeah, in fact, I remember that because I said this again in my Kenobi video where Disney
basically told Moses Ingram, you're going to get racist shit for this.
And we're kind of counting on it because that becomes a really good headline.
Please tell us as soon as you get anything, man, we really are at the point where it's
like in order to help the grand political project, you must watch the worst fucking
dog shit TV imaginable.
And if nothing else, it will send yet another loud and clear message to Amazon, because
also the various companies have been turning again.
I keep saying you can't give up just because it didn't happen instantly, that all of these
companies went unwoke instantly.
It takes months and years for them to do anything.
And at the end of the day, it's very simple.
Reward good stuff, punish bad stuff, and sooner or later, the message will shine through.
Well, I think it's time for this episode to shine through you guys.
You guys ready?
No.
Nope.
Lord of the Rings, Rings of Power, season one, episode three, Adar, Adar, Adar, I think
this might be the corrupted elf we heard about.
Let's roll.
All right.
So I keep hearing that this guy might not be Sauron, but Gandalf, Mauler was telling
me that.
If it is, that would be an even bigger lore break than it being Sauron, because Gandalf
is alive right now, like he's in the other land to the west.
He's a person.
Like he went to Middle Earth on a mission, along with the other wizards.
He didn't just fucking dump there one day.
Yeah, it could be, see, I could see it being a red herring because it's too obvious, but
it's one of the things where like, okay, then who is?
Maybe they just killed them.
Maybe we'll never see him again.
Wouldn't that be lovely?
That would be nice.
You want me to skip the intro, by the way, I can if you want.
Dev likes the intro, doesn't he?
This is something else that shows do these days where they're like, they make things
like this to be epic because they somehow believe that they deserve it.
They haven't achieved anything yet, and it's like, oh my God, look at this.
It was also popularized by Game of Thrones with that, honestly, really good opening intro
with all of the clockwork machinations and shit, and now everyone does it.
Yeah.
Well, to be fair, House of the Dragon's doing a kind of decent one, but it's like flowing
wax or something.
I think it's blood.
What, I'd imagine.
You think it's blood?
Yeah.
Well, the entire idea of the Targaryens is that, you know, their blood is special.
Yeah, I guess.
But of the Targaryens' fluid.
The orcs have elected to not kill their arch enemy, the elf, for some reason.
That's because they're actually misunderstood, okay?
Here we have the Ku Klux Klan orcs in their hoods.
Yeah, why are they all wearing hoods?
Because it makes them look more KKK-ish.
What's the entire garrison?
Oh my God.
What the fuck happened?
What the fuck?
They're still in Navjd.
What the fuck?
They suck.
So we let them dance for us alive.
You guys were soldiers.
You had weapons in the tower.
What happened, and why didn't we see that?
Alright, well, now we know why she didn't run to the garrison, because the garrison
was already run by elf-time orcs.
From before this guy saw her own.
Is it Black Queen time?
I didn't know the new middle-eastern universe.
Well, you know, it's the modern day.
My dagger.
My ice-climbing pick.
Oh, time for some more grand CGI, I think.
So is it just me, or does she only have one facial expression this entire show?
Constantly petulant, yes.
It's like women aren't allowed to express themselves anymore.
Slightly constipated.
Slightly constipated.
And here's the thing, you can do that kind of a character.
You can do, like, the female hero from Kill La Kill or something, but it doesn't work
with Galadriel.
That's kind of the point.
She has a character, yeah.
Other than, like, Ryoko from Kill La Kill, her emotion was at least vivid, anger, just
anger, whereas she's just kind of mildly annoyed at everything around her.
Again, it's a strong female character.
The chick from House of the Dragon's the same, frumpy.
That seems to be the emotion of strong female character.
Like Rey, too.
Constantly petulant.
Look, she has to deal with men, okay?
That's enough.
We should tell Galadriel to smile more.
Oof.
Cancelled.
In the Great Wall, your ancestors stood with Morgoth.
How the fuck do you know his ancestry?
Do you smell it on him?
As a reward, the Valar granted on this island.
Hold on, I'm noticing this now.
She's rolling every single R when it's a foreign word.
It feels like, this is going to be a Canadian joke, it feels like she's rolling up the rim
to win.
So Sauron is already here, because he's turning them against the elves.
I think as time drifted, I don't remember, but I believe the Numenoreans did drift apart
from the elves.
Yeah, but a lot of that was specifically Sauron.
Because Sauron comes into play off the whole thing about like, oh, Valar, they're denying
you, the immortality.
Well, some people are saying that this guy is Sauron.
This guy, I could see it, it would be really cringe, but I could see it.
And they're going to do like a Galadriel-Sauron romance.
Oh, stop.
Where she gets betrayed.
I don't think they would do that.
The worst part is I can see it.
I don't want to.
It could be bad if he did.
You're near the fuck.
Ew.
Gross.
Untermich.
Wait, he was checking her out.
Sure.
I mean, she's still wearing the bathrobe they found her in.
Oh my god.
Ah, yes, the Black Queen of the Numenoreans.
Smelt nasty in there.
Another one was black.
Every R, man.
Yes, she does it all every goddamn R.
He's Sauron.
Look at how charismatic he is.
We can't have a competent male.
I am still not sure that the show isn't going to do a Witcher thing and turn out that there's
like five fucking Saurons.
Well, I'm going to go to bed then.
He does have to be evil.
He's going to be evil, yeah.
For longer than you know.
He is raising some flags, it's true.
Sounds like I want to get a little bit, you know, just a little something before I become
a Dark Lord.
Is he someone we should know?
That's Isildur.
The guy we're just seeing there in that scene a second ago.
Yep.
Elendil's son is Isildur.
Right, the guy who ends up with the one ring in the intro of Fellowship.
Yep, correct.
It's a time for Isildur to celebrate his bravery.
Prove you're not just a nepotism hire.
Those sales are very stupid, I just want to point that out.
Sometimes the cinematography makes me think this might be a good show.
And then I am reminded by what we're watching.
The sea is always right.
The sea is a cairn.
There you are.
Jesus.
Those are some Shapiro milkers.
Wait, hold on.
Are they persecuting him based on his last name?
Yep.
So in the lore, didn't Numenor sink into the ocean?
Yes.
They broke a man.
Yeah, it's basically just like...
Atlantis.
Yes, that's what I was thinking of. Atlantis.
And then the Numenoreans became the kings of Gondor.
Are all of the orcs just pale white now?
Yeah, they were black skinned before, weren't they?
Yeah.
Not necessarily uniformly black, but they certainly weren't that white.
Very educated orcs, too. Very smooth-spoken.
I recently watched all three of the original movies with Naomi,
and they basically seemed like anarchists that Sauron whipped into shape, but only temporarily.
I mean, they're intended to be wild and animalistic, brutish.
Gonna get it.
Oh, Jesus.
Okay.
I mean, one of them was gonna die, you could tell.
Yeah.
Also, that is not bleeding much for a fucking neck wood.
I mean, he's not dead, dude.
What the fuck? He's not dead.
Nope, he's dead.
He's barely bleeding.
He's fine.
I mean, he's dead.
I've had worse shaving accidents.
Listen, elves only have a little bit of blood in them, alright?
Apparently.
He's not dead.
No, don't leave him.
He's not...
Never fucking mind.
He's dead now.
He's dead.
Dad shows us he's dead.
Okay.
Very well, TV show.
That is a very stupid axe.
And also, it's like, okay, great job.
Now you have less people to cut down on trees.
Could Amazon not afford the ketchup?
They're gonna be there a while, dude.
Takes a lot to cut down on trees.
Yeah.
At least the orcs don't like being in the sun.
Except for the fact that they were standing in the sun.
Except for when they do, yes.
See, I was gonna compliment them on that touch.
I was like, oh, you know that.
And then they do that.
As they're all standing in the sun, like, yeah, it's whatever.
Show.
Yeah.
Hide your ears.
It's the only identifiable feature of an elf.
At least in this universe, where they're just humans.
Yeah, I guess if you were an elf on a stealth mission, and it were, you know, not this show,
you'd just be glowing down the hallway.
It's like, oops.
Fucking bloodthirsty.
Yeah.
Jesus.
Immediate jumps, I'm gonna fucking kill you.
I guess she likes riding horses.
Caleb.
Also, I wanna point out something as well here.
Uh, Elendil was called Elendil the Tall as one of his names because he was like two and
a half meters.
Well, maybe they couldn't quite do that.
I mean, they can't make the hobbits look small, so I guess it would be difficult to make him
look tall.
Quit pointing out these things, Arch, okay?
Well, who the fuck are you gonna get to play him?
Yao Ming?
Yes.
Well, the thing is, in the Lord of the Rings movies, they managed to use tricks to make
the characters look taller or smaller.
Oh god, is that Galadriel's smile?
Please, go back.
Yes.
Go back to, go back to being grumpy.
We need to not know what we asked for.
No, what the fuck?
Stop.
Actually, that's kinda great.
Like, she looks like a fucking shark smile.
I bet it looks sadistic and evil.
It's better than just having her perma-skull for the entire show.
Yeah, I guess maybe.
I don't know.
Where did he get money from?
He probably pick-pocketed it.
He's stealing from everyone.
Did your guild seal?
No, no, the seal.
He doesn't give a fuck.
That's funny.
Oh, they're mad.
He's too charismatic!
You know what?
I will say he's at least, like, interesting in a way that the first two episodes weren't.
Yep, and there goes the Guild of Crests.
He just, he's sniping it.
Yep.
He's got it.
I mean, he's the, he's, yeah, no, he's better than Disa.
He's the most interesting character so far, just because I can't tell if he's just a lovable
rogue or something.
He's too, he's too good.
I'm hoping he's just a lovable rogue, because it just would be more interesting.
Oh, they noticed.
Darn.
I mean, your captain didn't notice lifting a fucking dagger off him, so.
Because apparently he's ridiculously good at fighting.
Charismatic.
Very.
Oh!
Nice.
Ridiculously strong.
Fucking rude.
I think he is strong.
I mean, that's not human strength.
That was, that was the entire fucking arm bone there.
That was quick.
Self-defense.
At least, at least the police force is good.
Quick response time.
There's no Second Amendment on Numenor, though.
True.
There's a lot of scrolls.
You'd think they'd have books by now.
Yeah, but scrolls are more fancy and old-timey.
Yeah, I guess so.
Oh, there's a book.
There's a few books.
Well, they combine books and scrolls for the worst possible keep-a-jib knowledge.
Good.
They haven't made, they haven't made the transition fully over yet.
They got one guy copying it and used it really slowly.
Yeah, the Numenor story has been...
...accelerated.
I don't mind it.
Stuff's actually happening.
Better than the Harvards.
Wait.
I'm confused as to where the Southlands is.
Is the Southlands Mordor?
Yes.
That's what it looks like.
Yeah, it kind of does.
Why'd you write that down?
Ah.
Yes.
Sauron was like, hmm, my god might lose.
I should make a contingency plan.
Hands out the world map.
Yep.
Well, we already know that he succeeds because the Southlands become Mordor.
Well, yeah, that's kind of the problem.
And in that case, it is on the border of goddamn Run and Kandahan, etc.
Like, Kandahar.
Khan.
Khan?
Kar.
What's the name of the Eastern Kingdom?
Wasn't after the war, though, didn't a bunch of people settle there from different regions that fought alongside the elves?
Or no?
Not that far, I think.
Like, that's well beyond the original borders of Gondor.
No, Gondor actually occasionally occupied a fair portion of Mordor.
Yeah, but remember the Black Gate was their fortress.
I don't think they'd be that deep.
Wait, why do the hobbits have pterodactyl suits?
Why do they look like African tribals?
Because, Dev, it's their cultural heritage.
Oh, they even do the dancy thing.
Yep.
Imagine doing this for hours.
Yeah.
Like, it looks like it's supposed to be a celebration, but you have two lines.
Like, at that point, it just sounds like indoctrination.
Well, or an activist chant.
Whose streets are streets?
You have carts.
Like, why is his ankle a problem?
This society isn't very intelligent.
The hobbit's gonna be like, okay, if you can't walk, we're not gonna carry you, we're not gonna put you in a stretcher or in a wagon, we're gonna leave your ass.
Also, please push, take the goddamn nuts out of your hair, Jesus Christ, why?
Oh, now, see, I've been at that point for a while where I see their hair and I'm like, that's just stupid.
What if...
Look, it's all camouflage, it makes sense in the lore, I think.
No, no, wait, what if they actually grow in their heads?
Because they're forest spirits, so they have, like, branches growing out of their skulls.
I hate their hair so much.
She's independent.
Actually, okay, from the back, you can kind of see the fake plastic stems.
I was almost enjoying myself there for a moment, but now, we're back here.
How many independent female characters, Barge?
You got a problem, Dan?
Just annoying.
There.
What is she wearing?
I don't know, whatever shit she rolled in.
Can you even read? Is that common amongst the Harfoots?
The Harfoots have developed a written language, yet they still rely on images.
And also, they're writing in books, while the Numenoreans still have a bunch of scrolls.
That's a good point.
They have books too, but mostly sort of scrolls.
The Harfoots are more technologically advanced than the Numenoreans.
Don't you like how quirky they are?
Love it.
You know, if I was ten, I would have really enjoyed that scene.
You would have?
Yes.
Really?
I can see it.
As a little kid, I never liked this sort of stuff.
But I guess that's the target audience.
You know, the raging fire and the alcohol somewhat undermines the whole camouflage idea of these people.
Yep.
Yeah.
They're brightly lit encampments. They're stealthy.
Millions of fireflies they probably have to gather.
They have captured a lot of fireflies.
Cultivate them.
They just have, like, firefly farms.
Yeah.
They likewise will be carried with us in our hearts and in our memories.
But their broken bodies will be left behind because we're savages like that.
We will just leave them to death.
Oh hey, it's Sauron.
You mean Gandalf?
Nope, there's going to be, like, eighty Saurons.
I like that one.
Gross.
Actually, you know what they'll do?
They'll make this guy one of the two blue wizards that didn't really have a story.
Oh, the blues.
Yeah, but they arrived along with the rest of them.
Like, they all arrived at the same time.
He's a wizard.
They're a wizard, Harry.
All the Harfoots are right there.
Yeah, but they're bees.
You got stung a lot, I guess.
Oh, she'll notice.
They'll laugh because he got stunned to death.
I called that close.
Dude, you're burning!
He's like, oh, shoot.
I needed more light to see, okay?
I'm really nearsighted.
Now, don't mind me as I set fire to the entire encampment and, uh...
Oops.
Laugh track.
Nori!
Everyone's gonna turn their heads towards her.
And she's gonna get...
How dare you?
She's gonna get exiled.
It's gonna be like a Princess Mononoke thing where she's thrown out of the tribe, eh?
Oh, Shell, this gang.
They really will not wait for her.
Oh, my God.
Can we go back to the sea people already?
They're doing Frodo, guys.
Can you feel it?
It's Frodo.
Femdo.
Femdo?
I mean, blue wizard's dead.
That's actually just me looking at my monetization.
Hey, they're talking about the franchise.
Are they?
Yeah, the past is dead.
Oh, shoot, if you have to.
I didn't pick up on it.
It's too late.
It's too late in the evening.
That's quite the statue, Jesus.
Oh, they're just gonna do the Aragorn story again.
Literally just Sargon.
Just a few questions as to how Galadriel just walked into jail.
Like, there's no guard stopping her.
She's just fine.
She's got the right to do this now.
Listen, Arch, the Elfa Sea unlocks a lot of doors, okay?
Ooh, maybe it will actually be Sauragorn.
And he'll be, like, mentally conflicted.
Like, should I be Sauron?
It's like, I really like Galadriel, though, like a lot.
Yeah, Galadriel convinces him to become Sauron.
Actually, you have to be king.
Do I? Yes, okay.
If that'll win you over, does it?
I don't want to be with you anymore.
What the fuck, woman?
You're evil now, Jesus.
Woman.
I'm trying to think about how impractical this is.
I try not to think about it, but I can't help it.
Listen, it was basically built by gods, okay?
They've got skills.
Fair enough.
I like some of the stats in Numenor, though, at least.
Five sticks.
The scrolls thing is starting to annoy me, too,
because they've got ridiculously high-level architectural skills.
But scrolls.
Yeah, scrolls are a bit more primitive.
I'm almost expecting them to have wax tablets.
Oh, not the hardwoods.
The stealthy cat-out hats.
I'd rather have the black elf, actually.
I love these things.
They're like, how do we make it stealthy?
We'll put, like, leaves on it.
Nobody will ever see it moving.
Are you going to leave a trail for the brandy books?
Ah, yes, make the guy with the broken fucking legs pull the cart.
Brilliant idea.
Maybe I'll have eggs with him.
Fuck it.
This time, get animals.
Get a horse, man.
Oh, it's a giant.
It's Sauron.
He's going to help him drag the cart.
Me and him.
Blueron.
Like, use him as slave labor.
Maybe more.
He's actually kind of cute and, like, lost puppy kind of way.
Fucking lost giant puppy.
He's the only character of interest in this arc, in my opinion.
Yeah.
They all are suspiciously white, aren't they?
And they're wearing white, too.
Oh, shit.
They would explain why they hate sunlight because they've got no melanin.
Mm.
They're sizzling.
It burns very conveniently now.
Not earlier, though.
Have you considered using bows, maybe?
Oh.
No throwing weapons.
I mean, that works, too.
Ah, good old-fashioned tug-of-war.
They're just tug-of-warring.
Fucking exhilarating.
Don't cut them down with your weapons or anything.
Let's pull them, Dorothy.
Was that easy?
Oh, no!
So, did orcs always burn from sunlight?
Uh, yes.
Okay.
Except for the urakai.
Because Saruman's urakai are special.
Right.
That's why they made a big deal about it.
Wolfers.
It's a barge, but it looks dumb.
Oh, god, it does look dumb.
It does look dumb, yes.
What the fuck is wrong with that?
What the fuck is with that thing?
That's some-
Is this a hog-bog?
Bog-bog.
Attack.
Oh, Jesus.
It's like a chihuahua.
I do like how they just let her die, by the way.
Oh, my god.
They're so fucking incompetent.
That's a killer.
Oh, don't worry, black elf to the rescue.
Oh, I saw Legolas do this once.
Oh, my god.
That face.
That thing's face.
Forget about the chain.
Just stab his ass.
Like so.
You stabbed him with a branch.
Oh, hey.
Wouldn't it be cool if the other orcs had bows and arrows, too?
I didn't expect that.
Did they think there wouldn't just be guards up above the trenches?
Now, why?
Because he's the main character, Kyle.
You can't just kill him.
Fuck.
Does it make sense for them not-
I mean, they killed everybody else, but not him.
Yes.
And now we need a reveal of Idar here.
And this is going to be Sauron.
They're all just Sauron.
No, no, no.
This is a red herring.
Like, this is too obvious.
Yeah, Idar's like a sub-commander or something like that.
Yeah.
He's an elf.
Yeah.
He's a motherfucking elf.
Yeah, there's the way he's Sauron.
And there ends the episode.
He's a fucking elf.
Wow.
Well, hold on.
Didn't Sauron appear to the elves as a fellow elf, in fact?
Kib, stop it, Kibs.
Stop what?
The preview of episode four.
Okay.
I stopped it just in time.
Okay, so yeah, that was episode three.
What did you all think?
I mean, it was better than one and two.
That's true.
That actually happened.
This is kind of the House of the Dragon problem as well, where you start in the middle of
the goddamn story.
Like, episode one and two was practically pointless.
Very little was established other than introducing the characters, which could have been done
in an hour.
Easy.
Yeah.
Now, finally, the ball is rolling.
And I mean, it's better because something is happening.
That's true.
Yes, I agree.
I like what they're doing with Halbrand.
He's the most interesting part of the show now, is Halbrand.
You know what's happening here?
You know what this show has turned into?
It's turned into a $5 billion production of Find Wally, as we were like, this is Sauron.
That's Sauron.
Oh, wait.
Sauron.
What if the big twist by the end of the season is that all of these plotlines are happening
at different time periods and they're all Sauron?
That's what I was suggesting earlier.
Like, I would not be surprised.
Like, in one of the other ones, the Southland's already fallen and they don't know it yet.
Yep.
The thing is, like, I actually wouldn't mind that because if they managed to do it subtly,
it can actually be a rather clever twist.
Like, oh, look, these are all my machinations, right?
You know?
I am Sauron.
I've done all of this.
But are they that clever, though?
No.
Well, I guess we will see.
We didn't get any Elrond this time.
No elrond, no dwarves.
Honestly, this is probably for the best.
The other episodes having all of the story arcs intermixed was a disaster in my opinion.
Because it was just, and then then and then and then, and just like, and this group, and
then now this group is doing something.
Stuff actually happens when we actually focus an episode on only a couple arcs at a time.
It needed more focus, certainly.
So if the show slows itself down and gives like, okay, this episode is dedicated to these
two groups of characters rather than jumping around all the time.
The Hogwarts are still an incredibly unnecessary element.
Yeah, the only interesting thing the Harfoots have going isn't the Harfoots.
It's the it's the dude, the big dude, tall dude.
It's Blueron.
It's just here's the thing, though, of the last time we did this, the most interesting
part of of that first video that we did was was Durin.
So it's kind of sad to see him again.
He'll get his own episode.
Again, if they're going to slow it down and focus, then maybe we'll get more do it in
the next episode, because this this was Black Elf, Harfoots and Galadriel's arcs.
And nothing really happened with the Black Elf.
Like, OK, he's a slave and they had like a failed revolt to go.
See, the problem with the story line is it seems.
Yeah, right at the end.
Yeah, right at the end.
They just kind of hint it.
Yeah.
The Black Elf storyline hasn't done anything.
It's still at the exact same spot.
Like, what reason do we have to give a shit about his adventures?
It shows the fate of the Southlands, what it's going to do.
That's my my theory.
And it's going to also show us Adar, whoever this guy is.
Well, that's true, I guess because Galadriel is talking about the Southlands.
Oh, that's what it is.
It's actually going to be Mordor in the future.
And his story arc takes place there.
So it's going to be more about the location, less about him.
That's the thing, though.
One of the brilliant things about Lord of the Rings was that it told you a lot of things
without explaining them in detail.
It made them mysterious.
Like they were talking about, you know, dark things.
I don't know if we need to see the Southlands form.
Because otherwise it's not going to be Mordor.
Yeah, but wouldn't it be more interesting if the people of the Southlands just went quiet or something?
Instead of having this where it's a Black Elf going like,
Well, I'm here.
Entire garrisons of elves overrun instantly off screen.
Where they just like, they close the gates and then like all communication stops.
And then some of the fuck happened over there.
It's like a mystery.
But the issue is that I am not a fan of the elf garrison because that was the problem.
How the hell do you have this band of randos overtaking elf garrison?
Well, you don't.
So you just don't.
We just don't show it.
But the problem is, is we should, in my opinion, story wise, we should see the Southlands fall and learn a little bit of how it falls.
But the execution is so bad that we're better off not seeing it because they did it so poorly.
Well, Kibbs, the execution is so bad we're better off not watching the show.
That's true.
Not seeing any of it at all.
Yeah, I don't know what else I have to say about it.
The first two episodes we could nitpick to shit because there was so much wrong with it.
But this one, it's like, oh, it's turned into like competent TV.
And it being competent means it's like, oh, well, it's there.
It's committing the cardinal sin.
It's no longer so bad.
It's good.
It's now it's just mediocre.
The issue is this is after two hours.
Like we are three hours into a TV show now and we have just finally been introduced to the scenario.
When it comes to the Lord of the Rings extended edition, that's like 12 hours of stuff you can watch.
At the three hour mark.
At the three hour mark.
Where are you?
You're basically at the part where they are.
They're they're exiting Moria.
Yes, that's what I thought to be.
It'd be around the exiting Moria and getting into Galadriel's realm.
A shit ton has happened at that point in the story.
Yep, there's you could talk about it for hours.
Honestly, all the stuff that happened, all the nuances of what happened in Moria, all Frodo and them and the forming of the fellowship.
In this show, at the three hour mark, we've basically just left the Shire.
Yeah, this slow pacing hasn't benefited the show.
Like, I care no more about Black Elf now than I did three hours previously.
Yeah, honestly, we could cut out.
Honestly, episode one, A Shadow of the Past and episode two, Adrift, cut those two out and then skip to three.
There's so little.
Skip to three, slap on 10, 20 minutes of exposition.
Like, have the elves, you know, they're having a happy day.
You know, they're just doing their shit.
Then the orcs sneak in, ambush them, drag them away.
I mean, skip the boat entirely.
Just have her be on Numenor.
On Numenor?
Yes, for some reason.
Because the entire part of that is just dumb.
Like, the swim home part is the stupidest thing I've seen in television in a long time.
You just start swimming off into the horizon and you're like, oh, okay.
That wasn't for plot armor.
She'd just be dead, dead, dead, immediate, no survival.
But then again, I mean, if Numenor is barred from the elves, how do you get her there?
Oh, you have to get there by circumstance.
How do you do that?
Oh, with the shipwreck.
How do you get her to her shipwreck?
Well, the only time we know that the elves actually do any sort of sailing is when they're going off to their homeland.
So we've got to get her on one of those boats.
So how do we do that?
Oh, we've got to honor her somehow.
And then, like, you can follow their logic back, but it's all just contrived.
And the problem too is, the Numenor storyline has been so ridiculously special.
Like, the fall of Numenor is supposed to be the fall of Numenor.
It's supposed to be the slow corruption of the people against the Valar and against the elves.
But not only have we skipped that, we've gone past it to the point now that they have instituted an ethnostate that hates all non-Numenorians.
I mean, we're not even talking about the lore inconsistencies now, because you could get started there and never stop.
Don't be a racist, Arch.
Yeah.
This is just the story we're talking about here.
Like, this could be done a lot better.
And I feel like maybe they're resting on the idea that this is going to be a five-season thing and that this will be something epic and people won't mind the first two hours.
But at the same time, if the Fellowship of the Rings was just two hours of Frodo fucking about in the Shire, would anyone watch it?
I mean, I've watched that over this.
But not very much.
I'm guessing that they're trying to take, like, oh, we're in a TV show.
Let's just take the extra time we have.
But then they run into the risk of just boring people.
I guess I would rather there be more than too much than too little.
Are you sure about that, though?
Because you can definitely get too much.
Fair enough. I feel like we've been getting a bit much with the Harfoots.
Yeah.
Fucking Harfoots.
I'm not going to go away. That's the worst part.
Yeah.
Like, the Harfoots are just unbelievably uninteresting.
Like, they have no role in the story. They shouldn't be here.
The only reason they're there is because the showrunners were so blinded by the established thing that had gone before it.
They were like, we must have Harpets. We can't have Harpets. Harpets didn't exist. We must have Harpets.
Oh, they need to detach themselves from the fact that they have to be like the Lord of the Rings movies.
Because by doing that, they're shackling themselves to the idea that they're competing to be that thing that was so good.
And so they're already setting themselves up for failure.
Yet at the same time, though, they're not adopting any of the positive aspects of the movies.
Goodness.
Why does that thing exist?
That thing is in the uncanny valley. It's not scary. It's a dumb look.
That had some weird CG going on with it. Something wasn't right there.
They'll spend some extra hours in the bakery.
Yeah. I mean, I don't know what the heck they were thinking.
The Vargs from the Lord of the Rings, like, the original trilogy, yeah, they're like hyenas crossed with, like, some sort of horse thing.
But you know what? Whatever. It looks alright.
These things, or that thing, I don't know what the heck that was. It did not look right. It looked a little derpy.
Well, a pug barg.
It did look like a pug barg.
It had the balding eyes, too.
Man, it did not look healthy.
If you spend a billion dollars in the show, and you're gonna, you know, work a dozen VFX artists to death every single day to get it out, you gotta make it look better than that.
But obviously they didn't work enough VFX artists to death, Dev.
That's true. She's got a point.
We gotta sacrifice more South Koreans.
The city scenes themselves don't look half bad, but that Varg, oh, that was vain to look at.
Alright, it's 2am, and I gotta edit this before going to bed, and Arch, you're probably ready to collapse, so...
It's time, isn't it? It's time to wrap it up for today.
Fun and games. Fun and games.
So we'll be back again next week for more of this nonsense.
Thanks for being here, guys.
And thank you.
I wish I could say it was a pleasure.
But we're watching Lord of the Rings, the Rings of Power, so...
It is what it is.
