So the other day I had an epiphany. I was bored and flipping through channels on TV and I happened
to stumble upon Jimmy Kimmel Live and for the first time ever I started watching Jimmy Kimmel.
I sat down and watched this program for about 15 minutes and it was genuinely, no joke, some of the
most god-awful content I have ever seen on television. If you haven't watched a full episode
of Jimmy Kimmel, the closest thing I could compare it to would be watching an old tortoise slowly
cross a highway at rush hour. There's just an odd looming feeling of disgust that's difficult for
me to describe and that's when it hit me. I cannot stand Jimmy Kimmel. Jimmy Kimmel is one of the
most insufferable individuals I've ever witnessed. I have a theory that no one actually likes Jimmy
Kimmel. I think at most people just tolerate him. I find it really hard to believe that there are
any die-hard Jimmy Kimmel fans out there. There may be people that like the show but I just don't
buy that anyone likes him. But by the same token, most people don't really dislike him either. He's
a guy who most of the time is just so bland and uninteresting that nobody really pays attention
to him and Jimmy Kimmel has used this tactic of being just bland enough to slowly wriggle his way
into the flesh of popular culture. I think most people just assume that because Jimmy Kimmel is
everywhere, then he must be some really talented and respected guy that everyone loves. It's like
the Emperor's New Clothes. Everyone just assumes Jimmy Kimmel is this really great guy and no one
really questions it. But when you dig a little bit deeper, you'll find that Jimmy Kimmel is actually a
very problematic individual. In fact, Jimmy Kimmel is emblematic of some very troubling issues in
American society as a whole. And before I jump into why, it's important to recognize that when I talk
about Jimmy Kimmel, I'm talking about the persona he portrays on television. I don't know the guy,
maybe he's a really good dude off screen. But on screen, Jimmy Kimmel is a cultural tumor and I
don't think anybody realizes just how bad he is. This is the definitive Jimmy Kimmel rant.
So let's start with the obvious here. Jimmy Kimmel is supposedly a comedian, yet his show isn't really
that funny. And yeah, yeah, I get that humorous objective and whatever, but Jimmy Kimmel is one of
the least funny comedians I have ever seen. And a lot of people would probably agree with me on this.
Let me put it to you this way. Watching Jimmy Kimmel is like watching a try to laugh challenge.
It's actually somewhat fascinating how unfunny this show is. Winter Storm Quinn as the Weather
Channel, uh, or Winter Storm, Winter Storm Quinoa as the Food Network is calling it.
You can be funny by either constructing clever and well thought out jokes or by making a joke so
unfunny that it is funny. When Jimmy Kimmel structures his comedy, he somehow fails to land
on either end of the spectrum. His humor is so bland and tepid that it's actually somewhat sad.
It's like watching a middle-aged school teacher trying his hardest to appear funny to the students
even though he's completely out of touch. You almost want to throw in a pity chuckle,
but Kimmel delivers his jokes in such a smug and cocky way that you can't feel sorry for him.
He just ends up floundering on stage as you wait for him to shut up and interview a celebrity.
It's pretty ironic how the least entertaining part of Jimmy Kimmel Live is Jimmy Kimmel,
but that's nothing. I wish Jimmy Kimmel only stuck to unfunny jokes because the other stuff
on the show is even more problematic. So if you've ever watched any clip from Jimmy Kimmel,
it's probably been one of the show's side segments like mean tweets or street interviews.
Katy Perry has a voice that reminds me of balls covered in glass sliding down my throat.
They ask you how you are, you just have to say that you're fine. You're not really fine,
but you just can't get into it. And as far as I can tell, these segments are really hit or miss.
The two segments I happened to watch on TV the other day were pretty atrocious.
One of them was literally just making fun of a guy's foreign accent.
And the other was some of the most uncomfortable five minutes of television I've ever seen.
I hate to use the word cringe, but that's honestly all I felt when watching this segment.
I genuinely feel sorry for the two families who participated in this.
But regardless of the quality of these segments, you have to realize that they all profit off of
other people's content. Jimmy Kimmel takes advantage of powerless individuals to fill
content on his show. He's essentially doing the same thing as YouTube compilation and reaction
channels. Basically Jimmy Kimmel knows he's not entertaining enough to carry the show on his own,
so he supplements his programming with other people's ideas. He takes trendy ideas from the
internet and fools the public into thinking he came up with them on his own. He just plasters
his face and logo over real entertaining content and funnels all the credit to himself. We rip
apart YouTubers like SoFloAntonio for doing the same thing, yet Jimbo has been doing this stuff
all along on national television. I won't lie, this is definitely me when I'm driving.
...and several other traffic violations...
That's not a hit and run, that's a run and hit is what it is.
Funny jokes. It's just lazy and it sets a poor precedent for entertainment as a whole.
Why work hard to write creative and original content when you can just repost ideas and
entertain your audience regardless? But whatever. So what if Jimmy Kimmel profits off of unoriginal
and unfunny content? These things are somewhat forgivable. It's a network TV show, this kind
of stuff happens all over the place. So what's the big deal? And if Jimmy Kimmel only did these two
things, then I wouldn't be making this video. But no, old Jimbo is not satisfied with just being
unoriginal and unfunny. No no no, he has to actively try and warp society as he does it,
and that's where I draw the line. Now it's my problem.
So let's talk about politics. Jimmy Kimmel likes to talk about politics. Actually,
politics is a bit of a stretch. Jimmy Kimmel likes to talk about...
Donald Trump. Are you aware that Donald Trump is the President of the United States?
No, but seriously, this guy never shuts up about Donald Trump. And this is not really
all Jimmy Kimmel's fault. It's part of a larger trend that I like to call the Colbert Effect.
So here's a bit of background. In 2014, longtime late night TV host David Letterman retired,
and CBS elected to replace him with Stephen Colbert, the former host of the Colbert Report
on Comedy Central. The Colbert Report was a politically charged parody of Fox News hosts,
and Colbert himself comes from the same school of thought as outspoken liberal comedian Jon
Stewart. So when Colbert took over the late show, he brought his political viewpoints to a more
mainstream audience. And by political viewpoints, I mean bashing Donald Trump for 40 minutes straight.
But truth be told, Trump bashing is a good way to attract viewers. After Trump embarrassed
the Democrats in the 2016 election, American liberals reacted like a swarm of hornets
defending their nest. These bitter and delusional liberals have developed such a raging vendetta
against Trump and the Republicans that they will stop at no end to viciously attack anything he
does. Because that totally worked in the 18 months before the election. But anyway, after Trump's
inauguration, Colbert's late show attracted these angry liberal viewers en masse, and it became the
highest viewed program in its category. He took over the position from Jimmy Fallon, host of the
Tonight Show, who chose to downplay Trump discussion in order to preserve the comedy of his program.
Jimmy, this is working for other people. Maybe we should step into the anti-Trump lane and get in
on this. It's just not what I do. I think it'd be weird for me to start doing it now. I don't really
even, you know, care that much about politics. I've got to be honest, I love pop culture more than
I love politics. Which is actually a pretty respectable decision, although he certainly paid
for it in the ratings. So we've already established that Jimmy Kimmel is unoriginal and he doesn't
really care about comedy. So he decided to steal the idea of Trump bashing and use it in his own
show to try to boost his own ratings. And my lord is it obnoxious. Trump, Trump, the President.
President. Donald Trump. Trump. President. Trump administration. Here's the problem.
You can talk about serious political issues or you can have innocent family scavenger hunts.
But you can't have them both. I'm sorry, but people don't tune into late night talk shows
after a hard day of work to get lectured about how bad America is. And even the ones who do
won't take you seriously because five minutes later you're Skyping a dabbing suburban family.
You've generated a completely unnecessary conflict of interest, but Jimmy Kimmel is so desperate for
viewership that he tries to play both lanes and he ends up turning politics into a joke and making
his comedy less funny. Let's just look at this segment from the episode I watched. For those of
you who don't know, the U.S. and North Korea have been on bad terms since the Korean War
60 years ago. North Korea literally teaches anti-American propaganda in their schools,
which is admittedly not too different from the state of California. But seriously though,
North Korea is really, really despicable. North Korean people live in horrific conditions and get
executed when they try to leave the country. It's a brutal totalitarian dictatorship and it's
responsible for the biggest continuing human rights disaster in the world. When Donald Trump
took office, he took a no-nonsense approach to North Korea, openly mocking their leader
Kim Jong-un and threatening nuclear retaliation. And at the time, the media ripped Trump for
threatening nuclear war. But it actually might have worked because on March 8th, 2018,
the White House announced that Trump accepted an invitation to meet with Kim Jong-un. This is
huge news. This could potentially lead to peace with America's worst foreign adversary.
So let's see what Jimmy Kimmel has to say about this.
President Trump appreciated the briefing and said he would meet Kim Jong-un by May.
By May? He's not still going to be president by May. We need to get that.
Wow. Okay. So he completely takes the piss out of it and somehow manages to spin the story into
anti-Trump rhetoric. This is just so stupid and counterproductive for society. And it's not just
Kimmel who does this. Like I said, it's most of these late night hosts, but it's as if these guys
are physically incapable of saying a single positive thing about Trump. And I don't even
like Trump and I disagree with a lot of his policies, but this anti-Trump bias in the media
has become laughably absurd. Trump could cure cancer and bring world peace in the same day,
and the American media would still find a way to spin it into a negative. Trump is here
potentially making peace with North Korea and all Jimbo can say is, and then he expects to be taken
seriously as a political commentator. Also, I don't buy that he's just a comedian making fun
of topical events. Kimmel and these other late night hosts never went after Obama to the extent
they attacked Trump. And I don't care how much you don't like Trump. It's ethically irresponsible for
Kimmel and the rest of these talking heads to inject their political bias in American society.
The media has gone so berserk with this anti-Trump agenda that it's bordering on propaganda at this
point. I find it funny how a month ago the media was actually sympathizing with North Korea just
to spite Donald Trump. These people are so delusional in their belief that Trump is this
fascist incarnation of Hitler that they're willing to side with a literal fascist dictatorship just
to be contrarian to the president. Oh well anyway here's another segment mocking the president. Man
isn't it messed up how Trump has done some sexually questionable things in the past?
Coming up next is an interview with former alleged rapist Kobe Bryant.
Bernie Sanders or Hillary Clinton?
What I do like about Bernie is that when he loses because the system is rigged against him totally
just like it was rigged against me I mean the system is rigged and if I didn't win by massive
landslides every state I would there was no chance that I could have won. But it's what started Amy's
downward spiral or upward spiral of her giant massive ego. So let's talk about celebrities.
Americans are obsessed with them. There are people in this country who will literally saw off their
own limbs just for the opportunity to be spat on by their favorite celebrities. Celebrity culture
in America is toxic, parasocial, and I've always hated it. I understand that it's important to
appreciate and respect talented people but Americans tend to accentuate these principles
to the point of celebrity worship and when you place celebrities on these impossibly high
pedestals you start to forget that celebrities are just as flawed as the rest of us. And it's
talk shows like Jimmy Kimmel Live that really perpetuate America's celebrity obsession.
Celebrities and talk show hosts have a symbiotic relationship. The celebrity benefits by having
their book, movie, or album promoted to a national audience and the host benefits by leeching off the
celebrity's fame. Celebrity interviews have allowed relatively untalented people like Jimmy Kimmel to
become celebrities in their own right. Americans just see Kimmel on the same screen as their
favorite celebrities and they begin to associate him as equal status. It's simple Pavlovian
conditioning. But I'm not here to complain about Jimmy Kimmel interviewing celebrities.
I understand that celebrity interviews are a routine part of every talk show.
I'm just pointing out that it's a bit hypocritical of Jimmy Kimmel to lampoon Trump's sexually
questionable past and then 10 minutes later have a pleasant chat with Kobe Bryant. I mean come on,
the guy spent a year in a rape trial in 2003 and to do this during a time when all of Hollywood is
tainted with allegations of sexual misconduct it just reeks of a double standard. And you can see
this double standard on full display during Jimmy Kimmel's recent monologue at the Oscars.
Watch how he downplays Hollywood's sexual misconduct by labeling it as a men's issue
rather than a Hollywood issue. But what happened with Harvey and what's happening all over was
long overdue. We can't let bad behavior slide anymore. The world is watching us. We need to
set an example and the truth is if we are successful here if we can work together to
stop sexual harassment in the workplace if we can do that women will only have to deal with
harassment all the time at every other place they go. Wow. And this is just such a scummy thing to
say. No Jimmy the rest of society doesn't sexually harass women. How dare you condescend and slander
the rest of us for something we don't even do. I've never sexually assaulted a woman. I don't
associate with anyone who's ever sexually assaulted a woman. The vast majority of men
in society have never sexually assaulted a woman. Men who do sexually assault women get promptly
punished and ostracized for it and the only men who sexually assault women and get away with it
are rich powerful men like the ones in your industry. But go ahead downplay all the sexual
abuse in Hollywood by spreading lies misinformation and irrational fear to the rest of society.
Kind of ironic how you're preaching to the rest of us to respect women Jimmy considering some of
your past work. Let me show you guys a little segment conducted by Jimmy Kimmel called Guess
What's in My Pants. I'm just going to let the footage speak for itself. And you're allowed to
feel around on the outside of the pants you'll have 10 seconds to then guess what is in my pants.
How old are you? 18. Okay good you're sure of that because Uncle Jimmy doesn't need to do time.
Feel harder feel a little bit faster squeeze squeeze maybe it would be easier if you put
your mouth on it. Yes oh my goodness. Women will only have to deal with harassment all the time
at every other place they go. Wow that's pretty bad that's YouTube prank channel's level of bad.
And you're allowed to feel around on the outside of the pants you have 10 seconds to then guess
what is in my pants. Now I don't watch the Oscars. Most of the time the best film doesn't win
and the whole program is infested with celebrity fileting and social justice lecturing.
Jimmy Kimmel's Oscars were no exception. None other than President Trump called Get Out the best
first three quarters of a movie this year. And I find it interesting that Jimmy Kimmel is so
progressive and cares so much about social justice you almost forget that it's coming
from the same guys who made this. Sometime at night Pablo look up in the sky and say.
What the hell going on up there? Do UFOs live on another planet?
Phone and home like E.T. Come on read on TV. This is blackface.
Wow okay so it turns out Jimmy Kimmel has done some pretty racially and sexually questionable
stuff in the past. Well at least he doesn't stand up there and pretend he's morally superior to the
rest of us. Right? Ask yourself this if Jimmy Kimmel is so unoriginal and unfunny then why
hasn't he been replaced? He's not as funny as Jimmy Fallon. His political commentary is far
worse than Colbert's so why does the network keep him around? Why is he given the privilege of
hosting the Oscars? What element gives Jimmy Kimmel any value at all? Well you see every now and then
Jimmy Kimmel likes to get up on his little soapbox and give a big fat speech. We saw it last year
after the Vegas shooting where Jimmy Kimmel gave a deep impassioned speech with tears in his eyes
about the horrendous tragedy which he monetized on YouTube. But yeah big boy Jimmy standing up
to the evil NRA and those evil Republicans who want people to die in mass shootings and people
love these speeches. People call Jimmy Kimmel a hero for standing up and being the self-appointed
moral compass of America. Well I'm here to say that's all a bunch of bullshit. Jimmy Kimmel is
just manipulating people's emotions after a tragedy and misleading the public just to inflate
his ego and push his political agenda. Gun violence in America is an incredibly complex
issue with no definite solution yet people like Jimmy Kimmel use every single mass shooting as
a vehicle to ram the gun control arguments down our throats. Now I want to make this perfectly
clear I don't like guns and I don't like the NRA but this notion that banning guns will magically
stop gun violence in America is completely ridiculous and every one of these talking heads
like Jimmy Kimmel pushed this point that all these tragedies could have been prevented if there were
just a few more gun laws in place. That's the basis of their entire argument and it completely
oversimplifies the issue into oblivion while shutting down genuine discussion. Jimmy Kimmel
fools people into thinking that solving gun crime is as easy as banning assault rifles and they
think you support mass shootings if you disagree with that. Because it's too soon well maybe it's
too soon for you because deep down inside you know in your heart you know you bear some responsibility
for the fact that almost anyone can get any weapon they want now you want to cover yourself
until the storm of outrage passes you can go back to your dirty business as usual. Never mind the
fact that the vast vast majority of gun violence in America is carried out with handguns in the
inner cities banning guns is common sense and if you disagree you're basically a child murderer.
It's completely reductive reasoning that does nothing to help the problem and people like Jimmy
Kimmel do this with every political issue. Oh fixing education is so simple just throw more
money at it it doesn't matter that the U.S. has tripled their education spending since the 70s
and test scores haven't improved if you disagree then you must hate teachers and children and the
republicans do it too. Oh what's that you don't think we should spend 50 quintillion dollars on
the military? I guess you want America to be weak and defenseless. When you oversimplify an issue
to that extent you end up misleading society and derailing the discussion away from real solutions
and Jimmy Kimmel does this with every one of his little speeches and yeah I get that he has good
intentions and all but Jimmy Kimmel is an entertainer he doesn't know a thing about politics
yet people listen to him as if he's some kind of expert he sure thinks he's an expert earlier this
year he said you gotta be smart to be a liberal he really played the to be fair you have to have a
very high IQ to be liberal card man you know for a party of such brilliant people you guys sure do
lose a lot but that can't possibly be because of your own flaws no it's the fault of those dumb
evil racist republican voters I'm sure this year's oscars had the lowest viewership of all time
because anyone who didn't watch it hates women and minorities and supports shooting children
I'm so sick of these smug liberal hollywood millionaires who think they know what's best
for America do you ever think people get tired of listening to you insult the president every
five seconds do you think innocent people enjoy getting called racist sexist child murderers just
because they disagree with you because it's not like the vast majority of conservatives vote
republican because they want to pay lower taxes or anything nope they're racist bigots all of them
we should know since we're such intelligent liberals and all these rich hollywood liberals
like Jimmy Kimmel think they're such heroes for pretending that race relations are still a serious
problem in America you want to be a hero Jimmy how about you use one of your speeches to talk
about real issues maybe talk about the massive health crisis in America that's just been
happening under our noses maybe talk about how one out of every three Americans is fatter than
the michelin man maybe talk about solutions to a broken public school system that doesn't involve
just throwing more money at it because I don't see why it's still necessary to force kids to
waste six hours a day five days a week 180 days a year to sit in a place they don't want to be
when the internet exists maybe talk about how America's flawed infrastructure and urban design
has directly disadvantaged the working class maybe talk about how huge corporations practically
manipulate American lawmaking to maximize their profits by as much as possible maybe talk about
how the war on drugs has turned millions of regular recreational drug users into dangerous
hardened criminals maybe talk about the military industrial complex and why we're still fighting a
war on terror 17 years after 9 11 maybe instead of vaguely preaching at people to stop global
warming you offer some actual solutions talk about the disastrous ecological impact of factory farming
encourage people to go vegan hell you could have talked about the rampant sexual misconduct in
your industry happening during your entire tenure before it became a public affair you could have
talked about all of these real problems in America but you don't because I guess it's just easier to
pretend that America is this bigoted hellhole and to get called heroic and brave for standing up to
a fake problem that you made up you keep perpetuating this nebulous agenda of racial and social
justice as if the civil rights movement never happened I get that maybe one out of ten thousand
people in America are still overtly racist but who gives a shit about them let them be racist
it's just an opinion how are we going to get rid of racism and stop talking about it
stop punishing the rest of us just because a tiny sliver of people have bad opinions your divisive
rhetoric is turning Americans against each other for no reason and making society a worse place
Americans can't turn on late night talk shows anymore without being scolded for stuff they
don't do and don't believe it's so ironic that most of these people who demonize the rich white
elite are themselves part of the rich white elite these people have surrounded themselves with a
cocoon of yes-men who agree with all their stupid ideas while shutting out anyone who even
questions their delusional agenda they have lost sight of America's real problems so they have to
invent all these dumb made-up problems like microaggressions and representation in movies
it's like they're so out of touch with real people thanks to their inbreeding of ideas
that they have no clue what's actually going on in America doesn't it bother you guys that you don't
bother you guys that you don't know anything
weren't you a friend of hill like a good friend of hillary clinton's at one point
now i know you you're very very down on her what happened i had some i had some disagreement
with her foreign policy i see with her foreign policy dan's character is not did you did you
agree with her foreign policy listen never mind her foreign policy how about captain wacko we
got running the country here i mean foreign policy i'm shocked because i know you're you
were a very liberal socially liberal person in general i mean i'm still the same you all
moved we did you all went so far out you lost him
a lot of us you know no matter who we voted for we don't want to see our president fail
just chill just chill you know try to think positive for like why people wanted to change
and it's up to the people here's my two cents damn it okay it's up to us to make this government work
no matter who's president it's up to us to do our jobs as citizens and if we don't like something
you know let them know you don't like it and then you got another election in two years
get out there and bow you listen you're expressing your views as crazy as they may be
so why did i make this video all you ever do is complain why do i even care what jimmy kimmel
says or does well can i just say this real quick have you noticed that liberals have gone completely
insane and it's not all of them but it's certainly more than a healthy amount for society i mean
just look at what some of these people are doing and saying these people are clinically insane
and there's a ton of them you want to know why liberals keep losing in america
maybe it's because a big chunk of your party has gone off the deep end you liberals are so
confused as to why people are choosing republicans over you when the answer is so simple all you have
to do to beat the republicans is be the less ignorant party all you have to do is be more
rational than info wars people and you have somehow failed to do that it's a complete joke
and don't assume i'm making this video just to bash liberals personally i think society functions
a lot better when liberals don't act completely insane and there was a time not too long ago when
liberals were the far more rational party that was back when they actually cared about helping
disadvantaged people and in just a decade or so you liberals have somehow taken that simple idea
and corrupted it into bullying anyone who disagrees with you by calling them racist
nowadays rather than helping the poor or the sick it's all about helping the blacks and the gays
liberals don't treat people like people anymore it's all about dividing up everyone by their skin
color gender and sexuality the very same principles that real liberals fought against in
the 60s many of today's liberals will tell you that there's no such thing as a poor white person
because they genuinely believe that the color of your skin somehow makes you privileged
this toxic belief system is destroying western civilization and it's seeping into some of the
most powerful institutions of society some of these liberals certainly belong in an institution
and that raises the question what went wrong how did these liberals become so delusional well i
think the answer to that can be found every weeknight on abc at 11 35 you're what's wrong
with america get off the stage you have guys like jimmy kimmel who have this huge platform
and a ton of influence espousing their uninformed political opinions and americans just buy into it
these guys get all riled up and emotional and say a bunch of stuff that sounds good in the moment
and people fall for those ideas without even thinking jimmy kimmel's rise to prominence is
a cautionary tale of trust and loyalty for some reason many americans trust celebrities and
entertainers so much that they're willing to blindly accept any of their opinions as true
because here in america we love our celebrities and how can a celebrity be wrong about anything
but it's important to remember that hollywood is a place where some of the most talented people in
the world come together to produce great works of fiction but fiction isn't real and when you
surround yourself with nothing but fiction don't be surprised when you start to lose touch with
reality so i guess the lesson of today's video is jimmy kimmel is a talentless hack and he's
polluting the public agenda with dumb ideas so do yourself a favor and stop getting your political
and moral guidance from a guy who performed in blackface on national television oh but then again
what do i know i'm just a guy who complains about memes memes are dumb and stupid i have no idea
what i'm talking about i'm sure uh-oh looks like emp lemon is back on the downward spiral again
tune in next month when emp complains about something else emperor lemon's never-ending
downward spiral world tour is brought to you by patreon volto lonbo etienne senpai
haha i saw these guides a whole day ago and by viewers like you thank you you know i thought i
got out of the downward spiral for a little bit just as i was pulling myself over the edge it put
me back at the beginning it put me back to the bottom it just resets itself there's no way to
get out of the downward spiral it's an infinite loop and i've never been more at the bottom
hi i'm jimmy kimmel i hope you enjoyed that video hit subscribe and
maybe it would be easier if you put your mouth on it
