Hey, it's been a while since I made one of these update video thingies, probably because
it's a waste of my time because no one fucking watches these.
But anyway, today is a special day.
And a lot of you may not know why, but today is special because it is the sixth anniversary
of me opening this YouTube channel.
Yes, I have now been making YouTube poops for six whole years.
And by this point, most other poopers would have either quit or moved on to other pastures.
But here I am, continuing to make these silly videos for the better part of a decade.
And in that time, I've watched YouTube poop grow and change.
At the same time, I've changed personally a hell of a lot, along with my videos.
And with that being said, I have a lot of stuff I really need to get off of my chest.
First thing, the long YouTube poops are over.
The Pixar YouTube poops are over.
If you're still sticking around for these, you just need to stop wasting your time and
unsubscribe.
I clearly explained I was moving to shorter YouTube poops nine months ago, and yet I still
get dozens of comments on every video commanding me to start making quote unquote good YouTube
poops again.
Number two, and this may come off as a shocker to most of you, but I am a human being with
a traditional role in society.
I am not a YouTube poop making robot who sits on his ass for 16 hours a day making videos.
I know it's difficult to be cognizant of this, but there's a guy behind the screen through
which you watch my videos.
I go to school and I take advanced classes with more work than most of you could possibly
imagine.
I also have a part-time job, and ever since September of last year, I've been writing
essays on a weekly basis for college applications and scholarships.
Basically, I have a small list of things to do in my life before I can actually work on
YouTube poops, which brings me to my next point.
Number three, I make YouTube poops for fun.
I wasn't always popular, you know.
There was a time when I just made these videos whenever I felt like it, added whatever random
shit I wanted and uploaded it just to see what would happen and how people would react.
Then somewhere along the way, my whole focus of what matters in this hobby began to change.
At about the time when I started working on the non-credibles, I began making these videos
with the purpose of pleasing other people while sacrificing my own enjoyment, and it
worked because it was at this time when the greatest number of people bought into my channel.
I had the greatest subscriber gains ever during this period.
However, the success was a double-edged sword for several reasons.
For one, I began to stop enjoying making videos.
At about the time of deep frying Nemo, I was getting really tired of making really long
YouTube poops.
It just felt like a chore, you know.
The point of YouTube poop for me is to get away from all the tedious shit I have to do
in real life.
It's supposed to feel liberating, not like, oh, I'm going back to the old grind.
I never, ever want to feel that way about YouTube poop again.
So therefore, beginning last year, I started making the videos I actually wanted to make.
I just wanted to go back to the way it was before I had a shitload of fans so I could
just crank out a quick video whenever I felt like it.
Sure, the newer product is not as clever, robust, or logical as the more time-consuming
poops, but the point is I actually enjoy making them.
And at its essence, in its purest form, that's really the only thing that matters in YouTube
poop.
And I just wanted to return to that simplicity.
Except it's not that simple.
Because I am popular now.
The other major negative consequence of my rise in popularity is that I have created
a legion of jaded quote-unquote fans who expect nothing but perfection from my videos.
For some reason, I've created this expectation that each successive video I make has to be
more humorous, more ingenious, more daunting than the previous one.
And for a few months, that may have been true.
But now, it's not.
Yet people still retain these sky-high expectations for my videos.
It's gotten to the point that for the last several uploads, no matter what the video
is, I lose almost 100 subscribers.
I am certain that if I just uploaded nothing since October, I would have more subscribers
right now.
Let me level something with you guys right here, right now.
The reason the newer poops are so different in quality from the previous ones is because
I actually tried to have fun while making them.
You know that Simpsons poop I just uploaded?
That was the most fun I had working on a poop in years.
Years!
At least it was fun before I got absolutely shat on after uploading the damn thing.
Oh, there's too much ear rape!
It's too random!
Why are the Simpsons green?
Why are they green?
Let me give you a few reasons.
Number one, well, it avoids copyright, which is kinda useful in this day and age.
Number two, it's never ogre.
Number three, who gives a fuck that they're green?
It's a fucking YouTube poop.
I don't know.
I've been making these videos for over six years now, and I've come to the conclusion
that YTPs are not supposed to make sense.
The more you apply logic to YTP, the less enjoyment you're gonna have.
YTP is something where you just turn off your brain and let it happen.
Can you self-professed YTP critics out there please take a step back and look at yourselves
for a second?
And yes, I'm aware that this only represents a small vocal minority of my fanbase.
But you people are becoming genuinely upset.
Your jimmies are getting rustled and they're spilling onto the table along with your salt
shakers all because you didn't like some guy's YouTube poop.
I'm not saying I'm against people criticizing my videos.
Just try not to sound like this guy or this guy or this guy when writing your scathing
reviews of my videos.
Were my videos ever really that good?
I mean, really.
All of these people lambasting me in the comments insinuate that my videos have severely deteriorated
in quality, whining that I don't spend enough time on my videos anymore.
Of course I don't spend as much time on my videos anymore.
I don't have enough time in the day to work on YouTube poops as much as I used to.
I'm fucking sorry I can't spend 16 hours a day working on videos for you guys, but I'm
trying to make the best of it by uploading short videos every few weeks rather than spending
three months on one single fucking video.
And it's these types of comments, the work harder and longer comments, that piss me off
the most.
I can tolerate comments complaining about ear rape or jokes, whatever.
That's based on personal preference and there's nothing I can do about that.
But don't you fucking command me to do something like I'm your fucking dog.
I don't make these videos for you.
If I did, this would be nothing more than another godforsaken boss to answer to in life.
I already hear enough of this shit from my teachers, parents, managers, and the government.
I don't need people to boss me around about fucking YouTube poops where the entire fucking
purpose is to get away from that bullshit.
If you're one of these people with the fucking delusion to think that I will listen to your
hackneyed demands, you need to unsubscribe from this channel right now.
I don't want you subscribed.
I don't care if I lose 10,000 subscribers.
You people already treat me like I'm the fucking fine bros by unsubscribing with every
video.
Well, this is the definitive unsubscribe video.
Send me the crap below 100,000 again.
At least it would remind me of a time when the shit was still fun, a time when I wasn't
berated and pestered for every fucking video I upload.
Send me below 50,000, back before the pedantic pricks at the YouTube forums have to open
their mouths constantly about how bad of a person I am for being popular.
I'm fucking sorry people like me, you two.
What a crime!
God forbid YouTube poop ever be more than a stupid self-indulgent inside joke shared
by tens of people.
I'm fucking sorry I sent new people to your forums in earnest, which you proceeded to
shit on for not being from 2009.
I'm fucking sorry it's not 2009 anymore.
I'm sorry that time fucking exists and it causes things, including YTP, to change.
I'm sure when scientists invent the first time machine, the first fucking thing they're
going to do is go back to 2009 just so you guys can fap to fucking Robotnik CDi Fuckfest
Adventure again.
You know what?
I'm done.
I am done caring.
The chains are off and I'm free.
I'm finally free to be myself.
So if you're still watching at this point, you're probably wondering, what's your point,
Emp?
Why have you made this butthurt rant over a couple of rage comments from people you'll
never meet?
Well, this is a video that needed to be made, and honestly, it's been a long time coming.
But the real purpose for this video is to explain why things have been changing on this
channel.
The reason I changed my name and profile picture is to reflect the idea that I am moving forward
with this YouTube channel.
I've started to take a more diminished role in YouTube Poop and I intend to transition
into more tangible content for this channel.
I want to make new types of videos in which I'm more personally involved and I want to
deliver commentary on a wide range of interesting issues.
Now, does that mean I'm done with YouTube Poop?
No, not at all.
In fact, I'll continue to release short YouTube Poops fairly often, but be warned, the new
videos are coming.
They're not going to be here today or tomorrow, but don't be surprised when they start showing
up.
And since you're probably going to forget about this and complain anyway, let me give
you a final word on what will be the last and only thing you'll ever need to know about
me from now on.
The only thing that's for sure about Emp is nothings for sure.
