Brought to you by Raycon. Stay tuned till the end for more information.
Fruit of the Loom is an American clothing manufacturer most well known for selling
underwear. Most people recognize the brand for their colorful logo which has nothing to do with
underwear. In the middle is a big red apple surrounded by three different colored grapes
and dark green leaves. According to official sources that's all there is to the Fruit of
the Loom logo, but many people will claim that this version is missing something.
One of the strangest topics of obscure online lore is the discrepancy over whether the Fruit
of the Loom logo ever contained a cornucopia. It's an example of the Mandela Effect,
a phenomenon where many people's memories do not match up with reality.
Many examples of the Mandela Effect can be chalked up to common misconceptions.
The often cited Berenstain Bears is most likely misremembered due to how common the suffix steen
is in proper names. People misspell Looney Tunes because of how they're used to spelling cartoon.
People misspell Fruit Loops because of how they're used to spelling fruit.
A lot of these erroneous memories are created out of a company stylizing a certain word in a logo
and our brains auto-correcting it to a more conventional version. Anyone who has ever
studied for a history exam can tell you that we can't always count on our memory.
We utilize a combination of schemas and heuristics to efficiently process information.
These cognitive techniques give us speed at the cost of accuracy. They allow us to read scrambled
words like these but sometimes they cause us to miss information hiding in plain sight. On my
Dale Earnhardt video I missed this typo despite reviewing it nearly a hundred times in editing.
Sometimes our minds play tricks on us and we see things that aren't really there.
This is the construct. Most psychologists believe that memory is a reconstructive process.
We recall information not through identical snapshots of events but by piecing together
a scene through a series of key details. Reconstruction prevents memories from being
100% faithful to reality. No one can pay attention to all the minutia of an event.
So beyond a certain point of specificity certain details will be left out rendering our memories
forever incomplete. In addition to this reconstruction may be influenced by several
other cognitive processes resulting in distortions. Sometimes people may reconstruct a single memory
out of multiple separate but similar events. This is likely the reason behind some people
remembering the mythical Sinbad Genie movie Shazam. In 1996 Shaq starred in a movie called Kazaam
two years after a Sinbad TV airing in which he dressed like a genie. The Lost Sinbad movie was
simply the result of people conflating these similar events. There was no Jiffy Peanut Butter
only Jiff and Skippy. When recalling information we tend to either miss details or mix up details
with something else very similar. What is far more unusual is recalling a unique detail that
supposedly never existed. The Fruit of the Loom discrepancy implies that numerous people are
falsely inserting an extraneous object into the recollection of the logo. This isn't the same as
people misremembering a monocle on the Monopoly Man. Caricatures of wealthy aristocrats are often
depicted with a top hat and monocle so it's entirely plausible that people would project
the image of a monocle onto their memories of Mr Monopoly. Ultimately the error is nothing more
than adding a small circle and line to a monochromatic drawing. With the Fruit of the Loom
logo people are supposedly mistaken and envisioning a distinct brown object unlike anything else in
the frame. A cornucopia also known as a horn of plenty is not exactly a common object.
wordcount.org ranks the term cornucopia around the 42,000th most common word in the English language.
I'd imagine that for most of you watching it's a word that only crosses your mind maybe once
per year. Even on the rare occasion that someone does encounter the term its most common present
day use is the figurative sense meaning abundance or the term used to describe the place with all
the weapons in the Hunger Games. The physical object the word is referring to serves the very
niche purpose of a decorative autumn accessory. Cornucopias are most frequently depicted among
fruits and vegetables common to the fall harvest. This includes apples and grapes but more often
features pumpkins squash corn and sunflowers crops you'd expect to see around Thanksgiving
time. For most of us the sight of a cornucopia will evoke a color palette of gold brown and orange
consistent with the changing vegetation of autumn. These colors are mostly absent from the Fruit of
the Loom logo so it's somewhat far-fetched to infer that this image would naturally prime people
to think of a cornucopia. If that were the case then wouldn't people be mistaking a cornucopia
out of any logo with a pile of fruit? To make matters more bizarre many who claim to remember
the cornucopia mentioned that they first learned about the object from the Fruit of the Loom logo.
Some recall specific conversations with their parents in which they mistook the object for a
seashell or a bugle chip. Others distinctly remember mistakenly referring to the cornucopia
as the loom which is another term most young children haven't learned yet. It's much harder
to dismiss this version of the logo as a fabrication when so many corresponding memories
exist. Most people claim the cornucopia logo existed in the 1990s and early 2000s although
some recall a cornucopia as far back as the 60s and 70s. In 1973 jazz musician Frank West released
a parody of the underwear brand whose album cover referenced the shape of a cornucopia.
In 2006 the film Ant Bully depicted a pair of underwear clearly based on the Fruit of the Loom
brand which also features a cornucopia. In the 2012 South Park episode about zip lining
Cartman's underwear portrayed an additional reference to Fruit of the Loom which once
again depicts a cornucopia. These are three different kinds of media from three different
decades all portraying the same object in reference to Fruit of the Loom's logo.
Additional references to the cornucopia can be found in various print sources across the time
span. However in stark contrast to the abundance of personal testimony and secondary sources
regarding the logo physical evidence of the cornucopia's existence has proven hard to come by.
Over the years Fruit of the Loom has sold conceivably millions of products
so how is it that hardly anyone has been able to produce even a single example of the cornucopia
existing on old clothing? Solving the paradox is seemingly as easy as reaching into your
old underwear drawer and finding a pair with a design. So why can't anyone seem to do it?
Vintage Fruit of the Loom ads aren't much better at helping us find the cornucopia.
Many followers of the theory like to point to this canceled trademark filed by the U.S.
patent database as evidence. However the legal code cited in the paperwork is liberally applied
to any trademark with a pile of fruit so we can't assume this is significant for Fruit of the Loom.
Company representatives continue to deny that any trace of a cornucopia ever existed
leaving many ardent supporters of the elusive logo utterly baffled.
The result is one of the most mysterious and widespread misconceptions of our time.
It's a dilemma that makes no sense for either side. Why would so many people erroneously
believe that such a visually distinct object once existed in the logo and why would Fruit of the Loom
have any reason to instigate a mass cover-up? This was something people all around the world
would see every time they pulled down their pants to use the toilet. How could it result in this
much confusion? Well going back to previous examples one explanation for the discrepancy
would be that people are simply confusing the Fruit of the Loom logo with some other
prominent logo featuring a cornucopia. Browsing the U.S. trademark registry reveals several other
similar logo designs but none belonging to brands prominent enough to reasonably create such a
widespread dispute. Some like to point to the brown leaves of a previous logo iteration and
claim that people have confused that for the cornucopia. While the shape and formation of
the leaves is not at all like the supposed cornucopia design it is somewhat plausible
that on very small print versions of the tag some people may have mixed up the two. Another
explanation could be that the cornucopia version of the logo was only printed on knockoff versions
of the main brand. Knockoffs are common for virtually any brand of apparel but Fruit of the
Loom typically marketed itself as an inexpensive consumer product so it seems unlikely that a
generic clone could claim enough of the market share to fool so many people about the true
appearance of the logo. It's possible that the cornucopia logo only existed as a seasonal variant
or as part of a special collection. This could explain why people can only find the standard
fruit version. Maybe the cornucopia only existed on some tags of Fruit of the Loom products rather
than serving as the official logo. Either way these explanations don't help us justify why
physical versions of the cornucopia don't seem to exist. More radical theories point to the idea
of parallel universes and timeline swapping. The possibility that our consciousness was seamlessly
transferred to a totally separate but equally plausible reality. A reality where everything
is identical except for a few cosmetic differences between brand names and an undiscovered Sinbad
movie. At the end of the day does it really matter whether or not the Fruit of the Loom logo has a
cornucopia or whether Kate Kat has a hyphen or whether the tip of Pikachu's tail is black?
The Mandela effect is largely a manifestation of the mundane. Information which is not salient
enough for us to pay close attention. Everyone in America has probably seen the face of a penny
over a thousand times but how many of us can accurately recreate all of its components from
memory? The fact of the matter is that the face of a penny is not relevant to how we understand
it as an object. There's no disputing who was president in 1985 or what the score was before
the Atlanta Falcons choked in Super Bowl 51. We tend to remember whatever we find important,
fascinating or unique and oftentimes your underwear tag doesn't quite fall into that
category. Sometimes it's easier to imagine that reality itself has been distorted than confront
the idea that our memory on an everyday level is quite fallible. Memory is one of our only
connections with the past. In many ways how we remember the world makes up the essence of who
we are as a person. We go about our lives under the assumption that what we remember is entirely
accurate and it's terrifying to consider that our assessment of reality may only be tenuous at best.
Ultimately memory is a lot like underwear. We use it every day, it's necessary for our daily lives
and we always have it on unless we're very intoxicated. We don't tend to think about it
very much because it seems so straightforward and reliable. Unfortunately both memory and underwear
are doomed to wind up permanently stained with something we don't quite understand.
A cornucopia much like a memory is a relic of a bygone time, a token of the past that will forever
remain frustratingly out of reach. At least now you can appreciate being in the now. The present
makes up a tiny fraction of our lives compared to the past and future but it's the only time frame
we will ever truly know. We live in an unprecedented era when we are no longer encumbered by the
imperfections of memory alone. Almost everybody on earth now has the ability to capture a moment
in time with as much detail as you can fit on an HD display. Thanks to the technology of the future
our connection with the past has never been stronger. So be sure to preserve the past by
taking plenty of photos and videos in the present. Enjoy the now, even the mundane details because
you never know just how suddenly things can change.
Oh hey, how nice of you to stop by. I was just getting ready to chow down on another delicious
Thanksgiving feast. So Rusty, do you remember a cornucopia in the Fruit of the Loom logo?
Do I ever? Of course I do. No, of course I don't. Why would there be a cornucopia in the Fruit of
the Loom logo? It doesn't make any sense. Is Fruit of the Loom supposed to be a Thanksgiving-based
underwear company? Is this all part of the Mandela Effect? The whole thing, did Mandela die or was he
just in prison for a long time? Can you imagine how disrespectful or how disrespectful it is?
Not can you even imagine. It definitely is. Is the man dead or is he still alive?
I mean, all right, it's very effing stupid that people are confusing movies that
include huge stars. Like, all right, did Kazaam actually have a movie about a genie starring
Shaquille O'Neal or was it Shazam with a largely forgotten actor Sinbad? Of course it was Kazaam
with Shaquille O'Neal, the movie that everyone remembers if you're older than 20 years old.
Oh boy, sounds like yet another classic Thanksgiving dinner table rant.
It's a good thing I have these noise-isolating Raycon earbuds.
If you're looking for a great gift this holiday season, you should pick up a pair of Raycon
Everyday E25s. Starting at just half the price of other premium brands, Raycon earbuds offer
enhanced bass and seamless Bluetooth pairing with a more compact, comfortable design. Pass the time
while traveling by using their high quality sound to listen for never-before-heard Mandela Effects
in your favorite songs. And with up to six hours of battery life, you can outlast those really long
family arguments. Now's the time to get the best prices of the year on Raycons. But hurry, this
offer is only available for a limited time. So check out the link in the description below or
head on over to buyraycon.com slash amp lemon for 20% off your order. Who are you talking to?
Who are you talking to? There's no one else here. Everyone is dead. The virus has killed everyone.
Everyone is literally dead right now. Why are you trying to sell your this this product to nobody?
You think anyone cares if no one's alive? Pathetic.
