This video was made possible by Hover.
Buy your domain before it's gone for 10% off by going to hover.com slash wendover.
Imagine a $2,000 car, or a $100 laptop, or a $70 iPhone, or imagine any product ten times
cheaper than it was.
Imagine the fundamental market change that would bring.
Imagine the amount of demand there would be for that $2,000 car, or a $100 laptop,
or a $70 iPhone.
That's what Elon Musk imagined 15 years ago when he sat on a pile of $165 million.
Elon Musk's businesses are all centered around some of the most basic principles of
economics out there.
When he starts a business, he's not necessarily trying to do something new, he's trying
to do something right.
Musk made most of his early fortune through his involvement with PayPal.
In 1999 he founded a company called x.com which was quickly bought by Confinity, the
creators of PayPal, so when PayPal was bought by eBay in 2002, Musk's 11.7% ownership
of the company translated to $165 million.
Elon Musk has always been deeply passionate about space exploration and, as anyone knows,
public interest in space has been falling since the Apollo era.
Therefore, Musk's plan with his newfound fortune was to launch a rocket to Mars carrying
a small greenhouse that would grow plants on the surface of the red planet.
Basically, he wanted to take all his money and put it into a big publicity stunt for
space exploration, but he had a problem—it was too expensive.
The cost of launches was absolutely immense and, even when Musk tried to buy decommissioned
Russian ICBMs, he couldn't find a way to pull off the project, but he had discovered
something—the space launch industry was ripe for disruption.
Here's Joseph, the economics expert from RealLifeLore to explain why.
The rocket development and space launch companies before SpaceX were essentially aggregators.
They bought engines and guidance systems and all the other various components from other
companies to cobble together one completed rocket.
But all the different component suppliers also had their own component suppliers to
make their product.
The suppliers of the suppliers not only had to cover their development and manufacturing
costs, they had to sell their components at a markup in order to make a profit.
And then the next component manufacturer had to do the same, which means that by the time
the component gets to the company that's assembling the rocket, it's expensive.
Not only that, but the assembly company also has to pay for employees that work to actually
figure out how to make all of the different pieces work together.
SpaceX, however, works differently.
It makes 85% of the components it uses itself, which allows it to make cheaper parts.
For example, if SpaceX had bought their radios externally, they would be paying $50,000 to
$100,000 each.
But since they developed them internally, they only cost $5,000 each to build—a dramatic
improvement in reducing cost.
Joseph from RealLifeLore has a brand new book which includes two fantastic chapters explaining
simple economic concepts like this that I'll link in the description, but let's talk
Tesla.
Tesla's economic strategy is fairly similar to SpaceX's.
Tesla themselves makes about 80% of the 5,300 parts in a Tesla car, but for the most part
it doesn't make these—the batteries, at least yet.
Batteries are very difficult to make at a competitive price so very few companies do.
The largest three manufacturers—Panasonic, BYD, and LG Chem—make a combined 63% of
the world's batteries.
Tesla, therefore, has historically just bought batteries from Panasonic at a cost of about
$200 per kilowatt hour, but that means that Tesla's smallest battery pack—the 50 kilowatt
hour version—costs $10,000 just in components.
When you're trying to sell a $35,000 car and make a profit, that's a significant
cost that can be reduced.
Therefore, Tesla is attempting to reduce the cost of their batteries by 30% by building
their own factory in a joint venture with Panasonic.
Their long-term goal, however, is to drop the battery price below $100 per kilowatt
hour which would either double the range or halve the price of that 50 kilowatt hour battery
pack.
But the vertical integration of Tesla and SpaceX isn't all useful.
The companies basically have to learn and perfect each step in the manufacturing process
and, if one step isn't working, no cars get made.
For example, the Tesla Model 3, the low-cost Tesla, is built using steel instead of aluminum
like the Model S and X.
With this change, the manufacturer is having troubles properly welding the vehicle bodies
together and so the entire production line is slowed down massively.
But there's something else unique about SpaceX and Tesla's production lines—they're
in the US.
Now this probably seems counter-intuitive.
Why would you put the production lines of two companies working to make the least expensive
products on the market in one of the most expensive labor markets in the world?
Almost every US company has relocated their production lines to cheaper labor markets
in Asia and Africa but Musk has always had his in the US.
Believe it or not, this isn't a PR move.
It actually makes sense for the two companies.
Tesla and SpaceX's production processes are constantly being tweaked and optimized
as the companies learn to make their products.
While China might be able to build Tesla cars at the same price by using cheaper human labor,
Tesla's US factory is just miles away from its headquarters in Palo Alto meaning that
the executive, development, and production staff are all heavily integrated and can make
changes fast.
SpaceX even takes this a step further—its offices and manufacturing lines are all under
one roof.
The Tesla factory in particular is also heavily automatized and the US excels in production
line automation with its abundance of highly sealed workers.
But just how much is Musk dropping the price on his products?
The United Launch Alliance, which historically has won most of the highly lucrative US government
launch contracts, is believed to charge more than $400 million dollars all in for a military
satellite launch while SpaceX charges about $80 million dollars.
So SpaceX is already at a fifth of the price but, as mentioned, Elon Musk wants that to
fall to a tenth.
Here's the key for that.
The fuel used in the Falcon 9 rocket only costs about $200,000 per launch.
It's practically a non-factor in the launch price.
The real cost is of the rockets themselves so that's why SpaceX is making them reusable.
The first stage of the rocket is now being designed to land back on earth and be put
back into service with dozens of more launches.
Once this system becomes reliable, it's believed that the cost savings will drop the
launch price to $40 million dollars—a full ten times cheaper than the United Launch Alliance's
military launch price.
SpaceX's long-term goal is to get the launch price down to about $10 million dollars per
launch.
While this has already made a significant impact on the space industry, a launch price
as low as this would fundamentally change what's possible in space.
Real space tourism would become feasible, commercial satellites would become downright
commonplace, and space would become closer than it's ever been.
But SpaceX does have a bit of a problem.
People aren't really buying more rocket launches even though prices are down.
It's what's known as a price inelastic market.
That's the opposite of Tesla and the electric vehicle market where lower prices lead to
huge increases in sales.
The problem with the space launch market is that it is not a consumer market.
Normal people don't buy rocket launches.
Governments buy rocket launches and they don't care about price nearly as much as people
since it's not the decision maker's money.
The US Air Force, for example, decides they need to launch a certain number of satellites
each year for national security reasons and they'll pay whatever it takes.
But Elon Musk's life goal is to get humanity to Mars.
That's why SpaceX exists and he needs money to do it.
Lots of money.
So, SpaceX is getting into the internet business.
The company is actively developing a satellite constellation that would provide high-speed
internet to anywhere on earth.
Thousands of small satellites would be put into low earth orbit and then anyone worldwide
could hook into the network using an inexpensive ground receiver.
If SpaceX got just 50 million users out of the 7 billion in its proposed service area,
this business could bring in $30 billion a year.
Since SpaceX would be building and launching the satellites themselves, costs would be
dramatically lower than the competitions.
The whole commercial aspect of SpaceX essentially exists to fund Musk's future space exploration
projects.
For that reason, SpaceX is not a public company like Tesla.
Elon Musk does not want to make money with SpaceX.
He wants to get to Mars.
He does not want to be beholden to shareholders and profitability.
Musk has therefore publicly said that SpaceX will not go public until the company achieves
regular flights to and from Mars and thanks to the entrepreneur's understanding of basic
economics, that might not be too far off.
If you're looking to start a company, you'll need not only an understanding of basic economics
but also a domain.
Hover makes finding and purchasing your domain super simple.
They have over 400 domain extensions that let you create unique domains like mine—Wendover.productions.
It literally takes minutes to find and buy your domain but if you do ever have an issue
they have amazing, best-in-class customer support that will help you with anything and
everything.
If you have a name for your business, your YouTube channel, or anything else, you should
buy your domain now before it's gone.
You can also set up custom, professional email addresses using those domains for very reasonable
prices and what's best is that you can do all of this for 10% off by heading over to
hover.com slash wendover and you'll be supporting the channel while you're at it.
Hover is what I use for my domains since it just works and you should too by heading over
to hover.com slash wendover.
