Hello my friends, I'm hanging a bit more artwork today.
As you can see, that's Robo from Chrono Trigger, his schematic, and that's the time machine
from Chrono Trigger.
Man, I just licked my posters, however, I'm not doing nothing.
While I'm hanging these posters and spending the day just basically doing odd jobs, I'm
also uploading my entire backlog to my Bitchute channel, that's Bitchute.com, I think it's
slash short fat otaku, maybe it's slash channel slash short fat otaku, it'll be on the screen,
you'll see what it is.
But yeah, see this, this is on the accuracy of Indefensible, it's like a Dylan Cuthbert
video that I did like four years ago.
Basically the entire SFO backlog that isn't currently on my Bitchute channel is being
uploaded there right now.
There have been people asking me about the status of my Bitchute channel, or if I have
one or whatever, well, I do have one, you can go see it, and as of the end of today,
every single video that I've ever put up will be there, they're being uploaded today, as
you watch this video.
Look, it's happening right now!
Yeah, I've still got a bunch more posters to go, so I'll be doing this all day, just
uploading videos and hanging posters.
Tomorrow, I plan to do a Project Veritas video, which I think the recent Google stuff,
I think that's actually quite important to talk about, I just haven't had time to do
it recently, mainly because editing that Dumping with Scrump last night, last night's Dumping
with Scrump, was an incredibly awful situation.
It took a lot out of me doing that, that was like five days of editing, believe it or not.
Oh, and I guess I might as well talk about this now, a lot of people got mad at that
Dumping with Scrump, because they didn't like Lilith's opinion regarding kids and hormones.
Her opinion isn't mine, I'm not willing to deplatform her because we disagree on things,
I'm not an SJW.
I personally think that if you're trans, you probably shouldn't have hormones until you're
18, or like, I know an age of consent in some countries is 16, you know, whatever, point
is, is that it's one of those things that should be relegated to adults and not children.
But yeah, everyone who wants Lilith banned off the channel, I'm sorry, that's not going
to happen.
I'm willing to platform her and disagree with her.
I'm not a moral gatekeeper here, guys, sorry.
I actually like the Pokemon posters too, they're quite nice.
I guess the last thing to announce is that tonight at twitch.tv slash Game Boomers, probably
between 6 and 7pm EST, there's going to be four of us, me, Dave, Jordan, and my girlfriend
Naomi, and we're going to be playing Tales of Vesperia multiplayer.
It's a JRPG with a multiplayer mode.
So swing by in a few hours.
I'll see you there.
I love you.
