Sometimes human stupidity just amazes me.
Hello, I'm The Right Opinion, and today we talk about nature.
In the last couple weeks, two stories in very quick succession of the same tragic nature caught my eye.
One in which a man jumped into a lion's enclosure in a strangely elaborate attempt to commit suicide,
and another where a four-year-old child climbed into a gorilla enclosure and was subsequently grabbed by one of the gorillas.
In both occasions, the animals had to be killed to prevent any loss of human life, which is really very sad,
but also angering as well. How many more times will incidents like these continue to happen before we react to it?
The silverback gorilla, which was killed, was an endangered animal, and lions are just as precious regardless of their conservation status.
It's ironic that an animal taken out of the wild for preservation has been shot dead so brutally.
It's also been argued that the silverback gorilla was in fact protecting the child, which makes the situation even more out of hand.
However, I'm not doubting that to protect human life, that may have been the only cause of action,
as tranquilizers may not have worked fast enough in both instances.
However, instead of having to react to these situations, is it not time we just went up for straight prevention?
Firstly, I'd like to ask how a guy managed to access a fucking lion enclosure.
Secondly, I'd like to ask where the fuck were this kid's parents?
I would genuinely consider prosecuting them for neglect, although we'll have to wait for any further circumstances to be revealed.
If they dared let that child out of sight or even left him, endangered him without supervision, then that's recklessly irresponsible,
and they should be held accountable for those actions.
There should be a course of action. Children that age cannot be expected to look after themselves.
But if we do have these sorts of enclosures for certain animals, I believe there should be a construct that prevents anyone from climbing into them.
I know it may sound radical, but certain idiots have already shown they cannot be trusted with animals,
and in my opinion, the rights of these animals include being protected from stupid bellends.
And now we need to talk about the zoos themselves.
Some zoos can be very useful for the preservation of an animal,
especially in an open safari landscape where animals can experience their natural habitat on a large scale away from the dangers of poaching.
I genuinely think that is fantastic.
However, if we look towards many zoos that don't have this format, especially those in East Asia, many of them are not for preservation.
They're just for keeping animals in captivity for show. That's not what they should be about.
Animals should not be held in such terribly restrictive conditions at their expense for the pleasure of a few.
They should be benefiting as much as we are.
I do support the use of zoos in the correct context.
However, this is regularly not the case, and there should be no superiority complex putting human pleasure above an animal's right to live in their natural habitat.
We should engage in more open zoos which focus on the welfare of the animals, and look not just at how we keep ourselves safe,
but how we keep them safe from ridiculous situations that shouldn't be happening in the first place.
So, there are my thoughts on the recent situations with regards to the, um, animals.
I hope you liked it.
If you emotionally liked, then I take the opinion that you should physically like.
However, I respect all points of view.
Please, like.
I need to eat.
Nah, I'm just bucking with you.
I'm the right opinion, and I'll see you on the next one.
Thanks for watching!
