Hello, my friends, let me give you an update on what's going on.
As you know, I've hired my childhood friend and local stooge, Dave, to be my first full
timer here on the SFO channel.
The first thing he did was he uploaded the entire SFO backlog to the SFO Bitchute, Rumble,
Brighteon and Odyssey channels, since I had kind of neglected those for a little while.
And one of his daily jobs is going to be to make sure that I put my videos on all of those
platforms, not just YouTube.
So if you don't like YouTube, and really, who likes YouTube nowadays, make sure you're
checking those channels out.
But now that the long, boring job of uploading the backlog is done, the next thing he's doing
is uploading the backlog for my side channel, The Dev Kit.
Now you might not know what The Dev Kit is, and that's fine.
But if you've been around long enough, you'll probably remember a time in which SFO, meaning
Short Fight Otaku, was actually about anime.
You know, that's what the Otaku means in that title.
For those of you who don't know, who've only been here recently, this channel began in
2009 when we were a lot younger, and it was basically just me and my friends goofing around
and uploading random anime crap.
We had a good time doing it, I don't regret it or anything.
But obviously the channel has changed in the past 12 years.
It is kind of funny sometimes seeing people complaining that I'm talking about politics
on Twitter.
It's like, aren't you an anime reviewer?
How long have you been gone?
But there are actually some older fans who have asked, hey, where are those old anime
reviews?
Where did they go?
Are you re-uploading them anywhere?
Because yes, they're going up on the dev kit.
So that is the next project I'm putting Dave to work on.
We've opened up dev kit channels on the same platforms, YouTube, Bitchute, Brighteon, Rumble,
and Odyssey.
And all of the old anime reviews are going up there.
All of our old blooper reels and commentary tracks, they'll be going up there too.
We had some old movie reviews, some old tech reviews.
There's that video of me and Naomi burning my old underwear.
Basically everything that I've done that isn't related to either the SFO politics stuff or
my gaming stream over at Game Boomers is going to be going up on the dev kit.
So it's not politics related, but it is something that I do want to focus on a little bit in
the coming days, you know, give it its time to shine.
So please consider following the dev kit.
All the links are in the description of this video.
Thanks very much guys.
And I'll see you soon with either a new SFO video or a new stream or something.
I'll see you there.
Have a good one.
I love you.
