Good morning, friends. The second week of August, sounds like there's a pressure washer going off
and the neighbor in the back, but I'm out here to water and it's garden time.
Into the old shed once again. Put the scissors somewhere easier to get.
And the watering can. Look at that juicy pepper over there, man.
And this one, like it's finally coming through.
Tomatoes are looking good. Cucumbers are going. Look at them grow up the vine.
Except for that one. I mean that middle one's coming back. Maybe it'll work out.
Now someone in the comments of the last video told me that these peas were not vine peas.
They were in fact just bush peas. So they're not growing up. That kind of sucks.
But the peas are good. I'm going to need a bunch of this chard.
Yes, I said it charred properly this time. It's charred, not kale.
I need a bunch of it this time because it kind of sucks to say,
but our car is having an issue right now. It's currently in the garage.
So what that means is we're not going grocery shopping for a little bit,
which means we're eating these garden greens. So I'm getting a whole bunch of them for tonight's
dinner. One thing I found is if you want to keep these leaves going for like more than just a
couple hours, the best thing you can do is fill up a glass with a little bit of water
and stick them in the glass. So stay alive in the fridge like that for an extra day or two.
And there we go. The garden is watered and everything that I need for tonight
is harvested. There's like six leaves I think and a whole bunch of beans. I might have said peas
last time accidentally. It's beans, it's beans. Man, they always crucify me every single time I
get something wrong. I'm definitely getting less out of this spot with the beans than I was with
the peas in previous years. Especially since they didn't grow up the lattice, I thought they would.
So I don't know. I'd probably just go back to peas if I had to do it again.
By the way, here's what I was talking about with the chard. These leaves,
I picked them almost a week ago and they're still pretty good. I cut the ends so that
water can get in just like you would with, you know, flowers that you give to a girl or something.
Stood them up with just a little bit of water in the glass. Stuck them in there like so. Put them
in the fridge. Actually these ones here, the ones that I just cut, they're actually more limp than
the ones in here. So I'll probably like get a cleaner cut on the bottom and then put them in
here. So because the fridge is only so high, I do want them to be relatively the same height
if possible, which does mean losing some stem. And the stem is actually a pretty healthy part.
That's unfortunate, but that's how it is. I guess I'll just do like right here.
There we go. And all of this into the glass. Just a little bit of water, not much.
And that'll do it. In the fridge it goes. Yeah man, it just barely fits. Oh, by the way,
yes Canada does have bagged milk. You know what though?
The tomato still isn't ripening or softening up. It's been a couple of weeks now. Hmm,
something might be wrong. It's the second week of August and you know what guys?
We've had so much rain that I haven't had to really water the garden that much at all.
But as you can see down there, some of those leaves and the cucumbers right over there,
they're starting to go yellow. I think that means too much rain.
Ooh, there's thunder. It's actually picking up. Wow. Wow. At least there's no laundry on the line
this time. I wonder how our bird friends are doing. We're about halfway through August and
things are developing pretty quick. The pepper plants are starting to boom. There's a few
decent peppers in there. You see? Yeah. A couple of the tomatoes starting to go red over there.
Look at that. First big cucumber. Our bird friends aren't home today. Also,
it looks like something's digging in the garden because that tinier not making a cucumber plant.
Yeah. It got some dirt sprayed on it. Oh well. Yeah. I was thinking I was going to pick it,
but I don't think it's ready. If it's not ready, don't worry about it.
Yeah. That's my mom, by the way. She's visiting. Oh.
The tomatoes are starting to come in though. Look at that. That tomato is turning yellow,
but this doesn't look like it's ripening. This looks like it's rotting. Oh well.
I guess we'll see how it turns out. Hello. It's the end of August. I'm out here to
water once again. By the way, yes, I did fix my watering can with Flex Seal.
This chard just keeps coming back, man. It just keeps coming back. We haven't really had to buy
much lettuce this summer. The peppers are getting big. You can probably take that one off right now
actually. They're pretty big. And some new blooms are coming in too. Oh, we had to use the ladder
at one point. So no more bird's nest. They had moved on though at that point. Don't worry. We
didn't, we didn't massacre any birds. The birds had moved on. The peas ended up being a big waste.
Only got a little bit out of them. Oh well. It's always good to try new things.
Oops. Looks like an animal got at one of the tomatoes. There are several ripe ones though.
These cucumbers are definitely big enough to eat. Look at this vine. It's going all the way up.
And then there. Yeah. I'll grab the tomatoes before something else happens to them. Ah, come
on. There we go. Brought this stuff to the kitchen and just realized a tomato from a few days ago.
It is getting wrinkly. So it's definitely like aging, but it's also turning red. I wonder how
this one's going to turn out. It's been a few more days and take a look at it. It actually
turned red. I'm very surprised. I actually expected it to rot. I've had green tomatoes go
from green to Brown before, but this one's actually red. Maybe it's edible. I guess we'll
see. August 29th. I need to start getting some of these vegetables out of the garden. It's time to
eat. It's raining. So I don't need to water it today. So I'm just getting the sniffs. Oh, also
that's our new car guys. How do you like it? I like it. Yeah. Okay. So here we are.
Garden's looking okay. Maybe time to get that tomato over there. There's one giant cucumber
in the back. You see that? I'm grabbing that right now and I'm grabbing at least one pepper
because Dave's currently making us a big breakfast. I like a bunch of omelets and stuff,
mushrooms and stuff are going in it and we need a pepper. So it's pepper time. Let's just get in
there. There it is. And look at that. Yeah, man. Yep. And it's time for that big one to come now.
Finally. I just like twist it off. Ooh, it's really spiky. Come on. I'm just twisting it
till it pops off. Look at that. I'm going to get the tomato too. Oh, by the way, that one tomato
that I thought might've been rotten. I didn't get a chance to try it because Dave just like
scarfed it down. It's like, Oh, okay. Oh Dave, vegetable delivery.
I just want it done for now. They all gotta be washed. Okay. It is September 18th and usually
by now I'm starting to close up the garden because fall sets in, but you know what? We still have
summer weather. That's pretty nice. Now I didn't do any of that weeding that I wanted to do,
obviously. So, uh, oops. However, things are looking okay. There's a whole bunch more Swiss
chard. That's a ridiculous amount of chard. The pepper plants didn't actually give us very much.
We had like one big pepper out of each couple of small ones are coming in, but they're probably not
going to make it. You might have another couple of weeks of a good weather. So we'll see the beans.
That was a terrible idea. They didn't work out at all. There's a few tomatoes that are worth
grabbing, but the tomatoes are also way less than before. And then there's the cucumbers.
There's a weird cucumber right there and right there. It's like, Oh, okay. And there's that one
in there that I missed. You see it? It's huge. Oops. The strange thing though is, is that this
one vine right at the end of the year just took off up the lattice and across onto the deck. I
don't think any of those flowers are going to turn into anything, but it's funny that we got this
much vine out of it right at the end. Yeah. Normally I'd be closing the garden down by now,
but it probably has another week or two in it. I'm going to pull off those tomatoes that are
a little bit small, but they are going orange. So I'll pull them off. I'll pull off one of
those cucumbers for dinner tonight and probably some of the chard too. So I guess we'll just
see where this goes. It's the end of September guys, which means the end of the growing season.
However, it's actually been really warm, like surprisingly warm. The garden's in much better
shape right now compared to what it usually is. That being said, it still wasn't really a
successful garden though. We only got a couple of cucumbers. You only got a few good tomatoes.
You only got a few good peppers. The chard, however, has been amazing. We're having salad
tonight, which means I'm snipping some leaves. The leaves, here we go, just
I'll be using these for tonight's salad for dinner. With all of tonight's leaves grabbed,
I'm now going to see what else I can take. That is a decent sized pepper and this one is still
coming in, but I might wait a little bit more. There's two little guys coming in. They might not
go very far. I think I'll hold off on the peppers, see if I can gamble it. Maybe in a few more weeks
they won't get too much frost and they'll be bigger. This is like summer weather right now
guys, and it's the end of September. It's kind of wild. There's a few malformed cucumbers. I mean,
they're edible, but they're not great. There's that one there. There's that one there. Those
are some decent cucumbers. This huge vine is still doing its thing. Oh, there's one coming in there
too. Yeah, I'm not sure if these guys are actually even edible. They're kind of hard to be honest.
This guy is small, but good. There we go. As for the tomatoes, they really weren't a success this
year either. So I'm just going to pull off anything that's of a decent size, even though
it's still green. Like these aren't growing anymore. So like, there we go. I'll get these
two guys here. Yeah, here's a tiny one. It's not growing anymore either, unfortunately.
This one looks pretty good. Oh, it's all prickly. Oh, can you see those spines? Yeah.
All right, come on.
That's all right. This one's good too, though it's a little bit big.
There we go. Oh man, there's another big one too. You know what? They kind of get like woody and
seedy if you let them grow this big, but my dad likes big cucumbers, so maybe I'll just give these
to him. I didn't even notice this one back here. Let's snip it. Oh, I forgot gravity was a thing.
And there's everything I got out of the garden today. This has not been a successful garden.
Probably my worst garden since I started. That first year was pretty rough because I didn't
know what I was doing, but now it's getting pretty bad. Part of it is definitely going to be because
I don't weed, but that'll only be a small part of it. Some people suggested that it's because
I'm burying them in their biodegradable little holders here, which might be the case. I don't
know. I mean, they are biodegradable. They do just kind of flake off and turn into earth. So
I figured they'd just be able to grow through them. Like that was the point of them, but maybe
not. Maybe it's too tough for them. That's why they're not actually accessing the manure that
I put in the hole. That could be a possibility. However, I have been gardening at this location
for five or six years now without any serious like manure refreshment. Yeah. I put a little
bit in sometimes, just my leftover manure. And I put in the compost from the composter back there,
but it might not be enough to keep the soil like fully rejuvenated. Anyway, even though this is
when I usually clean out the garden and close it up for the season, I'm going to probably leave it
like this, at least for a few more weeks. It's been abnormally warm, especially by Canadian
standards. So maybe I'll get a little bit more out of it. Maybe some of those cucumbers will come in.
Those peppers will probably keep growing there. I think the tomatoes are done. And definitely these
chards, like these leaves are great. They're still going despite everything else. They're pretty
hardy. So I might have one more update for you before I finally end things out for the year.
All right, guys, here's Naomi going full trad wife today, making the food. Look what I brought you,
Naomi. Oh, by the way, those tomatoes that I grabbed last time. Yeah. They're working out.
What do you think of them, Naomi? That's how tomatoes do. Yeah. Well, I just noticed that
cucumber I thought would be CD is not nearly as CD as I thought it would be. That's amazing.
The heat wave is coming to an end guys. This is today. And this is the next seven days,
32 down to what is that? Minus one. Yeah. It's getting pretty cold. I guess the garden's done.
It's October 8th guys. And it's currently really cold out. Can you hear the wind? This is a storm
right now, but it's like an ice storm. There is some rain, but not a lot of rain. We went from
summer conditions to extremely cold conditions and we're going to have ice tonight. So this is
the end of the garden pretty much. I've come down as always, I've kind of let it go in the
past few weeks knowing that ice was coming eventually and it's time to grab whatever
dregs. We've been eating the chard every day and it's still growing. Like how is it growing in the
cold? It's going though. We have a few peppers. Like here's a pepper right here. There we go.
Got caught in the scissors. There's a pepper here.
Yep. The final two peppers. Those look nice. Still like flowers for these guys. I don't think
they're going anywhere. There is that one though. Like look at this little guy. He's not going to
grow much more is he? I guess we'll see. Or that one. But this big one back here is doing pretty
well. Like he's just, he's just hanging. I don't think the scissors are going to do this time. I
have to like just pull it off. Just come on. There we go. Nice. Okay this is October 9th and
it turns out that I spoke too soon. Look at the snow. That rain we expected today, well it got
just a couple degrees colder and now it's snow which means that the garden is definitely done.
It's time to pull as many chard leaves out as we can and hope we can keep them alive in the fridge
for a while. I'm glad I grabbed those peppers yesterday because they're done and I guess those
tiny cucumbers as well. Also here's Dave coming outside. He's here to, he's here to help me out
with this endeavor. Also you're still sick. On the tail end of it. On the tail end of it. Also
like you're dressed up like super like winter time and I'm just like shorts giga chad. Maybe.
That is the early end of the garden this year. RIP. It's October. Yeah but usually, usually I
go till like the end of October. I can usually keep growing but not this year. We got an early
snow. This year has been kind of schizophrenic. Dude I can't wait for us to have snow for the
next five months. I just noticed guys there's like a single pepper out here. Oops hope it's still
good. Yeah here's the final dregs. Three tiny tomatoes, two tiny cucumbers and one medium-sized
pepper. Now for all this chard. I have a feeling most of it will go bad because this is coming on
way too fast but we'll do our best to keep it alive I guess. Alright I've harvested all the
edible chard and look at these chard roots dude. They're huge. Alright Dave and I have finished
yanking everything out of the garden. We have two full bowls of chard to go wash and that's it.
That's it for this year's garden. Um the plans next year if we're still here because we might
be moving but I don't think I'm doing a garden next year. I know lots of people said that it
was because I buried the plants wrong with those uh biodegradable cups. That's probably partially
it but also the soil has definitely become more depleted. I mean this garden is now seven or eight
years old so I think it might be time if I'm gonna stay here for at least two more years which is
very unlikely but if I do next year I'm going to solarize the garden instead and that'll be a whole
process. It's something that you should do due to your garden every once in a while especially if
you're taking a year off so I don't know if there is a garden video next year it'll just be me
solarizing it but I might actually be moving so maybe it's all a moot point. Anyway that's it for
uh this year's garden escapades. Oh well didn't get as much as previous years but as our good
friend Sonic the Hedgehog says Dave you live and learn.
do
you
