Welcome to Plagiarism Tonight, I'm your host, Bobbert Billian.
The horror film reviewer, Count Dracula, is the most recent victim of YouTube's terrible
video takedown policies.
But this time, it may not be YouTube's fault.
Since the implementation of YouTube's new system that automatically obliterates any
video that might potentially have a scrap of fair use content in it, many channels and
videos have been removed for the service, and their creators are beginning to protest.
But Dracula's most recent angry vlog was removed not by YouTube's automated monkeys, but by
the very people Dracula was angry at in the video.
When we reached out to YouTube for comment, a spokesperson said,
Google's YouTube is not an appropriate place to be negative.
For further comment on the subject, you will have to sync your program into our Google
with your Google Plus account that I'm totally sure you commonly use.
In other news, relationships and marriages across the pond are on the rise.
As local love opportunities dwindle, many people in the United States are looking overseas
for romantic partners, with many of them finding happiness in the UK.
But the biggest hurdle in the path of these ocean-crossed lovers is travel.
Recently for a few couples, this has been exacerbated by a group of con men who promised
them the resources to finally live together in the same country as reimbursement for work,
only to have them later refuse to pay.
Interpol has put out a general alert regarding the con men, with an officer saying when you
hire people, you're supposed to pay them.
You can't say stuff like, the work you did was decent but not exceptional, or I don't
have to pay on anyone's terms but my own.
Who do you think you are, Walmart?
Canadian researchers have finally discovered a cure for cancer.
The revolutionary breakthrough comes after doctors performed a series of tests on a man
with cancer in Quebec.
These tests revealed that not working, not paying your bills and shirking your responsibilities
in general have a dramatic effect on cancer cells, reducing their numbers to zero before
the cancer can even take hold.
It also acts as an effective bulwark against the harrowing side effects of chemotherapy,
allowing the man to remain obese and with a full head of hair even as he underwent treatment.
Doctors are prescribing caution to would-be volunteers for further testing of this new
cure though, stating that while lying about everything under the sun may have a dramatic
effect on stage 4 leukemia and stomach cancer, it still makes you a douchebag.
This has been your host, BobboardBillion.
Take a break and plagiarize.
See you next time.
