Hello?
Hello, how's it going?
Hey, how's it going?
Pretty good.
I'm just really busy.
Hold on.
I just got a stretch.
Okay, what's going on?
Hey, your camera on Discord looks really different than your
camera on the stream.
What happened?
Yeah, I fucked it up.
Sorry.
Give me a second here.
Hello, welcome to the stream.
How are you doing?
Very good.
Very well.
I've just been I've been doing a lot of writing and reading.
My next project is on Antonio Gramsci.
So I mean, it's you can't read the entire prison notebooks
in, you know, two days.
It's like a 500 page book, but
I don't know if you know who who's is it socked on left
soaked on left.
Yeah, he's kind of an idiot a lot of the time.
I don't know if you agree with me.
I don't know enough about the stuff he talks about that
really knows.
Okay.
Now he made some some of these stupid claims about
Antonio Gramsci like a week ago and I've been putting off
doing my video on the prison notebooks for about six months
mainly at a laziness and I was like, you know what it's it's
kind of time to talk about it.
I think because you know who Gramsci is?
Yeah, I do.
Yeah.
Okay, you know that a lot of right oids on the internet tend
to misquote him.
Do you know what that I don't know about that?
No.
Okay.
So there's a very famous Gramsci quote floating around
it turns out it's actually not from Gramsci and the entire
right wing ecosystem is kind of built off this quote.
However, even though Gramsci didn't say the quote he said
stuff in his writing that is enough like it that it's pretty
much accurate.
So I'm gonna go over what he what he said what soaked and
left said was correct and also and but and ultimately where
he's wrong.
So that's that's a big project that I'm working on right
now.
Yeah, sounds like it sounds like it and that'll be that'll
be out probably next week or so very cool.
I mean you've watched my videos now you notice that like
some of them just have like the the fat laughing dev background.
Those are like my less serious videos.
And then the more serious ones are more edited like the
three forms of fascism.
This one's going to be a more edited one.
So that's cool.
Yeah, your forms of fascism one was really good.
So yeah, I get a lot of compliments on it.
There are people who really didn't like it because they
thought the idea of libertarian fascism is stupid.
It is a stupid idea, but people do believe it, you know people
believe a lot in a lot of stupid ideas.
Yeah, for sure.
Well post me post that I'm talking to you somewhere.
Give me a second.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We're here to talk about gamergate chat educate me on
gamergate.
Now.
I've already looked at some of the stuff around it.
Oh my God.
Why do I have Nikkato avocados ass on my on my God, Jesus
Christ.
I did some reading about it.
So like I have the timeline of gamergate, you know pulled
up.
I've been kind of going through that but I guess yeah,
you're going to educate me on gamergate God the ancient
lore of gamergate.
It's been like 10 fucking years.
Yeah, so sorry.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
So it all started with this Zoe Quinn this post about Zoe
Quinn, right?
Did you read the post?
I think it's still up.
Yeah, I read some of it.
I didn't read the entire thing, but basically her ex is
accusing her of cheating, right?
Mm-hmm.
Do you think that she actually cheated on him?
Oh, absolutely.
The guys confirmed it at least three out of the five of them
dead.
Yeah.
Like that part is not in dispute whatsoever that she did
cheat on.
Yeah, so one of them was Nathan Grayson.
Let me just I'm just gonna pull his see what he's doing now.
God this ancient lore.
It's been so fucking long, dude, because what I was reading
I read a bunch of different things but but there were like
allegations that this guy was like abusive or whatever and
that like, I don't know how true that is right that he like
made up a whole bunch of stuff about her.
So I guess I'm curious to to know like I guess how was this
confirmed that she cheated on him?
One of the guys at least of the of the five guys, you know,
there was the five guys burgers and fries meme like that was
I was part of it.
Yeah.
One of the guys was Nathan Grayson and Nathan Grayson said
yes, we had a sexual relationship during during this time.
The issue ultimately wasn't the cheating actually, you know
what here before we get into it, you should you should give
me your view of gamergate like what you've learned about it
what you think of it, you should hit me with the stardust
interpretation first.
I know very little about it.
I'm going to be real with you.
I know very little about I know that basically this post came
out about Zoe Quinn.
I know that it was less about the cheating and more about
about the incestuous relationship that game reporters have
with each other and and with a game developers and and it
was kind of like it was kind of like talking about the
corruption or not corruption, but like, you know, just the
I guess the weirdness of that of that industry and I know
that basically in response to this post being made about
about Zoe Quinn a bunch of report.
I think it was reporters spoke out against it.
Am I correct?
Yes.
Okay, and because they spoke out against it like the majority
of like the gaming world didn't really care about the post
initially, but because they they spoke out against it drew
more attention to it and then more of the gaming world kind
of kind of caught on to it and it became a bigger thing.
And then and then there were like some harassment campaigns
that happened and everything from that point on.
I'm a little bit.
I'm a little bit.
Yeah, I don't know a whole lot beyond that point.
So right, right.
So you're already a far-right fascist for even bringing
up the ethics part of the conversation.
By the way, I hope you know that you've I'm sorry, just
one second wordsmith Andy.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
Sorry, go ahead.
No problem.
No problem.
The issue is that there's two competing narratives regarding
gamergate and it's now nine years ago and most of the people
who were pro gamergate don't care anymore because it's been
nine fucking years, right?
Yeah, like it's it's old internet drama.
If you go to Wikipedia, you can see the anti gamergate
description of events and from their point of view.
It's pretty accurate.
If you go to know your meme, you can see the pro gamergate
view of events.
So if you want to get an overview of what both sides actually
thought and like their versions of the timeline of events,
both of those sources will give it to you.
Um, there's if you were, if you were around in like 2015
or 2016, you saw three things kind of conflated very heavily
together in mainstream news.
And that was gamergate Brexit and Trump that gamergate caused
Brexit and then Brexit caused Trump.
And it was all gamergate cause Brexit.
That makes no sense to me.
I know.
And it's, it's some of the most ridiculous claims that
I have seen.
Or is just how like, okay, here, here, um, you know who
Mundane Matt is his part of the gamergate drama.
Uh, he made a video, right?
Yeah.
He made one of the first videos talking about the Zoe post
and because he was one of the first ones and he was the
one that Zoe Quinn chose to falsely DMCA to get his video
down, he blew up.
Wait, wait, wait, who, who?
Zoe DMC claimed him.
Yes.
Zoe Quinn falsely DMCA'd Mundane Matt to get his video on
the Zoe post taken down.
Okay.
And that's what made Mundane Matt blow up.
And that's what made a whole bunch of YouTubers suddenly
leap all over this story back in 2014, because that was
seen as like an egregious, you know, censorship.
Um, and Mundane Matt has since come out and said, now he's
more progressive now than he was back then.
And he's come out and he said stuff like, Hey, uh,
you know, I, you know, I'm sorry for my part because I
know that it led to, um, to the rise of reactionary politics.
It led to Trump.
It led to Brexit.
It led to all of these things.
And it's like, well, no, no, it didn't, but there is a
narrative that it did, and I can explain that narrative.
I don't really believe it, but I can explain it.
Um, the, the idea basically is, is that there's there, I
don't know if you were, if you were around 10 or 15 years
ago, but there's been like a slow turning leftward of a
lot of online spaces, you know, the, the old atheism of
the two thousands, where everyone's going around, like
just being intentionally edgy and tipping their fedoras
everywhere, those guys became like atheism plus where it
was all social justice focused.
You know, there was, there was like stuff happening in
comics, there was stuff happening in all of these,
these kind of cultural spaces online.
And then when it came, there was stuff happening in gaming
too, there was this general hatred and we're talking
like 2010, 2012, there was this general hatred of games
journalists by gamers at the time for being impartial.
And probably the first brush of it was the mass effect
three, um, the mass effect three ending controversy.
Do you remember that?
Did you hear about that at all?
No, I didn't.
Okay.
So what happened?
Let me just, uh, basically mass effect was like a, this
big trilogy on journal, like the on journey, the Xbox
three 60 times and the ending was absolute shit and gamers
got really mad at the game developers and kind of blew
up at them on Twitter.
This is back in again, like 2012 or something.
And if you like, if you search here, let me just pull
this out.
Where is it?
Where, where, where is it?
Where is it?
Like if you search right now for mass effect three gamer
gate, even though this happened two years before, you
can find people saying that, Oh, this was the beginning
of the same sentiment that caused gamer gate.
You know, these, these gamers wouldn't accept what game
journalists were telling them and what, and what develop
indie developers were telling them and what, you know,
mainstream developers are telling them that they were
just angry and they were reactionary.
And they were these, they didn't use incel cause that
wasn't really a term back then, but, but they would have
cause they used internet virgins, which you can't really
say anymore because that's shaming somebody for their
sexual past.
That's now problematic.
So it was the same kind of idea.
And then there was already this like hatred between your
average gamer who, you know, back then wasn't really popular
games, weren't really that games weren't popular.
People who played them are kind of like derided in their
childhood and they hated these, these, these game journalists.
They already hated them.
So it was already like primed for, for this sort of cultural,
not, not, it's not a rebellion, but it's like a, you know,
we don't, we don't, we're just going to go against you
because we fucking hate you.
It's that, it's that sort of thing, right?
They're already primed for that.
And then when gamer gate happened, you had the two narratives
and the first one was that Zoe Quinn, who was this indie
game developer cheated on her boyfriend and that wasn't
so noteworthy, but she cheated on her boyfriend with five
people who were notable in, in games journalism and that
led to some sort of, some sort of, some sort of like, it's
not toxic, it's like some sort of like, yeah, some sort
of nepotism, some sort of like, like colluded relationship
because earlier Nathan Grayson, one of those guys that,
that had, that had slept with her earlier in the year, he
reported on a game jam that went South involving her and
JonTron was also there.
And JonTron spoken out about this as well, about like his
experiences with like the type of person that Zoe Quinn
is, but basically Zoe Quinn's behavior caused this game
jam to go South and there, and the only like real official
word of what happened there was Nathan Grayson's and
it's like, well, hold on.
Some guy lost like, like, like tens of thousands of dollars
on this project and the only person, the only, the only
person that you're giving the interpretation of events in
the public sphere is the person that you've been having
sex with secretly this whole time.
Well, you know, that sounds like, and also like this guy
who, who hosted this game jam, he got slandered to shit
in the media and he was, he was thinking about like,
like suing these people because his reputation was
destroyed and the guy who destroyed it didn't reveal
that he had sex with, with the other person in the story
who was like his opponent in the story.
You know what I mean?
So it's like, I don't know how actually like in terms
of any, any sort of formal ethics, how unethical it
was, but it certainly felt unethical, especially
because they tried to hide it.
That was the worst part is that they tried to hide it.
Um, so there was, there were these five people and
actually I was heavily involved in, in gamer
gate when it happened.
Um, gamer gate was when my channel went from like
2000 subs to about 15 or 30,000 subs over the course
of like four months.
So like I got my first big bump from them, you
know, before, like before gamer gate, I had done
some anime reviews in like the, that guy with the
glasses channel, awesome style that didn't work
out, did some let's plays that was going like,
okay, but I did some gamer gate videos and that's
when I started doing politics content.
That's when I, that's when I met Sargon, that's
when I met like a bunch of like, you know, arch
Warhammer, that's when I met V, you know, um, a
bunch, a bunch of people that I hang around with
now that I'm still friends with them.
I met them through gamer gate initially.
Um, so the, the one interpretation of events
is that she was sleeping with these five guys
and that led to some sort of incestuous
relationship there where, you know, the, the,
the game journalist scene and the indie game
scene, it was all kind of a big clique, you know,
it's a big club and you're not in it.
And then you had people on the outside who were
generally just regular gamers who were
pissed about it.
And then the other narrative is that it's
a harassment campaign and that it's all about
sexism and that the only reason you're mad about
Zoe Quinn sleeping with these guys is because
you hate women's sexuality.
You hate women, you know, you're, you're
harassing these women and so on and so forth.
And there was definitely some harassment for
sure, like I can't just sit here and say it was
all sunshine and rainbows and everyone had like
the, the, you know, the most, the most moral
reason to be there.
I definitely saw some harassment of a random
woman, but I also saw a lot of good work done
too, in terms of uncovering, um, the
corruption of people.
Um, I spoke at one point to Zoe Quinn's ex, um,
is, is Aaron, is Aaron Joni or Goni or something?
I can't remember his last name.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I spoke to him privately, uh, at one point,
this was back in 2014 and he said, listen, you
know, they're trying to make it, this was like
in the, like the, like the early, the early weeks,
like two weeks in, like one weekend or something
to the controversy.
And he said, listen, they're trying to make
it a sexism issue.
They're probably going to succeed in making it
a story about sexism because they have the
institutional power.
They have the, they have the outlets they have,
you know, when, you know, when, when, when big,
let's say, you know, something like CNN or
Forbes or whoever, like these, these bigger
outlets, when they report on, um, on, on like
a small hobby, like gaming or any other hobby,
they go to the enthusiast press.
So CNN will actually say, what is Kotaku saying?
Even though Kotaku is a shit rag, they are
the main enthusiast press.
They will, they will at least see what other
journalists are saying in, in that smaller press
to, when, when they report on something
that makes it big.
So Aaron basically said, they're probably
going to succeed in making it all about sexism.
But what you need to do is ignore, like there
are people out there who were talking about,
who were talking about how much of a, how
much of a slut Zoe is.
That's, that's not the issue here.
The issue is that you need to look at what
these people are actually doing.
And my biggest contribution to
Gamergate personally.
Um, and I, it was the, it sounds weird.
It sounds weird to say, it sounds like I'm
really blowing myself up here.
It wasn't that big of a deal, but it sounds
like it was basically an, uh, ending
Phil Fish's career.
And it had, and that event had nothing to
do with sexism whatsoever.
There weren't even any women involved in that event.
Yeah.
Um, basically what happened, what I did,
that this, this was my big contribution.
Like other people did other things, you
know, internet, Mr.
Medica, he was digging up stuff.
Sargon was digging up stuff.
What, um, me and my friends dug up was that
early in Gamergate, somebody at Phil Fish's
company, Polytron, leaked their financial
documents to 4chan, all their internal
financial documents.
It's probably very illegal to actually
have a copy of these because they're
considered classified.
Um, but I got a copy of them.
Um, and there was three of us on the channel
at the time, and we kind of sat down and we
looked through them and we discovered in the
financial documents that a bunch of people who
had invested in Polytron.
So they had put some people put up like
$5,000 and people put up 10,000, 20,000.
You know, people put up these chunks of money
to own parts of Polytron.
These same people, they, um, they were also
judges at the Independent Games Festival.
And they were judges when the Polytron's
only game Fez won awards at, and during
two different years, the whole idea of the
IGF, the rules are basically, listen, you
can, you put forward a game for awards.
You can win, you know, game of the year.
You can win best sound design, best control,
best graphics, whatever, all you have, all
the awards, right?
But you can only put forward a game once you
put, you put it forward when the game launches
and Fez launched in 2012, but it won best
sound design in 2008.
And it won a few other, like a few other awards
in 2008 as well.
And then at one game of the year in 2012, back
in 2012, they said, listen, listen, it's
completely fine that it won two sets of awards
because we consider Fez's demo to be a different
game than Fez itself.
That was the only game that the IGF ever did
that for no one ever understood why.
Um, but then we realized two years later
during gamer gate, after we got a hold of the
financial documents that the judges, the people
at the IGF were the same people who invested
in the company that put out Fez.
And so they stood to profit from increased
valuation of the company.
Yeah.
So I put this into a video, we edit it
together, we put it out.
Um, the video goes fucking gangbusters.
It got like 500,000 views in like 30
minutes or something.
Like it was, it was going wild.
Um, and then Phil Fish sent me a cease
and desist, and he said, you need to
fucking take this video down right now.
Or else I'm going to sue you.
And I was, uh, I was nine years younger,
just out of university, had no backbone, no
fucking clue if YouTube would work out or not.
I had no money, no nothing.
So I took it down.
Um, I put it back up a few months later and
it's still up on my channel.
You can go back and watch it.
All the evidence is in the video, but, um, the
fact that it was up for like an hour and then
it went down and then like mirrors of it
started popping up and it started going viral
on Twitter and everyone was talking about this
big revelation of Phil Fish.
Um, the next day, and this is still in the
archives of their site too.
Cause I, I actually made a little, a short
video describing what happened with me and
Phil Fish, just to, just to kind of update new,
my new viewers in the old lore.
Um, on the IGFs website, you can see.
So they're like, uh, so you might've seen
recently some weird, some weird allegations,
but we've investigated ourselves and discovered
that we did nothing wrong.
It was one of those like very boilerplate
statements, right?
So no one fucking trusted these guys anymore.
Since then, no one's really cared about what
the IGF has, has, has done.
They've been like in a slow decline and Phil
Fish hasn't released a game since, since
gamer gate, he, he, he just left the internet.
He left the internet, he left indie gaming.
He left all of it.
And you know, now I'm 135,000 subs, which
isn't, which isn't small, but it's not big,
but it's big enough that some people know who I
am and I've basically heard from people who
who, you know, are games journalists who
watch me, who are game developers who watch
me, you know, the, the, there, there are
people who have like messaged me and said,
listen, you can't reveal who I am.
I'll lose my job.
But just so you know, no one wants to work
with Phil Fish anymore.
And that's why he's gone.
Wow.
And I've heard that from like about five
different people now that he's, he's just, he,
I, I basically nuked his career.
Holy shit.
How does that feel?
It feels, it feels pretty good.
I mean, like, like no one likes the whole
cancel culture thing, but like, this was
actual corruption.
This was not like, Oh, you, you have a mean
tweet where you said the N word 10 years ago.
So we're going to get, we're going to get you
fired from your wagey job.
But that wasn't that, this is something
different, you know, this is somebody who
actually behaved inappropriately.
And the thing is, none of this story has
anything to do with sexism or harassment
whatsoever.
So, so they're, they're definitely, you
know, if there is a side to gamer gate that
wasn't about that, at the very least, it was
me, I can personally confirm that I wasn't
part of that stuff.
Yeah.
Um, I don't think Sargon was either from all
that I, from all that I know of him, he doesn't
seem like the type.
Um, however, like in just, just to prepare
for this, I went back and watched a bit of
my old videos.
Oh God, they're so hard to watch, man.
Like the shittiest mic, the shittiest audio
quality was 2014.
I had no fucking clue, you know, but, um,
I went back and watched some of them and
even like in my second gamer gate video, I
was like, listen, I have seen some harassment.
You guys got to cut the shit out.
All right.
Where we're trying to discover that these
people are actually really fucking corrupt.
You got to cut this out.
So even back then I was, I was a bit of a don't
harass people kind of cuck.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Interesting.
That's what I did.
That's what I did personally, but in terms
of gamer gate as a whole, um, man, there's
so much like old lore.
I was, I was talking to Chud Logic about
this in private a few days ago.
You wanted to try and arrange a conversation
between me and Brianna Wu because she was very
like anti gamer gate, like one of the most
vocal anti gamer gate people.
And I'm like, you can do that Chud, but I
have old evidence from back in the day that
Brianna Wu faked her own harassment.
I've been sitting on it for nine
fucking years, Chud.
We can, we can do this if you want, but
it's not going to end well for her.
Wow.
Yeah.
Let's see if I can dig it up for you.
If you want to see it, hold on.
Let me go into the, the Chud DMS real quick.
And so I don't know if that conversation
is going to happen or not.
Yeah.
Holy moly.
Let's see here.
I'm going to scroll up.
Chud and I talk a fair amount, so it's
kind of deep in the DMS now.
Yeah.
Um, and it seems like, uh, you know, the,
the reputation of these, uh, game gaming,
like journalists, journalism, you know,
sites and platforms or whatever, um,
haven't really improved.
Like for the most part, everybody still
thinks that Kotaku is, you know, shit.
Everybody still thinks that, um, it just
seems like, it seems like for the most
part, people still don't trust, uh, these
like reporters.
Yeah.
Well, the issue is they never like
came out and apologized.
I remember Medeker saying like a week or
two in that if they just said, listen, yeah,
we fucked up, we're sorry.
We won't do it again.
I think everyone had forgiven them, but
they still haven't.
They said, it's about sexism.
It's only about sexism.
If you imply that it's about anything other
than sexism, you're a sexist.
So like, because that was, there was, there
was just this, this, this hegemonic, um, you
know, circling of the wagons where it's like,
this was the narrative.
If you disagreed, you were a sexist.
And then two years later it became racist.
And two years later it became fascist.
This is kind of where that, that whole
radicalization of the Overton window started
was, I think, I think that's what started
it was what was a gamer gate.
I don't think that like gamer gate
caused Trump or Brexit.
I think that gamer gate started a slow
media radicalization that contributed to
those two events later.
And is now why we're, we're living in like
a media hellscape where people are getting
canceled over 10 year old tweets and fucking
like everything is the most possible woke.
And it's just ridiculous.
You know, it makes sense that also that's
the start of when people stop trusting,
um, like media, right.
They stopped trusting media.
They stopped trusting mainstream media.
Um, and for a good reason, and we can
still see people are very skeptical of
mainstream media today.
Um, so I think it very much is related.
Yeah.
Okay.
Regarding, we're going to woo, check out,
check this out.
You can, this is not something
that's been doctored.
You can find this all over the internet.
This is old deep lore.
I just DMed it to you.
So pull that up and let me know
what it looks like to you.
It looks like a tweet.
Yeah.
Uh, and, uh, chat can't see this.
Um,
Oh, I can't see it.
Uh, should I show it to chat?
Do you want me to show it?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, go ahead.
Yeah, go ahead.
All right.
One, let me share it.
Okay.
It says, and here's the part of the
night where I call the police.
Um, and it's like a quote, tweet of
death to Brianna.
I've got a K bar and I'm coming to your
house so I can shove it up your ugly
feminist con.
Yeah.
Look at the, um, when that
other tweet was posted.
So this was 19 seconds.
19 seconds earlier.
Yeah.
So what is, what are the chances that
Brianna Wu saw this in 19 seconds
and then tweeted about it?
Um, I don't know.
What, what are the, what are the odds?
It seems a bit more likely that maybe
this might be her sock account.
Because to find a tweet in seconds
was unheard of back in 2014.
It took several minutes to push those up.
Yeah.
And she must've been getting a lot of,
um, she may, it must've been getting a
lot of notifications as well back then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh, but even that, that is, um, let's
see, that's a bit less con that's a bit
less ironclad because, you know, maybe
she did actually see it in 19 seconds.
Who knows?
Right.
Who knows?
But notice in that tweet, her that's
her old name, space cat gal.
That was like the name of her game company
back before she, when she was making games.
Um, okay.
This is also old lore, not doctored.
Many people can confirm this.
This one is a picture of the discussions
page on her game on steam where she
accidentally posts harassment to herself
under her own name, forgetting to log
out and log into her, her, her sock account.
If PSX had a development and noted feminist
Brianna Wu, a terrible person, um, 8chan
gamer gate and Kotaku in action,
knock yourselves out.
And okay.
So she's the poster.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oof.
That's like very cringe.
That's a cringe moment for sure.
What did she have to say about it?
She has never once talked
about this in public.
She has always ignored it when it comes up.
Wow.
I don't think, I don't think anyone's like
talked to her about it in a panel or anything,
uh, or in an interview.
And whenever someone like, like messages
her on Twitter, she just ignores it.
She just doesn't reply.
This is something that she
has just tried to bury.
Yeah.
Wow.
Okay.
It reminds me of, uh, oh, who was it?
Was it Stefan Molyneux who did it where
he like, he's like, he, he, he replies to
his own video and somewhere where he's
like, I'm actually like a black woman.
And I remember that fuck.
That was ridiculous.
Yeah.
Oh, that's what it was.
Oh fuck.
It reminds it's, it's exactly like that.
And it's like, man, guys, guys, how, how
is it that you're like, if you're so
desperate, like how could the narrative
is that these people are being harassed
so much, why do you have to fake it?
If you're being harassed that much?
Yeah.
Um, somebody in chat says, start, could
it not just be that she was trying
to get feedback on herself?
I mean, yeah, if we wanted to be like
super, if we wanted to be the most
charitable possible, maybe, but then why
wouldn't she just say that, I guess, why
wouldn't she just address it and say that
much?
Yeah.
If you really want to steal a minute, it
does maybe read like she's being, she's
like self-flagellating here, but I don't
think so.
I don't think so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the fact that she wouldn't talk
about it later.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, it's easy to just be like,
yeah, I was looking for feedback on myself
or I was feeling, you know, um, a certain
type of way or something like that.
Wow.
Yep.
I was in an, in a depressive spiral or
something, but nope, she just ignores it.
And she has for nine years now.
So, yeah.
Um, so yeah, that's, that's the
Brianna Wu stuff.
Uh, there's something else I wanted to
bring up what we're talking about right
before Brianna Wu.
Do you remember?
Uh, we were talking about how you ended,
um, uh, yeah, Phil Fish's career.
Yeah.
I mean, I like, I put up like, like a
TikTok it's like two minutes long that
kind of describes the whole thing, but
you mean you already heard me describe it.
It just shows a few screenshots of what
happened.
It's not a big deal.
Um, shit.
Oh, yes.
Do you remember the, the gamers are
dead part of it?
I don't.
Okay.
Let me just here.
I'm going to the know your meme page
here.
I'll link this to you just so you could
read it later if you like, because the
know your meme page and the Wikipedia
page are good for the book are good for
the two sides.
Um, let's see.
Let me just control effort.
Oops.
Oh, it's out here.
It doesn't matter.
This is one of those, another one of
those images you can just find just by
searching gamers are dead.
It's yep.
Here it is.
Oh, come on.
Why is it like 300 pixels wide guys?
Give me the original.
Hold on.
Hold on just a second.
Okay.
Yeah.
So this happened about one week after
the Zoe post dropped.
Okay.
Uh, here, I'm going to post, I'm going
to give you this image here.
So this ha this happened about one
week after the Zoe post dropped and there
was this huge, you know, consumer backlash.
All of these gaming sites put forward
articles saying gamers are dead.
Gamers are over.
It's the end of the gamer gaming is
leaving gamers behind the identity of
gamer is, is done is gone.
That's it.
All right.
All right.
And they all came out like within
an hour of each other.
Yeah.
And so, so total biscuit, who I think
he was, he was still alive at the time.
He didn't die till I think 2017, right?
Total biscuit.
He said, he, he, he famously said on
Twitter, I've never seen anything like this.
I've never seen anything like this level of
coordination or collaboration.
And all of these articles talked about
how Anita Sarkeesian was, um, was getting
harassment due to this, how Brianna
Wu was getting harassment to this, due
to this, how the path forward for, for
progress in the games industry was for
journalists and independent game developers
to no longer consider gamers to be their
audience and to say, yeah, you have a group
of people who are, you know, they're pretty
socially, not, not that well adjusted.
They're kind of maligned, they're kind of
nerdy and you know, and then, and the only
thing they really have as in terms of a
collective identity is gamer as you know,
as in celly as that sounds, when you have
the enthusiast press attacking them like
this, it doesn't go over well.
That's got a lot of people angry.
People were very, very angry when this
happened.
Um, yeah, that, yeah, it looks sus.
It just looks so, so, I mean, not even
sus, it just looks like, you know,
conclusive that all of these people are
coordinated, um, essentially.
So there, there's no doubt about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then it came out, uh, three or
four months later, there was, uh, a game
journalist named Billy D who ran a website
called one angry gamer.
He was part of a Google group called game
journal pros, where it turned out that they
were all in there discussing what articles
to publish, what political opinions were
safe to put forward, what you were, what you
should publish on your website, what you
shouldn't publish on your website.
And they were all colluding it.
Um, Billy D gave the information to Milo.
Milo published it on Breitbart and that
was Milo's big, uh, his, his first big
breakaway he took off because of publishing
Billy D's leak.
So Milo was even involved in gamer gate.
Yes.
Milo was, no one had heard of, had heard
of Milo before gamer gate.
Milo was where he blew up, sorry.
Gamer gate was where Milo blew up.
Okay.
Wow.
Um, there you go.
I'm going to try to find the game
journal pros.
Da, da, da, da, da, da, da.
I mean, Oh, there's like a bunch of articles
describing it and like who was on it.
If you search for the, the name game
journal pros, you'll find it.
But like there's a bunch of articles
of describing what happened.
Yeah, I can, I can post you an article, I
guess, but like a lot of this is just, you
know, reading, you know, reading old lore.
Yeah.
But yeah, uh, what was being said and how
things were, were being colluded in game
journal pros was leaked.
Milo was the one who leaked it that
basically made Milo's career.
That's how we got started.
And then he, he moved on to, to, he, he moved
on to bigger things in 2015 with Brexit and
2016 with Trump, but he got started doing
gamer gate stuff.
Wow.
Someone in your chat says as much as
gamer gate went off the rails, this
aspect is indisputable.
They instigated a reaction and then cited
the reaction to justify the instigation.
Yeah, that sounds, that sounds pretty
similar to what happened.
That like a lot of, a lot of the gamers,
like just blew up and a lot of them went
overboard during gamer gate, but they, but
they went overboard because of the, of
the terrible, the consistent, terrible
behavior of all of these people.
And then after that, they went overboard
that's what they use to justify their
behavior.
They said, Oh, well, we, we don't need
to, you know, gamers don't actually need
to be our audience anymore because look
at how they blow up when we insult them.
And it's like, well, okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I'm seeing it here now in the timeline.
So yeah, the timeline in this time, I'll
link the timeline, but, and you can tell
me how accurate this timeline is.
I think it's, it's, it's, it's, it's
funny how accurate this timeline is.
You know, but this is where it was.
Oh, rational Wiki, but they're also
slanted, but that's fine.
Everyone has their slanted.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
They're, they're like hyper feminist
actually.
Oh, for real.
Yeah.
I just, I was looking at it because it's
like the most comprehensive timeline I
could find, but if there's a better one
around, you know, I'm
know your meme, know your memes page is
pretty good on it too, but it's from a
completely different political point of
view.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's see here.
I'm just going to quickly skim it.
So yeah, I see this.
Um,
mundane Matt publishes the Zoe post
not August 16th.
Yep.
Yeah, there's, there's deep lore of
like, of all these people involved, man.
Like, so there's somebody that Zoe Quinn
drove to suicide completely unrelated
to gamer gate, you know, like all of
these people have a history that would
that, that can serve as its own video
independent from what they've done with
gamer gate.
Um, yeah, somebody in chat was mentioning
that, um, Alec Holoka.
Yeah.
Did he make night in the woods?
Huh?
Yeah.
Alec Holowalk, a Canadian game developer.
Yeah.
Killed himself.
Yep.
He killed himself October, 2019.
And how did that happen?
Like, why do people say that she contributed
to that?
Uh, basically Zoe made false rape
allegations against him and destroyed his
career and he was already like prone to
depressive bouts.
I haven't looked at that story, um, in a
long time, I have to go back and actually
look at that one.
Cause it wasn't related to gamer gate.
It was like its own thing.
There was a lot of like weird, deep lore.
You know, like if the precursor to Kiwi
farms that existed back then, cause it was
before Kiwi farms, I think, you know, like
they were digging around like Zoe Quinn's
family and they found her original name
because that's not her original name.
They discovered that like, you know, her,
her father comes from like old European
money and like her boyfriend was like
this guy who was the son of like an arms
dealer, there was a bunch of weird shit
that people found.
And it was all really interesting and kind
of fun and exciting to be like, Oh my God,
we're discovering the secrets of like, of
these people who, of these hipsters, who,
they're almost like, like the late, like
discovering like, like secrets of like, of
like the upper class, you know what I mean?
Like these people who have a lot of money,
they're traveling around, they're going to
different countries or going to all these events.
It was, there was like, there's a big, there's
an excitement part to it where you're like
uncovering these, these weird secrets.
Like, why is it that this, this, this
hyper-socialist guy, Oh, he, he, he comes
from old money and his dad selling weapons
to Israel, like, Holy shit.
You know, stories like that kept coming
up about everyone, but in, but that was all
like fun side stuff that contributed to the
character of these people.
But the actual gamer gate conversation
itself was the, the, um, the game journalists
and the independent developers who collaborate,
who, uh, who agree to set narratives.
Where, where money's changing hands sometimes.
And then on the flip side, it was the
harassment that these people received.
Some of it legitimate, some of it illegitimate.
Some of it deserved.
I mean, not, not legitimate, you know what,
you know what I mean?
Like, like, um, deserve because they had
behaved poorly, some of it not deserved
because they were just, the people
were just going crazy.
Yeah.
Um, so let me go back to the time.
I want to see, yeah.
How did Brianna Wu like contribute to stuff?
Cause I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,
when I looked at thisconomical OCA, it
says he was accused of physical and emotional
abuse by Zoe Quinn.
Um, did you mention Brianna women relation to that,
no, no, she's not related.
To the alcohol oil crate store or Anita
Sarkeesian and Briana Wu, both inserted
themselves into gamer gate.
The Zoe post, didn't mention them.
There's only post mentioned so we
Quinn and the five guys that basically it, um, Anita Sarkeesian was already
like, she was already kind of hated for the feminist frequency series.
That was going since 2010 or something or 2011.
Um, and it's my personal opinion that Anita Sarkeesian and Brianna
Wu both inserted themselves into gamer gate and said, Hey, we're women too.
We're also facing harassment to guys because it was a way to bolster their
career, it was the same thing that Milo did, they all found opportunities
to make their, to the kind of, you know, bump up their profile, make a
name for themselves, grow their brand.
They saw, you know, a, this rather organic, um, uh, cultural event
happening on the internet and everyone jumped in out to try it, to try
and basically pump themselves up.
And that's the only reason that Brianna Wu was involved in it.
She did.
She, she wasn't involved in any of the actual events.
Okay.
I'm trying to look for, um, the timeline that you're, you said
there's a timeline on know your meme.
Yeah, I'll post it.
Yeah, here it is.
What do you think is the most like unbiased one?
Um, good luck.
10 years on everyone's kind of like set in their ways regarding
a narrative, you know, good luck.
If you like, if you search gamer gate right now, here, here, I'm going to go.
I'm just going to see if this is true.
Okay.
I'm going to go over to Twitter.
I'm going to search gamer game.
All right.
What do you, what are the latest tweets that say the word gamer game, aside from
yours and mine, because we just tweeted about it, right?
Yeah.
Um, I don't know people accusing people of being fascist or something.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, man, what was it?
Hassan recently said that because the developer of the atomic heart video
game didn't have any like left-leaning woke people, social justice people on the
development team, and it was all like, like a bunch of kind of nerdy guys.
Hassan said this was, this was a gamer gate developer.
And I'm like, are you fucking kidding me?
Is that what gamer gate is now?
Yeah, it's not going to find that one.
Dude Hassan Hassan's hilarious.
He's like the, the gift that keeps on giving when it comes to terrible takes.
Yeah, certainly is.
Yeah.
I can't believe like the amount of terrible takes that one person can have.
Let's see here.
What do you think about this?
So when I was looking through the rational Wiki, um, it said that somewhere in it, it
says that, um, the Zoe Quinn post was debunked by, was it, let's see.
Um, debunked by Yoni himself.
Um, let's see, I'm doing the control F for debunked and see what we get.
Uh, let's see.
According to IRC logs, the Zoe post was later edited by Aaron.
The original accusations were later debunked by himself.
Let's see what this debunking is.
Zoe Quinn, Aaron clarifies the Zoe Quinn, Nathan Grayson timeline.
Let's see what the debunking is.
I'm going to read this.
Okay.
I know what this is.
I know what this is.
Okay.
Um, I think it was, it was either mundane, Matt or internet aristocrat.
It was one of the two and I think it might be mundane, Matt, um, that made the claim
that Zoe Quinn got favorable coverage of her game depression quest because of the
fact that she was sleeping with Nathan, Nathan Grayson and Nathan Grayson, Grayson
Nathan Grayson Grayson never, um, never reviewed the game depression quest.
So that's true.
Um, that was something that was floating around that I remember seeing repeated a
lot during gamer gate, but it wasn't true.
That part was actually false.
Um, what was true was not the, the, uh, the, the review of depression
quest that never existed.
What was actually true was the coverage of the game jam.
The game jam coverage was the actual thing.
That, that Nathan Grayson reported on after he had slept with Zoe Quinn and Zoe
Quinn was one of the principles in the story.
And he had every reason to, to basically make the story look good for Zoe because
Zoe faced potential legal action.
If it, if it looked like she had intentionally tanked the game jam because
she had her own game jam coming up soon, which she did.
Yeah.
Okay.
Do you know what a game jam is?
I don't know what a game jam is now.
Okay.
A game jam is a tournament where you get together a bunch of people and you
sit them down in a room for like 24 hours or 48 hours or whatever.
And you say, make a game.
Make, make, make, just make, make a game really quick.
All right.
And it's like televised and it's like,
yeah, I do know what this is.
Okay.
Yeah.
So Zoe Quinn was invited to one and she had her own competing one lined up.
Yeah.
And there's reports that she intentionally tanked the one she was
inviting on to get more eyes on hers.
And the only person who reported on the event was the guy she was fucking.
That's where the collusion is.
It has nothing to do with, with, with, with reviewing Zoe's games.
So how did, um, how, how did she intentionally tank the
game jam, the competing one?
I'd have to go back and see.
That's, that's some deep lore.
I don't, I don't remember exactly what it was, but I remember, I remember
that she somehow intentionally tanked it and I had a chance to, hold on.
Oh, fuck it.
I had a, fuck it.
I had a chance to, um, ask John Tron at one point who was part of the game jam.
Like, did she actually intentionally tank it?
And he was like, yeah.
And he, he confirmed it to me personally.
So I tend to believe it, but in terms of how she tanked the game jam,
I have to go look that up.
It was the centerpiece of one of internet aristocrats old videos,
but I can't remember the details.
Okay.
Me too.
There's just so much, there's so much deep lore in this that like, I
I feel like, you know, I'm doing this interview with Brianna, um, uh, in a few
days, show her the proof stardust, burn the bridge, um, we'll see.
Um, I'm going to try and approach it as unbiased as possible.
Right.
Um, but, um, obviously there are things here that I can ask her about.
Definitely.
I'm going to ask her about them.
Um, so, uh, yeah, uh, there's just so much stuff that, that is going on
in this, in this timeline that like, I feel like I could study this for
like a year and still not understand the entirety of the thing.
Um, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Um, Jim's old videos were pretty good.
Sargon's old videos are pretty good.
Um, my old videos are pretty good, but the quality on them fucking sucks.
Um, okay, here we go.
I think, I think, I think I found it.
Oh God.
Yeah, that's right.
Phil fish's Twitter rant.
I'm so glad he's gone.
Let me just give me a second here.
Let's see.
Okay.
Oh, that's right.
The fine young capitalists.
Do you remember, did you hear what them, that was part of the story.
I know that it's in the timeline.
The fine, fine young capitalists are in the timeline.
Here's here's they were, they were the ones that I think that
they, they tanked the game jam of.
This was, this was their story that they posted on, on Reddit.
I'm going to pull that one up now.
Oh, I see it here.
And, okay.
Right.
Um,
Oh yeah, someone in your chat just said that the fine young
capitalists are completely gone.
Oh yeah.
They've been gone for like five or six years now.
They just, they just left because fuck.
Yeah.
So, uh, if you don't mind, I'm going to read this to the chat.
It says she fucking docs me ruined a production for women refuse to
contact us and is currently taking money for a game jam with no start
date, no location and no judges.
Okay.
Here's my story.
We ran a group that literally said any woman come up with an idea for a
video game will give you concept art.
So you can pitch your game and we'll put all the pitches online.
The internet will vote.
Uh, the internet will vote on the best one and we'll make that game.
And give the profits to charity.
If you get a lot of interest online and wants to make the game on your own,
you can leave the contest at any time.
Literally everyone that was in the top five didn't have programming
experience, so they couldn't make their game on their own.
She was like, why do you expect women to work for free and make games?
We said, well, they get 8% of the money as royalties and they just have
to give an idea other people will make the game and the profits go to charity.
Doesn't matter.
It's oppressive.
She started a fucking Twitter storm, crashed our website, got my personal
information docs, got us banned from Twitter.
We email reporter.
What what's up?
And they're like, duh.
If duh, if Zoe says it's oppressive, it must be true.
Maybe you should give her money for rebel jam, which has no start
date location or any other information, but totally isn't a scam.
This happens at three, eight, uh, three major, uh, online publications.
We literally said we'd pay her to consult on future projects and we
closed down the contest if she would explain to us what is exactly offensive.
No response, no response at all.
Unless a reporter contacted her and then she's the victim.
All this information is fucking online.
The pitches are online.
We did everything we said, but no online journalists will publish the story.
Please vote.
Even if we don't raise enough money, if, um, if show there's enough of a
interest, we can get the winner, a grant to make their game.
I am literally making no money on this contest.
I just wanted to focus on something other than women being oppressed.
I wanted to show that they made good games and everyone said, that's not
what women in games wants to talk about.
Um, so I guess that's their, their perspective, um, regarding the game jam.
Um, and, uh, one thing, let me see here.
Um, I remember seeing fine young capitalists and now the rational Wiki,
and I know you said this is like super slanted, um, it says here, uh, Matthew
rapper claims on Reddit that Zoe Quinn sabotaged their game jam and doxed
him without providing any proof.
The claims he made under his username by silly Slater, we deleted and or
edited later on, um, his accusation seems to be based on a conversation
with Zoe Quinn from March cop compiled by Metroid composite that was
apparently settled in private.
Um,
yeah.
And then on August 29th to find young capitalist backpedal on their claims.
Let's see.
I'm just trying to be as thorough as possible.
Nope.
It makes sense.
I'm also, this is all also like old lore for me too.
Is I don't have to like, look at it to jog my memory.
I'm pretty sure when it's kind of strange, this is from an era before the trend
stuff was like really center stage in the left.
So, um, a lot of the, a lot of the feminism of this era was kind of anti-trans, you
know, they, they still held the opinion that like trans women were male
infiltrators that wanted to destroy feminism and stuff like that.
The trans stuff didn't really come about till like 2017.
So, uh, I think, I think they dead name that the main person involved in find
young capitalists on this, this website.
Because yeah, it says Matthew Rapard and I'm pretty sure, I'm pretty sure that's a
girl.
Well, no, no, I mean, I don't get, I don't give a shit, but like, it's, it's just been
up, it's been up for so long and this is obviously like an old timeline.
So like people haven't edited this in years and back then dead naming was not a
big deal, right?
No one cared.
It's just, it's just strange to see how like things have changed.
Um, okay, let's see the poll board gets behind funding the fine young capitalist
crowd funding.
The fine young capitalist crowd funding campaign.
They call it operation chemo.
The crowd funding campaign, the fine young capitalist gets closed.
They blame it on Zoe Quinn without providing any proof.
Okay.
Well, it looks, it looks like on that image, if that's a true email, the Indiegogo team
is saying they're doing this for Zoe.
So this is back when Indiegogo was like at small companies, they could like send out
impersonal emails like this.
Let's see.
I'm trying to find what you're talking about.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay.
Yeah.
Back from their claim that Zoe Quinn docs are hacking them.
So that's.
And I'm trying to read this, but.
Lots of the links are broken and stuff on these old things, eh?
Yeah.
Yeah, they are.
Oh, fucking Lego butts.
Oh my God.
Oh, I'm just like getting brainwaves, man.
Oh, here it is.
Zoe Quinn didn't understand this project.
She decided to send some followers our way.
One of them docs me.
One of them sent a death threat.
Tons of them called me transphobic and the majority of said the project was exploitative.
It costed me money, a friend and a sponsor.
She fucked up.
I've been treated worse.
I rarely think about it anymore.
My greatest sin seems to be not pretending it didn't happen.
It happened.
She didn't know what she was doing.
Where is that?
Exactly.
I'm trying to find these pictures.
Yeah, it's not a picture.
The backpedal on their claims link works.
And so it's from that.
It happened.
She didn't know what she was doing.
Apparently she's not an omniscient God.
Except from heaven to purge the earth from human gamers.
She's just some woman that wants people to make games.
We wrote the statement slash piece for you with her specifically so that she could go
to PAX and point to it if anyone asked how we felt about her.
So they're saying that she directed followers our way and one of them docs me, but she herself
didn't docs me.
I still can't find that.
So on August 29th, it says the final capitalist backpedal on their claims at Zoe Quinn docs
to hack them.
When I go to that site, it takes me to a tumbler.
Oh, right, right, right.
No, no, no.
I was looking at a different page.
Sorry.
Yeah.
Right.
Find young capitalists are apologizing for getting punched in the face.
Right.
Okay.
I remember this now.
I remember this now.
Yeah.
I remember this now.
So yeah, Zoe Quinn showed up and apologized to them and they kind of patched things up
because this is like, this is this is during while it was blowing up, but it hadn't gotten
to its peak yet.
And I think the fine young capitalist, like they weren't in this for a culture war.
They just wanted to do their project, right?
They didn't.
So Zoe Quinn was going to come to them and apologize to them and say, listen, it's not
my fault.
They were going to accept the apology.
I remember I remember Zoe Quinn doing this a lot.
She was like running around in people's DMS trying to put out like every single fire that
she could lots of like, oh, it wasn't really me.
Oh, it was somebody else.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I didn't direct this harassment.
I didn't.
I didn't.
And it's like, okay, you know, sometimes sometimes your fans just kind of do what they're going
to do without your input.
You know, I've experienced that.
I'm sure like like like Sargon's experience.
I'm sure Destiny's experienced that, you know, like sometimes it just happens, right?
So that's definitely a reasonable excuse.
But like considering her behavior before and after gamer gate where like this kind of this
pattern of behavior from her, um, I don't think that like she docs anyone, but I also
don't think that she actually cared if one of her followers doc someone, I don't believe
it personally, just because like, as a gamer gate went on, we looked into like the drama
from that she got into before gamer gate.
There's a drama that she's been in since gamer gate and there's been like a consistent pattern
of behavior with this woman where it's been like, I'm not going to do anything about anything,
but you know, it, it, you know how like, you know how sometimes people will just like post
someone's name and address without an actual like threat of violence attached, but you
know, they're kind of like hoping someone's going to do something ridiculous.
This is like an on what Zoe Quinn is like an online variant of that where she'll like,
she'll go right up to the edge of actually saying something wrong, and then do that consistently.
So, um, so what drama was she involved in before gamer gate?
Do you know?
Oh, God, it's there was something about her, she moved to Toronto to avoid
some sort of like a divorce settlement or something because she was married.
And she actually like fled to Canada for a year or two.
I don't remember that the full details and then like basically once the legal
troubles kind of died down, she moved back to the States.
She just has like a history of these really toxic personal relationships where she's using people.
Aaron's only like one of many.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This me I can look this up.
Let's see.
Zoe.
Jesus.
Is this it?
Yeah, here we go.
So, Brianna, you said Brianna Woon and Anita Sarkeesian kind of inserted themselves into
the gamer gate stuff.
I'm assuming by like, posting something in response to it.
Um, yeah, basically, they like they saw like the, the culture war kick up, and they started
like commenting on it and saying I've been harassed to I've been harassed to give me give
me some attention guys.
Like there's there's a lot of that happening from those two.
Okay, yeah.
Here's right.
It was um, I think.
I see it here.
Brianna Woon lead developer at giant space cat studios decides to make a joke Twitter
account to mock gamer gators without mentioning them at all.
90 minutes past she reports being targeted by harassment.
I think I found the Toronto stuff with Zoe.
It's like another sexual assault allegation that ended up not panning out.
There's a bunch of those in her past.
So I think that's what this is.
This is like a research stream now.
I just ancient lore.
Sorry.
No, no, I enjoy this sort of thing.
Yeah.
Okay.
I think it's safe.
No, thanks.
I think I'm safe.
No, thanks to you.
Do not tweet at me again.
We will no longer be doing interviews with blank.
We have creator of they bleed pixels expressing his disgust for an individual who assaulted
Zoe Quinn at a gaming event.
The individual is respected amongst the gaming scene.
The individual explains himself, but they bleed pixels doesn't believe him.
Yeah, it looks like the black text is like what's explaining what's happening here since
a lot of it's been lost to time.
Yeah.
See here.
So then this Miguel says drunk isn't an excuse for behavior.
I was still in cold sober.
I saw how you acted and what you did.
Now please leave me alone.
Blank asking help usually requires you to say things rather than silently brooding.
Also doesn't require you to grab and injure Zoe.
And then this explanation text says Jesus does fucked up.
What would compel someone to act that way?
Rooting silently and then continuing to grab at Zoe's arm.
Weird.
Which I assume is like sarcastic.
Miguel says, oh, awesome.
Now he's giving my number out to his friends so that they can try and harass me too.
Thanks, asshole.
Weird how these people who harass Zoe always do it by phone.
So there's not really any proof of it ever happening.
It's almost like a wizard did it.
It's okay means blank is sorry.
He got drunk and assaulted Zoe.
We can forgive him because he's a dude centric.
He's in a dude centered biz, right?
What does this even mean?
This is how much he's prepared to defend Zoe and extrapolate the night's events for the cause.
I think it's going to be a common issue as all local indie communities grow.
We need to set a precedent, not cool.
The bleed pixels guy probably didn't realize how much Zoe was lying.
His behavior is really what we'd want good people to do.
They see what they believe to be a person being harassed and they step in and help.
Unfortunately, Zoe was using the nice events to spin this particular individual as a creep buck.
Really, he was a person Zoe was until recently involved with counting on a friend for help.
We also see here some of the rewards of white knighting.
It's got to feel great to have people congratulate you just for being a good person, right?
Okay.
Months later, the Toronto indie scene for the most part found out what Zoe's true nature really was.
She wasn't welcome there anymore.
She'd end up moving to San Francisco and living with Patricia Hernandez who promised to make her big.
Zoe now views Patricia as a hack who never made good on her promise.
Zoe and this individual had a brief fling.
He wanted more and Zoe didn't.
They decided to break it off but were still friends.
They both attended the event and when this individual got the news,
he thought Zoe would still be a friend he could trust to talk to and have some support.
He kept grabbing her arm trying to beg her to just listen because he was probably disintegrating internally.
Kind of a dick move to not just leave her alone
but he had been drinking and probably received some of the worst news of his life.
Instead, Zoe used it as an opportunity to make him look like a creep.
He got too close and actually wanted something meaningful so she used this as a clean out.
She said he was stalking and harassing her and essentially tried to ruin his reputation.
He kept his distance from her since that night.
Zoe would use this event as a so brave story about herself
saying her boss came on to her and dislocated her shoulder.
She was never employed by him, her shoulder was never dislocated,
and days later her friends saw her doing manual work with no discomfort.
Okay, so this is what happened prior to gamergate.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And there is at least a couple other stories,
but I mean they're going to require digging up in in the same thing.
Yeah, wow.
Um, another thing that happened was not your shield.
Did you hear about that?
I did not hear about that.
I'm so sorry.
I'm making you explain everything.
That's fine.
There was a claim for a while that the only people involved in gamergate were straight white men,
and that that's all it was.
And in response, a shit ton of people post pictures of themselves saying that no,
they were women and they were also pro gamergate.
They just weren't part of the, you know, the game journo indie clique.
They weren't in the club, you know, this image went viral on September 2nd.
Um, I still remember like half of these girls,
because it's 10 years later, they've all kind of like gone their separate ways.
I think shoe on head even posted one of these, one of these not your shield images.
Um, some of them have gone like far, right.
Some of them have gone far left.
Um, a few of them have left the internet entirely.
Some of them just don't make content anymore.
But basically a lot of these people, um, a lot of these people who were pro gamergate,
weren't just straight white men.
And there's a comic that you see sometimes where it's like a black woman who's going
to like explain something and then a white woman like puts her hand over the black woman's mouth
and says, you're oppressed.
Let me explain that came out of not your shield.
That was first drawn for not your shield.
Okay.
Okay, interesting.
Um, there's also Milo falsely accusing Zoe Quinn of embezzling money from their game.
And then accusing of lying about her police report.
Milo falsely abuses.
I'm always going to embezzling money.
What was this?
If you've donated money to I've Fred, why does that charity say you haven't?
How much money has depression quest raised?
What percentage of that money have you donated to, um, to date to I've Fred?
Oh, I see what's going on.
Okay.
Okay.
So Zoe Quinn said that, um, the proceeds from her game depression quest, at least a portion
of them will be donated to I've Fred, which is a depression charity.
And Milo called her up, asked for a comment.
Zoe hung up on him.
Um, I've Fred confirmed that Zoe, that no one had donated to, uh, to them from this
game.
Um, the issue is depression quest is a free game.
Yeah.
There's no, there's no profits to be made.
So I guess Zoe Quinn technically did donate a portion of all of her profits, which is
a portion of zero.
So it's not a false statement.
It's just kind of a misleading one.
Yeah.
Um, however, even though you could interpret this as Milo being wrong, you can interpret
this as Zoe being sneaky, whatever, even though, even if you say that this story didn't happen,
Zoe did later embezzle money for a different game after gamer gate.
And that's not going to be improved in this timeline.
Cause she did it like three years later, but she did embezzle money for a game.
Yeah.
There was like, uh, do you know the room, the terrible movie, the room?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Remember the guy that played Mark with like the ginger beard, that guy?
Yeah.
She hired that guy to do an FMV game where he was the star.
She raised a shit ton of money and then she just never put it out.
And whenever you ask her, she's like, yeah, I spent all the money.
Sorry.
She just admits it.
Yeah.
There's no more money.
Really?
Wow.
Um, okay.
So I'm going to find that.
Hold on.
This is a post gamer gate drama.
So it's, let's see.
Let me find it.
Come on.
This was back in 2018.
There's like layers.
So you have to like keep digging down.
Yeah.
So we quit an FMV game, no info since over six months.
Come on.
So we Quinn steals $85,000 from gullible Kickstarters.
Give me something more concrete than just a, uh, a forum post talking about it.
Will this give us something?
Yeah, here we go.
Here's an article.
Uh, kick scams.
Yep.
They just, they cover Kickstarter scams.
She was obvious from the name, right?
Yeah.
Project tingler kickstarted in the butt.
So Quinn and Chuck tingle FMV game.
Okay.
Um, although she continues to solicit PayPal donations for the, for development
Quinn's Kickstarter account has not been accessed since April, 2018.
Um, project tingler has yet to leave the pre-alpha stage of development.
Um, yeah, it raised $15,000 beyond its original Kickstarter goal and promises
of early access and sneak peaks.
Um, updates have become increasingly rare questions and concerns from backers
are routinely neglected for periods up to and exceeding six months.
Um, uh, let's see.
Twitter messages to lead developers, Zoe Quinn and project manager,
John E. Warren remain unanswered.
Despite both being active users of the platform.
Um, author chunk Chuck tingle, who's fictional universe project tingler set
has responded with hostility to those exasperated by the lack of communication.
Um, yep.
Um, the LDR is still working on it just slower because I ran out of money
a long time ago and had to get day jobs.
Also, I have been working on ways to bring on some assistance with finishing it.
Also don't yell at Chuck about it.
Shipping the game is on me.
Um, Hey, and then.
Oh, I see.
This is a response to the, yeah, the, the, she, these are two tweets that she
sent as time went on regarding where the money went in the second one.
She just says ran out of money.
Sorry.
Ran out of money a long time ago.
Not cool with asking people to work for free, got a day job to start crawling
out of debt and in a place where I can properly finish it, this is the day job.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
And in a place where I can properly finish it, this is the day job.
Uh, the issue ultimately is, is while she's posting stuff like this,
she's also posting stuff like this.
And so people are saying, Hey, we're donating all this money to you.
And you're saying that you ran out of money to actually finish the game.
Where are you getting the money to go on these trips and do it and do these things?
Time to stop being bitter about the people trying to stop my joy and bad
faith and go back to appreciating the fact that I get to be too busy with
making cool shit that I love to completely goof off in Tokyo.
One awesome problem I get to have, just like the awesome problem of the
ryokan owner telling me she had to swap out the yukata in my room for the
big booby yukata instead, bless her.
Okay.
Yeah.
Oops.
Um, yeah, so basically it's been years and years and years.
A bunch of money has just vanished.
There seems to be no accountability.
So it's, it's pretty, it's pretty clear where it went.
This is like the, where did, where did all Keflez's money go, guys?
It's kind of the same thing, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
Um, wow.
Okay.
This is, um, this is really good going through like, oh, clearly slanted,
um, timeline and like, and getting your take on these things since you
have like a different perspective.
Um, yeah, yeah.
Um, so it's very clearly slanted.
And yes, so Milo also accused me of falsely of lying about a police report.
I want to see what that link is.
Falsely of lying about a police report.
I want to see what that link is.
Oh, that, I think that link's dead now.
Whatever it was, it's not leading to anything anymore.
Um, my listeners and Zoe Quinn and Anita Sarkeesian get to debunk.
Um, you can see if I can, uh, the debunking is that Sarkeesian,
her case is being actually handled by the FBI.
So, um,
okay, let's see.
Okay.
Is this it?
Okay.
Yeah.
Cause that link is, is dead.
It looks like, so this is from during the initial days of gamer gate where
Anita claimed that she was driven out of her house.
Um, by trolls posting, you know, her address to her or something.
Um, it's,
uh, that's not the debunked part.
The debunked part is like Milo tweeting that he talked with, um,
that he talked with SFPD and they say that the Sarkeesian case is being dealt with by the FBI.
Yeah.
That's this image here, which is Milo's old Milo and Mike Cernovich is old.
Oh yeah.
I don't know if you knew this.
Mike Cernovich got his start in gamer gate too.
Oh really?
Yep.
Man.
Okay.
I haven't, this is going to be a bit of a side story.
I haven't heard of Mike Cernovich since gamer gate.
I know he's been floating around.
He's been like, he wrote the gorilla mindset.
He's been selling like the gorilla drugs to like get people to they're like
caffeine enhancers or something.
I don't fucking know what they are, but like he's, he's kind of tried to hop on the,
um, the manosphere train, right?
Man.
I did, I did a video on, um, on Andrew Tate, I think two days ago, just like a,
an update on some of the things because, um, you know who Nick Monroe is?
I don't.
Who's that?
Do you know crab crawler?
Yeah.
On Twitter?
Yeah, I know.
That's a secret account.
Don't tell anyone that's Nick Monroe.
Nick Monroe is an investigative journalist.
And he first got big live tweeting some trials four or five years back.
And I've talked to him a bunch of times.
He's a good guy.
Uh, but his whole thing is like deep dives, gamer gate style, deep dives.
And he, I, I basically did a video, uh, crediting him and putting all of his
research into, into video format.
But he did a big ass thread where he discovered that Mike Cernovich was in
Andrew Tate's war room, selling his, selling his gorilla drugs to Andrew
Tate and other people there.
That's wild.
I think I remember that actually.
That's wild.
Yeah.
And so when Andrew Tate says, yeah, I make my girls do 16 hour days in front
of the camera, a crab crawler was like, listen, are you giving them the gorilla
drugs to keep them going?
Like what's going on here?
What is.
Wow.
Yeah.
So you just outed a secret on stream.
Oh, what that, uh, that Nick Monroe is crab crawler.
Yeah.
I think it's like Sammy public knowledge at this point.
Okay.
Wow.
He was like perma band from Twitter for a while for unearthing the wrong
secrets for live tweeting about the wrong trials, but, uh, he came back and
now that Elon's back, no one cares anymore, you know, now that Elon's in
control of things.
Yeah.
No, I still see people getting like wrecked by Twitter, like TOS or whatever.
Um, yeah, I was banned for a week.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What for, what did you get banned for?
Um, I said that being trans was a mental illness and because it's gender
dysphoria and transitioning is the proper medical treatment for the illness.
And if you try to make being trans and aesthetic and not a mental illness,
you're going to completely remove the medical side of it.
And now suddenly a bunch of trans people are going to be left without their
healthcare.
So you can, you guys need to chill the fuck down, but you guys, you guys need
to calm down with this shit because you're, you're ruining things for trans
people.
And that got me banned for a week.
Wow.
I can't believe that got you banned.
Yep.
It's true too.
I know it's, I know it's kind of spicy, but it's true.
Like, I mean, you know that you have to argue then what is the justification
of like giving, um, like medical treatment to all these trans people with
just an aesthetic that you can claim.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's a clip that I use over and over and maybe I can actually find it for
you.
Hold on.
If I can't find it for you, I'll upload it because fuck.
It's funny.
Is this it?
No, it's not it.
Fuck.
Come on internet.
Help me out.
Oh, maybe I can't.
God damn it.
Yeah.
I wonder if it's small enough that I can just send it to you over for
discord.
A lot of people tuned in for your gamer gate summary.
Really?
What's the numbers looking like?
There's like 155 on YouTube right now.
Oh, nice.
Hi guys.
What's up?
Yeah, I'll upload it like privately.
I'll set it to, I use this clip so much in my videos because it's so ridiculous.
It's one of those stock clips.
I just keep around whenever I have to bring it up.
Okay.
Uh, unlisted.
This should be good.
Everybody's saying, um, hi dev to you.
Hello.
What was it?
I'm here for dev.
I'm a fan of him.
Yeah, I'm a fan too.
He's pretty cool.
Oh, well, thank you.
Nice to meet you.
Sundance.
Excuse me.
What did you call me?
Is your name Sundance?
It is not Sundance.
Okay.
Watch this.
Okay.
It would be the.
It's a minute, so I'll just kind of sit back and.
Okay.
So, okay.
So you're going to have to explain to me because I didn't get it.
I'm sorry.
Oh, no.
No, I didn't.
Well, let me, let me play it again.
Okay.
It might take me, it might take me a minute.
I'm sorry.
It's just like a, for me, it's just like, okay.
Uh, you know, typical retarded take, but yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
I mean, it is just a typical retarded take.
Yeah.
But if you want like a single sound clip that completely demolishes the entire, the entire
leftist view on what being trans is, it's this one.
If gender actually is just an aesthetic as she claims, then there's no reason for any
of it to be covered in terms of medical costs.
There's no reason for anyone to respect it.
You know, like, why would you?
Cause you shouldn't respect it any more than you would respect someone's choice of clothing,
which is sometimes inappropriate.
And sometimes it's not part of your identity anymore.
You know, like this, this one line of logic destroys everything that trans people have
been trying to build for pretty much ever.
Yeah.
So I keep this in my, I keep this in my back pocket and I'm like, listen, if I ever need
to like pull out, Oh, here's something retarded.
I have it ready to go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's pretty retarded.
It's up there with, I think I remember seeing this actually and just being like, okay, really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
So I'm, I guess I'm going to have to like look through the more of this gamergate stuff,
but like, what were you talking about before?
Yeah.
Hold on.
Yeah.
Jesse single gets involved in this and writes a,
you know, writes a, writes a, an article about it.
Mike Cernovich goes after a nil dash in the name of gamergate for no apparent reason.
Dash has never written about gamergate or video games,
but has a history of Cernovich stalking him.
What is that?
Sure.
Let's see.
Mike Cernovich goes after, huh?
Who's a nil dash?
I have no idea.
Yeah.
This, I don't know what this part is at all.
So this is all news to me.
I mean, I'm not surprised that Mike Cernovich ended up being kind of a grifter.
Yeah.
Let's see.
He goes after him.
Um, I don't know what this is, but.
Let's see what this is.
When the gamergate mob targeted a nil dash for no reason.
SJWs are bullies.
I hate bullies.
How do you handle a mob of bullies?
You single them out one by one.
Docs, Docs, Docs, Docs, Docs.
Oh, someone in your chat quickly asked, isn't the dear gender weirdo on some sort of mod
team for Twitch?
No, there's actually two dear gender weirdos.
Fucking hell.
There's multiples of them.
Yes.
There's a herd.
Yeah.
Well, there's two.
I don't know if two makes a herd, but maybe.
Yeah.
If believing the first amendment in due process makes me a sociopath, then I'm guilty as charged.
Aaron is a nice guy.
I, on the other hand, am not so nice.
I play a lot meaner than SJWs.
Just wait till I issue subpoenas and start doxing.
Holy shit.
Mike Cernovich is like fucking unhinged in these tweets.
Yeah.
Back in the old days.
Now that this is a story that completely went by me, I have no clue that this happened.
I don't know.
It looks like gamer gate ended up just being a massive W for the pro gamer gators.
I mean, kind of, kind of not, because if you look at the state of video game development
right now, it's certainly more woke than it was back then.
And they didn't want that.
So I think a lot of them view it as like a massive loss.
You know, none of the people that they discovered to be, I guess with the exception of Phil
Fish, none of the people that were discovered to have been doing anything wrong ever got
punished for it.
They never lost their jobs.
They never lost their positions.
They in fact got promotions.
You know, Nathan Grayson moved on from Kotaku to the Washington Post.
I think like Steven Toledo.
I think he moved on to somewhere else too.
Like basically their careers kept going.
A few indie developers that like some of the worst people kind of had their careers collapse.
Like nobody pays attention to Zoe Quinn anymore.
No one cares.
Nobody pays attention to Nia Sarkeesian anymore.
You know, like her channel is dead.
It gets like it gets like 100 views a video with like a million subs or something like
it's a dead channel.
Brianna Wu, I think is only relevant because she stopped doing game development and tried
to run for office.
So she completely jumped into a different sphere.
So I think she kind of survived by just getting out of gaming.
Yeah, like if you pull up what gets promoted on, let's say the latest Nintendo Direct or
the latest Sony State of Play, what's pushed to the front of the websites, what's pushed
to the front of these news outlets.
You know, it's all stuff that gamer gators would have hated to see 10 years ago.
So I don't think that they view it as a win.
Really?
Yeah, I mean, I don't know.
I feel like, isn't that just, couldn't that just be like the natural progression of things
as we get into more like globalized multicultural, you know, society, like things just naturally
get more like that.
Maybe it's not necessarily like a loss on gamer gate's side.
Are you doing the whole Cthulhu swims left thing?
I don't know what that is.
Oh, hold on.
It's an expression.
Right.
It's from Moldbug.
Cthulhu may swim slowly, but he only swims left.
You said Moldbug was based yesterday.
I remember that comment.
Well, okay, there were, I only read a little bit of some of the stuff you were saying.
Like, I'm not saying he, I said he had some base, some base takes.
I didn't say he himself was based.
Okay.
So Stardust is going on the Neo reactionary arc, guys.
It's going to happen.
It's going to happen.
Um, the idea basically, you know what?
I think a better way to, okay, hold on.
Robert conquest, three laws of politics, which law was it?
Which one?
Um, what was the intended director could talk to?
Which one were you saying people would hate what they see?
Hold on a second.
Um, right.
Any organization, not explicitly right-wing sooner or later becomes left-wing.
That's the underlying idea behind Cthulhu swims left.
So basically like culture is always progressing leftward over time.
It's not progressing rightward.
I don't think that that's necessarily true because the Neo conservative win of Reagan
and Thatcher in the eighties kind of proved that decisively wrong.
You know, there are the flagging economies in the west of the 70 that were kind of bogged
down by a lot of social spending, got revitalized by new conservatism.
So it's, I don't think this is a true statement that things always moved left-leaning, but
they've certainly moved left-leaning consistently in the past 30 years.
And I think some people just don't like that.
Well, yeah, I'm not trying to say that like things always have to move left-leaning, but
my more of what I would be saying is like, we live in a increasingly globalized society.
Like, you know, globalization is, you know, very widespread.
Culture, you know, has been exported to a lot of different places and we're very multicultural
society now as a whole.
So like us being a multicultural society.
Now, I don't know what, like, was it Kotaku you said that people would not like what's
being shown on the front page or whatever?
I think so, yes.
Like that's what gamers would not like if they went to like the front page of, of even
maybe even steam, not, not, not steam is pretty impartial still.
But if you go to the front page of Kotaku or polygon, I think the games that are featured
or the political slants that are pushed people who were in gamer gate, if they could like
see the future, they probably wouldn't like it.
Yeah.
I mean, I guess if it's, if it's like, I don't know, like, I guess I was just thinking more
about like representation in video games and stuff like that.
But if it's just like straight up, like left wing, like politics that are being pushed,
then yeah, I could see people not liking that and seeing it kind of like a failure.
The thing is like gaming was kind of unique because people never had a problem with representation
in it before.
You know, if you go back to the 90s, you go back to the Super Nintendo, the Nintendo 64,
the PlayStation one, you could find black characters, no problem.
Female protagonists, you could find all this shit.
And, and they had like real things to do real stories.
It wasn't like a captain Marvel situation or a Ray Skywalker situation.
If we're going to go down like the quartering route here, where they have like these female
characters that have no arcs, they undergo no growth.
They don't suffer and like overcome and get better.
They're just bad-ass from the start.
And then they just win.
And it's not really an interesting story.
You know, you actually find female characters in video games who suffered and became heroic
like male characters did.
That's been in gaming since before I was born.
So I just think that like this whole, we need more diversity in games.
It always just ringed hollow to anyone who knew, you know?
No, I mean, I'm not saying that that sentiment itself was correct.
I'm just saying like, I don't know.
I saw, I see like people freaking out about their being more representation and it seems
kind of like, well, I'm not saying that we should push for it, but maybe they're being
more than there was prior is kind of like a natural progression of things, you know?
But I think the ultimate issue is just that the games suck, but they hide behind.
They hide behind representation.
It's like, Oh, well, your game actually controls really poorly and it's not very fun to play.
Oh, but it has a black female protagonist.
If you complain, you're a bigot.
It's something like that.
And you saw a lot of that too.
Yeah, for sure.
I can definitely see that.
Like with games and stuff, like with comics, like there've always been female protagonists
in comics and in superhero comics and all of that.
So, yeah.
And they've always been pretty complex.
So it's not anything new, like you said, but.
Yeah, yeah.
I was watching you watch Destiny and Richard Spencer talk last night, and there was something
that you just said that was kind of related to that, where it's like, there's the globalization
of culture and things are kind of becoming more mixed and these ideas are spreading around
more quickly.
I remember, like, I think both Destiny and Richard Spencer agreed that something's been
lost in the globalization, right?
Yeah, the individual identity, people more easily found.
I think it's harder for people to kind of feel like they're individualistic nowadays
because everything is so widespread.
I don't know.
Maybe that's just my.
Yeah, that's definitely part of it.
There's also like, I think Destiny used the example of Nirvana, where they were just like
being shitty in a garage and they were discovered and they blew up.
And it was this kind of like, almost like music that was anti music because it was so
it was so grungy, you know, but now everything is just kind of pre packaged and pre built
and pre made and nothing like the Internet was a breath of fresh air because things could
go viral.
But even on the Internet now, like a lot of things that are going viral or like just kind
of push to go viral.
It's not organic anymore.
It's all kind of like pre planned.
And in my, I forget how I worded it.
I, you watched the video, it was the video about being indigenous.
What does it mean to be indigenous?
I made the point that there's a lot of people who are, let's say far left, you know, they're
socialists and they hate capitalist economics, right?
They say that it turns people into disposable workers and everyone's just replaceable.
And it doesn't actually respect the dignity of individuals.
And it's a, the complaint is that it makes everything and everyone disposable.
And that's like one of capitalism's greatest sins.
The problem with the socialists are somewhat correct when they say that, that that's true.
But the issue is the other half of the left, which is the progressives, they want to, you
know, mix cultures, have more open borders, more immigrants.
And what ends up happening is that with the cultural mix, you also get the economic fungibility.
They kind of come hand in hand where like you, if you, I don't want to put this, it's
something like, it's something like, fuck, how did I say it?
I don't know.
I said it so well in the video and now that I'm live streaming, I can't say it anymore.
It it's, it's basically something along the lines of like the interchangeability that
socialists decry when it comes to capitalism comes hand in hand with this, with the cultural
interchangeability that naturally happens as a result of globalization and progressivism.
And so in some senses, the left causes its own problem.
And I don't think that socialists will ever want to admit that, but I think it's true.
Can you repeat what you just said one more time?
The, what you, the line you were trying so hard to.
Yeah, I'll try, I'll try it again.
So I'm like, I already have lost it.
It's, it's something, it's something like the interchangeability in economics that
socialists decry capitalism for having, they are partially caused by the interchangeability
in culture that progressive is pushed for when they push for globalization and borders
and the merging of cultures and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so, so in some ways the left causes its own capitalist problem.
Yeah, I could see that 100%.
That's because you're not a socialist, a socialist will never admit that for them.
It's always going to be like Marxist historical materialism and the contradictions of capitalism
and all this shit, but like they, Oh man.
Okay.
There's a near reactionary writer named Nick land.
And he basically agreed with everything that the socialists said, not everything, not everything.
No, that's not, that's not accurate.
He agreed with a lot of what the socialists said, but he said that the contradictions
in capitalism were human beings and abolishing capitalism and abolishing people.
And that's when you get into like the technocratic future where you have AI's running everything
and AI's producing all the goods and all the services.
And eventually they're just going to do away with humans.
That's like the doomsday AI future.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Oh, the chat says, Stardust seems bored.
Sorry.
No, I'm not bored.
I'm not bored.
I guess I'm just trying to like, because this is a little bit above my head.
But okay.
So I can definitely see that like the multiculturalism can, you know,
and the pushing of progressive values and open borders and all of that leads to a lot
of these, you know, downfalls of the economic system that like we operate under.
And I can see that, where was I going with this?
It's time to take the neo reactionary pill, Stardust.
Well, there is something like, okay, there's like a loss of individuality.
And I think there's a loss.
There's a little bit of a loss of community too, right?
Like, well, not just a little bit.
There's a huge loss of community.
There's not just a loss of individuality.
There's a loss of community, which is really strange to think about.
Like both of these things happening simultaneously as a result of this,
you know, increasingly multicultural society.
But it makes sense.
And I almost think that the fracturing of the internet is like,
this is funny, because this is something that like JF Gorepi was saying that he thinks
would happen, that there would be a fracturing of the internet.
And not just him.
Other people have talked about it like that, you know, there are different countries with
their own internets now and, you know.
And I think I said this too.
I did a video in like 2016 called the Balkanization of Technology.
It was right after like the, that James Guy put out, it was some kind of engineering
document regarding how do you get more women into engineering spots in Google.
He got fired for it because he spoke honestly about what the problem was.
Oh, do you remember that at all?
I don't remember that, no.
Really?
It was a big thing.
I did a video about it like 2016.
And my view was that the internet was going to Balkanize.
And we'd have like right-wing websites and left-wing websites.
You have right-wing Twitter, left-wing Twitter.
Yeah, we see that.
You have gaming Twitter, you know.
Yeah, we're seeing it, yeah.
Yeah, so with that being said, you know, I think JF was saying that he could see it happening.
And this is what I was trying to explain to Destiny earlier with like the Fediverse and
all of that.
You know, you see these instances like kind of blocking the entirety of other instances
off and they kind of become their own insular community.
And you see the same thing with like, I don't know, you see, like you said, these subsets
of Twitter, right?
These subsets of Twitter communities.
Someone in the chat said James Damore.
That's who it was.
James Damore.
Yeah, so I think it's interesting that we have this in the IRL space, I guess is what
I would call it.
You have this increasing multiculturalism and it's good in a lot of ways, right?
And it's increasing a culture being exported to a lot of different places and being shared
with a lot of different places, right?
And then at this, but at the same time, you have like a loss of people feeling like they've
lost their individuality and their sense of community.
And I think that what's happening on the internet with the, like what you're saying, the balkanization
of the internet is kind of a response to that.
So people are kind of looking for a sense of identity online and through politics and
through their political identity online.
And I think that we can kind of see that happening.
Like you see how polarized people are in politics online, how people who should get along don't
get along, like how much socialists of different types will fight with each other and like
excommunicate each other.
Well, that's not new.
You can see that a hundred years ago, too.
Oh, really?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
It just feels like things are, it does feel like politics is more polarized though, at
least in American society.
Maybe it's just in my brain, but it seems like that's the case.
And I think that might be a natural reaction to this loss of like what people think made
them individual, I guess.
I think that's part of it, yeah.
I mean, Richard Spencer said something that I think is probably correct in that video
you were watching yesterday.
And it's that America was always an empire.
It wasn't a nation state, right?
That's why you have states and not provinces because you have 50 states, 50 different types
of people who are all kind of different.
And you're all united under one federal government.
You're from India, so you definitely know this too.
Like the Indian government is a federal one because you have all these different types
of people under one government.
Canada is kind of the same.
We have provinces in Canada, so it's not quite the same, but like there's definitely a difference
between people on the East coast and the central Canada and the West coast, Ontario.
You have the French people in Quebec, like different kinds of people here.
Meanwhile, you look at Europe and in France, there's French people, right?
It's a nation state.
In Japan, there's Japanese people.
It's a state for a nation.
That's not how it is in the West.
So I think that basically because there's so many different types of people and we no
longer have an identity because having one is racist now because they're going to call
you white supremacists if you have any kind of identity, even if it's not a white one,
you could be like, oh, I'm proud to be American.
Oh, well that's being racist.
It's like, well, is it?
No, it's not.
But some progressives say that it is.
I think like once you strip away any sort of possible ethnic identity, whether it's
like a civic nationalist identity or an ethnic nationalist identity, some sort of identity
that revolves around your polity.
Once you strip that away, you're left with political groups, ideologies.
You're left with sports teams.
You're left with being a gamer or not.
You're left with all sorts of other things that can be destructive, right?
And I think Richard Spencer was right when he just talked about, he was saying stuff
about how like there's, oh man, have you watched any crowd videos yet?
I love crowd.
Have you seen his video?
It's an hour and a half long.
His video on realism.
No, I haven't seen it.
That is one of the best ones he has made.
You've got to watch it.
It's great.
But he spent some time talking about the crisis of modernity and the crisis of modernity.
Have you heard about that idea before?
I think I've heard it in vague terms, but I don't think I know what it means.
It's basically the idea that we have reached the limit of enlightenment thinking.
You know, the enlightenment came about because we realized, oh, we can use rationality to
figure out the world.
We're going to use science, the scientific method.
We're going to use history.
We're going to use languages.
We're going to use all of the, we're going to, we're not, we're not going to be like
emotional anymore.
We're not going to be basing things on honor anymore or on like family tribal structures.
We're going to be rationalistic about both society.
Right.
And, um, Hegel being a product of the enlightenment, he, he basically predicted
fascism like over a hundred years before it came about, because he said that the, the
ultimate rationalistic project would be the, would be the state as God on earth.
Since if you, if you're going to construct everything rationalistically, you're going
to plan everything out is going to require the ultimate state and the fascist fully
embraced that.
So, so fascism was kind of seen as like the natural end of enlightenment thinking.
Um, this is by the way, the main reason that like that, that, that reactionaries view
fascism as left wing, because they will say that liberalism, socialism, and fascism are
all products of the enlightenment.
And so they're on the left and they're thinking is pre enlightenment.
It's, it's like, it's feudalism, it's monarchy, it's from before the enlightenment.
So fascism is left wing to them.
But, but, but basically, um, we actually have reached the, the limits of rationalistic
thinking because we've discovered, um, what's it called?
Hold on.
Let me just, let me just real quick, uh, on, on that point though.
Um, okay.
I've got it.
Um, Godel's incompleteness theorems.
There are basically two things, uh, very tasking did a great video called, um, the hole
at the bottom of math.
The idea is basically that there are two things that we know to be true, but we can't
prove them.
It is impossible for human logic to prove them.
And we don't know why, but they are true and they're unprovable and they're like a
core component deep down in the most complicated parts of mathematics.
We just can't prove them true, but we know that they're true.
So it's like, well, you know, what do you, what do you do with that?
Um, we've learned similar things about, about science regarding like, we can't truly
know the position of, of an electron, right?
We know it's there, but we, but we don't know which way it's spinning.
We don't know which way it's rotating.
We don't like, there are just some things that we cannot know.
There's, there's a, there's a hard limit on what we can rationalistically, um, figure
out using human senses and using all of our, using all of our skills and all of our
abilities.
Um, and this is, this is basically the, you can read a lot of people who are anti-liberal
like, like a lot of the fascist writers, a lot of the socialist writers, a lot of, a
lot of these, these, these political theorists and they all independently come to the same
conclusion.
And that conclusion ultimately is that, um, ideology doesn't matter at all.
It's just, it's all just like a post hoc justification for uses of power.
So liberal socialists and fascists will all do the same thing, given the exact same
historical material conditions.
And they just use their ideologies to disguise their, their, to legitimize their use of
power.
And I don't believe that by the way, but that's how, that's how these people view it.
And, and they, they get to this point of view because it's a crisis.
It's like a crisis of meaning.
Basically, there's, there's nothing underneath any of it.
It sounds very nihilistic, but it's like, there's no foundation to any of our beliefs.
And so the bottom has fallen out.
There's no God.
God won't catch us.
Cause now we, we, you know, God is dead and he said, God is dead.
So there's, there's like, there's nothing.
And it's like, well, what do we do?
Oh, lots of people say it's all just power.
It's just political power at the end of the day and power is all that matters.
I don't believe that, but it's a very seductive argument.
Crote's video is very good on it.
You should, you should watch it for sure.
Sorry for the, sorry for the rant.
Sorry.
No, it's really interesting.
It's fascinating.
Um, uh, is that his most recent video critique?
A critique of realism.
Yeah.
Is that still the most recent video?
I think it is.
I think so.
Yeah.
Three weeks ago.
Yeah.
Um, uh, interesting that you say that cause, um, I remember also that conversation yesterday
that, that Spencer and, and destiny were having, having, and, and, uh, Spencer said
that like liberal, is it liberalism that he said was a, was a, was a donut.
Yes.
With nothing in the center.
He said liberalism's a donut.
It offers people nothing to actually hold on to because it has no prescriptions.
There's probably some truth to that.
If you think about it, I think, I think what he meant by that, it was something like,
it's something like, okay, maybe, maybe it's more libertarianism than liberalism,
but like definitely, you know, if you, you know, what, what is the argument for
decriminalizing pot?
Well, it doesn't hurt me if you're just doing it to yourself.
It doesn't matter.
Right.
That's a decent argument for a commonizing pot, but like, you can take that logic to
some pretty dark roads.
You can say it for like meth for heroin.
You see people destroying their lives in the streets.
Like, well, that's not good.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, I think what if all test at one point said that society is just a foundation that
we all agree to believe in, and then we build on top of that.
But if you don't have the same foundation, you can't, you can't really get along.
There's something like that.
It's like, well, we've agreed on this logic and we're going to guide ourselves by this
logic.
These are going to be our core rules.
And then from there we can have, you know, as long as we're all playing the same game,
we can, we can play the game and maybe I win sometimes, maybe you win sometimes we're all
playing the same game.
If you're outside the game and you're trying to destroy the game, it's a different type
of politics altogether.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
So I think, I think that's what he was getting at is something like, I know Sargon wrote
the article, the asset of liberalism, where basically because liberalism has no prescriptions
and it like, and the progressives kind of morph all culture into like this unified gray
sludge that where no one's offended and nothing's really distinct anymore.
I've heard the gray sludge from Spencer before, actually.
Yeah.
Lots of people have said that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's just this, this, it's this idea that because, you know, if you talk to a liberal,
they'll say, well, freedom is our virtue.
And it's like, well, that's a pretty good virtue if you're oppressed, but what virtues
are there if you're not oppressed, if you don't eat, like you don't eat freedom anymore,
you know, you're you live in a, in a free society.
What do you do now?
Liberals don't seem to have an answer for that.
They don't have like a positive vision they can put forward of the world.
Well, it's like, well, you should do this.
Conservatives have that, which is why even though I like, I'm not really, I don't view
myself as a conservative.
I don't like a conservative politician, especially in, especially in America.
They're fucking insane.
But conservative political philosophy is very good because liberalism will, will liberate
you, but it won't tell you what to do with your liberation.
Conservatives will though conservatives will say, okay, well, maybe you should you know,
get married and have kids and, you know, work, work a decent job, provide for yourself, build
something of value to you and those around you.
It goes, they're all conservative prescriptions, right?
A liberal wouldn't tell you that stuff.
Yeah.
I, I, I think, I, I think I've, I've said this a few times.
It's like governments should be liberal and people should be conservative.
I think it's something like that.
I was talking to Dylan Burns and he, he took offense at how I worded it, but he ultimately
agreed with me.
I said, if you're, if you're talking to a young gay man who doesn't know what to do
with his life, would you tell him to get married to a partner and adopt some kids and be responsible
and have a family and, you know, be a pillar of your community, or would you, would you
go to the piss guzzling orgies and spread disease around what's better for you?
You know, you can do both of them.
You're free, but what's better for you?
Like clearly the first option is better than the second, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I, I think, yeah, I think, I think you need like a dose of conservatism to go along
with your liberalism just to give you direction in life.
Yeah, I can agree with that.
I can agree with that.
Yeah, some of these, some of these, you know, ideas are definitely like above my head.
But they're definitely very interesting.
Kraut's video, man, you'll, I don't know if you want to watch it on stream or anything,
but it's, it's a really good video to watch.
He, he does it better than me.
That's for sure.
Some of your chat is like, anyone want to write an article in Mr.
Girl, Lav and Shaylin with me?
You know, I, I'm not in the destiny orbiter sphere.
I don't completely know what's going on.
What's the, what's the latest on Mr.
Girl and Lav and Shaylin?
Lav and Shaylin.
We had the call where I yelled at Shaylin.
She came in screaming.
And so I, I just like snapped and I started yelling at her and calling her.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah.
He told her to go be a sex doll.
Yeah, I went a little bit on hinge there, but like, I don't know what it is.
Like she came in screaming and her voice was just so grating on me.
And usually it takes me a lot to push me to the edge.
But that night, her coming in and screaming was, it was just, it just took me there.
I just started seeing red and I couldn't help myself.
And I started yelling at her and yeah, I just lost my cool, you know, hate to see it, but
I thought it was really funny.
I remember seeing that now.
Yeah.
I thought it was really funny.
Oh man.
There was, so, you know, I've always considered myself like kind of a, kind of a moderate
kind of a centrist, um, for a long time.
I called myself Senator left like eight years ago.
I don't, I no longer feel comfortable calling myself Senator left because the left's gone
fucking nuts, you know, and plus people who are, who are truly on the socialist left,
they think I'm a fascist anyway, so fuck it.
You know, I don't, I don't owe these people anything.
Um, but like I've seen some people in my chat or sorry, not in my chat, in, in my comments,
they're like devs turning leftward.
So he can, he can try to be the next destiny orbiter.
And I'm like, you know, I've, I've had the, the permission is to go into destiny stream
for like six months now.
And I haven't used them.
I can use them once, you know, and you know, I'm, I'm not as big as destiny, but I'm about
like 20% destiny size.
When I fire up a stream, I can get like maybe 500, maybe a thousand for a political stream.
It's not, it's not bad numbers.
Right.
So like, I don't, I don't need, I no offense to destiny.
He's not going to watch us, but no offense to him anyway.
But I don't, I don't like need the bump.
Does that make sense?
So there are people who are like, I can't believe you're trying to like, like, like
a court DGG.
I'm like, I'm not, I'm really not.
You don't need to be a left-winger to, you don't need to be a left-winger to be an orbiter
either.
I mean, like, uh, you know, I'm pretty sure that they're, you know, they're people who
don't align with him on stuff.
Um, I, I, I'm pretty sure like I kind of more identify as like a neoliberal, I think.
You know, I think, uh, I don't know what I identify as, but, um, but, you know, I think
there's like a communist chick, um, you know, there's, yeah, yeah, there's a communist chick
who, who joins the calls.
Um, you know, there are people of different political, um, different political, you know,
leanings, counterpoint is in there.
Right.
Cause he's, he's a conservative in there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's a conservative or he's center, right.
You know?
So, yeah.
Um, isn't ABBA also kind of conservative too?
He strikes ABBA is, I think he's more apolitical.
Um, yeah, maybe, maybe.
But yeah, sometimes like I, sometimes I get a bit tired of just the constant drama that
comes into that community, but sometimes it's fun to watch.
Sometimes it's fun to watch just a good show.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, Destiny even said Connor was his star opposition right now.
That's fake.
Is that true?
Oh, I, uh, I, I haven't like, maybe this is, I don't know how I want to word this carefully.
I wouldn't mind talking to Connor, but one, I don't know if you want to talk to me and
two, I don't know what we talk about.
I'm not sure.
He's a really cool guy.
I get along with him really well.
Um, yeah, yeah.
He's very, very cool.
Um, uh, you'd probably get along with him.
Yeah.
But yeah, I don't know.
I don't know what you guys would talk about.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't know.
I don't know either.
Um, was there any more gamer gate stuff to talk about?
There probably is, but I'm probably going to have to like, look and read more on it
and then come back at you with stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's so much.
Who was, oh God.
Yeah.
There's so many old names that I just remember now.
You know, like there's this person is Margaret.
Plus who is Margaret plus?
Oh yeah.
Some nutter.
Alistair Pinsoff.
Oh fuck that.
Oh, hold on.
I almost remembered who that was.
Somebody says, talk the Anita Sarkeesian edge.
Anita Sarkeesian.
Talk the Anita.
What do you mean by the Anita Sarkeesian edge?
Yeah.
I don't know what that means.
Um,
Oh no, uh, Alistair Pinsoff.
He was like, uh, he was, he was, um, he was part of, uh, was it destructoid?
Yeah.
There was only one gaming outlet that was pro gamer gate at the time.
And that was, um, that was the escapist.
And they got, like, they got fucking cut off from everyone because of their pro gamer gate stance.
That's right.
Yeah.
February 13, a movie, Bob was fired from the escapist.
Wow.
Um, what have you been thinking about all the Islam stuff recently?
Oh, like all the destiny shit posting about Islam.
I mean, it's funny.
Right.
I mean, it's funny.
Right.
But I mean, I remember like duking it out with Muslims 10 years ago and it was the same stuff,
like death threats constantly, just, you know, claims of being Islamophobic.
It's like, when I first came onto the internet, the first people I ended up in,
like interacting and arguing with were like funding Muslims.
Half of them were funding Muslims and half of them were like, uh, super far right people.
Um, and they were kind of, they kind of interacted with each other a lot
and they hated each other, even though most of the views that they had were very similar.
So, um, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I remember 10 years ago, you know, conservatives would not like the comparison with
Sharia law, presumably because of, you know, the war on terror.
And now they're like, oh, it's pretty based actually.
It's like, yeah, guys.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The, um, oh yeah.
Ethan Ralph got started in gamer gate too.
Did you know that?
Yeah, I didn't know that.
Yeah.
He, he wrote, he, he wrote some articles right on it.
That's how we got started.
Yep.
He and I were friends at one point, way back in the day.
He like, you're still cool.
Kind of, but hold on away from, I'm trying to stay away from that.
Um, didn't he like get your channel blasted off the internet?
I don't know who was him specifically,
but it was definitely like one of his super fans that had it happen.
There are old logs of Ralph participating in getting channels taken down during gamer gate.
So like, I would not be surprised.
He's always done this shit.
He's like, he's always done this shit.
Yeah.
I mean, I still think he's an interesting guy.
Oh, for sure.
Yeah.
He's really funny.
He's always got something going on.
He's very funny.
He's a great entertainer.
He's an excellent entertainer.
Say what you will about him, but he knows how to entertain an audience.
To the point where even his hate watchers like are tuning in because they're entertained by the guy.
Um, I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
Here's the thing though.
Like he, he got Sargon banned off Patreon.
He helped get crowd ban banned off the internet for a while.
Like he's, he's fucked over.
Like every he he's, he's rather apolitical when it comes to who he fucks over.
He fucks over everyone all the time.
You know, if he can do it, he will.
So I'm actually just going to see real quick.
Where does this timeline end?
Oh, 2022.
That's right.
David de Pape attacks Paul Pelosi with a hammer.
He describes himself as radicalized by gamer gate.
Jesus.
Yeah.
Wow.
Fucking hell, man.
Yeah, I see 2021 January brand new states in the aftermath of 2021 United States Capitol attack that.
Everything I tried to get the FBI to act on in the aftermath of gamer gate has now come true.
We told people that have social media companies like Facebook and Reddit did not tighten their
policies about these communities organized hate that we are going to see violent insurrection
in the United States.
We told people that these communities were organizing online for violence and extremism
that unfortunately has proven to be true.
Interesting.
Yep.
Tech rafter describes gamer gate as an insane alt-right hate group.
I don't know.
It seems like gamer gate was had so many moving parts.
It's not accurate to call it a group of any type.
Yeah, yeah.
There was definitely people from all across the political spectrum that were engaged in it.
There were definitely some harassers.
There were definitely some people who were just looking to make a name for themselves.
There were people, there were there were right-leaning people who just wanted to
fuck with the feminists.
They were left-leaning people who saw this as a stab in the back from progressives who
should have had their back, but those progressives ended up being corrupt.
So like there, it was all sorts of things all at once.
Yeah.
Who is this editor of tech?
Yeah.
Tech rafter was very pro gamer gate back in the day.
And they've always been like pretty chill.
I wonder if they, if they had a new editor that like, or like if they just change their views.
Oh, it says here, tech rafter announces a complete removal of all gamer gate articles,
citing that they violated journalistic ethic of do no harm
by writing the articles in the first place.
Wow.
What the fuck?
Yeah.
I'm not sure that's a journalistic ethics thing.
Articles do harm all the time.
It just depends.
Yeah.
And it's going to sound strange.
It's going to sound strange, but like harm isn't,
sometimes isn't the most important thing, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Maybe tech rafters got in.
Cause like, I remember talking to the editor of tech rafter back then,
and he was a really chill person.
I mean, you know, editors change out all the time, right?
Like people who run sites.
So who knows?
Maybe they just go in a new direction.
That's that's, that's their business, I guess.
Hmm.
Um, I, there was something on my mind, but I can't remember what it was.
Oh yeah, that's right.
I did a video on this fucking Mercedes Carrera ended up sexually abusing her daughter.
Fuck.
Yikes.
Oh, that's so disgusting.
Do you know who Mercedes Carrera is?
I don't know who that is, but so disgusting.
She's a porn star who got in on the whole gamer gate thing.
And she, she was talking about it back in 2014.
And, um, basically it came out in 2019
that she had been molesting her daughter.
Ew, that's so gross.
Yeah, she's still behind bars.
She probably will be for a very long time.
Yeah, I hope she's there for life.
Something like, I must admit, I have watched her porn.
So something changed between 2014 and 2019.
Like she was clearly beginning to use drugs or something because something changed radically
in how she looked and it wasn't just aging, you know?
She always kind of had like that Latina MILF thing going on because she's like, she's tall.
She's, she's very wide hipped.
So she, she had like a niche in porn.
And in 2014, she was really like making money off that niche for sure.
But by 2019, like something had radically changed about, about like the way her face
looked the way her body looked like, like she would, she, she was using drugs or something.
Cause yeah, drugs don't make you don't make you feel.
I know drugs don't make you a pedo.
I know that.
I know that chat, but like she had gone down some kind of rabbit hole for sure.
Yeah.
Oh man.
I'm trying to remember what it was that I was going to bring up, but I can't remember.
I mean, I can always bring it up at another time, I guess.
Was it about, was it about harm not being the most important thing sometimes?
No, it was something before that, I think.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, but that's okay.
Um, thank you for doing this with me.
It was super informative.
Yeah, no problem.
Are you coming to the end of it?
Uh, I actually was scrolling in reverse, but yeah, I saw the end of it.
Um, no, no.
I meant, are you coming to the end of, of, of our talk?
Cause I think, I think I'm, yeah, cause I think I'm, I'm at the end of it's, it's not
it's, it's nearly 10 o'clock for me.
So I probably have to, uh, I think we've talked as much as we can in one sitting
about gamer gate, you know, but I learned a lot for sure.
So, um, I really appreciate you, um, coming on and telling me
everything that you know about it.
Oh yeah.
No, no problem.
Of course.
Anytime.
And I'll definitely have to check out your videos on it too.
Oh God.
They're so old, man.
2014.
It's so bad.
No, I'm sure it's fine.
It's good to know like the context and kind of get into that space and get into that.
Um, you know, like what the internet was like back then, you know, um, if you're
really trying to get into, like understand it.
So pretending that, pretending that you're, you're in 2014 again, you know?
Yeah.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
Were you, were you online back in 2014?
2014.
Um, I think I was, I think I was a workaholic back in 2014.
I didn't see any friends and I only worked.
So I didn't, I, there are whole like years of my life where I just spent, uh, working
myself to the bone and, uh, and didn't partake in any recreational activities.
So I think that was probably back then.
When did you, when did you start YouTubing anyway?
Maybe like two years ago or something like that.
Okay.
Was it one of those things where you started it up because of the pandemic?
Like you had free time now.
So yeah, yeah, it was kind of one of those things.
And then it ended up taking off because, um, well, I'd always been streaming, but
the, you know, the, the streaming really took off when I started doing like going
on political panels and things like that.
And, um, I just kind of kept up with it.
Um, which is weird because I don't think I'm particularly the smartest person in
the world.
Um, I don't think that, um, my takes on politics are particularly like
groundbreaking or anything like that, but people liked what I had to say.
So, um, it just kind of took off and I just kept doing it.
But yeah.
Um, prior to that, I was like complete workaholic.
I was like the type of person that I was such a workaholic.
I made everybody else in the company, like look bad or made everybody else that
worked with me look bad.
People hated me for it.
Um, so, uh, and I had, I, I would, I stopped hanging out with friends.
Cause I was like, I don't know.
I have a problem.
Um, I saw, you know, I wouldn't hang out with friends.
I didn't do anything recreational.
I would just like work, come home and sleep and then wake up and go work again.
So it was, yeah.
With me, I man, I've, I've always joked that I've, I've consistently almost had
a YouTube career because I've known so many, like I knew JonTron before he was
big and that's a, that's a whole fucking long story, but like, I knew him before
he was big.
I lost contact.
I regained contact through Sargon because Sargon and JonTron are friends.
And that was kind of like a weird, Hey, it's been like 10 fucking years.
How have you been dude?
So that was like a weird situation.
Um, there's like a bunch of YouTubers that are, that are pretty big names.
You know, we're, we're talking like over a million subs for sure that have like
private messaged me and had been like, Hey, yeah, I secretly watch you.
Don't tell anyone because I don't want to get canceled, but you know, I watch you
and I watch Sargon and it's like, well, that's actually kinda, that's cool.
That's cool.
Um, and like, I had the idea to do some sort of internet content like a year and
a half before I started and this, and we started in 2009, so a long time ago,
completely different internet back then, completely different, everything back
then.
And I've always been like, just a few months behind every trend.
I've always like known people before they got big and then lost contact.
And it was like, like, it was hard to re to like reconnect with them.
I lost contact with Sargon for awhile.
I re-became his friend in like 2017 or something.
Um, you know, I, I knew shoe on head back in the day.
Like just, I, I I've, I've always been like on the periphery of people who have
blown up and I haven't, I've never really blown up myself.
You know, Sargon gave me a shout out and I got like three, uh, 30,000 subs from it.
That was pretty good.
I got another 30,000 from gamer gate.
That was pretty good.
But for like, for the most part, it's just been like a long, slow grind.
I kind of anticipate it's going to be a long slow grind for me as well.
So, um, unless you want, unless you, unless you really want to milk that DGG
connection.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Like, uh, like I feel guilty doing it, but like, there's not a time that would
be more relevant than right now while he's doing the whole anti Muslim arc,
you know?
Um, but, uh, you know, I, I kind of feel guilty.
I wish I had like the, uh, blatant, I don't know, like, uh, um,
there's some people who are just like really good at just milking it.
And I'm just not one of those people.
Um, but right now, everything that's happening is like super relevant to the
things that I think about in my head.
And also I was doing okay.
I, I talked to Spencer first.
Okay.
Before Destiny did.
Okay.
Uh, you know, and I don't see him getting the same amount of shit.
All right.
That's all I'm saying.
Yeah, that was, I, I saw that was pretty bullshit.
Like the amount of the amount that mind waves went after you for that.
And then just doesn't say a thing to destiny.
Yeah.
I've told you my opinion on that in private though already.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then, and then, you know, then the, the, uh, you know, obviously the whole
anti-Islam arc is like, okay, I just debated some Muslims like a few days ago.
And now the whole anti-Islam arc that is happening, like, man, everything is so
relevant right now, but when I get onto a stream with the, with the dude, like he is
so bad at conversation.
So, uh, Oh, someone in your chest says it's because mind waves wants to kiss
destiny on the lips.
Yeah, probably.
Yeah.
He doesn't want to lose that DGG connection.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm very grateful for the connection, but yeah, it's like, I, I only want to jump
onto a stream if I really have something to say.
And then most of the time when I have something to say, there's already like
five people on, so I can't get a word in.
And then when I, when I do have something to say and there aren't five
people on, I come on and they say something and then that's it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I fucking hate panels for that reason.
Like you never really, like you never really discussed the idea.
You never really drill down.
It's everyone, like everyone gives their surface level takes and everyone like
go round Robins a bit.
Maybe there's some drama where two people fight, but like, you don't really
discuss an idea.
Not really on a panel.
It's kind of why, why I hate him.
Like at some point, man.
Okay.
So I have, I have two videos coming up that you might like.
And one of them, one of them is the Gramsci video.
The other one is, was fascism actually capitalism and decay?
Because the answer to that is like 90% no, and leftists love to say that they'd
love to say that.
And it's, it's just not true, but like that's just a result of reading and
reading and reading and reading and reading and understanding some of these
ideas, but I could never find anybody who actually, who would actually debate
that.
Right.
Like I've, I've heard like Lance from the surf say that like 80 times.
I don't think he would ever talk to me his entire life.
You know, Xander hall ducked out of a debate with me.
So there's just like the part of the reason why I make the videos in the style
that I make them is because I've like, I've like learned the socialist position
on a lot of these things.
And it's like, well, I know how to counter this and I'm never going to talk to
them because they fucking hate me.
So I'll just make like a long ass video about it.
You know, I'll just do like a, I'll just do a deep dive and I'll reference like
books instead because fuck it.
Yeah.
Um, I think we've reached, I think we've like milked this as much as we can.
I think so too.
I think so too.
But it was super fun.
We should do this again soon.
Like in the next few days.
I mean, I'm, you see me in your chat a fair amount.
So like, you know, when I'm around, I, I don't know if you prefer scheduling
things or not.
It doesn't matter to me.
Like if you want to just have like a random hour to talk, I'll pop in for a
bit.
That's okay with me if you want.
Cause I'm usually around things cause I'm super disorganized, but you know,
but yeah.
Yeah, we'll figure it out.
You know, I'm also not against doing things like impromptu as well.
It's just good for me to schedule things cause I'll forget otherwise.
So yeah.
Okay.
Well, if you, if you, if you actually want my videos, the playlist on my
channel, the playlist on my channel is called indefensible.
The first like 10 videos or so are gamer gate related past that it's just like
other gaming topics because it's just like, as, as time went on, I started
doing other gaming videos and I just put them in the same place.
It's all gaming related.
It's not like philosophy related.
So indefensible is the, indefensible is, is the playlist.
Yeah.
I mean the pun is indefensible, but it's indie.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So like that's my playlist, just some ancient ass videos on there.
Um, uh, that's right.
The, the, uh, fucking word.
Where is it?
Where is it?
Where is it?
Yeah.
The know your meme page on gamer gate on Zoe Quinn on, on like the principal
players know your meme is really good for like documenting lots of old lore.
They're a great resource.
So if you want to see like the pro the explicitly pro gamer gate position,
know your meme has it, they have like their timeline.
Um, and I guess otherwise like try to dig up old internet aristocrat gamer gate
videos, they're going to be on like a gym archive channel somewhere.
You know, his stuff.
I don't think I can watch a gym.
I don't think I can watch gym on like, like, uh, on stream.
I think it might be, he's, he uses a lot of slurs with me, at least his recent stuff.
He, I know that he uses a lot of slurs.
So yeah, I think he did back then too.
Yeah.
But good resource.
Good resource.
Um, and yeah, I guess, uh, unrelated to gamer gate, you know, Croats realism video.
Got to watch that.
It's great.
And I think, I think I recommended to you last time.
Uh, what if alt hissed?
He does great videos in the same style of crowd.
What is alt hissed?
Okay.
Yeah.
He's he's, he's also a conservative, but he's, um, he's not that he's not biased.
Also, he dumpstered Vosh in a debate.
It was fucking hilarious.
Take a look at this.
Yeah.
Uh, uh, uh, there was, uh, that's, he reacted to it where basically Vosh said,
well, can you describe Simone de Beauvoir her, her writing?
He's like, oh yeah, of course he does.
He starts launching into it and Vosh is like, uh, oh sure.
Like he, it was fucking, do you remember seeing that?
That's I don't remember seeing that.
Okay.
It was like, basically Vosh was trying to like out intellect him and he knew exactly
what the writing was and Vosh just like chose a random name and it did not fucking play
out well for him.
It sounds so similar to somebody we know.
Um, I wonder where president Sunday got his mannerisms.
Oh fuck.
Oh fuck.
Um, what, yeah, what if all test he's, he has his problems, but he's like, he's a good
center, right.
Resource when it comes to like history and philosophy, just, just, just, just, just
remember his bias, but he's still pretty good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think I'm going to have to do more reading on like some of these like social issues.
Cause I clearly don't have the vocabulary to like, to like vocalize what I'm observing
half the time.
I feel, but, um, yeah, I can't, I can't feel that that way sometimes too.
That way you're way better than I am.
You think so?
Yeah, I think so.
You've got all the reading.
I, yeah, but I stutter and stumble over everything and I can't like, I can talk on a script
decently, but I can't, I can't do streams.
It seems sometimes I'm always just like stuttering and like, what do I mean?
Oh, fuck.
Yeah.
I think you're really great.
I, I, I, for me, it's like, I don't even have the vocabulary to even like, when I'm talking
about these things feel like they're kind of theoretical or something, or they feel
like they're kind of abstract.
And, um, and I just don't have, I don't have the vocabulary to accurately explain them
fully.
Um, like when we were talking about like, you know, individualism versus like, you know,
this multiculturalist like world, you know, um, and things like that.
Like, I don't know, these feel like things that I struggle for words, uh, with when I'm
trying to describe them, but I don't know, maybe I just don't have enough like words
in my vocabulary or something.
I, I can sit with this.
I feel that way about myself a lot too.
Um, okay.
I think, I think that's about it though.
So if you want to talk again, we can talk again.
I'm usually around.
It's not hard to, it's not hard to get ahold of me.
Yeah.
Let me, um, let me do some more diving into the gamer gate stuff and then I'll hit you
up about like talking again.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah.
Maybe we can go through like that.
You know, I think it's, I think it's super useful for me, like to go through the thing
that's slanted against gamer gate, since you're, you seem like you're pretty pro gamer gate.
Yeah, I was.
Yeah.
And yeah.
And then maybe I can do the same thing with like somebody who is anti gamer gate and like
go through something that's pro gamer, like a pro gamer gate timeline with somebody who's
anti gamer gate.
That would be kind of cool.
I mean, you could probably, maybe Brandon would do it with you.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I don't know how many she, she would do, you know, I don't know how many, um, how many
like sessions she would do with me, you know?
Yeah.
I don't know if that's fun for other people.
I know it's fun for me, but you know.
Yeah.
Uh, but yeah, I'll, I'll be around.
It's not hard to figure out where I am.
So yeah, I'll see you next time.
Okay.
See you next time.
Thanks for joining Dev.
Have a good night.
No problem.
See ya.
Bye.
I'm going to be real with you, SFO.
I looked up mold bug and, um, and I was like, bro, some of the stuff that this dude is saying
is a little bit based.
