Hello and welcome to SJ Weekly. And you know what? This is an absolute fucking disgrace,
you guys, okay? So, my girlfriend had to go to work for 7 a.m. today. I was up before she was
5.30. I make her her favorite breakfast, peanut butter and banana toast. I make her the last
cup of coffee that we have, all right? There's no more coffee. And she doesn't even finish any of
this shit. So, I mean, if you guys want to slurp, this is it. I have to drink cold old coffee today.
Fucking delicious. I want everyone to start shaming Naomi immediately. Those of you who've
been watching for a little while now know that the 50,000 sub mark is coming up soon. If growth
continues, probably sometime this week. So, I'm kind of curious. What do you guys want to see me
do for a 50,000 sub special? I was thinking maybe a Q&A or something. Here's what we'll do. Post
all your ideas for a 50,000 sub special video in the comments of this video. And if there's any
decent ideas, I'll consider them, okay? That's what we'll do. But let's start SJ Weekly with
this tweet from Black Hebrew Israelite. I just walked by Buzzfeed's office and some horrible
monster put these stickers up around the entrance. I hope the FBI investigates this
hate crime and catches the perpetrator ASAP. So, there's Buzzfeed's offices and someone put
learn to code stickers. Oh God, I wonder if they managed to stay there. Anybody who's in the same
city as Buzzfeed's offices, go see if they're there. Alternatively, go plant more. But speaking
of the Black Hebrew Israelites, here's an article from Coed. Complete and utter cuck licks boot of
hate group because he cares about justice. The group is, of course, the Black Israelites. And
look at this guy. The Black Israelites are out there protesting for black rights, for black
supremacy basically. And this white soy boy cuck decides to lick his boot to show how non-racist
he is. I know this is an older article, but nonetheless, Jesus Christ, man. This is next
level cuckery at its finest. A white guilt-ridden beta male passes by a group of Black Hebrew
Israelites and proceeds to lick a boot clean upon request. The beta male claims to care about
justice. And one preaching Israelite put this guy's SJW stats to the test and said,
so if you're really a man of justice, bow down your face to the earth and lick the dust off of
my boot. And you probably know what happened next. The beta male shrugs his shoulders,
asks if that's what they really want him to do, and then gets down on his knees to lick the boot
of the vocal Black Israelites. What the fuck, dude? Wait, there's a video?
What you just saw was a trailer for Black Panther 2, guys.
Let's move on to something a bit more contemporary on The Blaze. After 55,000 people show support,
a new period emoji will soon be released to destigmatize menstruation.
The inclusion of an emoji is a huge step towards normalizing periods. Is that really all it takes
nowadays? If you want a certain event or a social issue or whatever to be destigmatized
and normalized, you just make an emoji about it. Is that really all it takes at this point?
Let me just point something out. If you live with a girlfriend or a wife ever at any point
in your life, periods will stop being a mystery to you. They don't need to be destigmatized
or normalized at that point. So it sounds like if there's any actual serious problem
with the normalization of periods, it's probably among a generation or a crowd of people who
can't have a committed relationship. Also, Jesus Christ, the red drop emoji is fine.
You don't need the fucking period pad. Let's have an emoji for just shit-stained underwear.
Let's destigmatize and normalize shitting your pants. That sounds good.
Children's rights charity Plan International UK launched the campaign for a period emoji after
conducting a 2017 survey and discovered just how much shame and stigma still impact girls
and women's experience of having their period. That sucks and that sounds like something they
got to get over, but I don't think an emoji will help with that. There's a reason why
the eggplant and the peach emojis are used for genitalia or sexual purposes, and it's because
you shouldn't have blatantly sexual things as universal emoji. The winning image was dubbed
period pants. Plan International UK submitted to the emoji powers that be at Unicode,
but sadly the design didn't get accepted. Good. Undeterred, Plan International UK partnered with
NHS Blood and Transplant and submitted its second place design, the blood droplet,
which was accepted. And that's fine because you know what? The blood droplet can be used
for multiple things. Human beings do occasionally bleed from places other than their vagina.
They might spin it as a period emoji, and I'm sure there's going to be some girls out there
who use it as a period emoji. That's definitely fine, of course. However, a red drop of liquid
is honestly fine. You could also have a green one if you want. I think there's probably already
a blue one for water. This is just a non-story. What the fuck? I can't believe I'm actually
talking about this nonsense. However, some people are really fucking excited about it.
We're getting a period emoji and it's bloody brilliant news. They say that an emoji won't
necessarily solve the issues surrounding period stigma and silence, but it will help change the
conversation and end the shame around periods. I don't know. I don't know about that, man. Like,
very clearly, nobody should be shamed for basic biological functions. I think we can all agree
on that. That makes sense, right? If your body is doing stuff that you can't control, should you be
shamed about it? No. Should you still have a responsibility to perform adequate maintenance
on your body even though it's doing things that are out of your control? Yes. That's why free
bleeding, for example, is so stupid. And that's why it's hilarious that a whole bunch of dumb
feminists fell for it when 4chan basically made it up. Men, it is completely reasonable to treat
period blood like it's any other type of waste product that comes out of the human body and
therefore is disgusting because that's exactly what it is. I mean, you probably shouldn't be
shamed for taking a shit, but that's no reason to celebrate taking a shit, is it? And hey,
that does put the period emoji in line with the poop emoji, so there you go. Good company.
However, while emojis can be used to empower some people, they're also meant to be used to
oppress others. For example...
Finally, a new emoji to mock men. The latest batch of emojis features new possibilities
for shattering fragile masculinities and capitalism alike. We're going to be using
emojis to own capitalism now, epic style. Is that it? Is that what we're doing? Also,
I'm pretty sure that there are more than one way to use this emoji. It's not all about
penis size, though I'm sure that's all Vice cares about.
Great news! We're finally getting an emoji that's perfect for easily humiliating men
when they're being disgusting online. Or, you know, being men. The small dick emoji.
Officially named Pinching Hand, the emoji has been approved by the Unicode Consortium
for release across major platforms this year. It's also great for illustrating capitalism's
failures by capturing the inadequate minimum wage or your lackluster salary.
The possibilities are endless. Countless men who aren't secure in their masculinity will
be affected by the new option, we know, but it was high time to replace the purple eggplant,
which, as a 2015 study confirmed, everyone obviously uses a dick for something more
realistic. Emojipedia catalogued the new emojis. The batch includes a wheelchair,
a gender inclusive couple, two service dogs, a yawning face, a flamingo, an orangutan,
a hang glider, butter, garlic, and more. I thought a lot of those were already emojis.
Is this an old article? Hold on a minute. No. February 6th, 2019.
You know what I want? I want inclusivity and equality here. I want to see a new emoji
to mock women. And you know what it's going to be? Just two hands making a giant circle
to show how gigantically wide and overused the vaginas of the women at Vice actually are.
And I guarantee you, once we get that emoji, there's going to be a bunch of angry women
online complaining that it is sexist. Speaking of female empowerment, I wish
Resident Evil 2 let me be a more compassionate hero. This is a game I pretty much passed on.
One of my new year's resolutions was to only play video games if I'm streaming them
on Twitch TV. And that was just one way to get me to at least be making some type of content
if I'm gaming, so it's not like a complete waste of time. And right now I'm just playing too many
games on Twitch at the moment. Hollow Knight, Kingdom Hearts, Octopath Traveler. There just
wasn't really room for Resident Evil 2 beyond the 30 minute demo that came out a few weeks back.
I'm playing Resident Evil 2 for the first time. Well, mostly. Back in 1998, my 14 year old self
scoured the pages of a Tips and Tricks magazine walkthrough of the game, covering every gameplay
beat and plot point. And I played a few minutes of it on a friend's PS1. So I'm familiar with
the scenery and the structure, the quests and the characters, but this is the first time I'm
experiencing it. It's scary and tense, and very much a period piece, a late 90s survival horror
game set squarely in the later Clinton era with dollar gallons of gas and chunky computers,
now boasting some modern design niceties. Playing on normal, I can save as many times as I'd like,
and the cutscenes and visuals are pretty adept Resident Evil 7 standards. But one thing that's
sticking out to me, still early on in the police station, is how perfectly the game uses scarcity
and this fantasy of hyper competence to make me feel a certain way. How much permission it gives
me to be a total asshole. The lone survivor type. How the fantasy here presents an uncomfortable
tension between the ways I want to roleplay in this world versus the ways the game requires me
to play to make it through the night. As I stalk the halls of the station, I'm vulnerable. I don't
have many bullets to protect myself with. I have fewer healing items. Zombies are tough. Even on
normal, they take multiple headshots, and they often don't stay down. I have to raid this place
to survive by looking in lockers, desks, in weird corners and dark cabinets. And I'm collecting all
kinds of things. Bullets, sure, but also gunpowder and knick-knacks. Keys. Crappy
boards to slam onto windows and keep out the riff-raff. Yeah, this is Resident Evil. It's
a survival horror game. You scavenge for stuff to stay alive during the zombie apocalypse as you
make your way through the game. It's supposed to be like this. The PlayStation as a fortress or
safe haven is laughably naive, particularly for people of colour. Oh, here we go.
It certainly was in the 90s as well, and really, when has policing in America ever
actually been about keeping neighbourhoods safe, as opposed to keeping the racist status quo up
and running? You fucking had to go here, didn't you? I feel bad looting the place at least at
first since this is the staging area for what we in EMS call a mass casualty incident. So of course,
I went in thinking like an EMT, looking for survivors to help. Like the nice dude who
saves me from a faulty door, who is clearly suffering from some kind of awful wound.
I want to help him. Claire wants to help him too, exclaiming that we need to get him to the
hospital, but he refuses. And the game doesn't give me any tools for mending wounds or even
putting gauze on bandages or something. The only first aid items are hilarious
magical herbs and sprays, though the guns and blood look, well, more or less like the actual
thing. This is a game about dealing and surviving damage, not healing it. And after a while,
I subtly give in to its goofy logic. I have permission to loot and run just mashing the
X button to try and drive by pickup items. There's no one else here, really. It's a world
all for me. And I'm allowed to do anything I goddamn well please. To treat it all like my own
shitty playground. No, I need to treat it this way if I want to progress. And I'm morally allowed to,
because I'm not hurting anyone else, anyone who's alive anyway, because scarcity doesn't affect
anybody else in this world. I cannot believe you are bitching about this. That the game is set up
in such a way that you find stuff and use it. I'm limited to and encouraged to engage in a whole
bunch of antisocial behaviors, stealing shit, shooting antagonists in the face, stabbing them.
They're fucking zombies. I think this person just might not be fucking into video games,
or at least video games that aren't walking simulators.
Next article. Child abuse images hidden in cryptocurrency blockchain.
Pedophiles are hiding child porn in the bitcoins. Somebody added the illegal images to the core
ledger of Bitcoin Satoshi vision by using a payment processor. This ledger, known as the
blockchain, is a running record of cryptocurrency transactions shared among users of the platform.
Experts have warned that abuse of blockchain tech is a growing problem. Experts have also warned
that use of blockchain tech frees people from the global financial system, and to them, that's also
a growing problem. Let's be honest though, very clearly embedding child porn in the bitcoins is
not a good thing, but I don't know what they could honestly do about it because Bitcoin is so
decentralized, like good luck stopping that. One key feature of the blockchain is that information
added to it cannot be changed without significant effort. In January, the amount of data that could
be added to the BSV blockchain was increased significantly. Before that, people could generally
only add short chunks of text or web links to the blockchain. But now it's possible to add
full images in an encoded format. I wonder if this is what they'll use to shut down Bitcoin.
They'll just say, oh, we can't change it. We can't edit it. There's child porn in the bitcoins.
Shut it all down. End the entire project. Let's end with this. Karl Marx's London grave
vandalized and suspected hammer attack. Oh no. Smash the patriarchy, my friends. Use the hammer
from the hammer and sickle. The tomb of Karl Marx at London's Highgate cemetery has been
vandalized in a targeted attack. That means the grade one listed monument will never be the same
again. Suspected vandal damaged a marble plaque, which was taken from Marx's original 1883
gravestone and incorporated into the 1954 monument. Images of the defaced memorial,
which attracts tens of thousands of visitors each year, shows what appears to be damaged done by a
hammer to the lettering of Marx's name and the marble on which it's mounted. Ian Dungavel,
the chief executive of the Friends of Highgate Cemetery Trust, condemned the attack as an
appalling thing to do and a particularly inarticulate form of political comment,
warning that the tomb would be permanently scarred. I assume that was the point,
was to permanently scar it? And let's be honest here, communism is a particularly inarticulate
form of political organization. But to cut right to the heart of the matter,
it's kind of funny, but it shouldn't have been done. In much the same way that you can't be
taking down Confederate monuments or any other artwork or plaques that you disagree with,
that shit shouldn't be happening. Regardless of what anyone thinks about Marx's philosophy,
I just think it's an appalling thing to do. On a human level, this is a grave of his wife,
his own grave, and other members of his family. If it is someone who is rabidly anti-Marxist,
they could do a lot better trying to change people's opinions rather than just smashing
up the monument. This is not going to win any sympathy to the anti-Marxist cause.
And yeah, that's probably accurate. The children's author and poet, Michael Rosen,
suggested launching an appeal for the cost of repair. Cost of repair? I'm sorry, sir,
but you don't understand the labor theory of value. You can't just let the market decide what
is going to be on Karl Marx's tombstone. Alright my friends, that does it for me.
I hope you enjoyed the video. Yesterday I did a Q&A session on Twitch. I just grinded out some levels
in Octopath Traveler and answered questions from the chat room. It was pretty fun, so I'd say
there's a 50-50 chance of me doing it again tonight. Drop by twitch.tv slash Game Boomers
if you want to join in. More accurate times will be posted in my Discord. Additionally,
the SFO subscribe star is finally up, for the most part. I've still got to add like
descriptions to the tiers, but it's basically working. That's at subscribestar.com slash
shortfiretaku. As soon as I get my first subscribe star payout, I'm going to take down the Patreon
link. And don't remember, leave a comment. Inspire me regarding the 50k special, guys.
Thank you very much. Thank you for all the support and all of your viewership, your patronage.
I appreciate all of it. I'm getting out of here. I love you.
