This Wendover Productions video was made possible by Hover.
Get your unique domain and email from Hover by going to hover.com slash wendover and using
the code wendover at checkout.
It'll be a cold day in hell before I let twins fly long-haul over-water routes.
Those were the words of Lynn Helms, administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration during
the Reagan administration.
At the time, no commercial American airplane with two engines was allowed to fly anywhere
farther than 60 minutes from a diversion airport.
The belief was that, if one engine failed, the other could only safely fly the plane
for about an hour, but this rule severely limited what smaller planes could do.
On North Atlantic routes like New York to London, twin-engined planes could only fly
in these areas, but a direct route looked like this.
The options were to either fly a twin-engined plane on an inefficient routing or fly an
inefficient three or four engine plane.
There was no place for long and skinny routes between smaller cities using smaller planes
since airlines couldn't legally fly those smaller planes.
This one simple rule changed the very way airplanes were built.
Now in the 60's, this 60 minute regulation only applied to planes with two engines.
Of course aircraft manufacturers could build quad-engine jets, but those had to be huge
for airlines to make their money's worth with the high fuel consumption.
The 747's of the time could carry more than 400 passengers.
They could therefore only fly on super high demand routes like New York to London to have
any hope of being full.
In order to start flying more convenient non-stop routes from smaller markets, planes had to
get smaller while still being legally allowed to hop the pond.
That's where tri-jets came into play.
With three engines, these planes weren't subject to the same 60 minute regulation as
twin-jets.
They could easily fly any transatlantic route.
That's why in the 70's and 80's the long-haul jets you'd see at airports were,
for the most part, either 747's or tri-jets like the DC-10.
This 60 minute regulation was inconvenient for Atlantic crossings but in the Pacific
it actually changed how Hawaii as a state developed.
There are zero diversion airports between California and Hawaii so the route isn't
even close to covered under the 60 minute rule.
As a result, airlines could only fly huge planes between the mainland and Hawaii which
meant the planes could pretty much only fly to Honolulu.
There was virtually no service to the other islands from the mainland which meant they
were severely isolated.
That's part of the reason why the tourism industry only picked up on the other islands
in recent decades.
The 60 minute rule originated from the days of piston-driven propeller aircraft.
With these, it was far more common for engines to just stop working mid-flight.
That's why there were contingency engines.
The regulations just didn't adapt to the increased reliability of jet engines.
Statistically, for every failure of a jet engine, there are 117 piston engine failures.
Once the jet age rolled in, engine failure just wasn't as much of a concern so, in
1985, the FAA begrudgingly granted permission to Trans World Airlines to fly their twin
engined 767 direct between Boston and Paris—a route taking it up to 120 minutes away from
diversion airports.
This was the first example of a brand new FAA certification called ETOPS—Extended
Range Twin Engine Operational Performance Standards or more colloquially, Engines Turn
or Passenger Swim.
Before an airline can fly on long over-water route, they have to buy a plane with what's
known as an ETOPS type rating.
Basically that means that the plane was built with adequate redundancies, communication
systems, and fire suppression systems to fly safely if one engine fails.
For example, the 767, the first plane to get an ETOPS certification, has a type rating
of 180 minutes meaning it can fly anywhere as long as it's within 180 minutes from
a diversion airport.
But just because a plane has an ETOPS type rating doesn't mean an airline can fly at
ETOPS.
They have to have a special maintenance plan, a special flight crew, special cabin crew,
special dispatchers, special fuel quantities, and special passenger recovery plans since,
just because there's a runway, doesn't mean a plane can safely divert since the emergency
doesn't necessarily end once the plane lands.
Cold Bay, Alaska, for example, is a perfect diversion airport for routes between Asia
and North America.
It only has six commercial flights per week nowadays but as a former air force base it
has an enormous runway.
The only issue is that the town of Cold Bay has a population of 108—it's tiny so any
diversions automatically double or triple the amount of people in the small town.
There certainly aren't enough hotel rooms or restaurants to house and feed stranded
passengers so, if airlines plan to use Cold Bay as a diversion airport, they need to make
a plan for how to house, feed, and recover passengers within 48 hours of landing.
Last year, an American Airlines 787 was flying from Shanghai to Chicago when its right engine
had an issue halfway across the Pacific Ocean.
The plane quickly took a left turn diverting to Cold Bay.
Even before landing, the passenger recovery plan was implemented as flight attendants
served a second meal service early.
Just a few hours after safely landing in Cold Bay, American's mechanics took off from
Seattle bound for Cold Bay to start fixing the plane while Alaska Airlines, American's
partner, sent a 737 from Anchorage to pick up the stranded passengers.
Meanwhile, flight attendants served the third set of meals they had stocked while waiting
on the ground and the Coast Guard opened their heated hangar to passengers.
Just ten hours after the emergency landing, passengers were on their way to Anchorage
where they spent the night before taking an American 757 to Chicago.
That was a perfect example of how the passenger recovery plan worked.
The quick response and defined plan helped the airline get passengers out safely and
quickly.
Now, because of this solid engine reliability, numerous redundancies, and well-designed passenger
recovery plans, airlines and airplanes can now receive some insane ETOP certifications.
The 787 Dreamliner, the plane that diverted to Cold Bay, has a type rating of 330 minutes.
That means it can fly up to five and a half hours away from a diversion airport.
Modern routes over long ocean stretches in the southern hemisphere were theoretically
possible in the past with four-engine planes, but were economically impossible since airlines
could never fill the large planes on the low-demand city pairs like Melbourne to Santiago.
With the ETOPS 330 certification, LATAM Airlines can fly their small 787 economically on this
relatively low-demand route across the South Pacific.
The Airbus A350 is even rated for ETOPS 370, it can fly six hours and ten minutes away
from diversion airports.
This plane can therefore fly everywhere on earth except directly over the South Pole.
Because of this simple rule change, three and four-engine planes are largely a relic
of the past.
Boeing and Airbus' largest jets are both their only four-engine planes in production—the
747 and A380.
The all-North Atlantic traffic today is on twin-engine planes as smaller and smaller
planes get ETOPS certifications.
Air Canada, for example, flies their tiny 120-passenger A319 with ETOPS certification
daily between St. John's Airport and London Heathrow.
British Airways even sends the even smaller A318 between New York and London City Airport.
These routes would have been unimaginable 30 years ago, but the reliability of the airplanes
of today mean that we need not fear flying small planes over big oceans.
This video was made possible by Hover.
I talked last time about how Hover is a fantastic way to get a unique domain just like my new
Wendover.Productions domain, but I want to stress this time just how professional a custom
email address is.
For $5 for the entire year, I set up an email ending in "@Wendover.Productions to forward
to my existing business email."
Not only is this email much more memorable, it also oozes professionalism.
Surely that's worth the $5 that you'd otherwise spend on one 160th of an ETOPS flight
to London, right?
Anyways, you can get a custom domain and email from Hover for 10% off while simultaneously
supporting Wendover Productions by going to hover.com slash wendover and using the code
wendover at checkout.
Once again, that's hover.com slash wendover and the code wendover for 10% off your custom,
professional, unique domain, and email with Hover.
