Hello everyone, welcome to Tech Talk Tuesday. This is going to be a bit of a different episode
because I might have to cut it short, randomly out of nowhere. Naomi's currently getting
all four of her wisdom teeth out, all at once. She's going to be doing pretty bad when she
gets back, so I'm squeezing this in while she's at the dentist. I'll be taking off as
soon as she's done, so my time is actually very limited today. And for, let's say, the
fifty of you who actually watch my gaming streams, this does mean she's not going to
be around for at least a week. She can only eat liquid foods for like four days, and she
can't really have anything crunchy for another few weeks after that. And also she's going
to be on painkillers and lying around for what the dentist estimates to be maybe a week,
maybe a little bit less. So, no Naomi for a while, and I'm squeezing in this Tech Talk
Tuesday in the spare half an hour or so I have before going to pick her up. So let's
get right to it.
Can you be racist to white people? No. Why not? Educate yourself on racism. You cannot
be racist to white people. Educate yourself. But how? Why? If you look it up, you'll understand.
That's racist. That is racist, you fuck. This person is racist. Yes, because who was enslaved?
White people were enslaved too, by the Ottomans. Have you ever thought like maybe racism. Like
a bunch of Muslim empires enslave white people. Doing that so we fight amongst each other.
I'm being for real. I don't believe in it. Why can't we all just be friends? Why not?
Wow. Wow. That bitch is actually a racist. Listen, I don't buy the intersectional definition
of racism where you can't be racist against white people because white people spent some
time as the world hegemon. That's bullshit. Every group has been an oppressor. Every group
has been oppressed. And this person is just a fucking racist. And she gets away with it
because she's a brown racist.
This is a dead club. No, you can't approach the girl. Not allowed. No flirting allowed.
Here, I'll take you to safety from that sexual contact. There's a concept I have to cover. Maybe
I'll do it in like a main video called safe horny, where the idea is that this sort of normal sexual
interaction between, you know, a decent looking guy, a decent looking girl talking to each other
in a social situation. That's exploitative and terrible. And there's actually a safe horny way
that progressives like because you can tell when that when that ham planet came in and was like,
Nope, you can't talk to her. You know, she thought she was saving that girl from them.
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? It is okay to be white.
Another race one. No, that's not it. That's not okay. Why not? It's terrible to be white.
What the fuck? What the fuck? What does she racist? Why is it not okay to be white?
What built civilization?
Too much good or too much bad?
Jesus Christ, these people are just racist. They're just anti white racist. That's it.
Imagine saying being black is bottom of the barrel. You'd be fucking crucified for that.
These people are disgusting. Oh, no, this is from fat pause a queer. I'm I can't wait for the cancer.
The guy at the window called me ma'am or madam like five times a girl. It's not a girl. Yeah,
like, thanks, ma'am. Jesus. At the very end of the interaction. He said have a blessed day.
I get misgendered all the time. What it is what it is. I don't want to explain your you're a woman
though. This is different. This felt very there's nothing masculine about you ladies cranky because
who did you mean with the hero comics? I'm on Andrew Tate like who Donald Trump maybe like who's
who's going to jail here lady, but no man, there's some like expert level delusion when it comes to
people like this. You know, if you see somebody who who passes or puts in a lot of effort to
looking like the other gender, you know, fair enough. It's probably reasonable to be miffed
that someone was impolite enough to misgender you, you know, calling Blair white a he doesn't make any
sense. That seems kind of rude. But this person all you've got is a shaved head lady nothing
masking about you. You're still a woman. You still look like when you still sound like one.
That's it. The reason that you're doing this trans non binary whatever crap is that you're 45. You
have nothing else going on in your life and you're sad and lonely. So you take it out by going on to
tick tock and shitting on the zoomer fast food restaurant worker that called you ma'am when you
are in fact a ma'am. Oh, baby, you're screaming. Jesus Christ, guys. I don't got to imagine I'm
hearing it right now. The feelings fucking mutual. Is this how you contribute to politics? You just
shriek. This person's fucking brain damaged. anarchists not even once. Oh my god. It's just it's
just impotent rage is just screaming because you don't get what you want all the time. And that's
what politics is sometimes you don't get what you want. Sometimes you must compromise. Welcome to the
real fucking world. What is it with leftoids and just shrieking irrationally? I mean, we've seen it
we've seen it now for what five years at least. There's always videos of and it's usually like
some chick comes out and just screams that doesn't have a point. She doesn't say anything. She just
reads at the camera. Why is it to show that you're just a fucking child friendly reminder that there
are no minimum requirements that you need to meet to feel like your gender. If you feel like a girl,
you're a girl. No, I have to wear makeup, or dresses or shave or pass at all. Yes, you do.
What matters most is how you feel. Go get it girly. No, dude, that's not true. Which is why
by the way, you're not a girl. You're a femme boy and a choker and you're even a femme boy.
You're not even feminine enough for that. The pushback against this is that gender is not
only how you feel, but it's how you're perceived. That's the point of it. It's a handshake. It's a
social signifier. Part of being masculine or feminine is looking and acting masculine
or feminine. This is why the feminists of yesteryear said that gender is a performance
because it partially is a performance. But these people doing the whole self ID thing have taken
the performance aspect out of it, but it doesn't function without that. The cold hard truth is if
you're male and you want to be seen as a woman by other people, that is something that is beyond
simply your identity. That is also how you present yourself to those other people,
which requires effort on your part. So yes, you have to pass. The reason that most normies find
this trans stuff intolerable while at the same time being completely respectful of those trans
people who integrate into society and live relatively normal lives is because those people,
the trans activists call them derisively trans assimilationists, they don't want to revolt
against society. They don't want to destroy the gender binary or any of this nonsense. They want
to be left alone to take their titty skittles and have whatever romantic relationships that they
want. They tend not to care about trans women in sports or what letter is beside their sex on their
birth certificate. They just want to be left alone. And that's reasonable. This self ID nonsense is
not reasonable. DNA bone structure chromosomes make you a woman. That's a white supremacist
talking point. What is science white supremacy? Things like bone structure is what white
supremacists do to separate themselves from black people. I'm pretty sure that white people can
separate themselves from black people and vice versa, just based on skin color. It's not hard,
but more importantly, I think this person's never spoken to like an Aboriginal activist before,
because her logic is going to be something like, we're all the same. There are races don't exist.
There are no races. There's no biological differences. Everyone's just one race. The
human race. Okay. Understood. Got it. Right. Okay. If you talk to like an Aboriginal racial
activist, they'll say the wildest shit, dude. They will say that like their race evolved in
North America and like a different location from like a different, like, like strand of biology
than any other race. And that they don't come out of Africa. Like everyone else does. They're like,
man, people are just fucking weird about race and all sides. Just like, just who cares? The
answer to this is who gives a shit. And no talking about the biological differences between men and
women is not white supremacist. Do you like, you have to have lost your fucking brain lady
to think this. That's what they've done. Separate themselves from black people. Like historically,
that's what they've done. White supremacists have said that white people and black people have DNA.
We're different species. We have different bones. We have different muscles. We're not different
species, but there are obviously genetic differences between the races. I don't listen
fellows. If your girl's white and she gives birth to a black baby, don't worry about it. Cause
according to this Hannah chick races don't exist. And now you're doing the same thing with trans
women. Like that's, that's heartbreaking, especially because that same rhetoric will be used
against you in the future. When a scientific truth does not jive with your retarded politics,
it is not the truth that should bend. It is you and your terrible ideas. We can accept that there
are biological differences between different types of people and not use that to put forward
some sort of supremacy narrative or some kind of like segregation, just as we are different.
Therefore we should oppress each other is stupid. We are not different in any way is also stupid.
So this right here is the pedo flag. The top two stripes are blue to represent attraction to young
boys. The mat flag guys represent attraction to young girls. The inner yellow stripes are
to represent childhood and general attraction to minors, regardless of their gender. My name is
Miranda. I use she, her pronouns and I'm a licensed professional counselor and sex therapist in Erie,
Pennsylvania. And today I want to talk about minor attracted persons because they are probably the
most vilified population of folks in our culture. The new woke frontier guys. Without actually
knowing much about them. And those are fucking music in the background though, Jesus, or an
already marginalized population. You may have noticed that I'm using the term minor attracted
person. Marginalizing them is good. Okay. Instead of the more commonly used term, not everything
should be normalized because the term pedophile has moved from being a diagnostic label to being
a judgmental, hurtful insult that we hurl at people in order to harm them or slander them.
Good. They should be judged. I also prefer person first language that recognizes that any label we
might apply to a person is only part of who they are and doesn't represent everything that they
are. We are all... You think this lady has a child skeletons in her closet? And this includes folks
who are attracted to minors. Now, listen, I know that there are tons of gay or trans people out
there who don't like this shit, but this is the next frontier of their activism. When you say the
slogan, love is love. There's no reason that can't be applied to all sorts of weird degenerate shit.
A video doing a deep dive into the whole trans groomer narrative is something that's on the
list. I know I said I was going to get out the trucker video in June, but maybe I'll just preempt
it to July and do this video in June instead. I don't know. I have to think about it. Oh,
it's time to go. Naomi's surgery is done, so I got to get out of here. Wish her well, guys. I
will see you next time. Oh, this also means that I won't be streaming tonight. Dave might stream
without me, but I'll be taking care of her. I'll see you next time, guys. I love you.
