Cibs is taking off as a full-time streamer and is now developing a video game.
Taking off?
That's what you're talking about.
Flying away.
He's like, no, come back!
No, come back!
Alright, Cibs, I have to sabotage you.
See, I didn't think if I could do the full stream full-time and make it full streaming,
but it turns out I can, and apparently grow.
I don't know why I didn't do the zoom.
The only thing holding me back at this point is my inability to work steadily.
Is your inability to develop a worth-gethic?
That's correct, though.
Because, uh, well, like, if I put out videos every day for a few weeks, my channel, like,
the algorithm revs up and my channel just goes wild, I can put out anything I want.
Right now, I'm suffering from fucking allergies.
You know what?
When I was growing up, I never had allergies.
Ever.
Right?
Spring, fall, didn't matter.
But now that I'm in my 30s, holy shit, I feel like I'm shutting down for weeks at a time.
My head is just swollen up, and I can't breathe, and I can't think, and I'm just like, ughhh.
Over the last 30 days, Dev has published 16 videos.
That's your issue.
You only publish videos half the day.
You need to do more work, Dev.
Yes, I know.
But when my head is like this, I can't write anything, I can barely think.
Who cares about writing things, Dev?
Spring!
No!
No, I have to- Listen, if I just put out shit, no one's gonna like it.
I gotta actually think about the videos that I do.
The past three days has just been me, like, holding my head, trying to get a thought together
in it, completely fucking failing, you know, popping Benadryl, trying to, like, fucking
get awake.
Jesus, I hate fucking allergies.
I hate them.
If Tofflebest could have behaved like you, he would have died of cancer.
Wait.
He did, which means sorry, Dev.
I guess I'm on my way out.
Don't make the joke about it either, you'll get it.
That's how it happens, when you joke about it.
It's very tragic.
I would never think about joking about it.
I'm just hoping that I'll be fit for thinking and writing again.
Come tomorrow, because I feel like I'm coming to the end of it.
Christ.
You're still sick?
Not sick, I have allergies right now.
Okay.
The fall is happening.
All the leaves are coming down.
Wrong culture.
Being sick and then going on a trip and then having allergies, I've missed out on, like,
two weeks worth of news cycles.
Fuck.
Better.
Loser.
Goddamnit.
Fuck you.
Sounds like a skill issue.
A skill issue?
Speaking of low fucking standards, Dev, I'm shitting on Google Stadia.
Fucking hell, Dev.
Jesus Christ, Dev.
Yeah, what's wrong with that?
You're talking about low hanging fucking fruit.
Jesus Christ.
Hey, listen, that was a decent video that I made.
Jesus Christ, Dev.
I saved up links since 2019 to compile a little mini history of the stadia from, like, announcement
to launch to ending, and I put it all into a nice little 12-minute package, you know?
That was a decent little video.
I stand by it.
It could have been a two-minute video, Dev.
Um, Google Stadia sucks.
It was always gonna suck.
Well, yeah, of course.
Goodbye.
But I wanted to have details.
I wanted to have deep lore.
This is why you failed, Dev.
Why?
This is why your last video was three days ago, not one day ago.
No, my last video three days ago, because I've been lying in head with it.
I've been lying in my bed with an inflated head.
I want to point out that this series that I do here with you guys, my friends, this
is easily the least watched thing on my channel.
It's probably tanking my channel in the algorithm, but I don't care, because I have fun doing it.
We're still gonna watch some garbage show after this one's done.
This kind of series, what this does is this is for your core audience, because your core
audience that are there for you will watch this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It strengthens your core audience, so it's worth doing and investing.
And I promise you, I need a strengthened core, that's for sure.
Enough nonsense.
We're gonna get to it.
Let's go.
Press the button.
Before...
No, not yet, Kibs.
Impatient Kibs.
As always, there's a few things to discuss real quick.
So we probably should have talked about this last week, but it kind of flew over my head.
Did you all see this where the Amazon analyst said that he fell asleep watching Rings of
Power?
No.
No.
I have not.
Didn't pay him enough.
Yeah.
So he basically, there's a guy who is hired to like watch the show and he fell asleep
during it.
It's like, oh, well.
And yeah, Amazon is actually quite worried about the show, about how much of a bust that
it is.
To the point that they're finally slicing those disgusting Twitch streamers' salaries.
Fuck those people.
Hey, I'm one of those people.
Yeah, me too.
How dare you?
How dare you?
Like I'm saying.
How fucking dare you?
Where's my paycheck?
Yeah, Kibs, you stream on Twitch too!
Oh, yeah, I do get a paycheck from him.
Yay.
Not anymore, you don't.
Speaking of streamers though, Arch, do you guys remember the Rings of Power superfans?
Yes.
Think back, think back, we're talking like six months ago, Amazon hired three influencers,
specifically influencers.
The fellowship of influencers.
To come in and talk about how good the Rings of Power looked like it was going to be after
that first trailer dropped.
With absolutely no gun pointed behind your heads.
Wasn't a gun, it was a giant fat paycheck.
Every time I was like, okay, take a breath, something new would happen and it was, huh,
huh, huh.
It's middle earth, it's never peace, right?
Like Sauron is hot.
I feel like people will be like, I can fix him.
Middle earth had like a club.
Yo, this tune is banking.
Awestruck, mystified and scatstruck.
Wow.
So I decided to look them up because they're, you know, they, they are influencers on YouTube
and like, I think one of them has a couple hundred thousand subs or something like, I
think maybe one of them was like primarily a TikToker, I don't know.
These three influencers who were paid so much to come on and promote the Lord of the Rings,
the Rings of Power.
Since that promotion all those months ago and throughout the entire run of the show,
they have not said a single fucking thing about it.
Isn't that funny?
Because they were never interested.
You know what makes me mad about this is, there are actually dedicated Lord of the Rings
YouTubers out there that talk about the lore, that talk about the games.
They're actually a Lord of the Rings YouTubing community or content creator community.
Why did they reach out to them?
Why didn't they reach out?
Okay, Kyle.
I know you're very, very retarded.
You idiot.
Let me lay this out for you.
Quit being literal.
You know what I mean?
I already know what I mean, but I'm pointing it out.
It's because they wanted out of it.
Like, that's the same reason why they haven't talked about it.
This was a fucking ad.
It came out yesterday that Rings of Power has been slipping massively in the ratings.
So has House of the Dragon, but not nearly as much.
And that, funnily enough, Cobra Kai has overtaken both of them.
Like Cobra Kai was actually not bad.
Like, granted, it's cliched as fuck.
It is a stupid, stupid goddamn show.
And I hate so much about it.
Yeah, exactly.
That's the thing.
It's supposed to be.
Like, it fully embraces the fact that it's supposed to be a very retarded show.
It's just funny to see that this is basically how Rings of Power has been tumbling over
the course of these past eight weeks.
The thing is, that is the great failure of the Rings of Power.
This is how you know that it is an absolute failure.
The Rings of Power has managed to achieve what George R. R. Martin always wanted.
To be better than Tolkien.
And he's finally done it.
He has a show that's better than a Lord of the Rings show.
Not only the normies, but even the people who are themselves ideologically captured.
They're turning on this.
So on Polygon, the Rings of Power is holding Galadriel back.
Amazon's show hasn't earned the elf warrior's emotional journey.
So like, even, even, you know, Polygon's a shit website run by shit people.
But even they are seeing that, yeah, this is actually really bad.
This is actually a really bad show.
And you see another one like this.
It's time to admit that Rings of Power is just fan fiction.
Everyone, even people who are, let's say, politically aligned to see this show succeed.
Even they are saying, no, it's a failure.
Well, two reasons.
One, their position is by now thoroughly indefensible.
Like episode seven is one of the worst pieces of television ever fucking created from virtually
every single standpoint.
And so it is simply far more profitable to attack it.
Besides, it's almost over and Amazon payscheque isn't coming.
There's no reason not to.
And two, to the Rings of Power's credit, limited but maybe, it has not been particularly woke.
It hasn't been banging the drum in the actual story.
It did so in casting, sure as hell.
But in the end, in the actual story, it's, well, it hasn't been political.
It's just been shit.
Yep.
Oh, I guess one last thing before we start, since I don't know if, I don't know if you
mentioned it during the recording or before I turned it on or whatever.
My head's not exactly in there, right?
It's I'm currently floating away on on medication.
But Taft isn't here with us.
She she's she's not feeling well.
R.I.P.
Hopefully, she'll be back for the next show.
But this is the finale.
She's dead.
She's dead.
OK.
Not joking.
This is it, Kibbs.
The final time you get to press play, unless you want to watch season two of this thing.
You insist.
It's two years away.
Look, it's Amazon.
Oh, my God.
Wow.
It's a little smiley face.
I hit the recap button.
Look, it's poppies.
We're in Afghanistan.
It's raining, actually.
It rains in Afghanistan.
No, it doesn't.
Never.
It does.
So what do you do, Kibbs?
It doesn't.
That was a neat establishing job.
That's probably the best part of this whole episode, I bet.
Came humping a rock for two seconds.
Yeah, basically.
Listen, the bar's low.
You know, I always feel bad for actors like this.
You know, they're given a soaked piece of cloth and just be like, go huddle in the rain
for five minutes.
Like, oh, I don't feel that bad considering how much they're paid.
And five minutes is like five hours because, you know, they have to get all the shots.
Like 50 takes.
Yeah.
No, wait.
It's just an apple.
That's a remarkably neat look.
You cut out there, Kibbs.
What'd you say?
I said, how the fuck did the apple get over there?
It's like 30 feet away.
It rolled, man.
It rolled down the hill.
You ever like, you're at your desk and you drop something and then you look down and
it's like across the room and out into the hallway and you're like, fuck.
Yeah, what happens?
Oh, look, it's an apparition.
See?
I called it.
It was an apparition.
It's evil.
Kill it.
It's actually that short haired, white haired girl.
Yep.
Yeah.
A real slim shady ha-doom-doom-doom.
Would you like an apple?
Nobody bad has ever offered an apple.
I really hate the armor of that chick in particular.
So, somebody owes me a blowjob, Dev.
Down.
No.
Hold on.
Down, Dev.
Come now.
Wait, wait, wait.
I was the one who-
Down, Dev.
No, no.
I was the one who bet Mauler that this would be-
Yeah, but you were doubting.
I was never doubting.
I was always strong in my faith.
I don't know.
You were on the Gandalf train a little bit, weren't you?
God no.
I didn't think it was Gandalf, but I thought I could have sworn this motherfucker would-
like that would be too obvious.
Well, Kyle, you two are going to have to get down on your fucking knees.
No, no.
Well, the most interesting plot has been revealed.
I don't want to watch anymore.
Oh, no.
Yes, quit.
No, no, no.
Like I said at the beginning, this is why the hobbits are remarkably resistant to the
rings of power.
That's so stupid, though, because Sauron is like, I feel bad for that one fucking little
like hobbit thing I did-
Wait a second.
Wait, Arch-
But the Harfoot's not even hobbits.
Arch, didn't I say that back then?
No.
Are you taking all my good takes for yourself?
Son of a slut.
You're stealing my takes.
Yep, Dev agreed.
Horse shit, Dev Rudy.
Hold on.
Lilith, Lilith, you got to break the tie here.
Come on, Lilith.
We already broke the tie.
Dev's right.
I'm pretty sure you said something along the lines, Dev.
Yeah, he said something after I said it.
He parroted me, like the little pig that he is.
I think Arch is a parroter.
Wait, can't the elves just mine it themselves?
You guys know how to mine, right?
The land belongs to the dorists.
No.
How could we possibly match the powers that rule?
Oh, simple.
We just make rings.
Oh, then my guy's going to make the rings of power with this?
Are you serious?
Yes.
Wait, were the rings of power made out of mithril?
No.
No.
Oh.
They were cracked with magic.
Don't explain to us how the rings are made.
Don't explain to us how the rings are made.
I can't explain.
It's in the fucking title you much much.
Ah.
Okay, so-
Ah.
Okay, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold, hold.
How Bran seems fucked.
How far did she just ride?
A few hundred miles at least.
They just galloped all the way to elf capital.
Was it Lindon?
Six days.
They have to get there by ship?
He survived a week on a horseback.
There's no way they traveled that far in six days.
Oh, fuck me gently.
Listen, he's just a gigachad, all right?
I'm pretty sure that's over 600 miles, or 300 at the very least.
They just fell that way just for bed in a hospital bed.
Yep.
Let me open up a map of Middle-earth on the second page.
Couldn't they have just moved the healers over there?
They just fast-traveled.
They just fast-traveled.
There are no enemies nearby.
Oh, God, she's right.
Of course she is.
She was always right, Dev.
No.
Whatever the fuck that is.
Dev.
Dev.
Okay, Lindon, 200.
400.
600.
Dude, that's like-
That's like almost 1,000 miles, if I'm doing that correctly.
That's a fast horse.
There's no way.
No way.
Yeah, I know.
We watched you swim for, like, a whole fucking episode, and it was retarded.
It was really bad.
You know what upsets me?
That style of makeup that makes their pores look enormous.
It just kind of makes me feel like I'm developing tryctophobia.
Sweet.
Their faces look very holey now.
Yeah, don't they?
Like it's that lighting, that makeup style, and they just look like they're bumpy.
Well, they are ascended beings, Kibbs.
Make it cold so their pores close.
But you don't get it, do you?
I don't care about getting it.
I don't want their pores to close.
I remember when in movies where Galadriel just looked completely flawless and, like, shiny
because that's what elves are supposed to be.
That's just photoshopped.
I mean, that's the point, though.
Unrealistic beauty standards.
All of Galadriel's OnlyFans pics are photoshopped.
What is this place?
This is my forge.
What's the workshop of Celebrimbor?
The Thor arches are curved.
Come on, now.
Now, okay.
Hammer home how right I was.
Let's add in a time differential as well.
Let's make Halbrand Sauron, too.
Oh, God.
Because now he's in the forge.
Now he's like, oh, but maybe I could make a ring that could, like, yes, maybe.
The master I apprenticed to used to speak of the wonders of your craft.
See?
He's a smith, too.
Oh.
Oh, my God.
So they're going to have two Saurons.
Wait, you know what it'll be?
It'll be like...
Oh, no.
No, I feel like the Hobo could be a red herring.
Maybe.
It still is a red herring.
Or they could be, like, both Saurons, and you've got to combine them into, like, one
guy, like a fusion dance.
Oh, God, he's splintered his soul or something?
Yeah.
I'm super smart, by the way.
Somebody needs to be, once again, begging Arch for forgiveness and calling him smart.
He's fucking Sauron, too.
Arch is wrong again.
Listen to me.
I'm Halbrand.
I come from Mordor.
I know everything about magic, metal, and shit, which you, the ten thousand year old
smith, would never know.
Retard.
A gift.
Sticky Sauron, too.
A gift.
They're all Sauron.
Everyone's Sauron.
I'm a Sauron.
It's like Battlestar Galactica.
We're all Sirens.
We're all Sirens.
I hear online that this Phaseron guy is also Sauron.
This, like, marks here.
No, Phaseron is not Sauron.
He was manipulated by Sauron.
Okay, so who's gonna start talking to him and manipulating him?
Well, I'm sure Halbrand will probably pop him again soon or something.
Or, I think they've just dropped the entire Numenor plotline.
Maybe she's Sauron, too.
Their understanding of art is really advanced.
And, now they've got paper instead of that fucking papyrus shit they were having earlier.
I want to see mommy milkers one more time before I go.
Let me, let me feel with my hand.
By the way, for all of the flaws of House of the Dragon, they did a much better Dying
King set of scenes than this show did.
You're mistaken.
Wait, what?
What do you mean next up?
Next up, fuck off.
Sorry, that's too pop up.
Sink, but yes.
I mean, this king is about dying.
I don't make this mistake, too, in paratrauma.
Like, our ship is falling.
No, Kyle, it's sinking.
The king!
Help!
Well, it falls to the ocean bottom.
Oh my god, the rings of power.
Is he gonna die in time?
Wait, he vanished.
Uh oh.
Maybe he's Sauron.
He got spry all of a sudden.
This is a rather random plot point.
This is.
I feel like this only exists so we have some reason to care about whomever this is.
Yeah, because to be honest, besides her boobs, there's not much else to her.
And her tits could be bigger.
Yeah, they could use a-
They could CGI those up a little bit.
Well, you don't want it too big.
Otherwise they'd get droopy and say-
I don't know.
They could be larger.
What manner of object?
A ring!
He's a cringe.
This is so stupid.
God help her.
Yeah, how rings work.
All that power upon the brow of one being.
You've just ruined the mystery.
Suggestions were but the key that unlocked the dam.
We are on the cusp of-
Jesus, they really want to-
Okay.
Strength but of spirit.
Not of the flesh, but over flesh.
Galadriel's gaydar is tingling.
Wait, hold on.
Are you a traitorous faggot?
Are you Sauron?
Again, the fucking story telling.
Do we need a rebellious moment here?
Do we need the scene where he goes like,
No, I'll do it anyways.
Do we need that?
Why the fuck do we need that?
We need more drama to keep the viewers engaged.
Drama no matter what.
That's probably what the school taught them.
Wherever writing school they came from.
If they went to school.
Oh my god, the fucking mithril's making him do it.
Does it matter?
Of course.
Oh wait, so wait.
What does it matter?
All mithril has the same corrupting powers?
That'd be ridiculous.
At least Frodo was wearing a shirt of that shit.
I mowed that much.
No, no, I think they're suggesting that Halbrand somehow talked him into it.
The problem is, all of this bullshit drama is replacing the drama we should have.
Which is Halbrand very, very, very slowly talking the elves into this idea.
Like suggesting, hinting.
Instead he just walks in there and goes like,
Why have you made it into a ring?
Like, oh, brilliant.
I love how Halbrand's just a part of the smithing crew now.
Like, you told me something incredibly obvious.
Be my apprentice.
Yeah, we needed like three scenes.
Three or four scenes of him talking to that guy and like getting him warmed up to it.
Not just, oh, he's here now.
What gets to me is just like, until now we've never even heard of Halbrand being like a ring maker or metal worker much.
We saw him like one scene doing it in, um, fuck, what was it called?
The island.
He's fucked around with the foraging like twice.
Yeah, I can see how the...
Okay, maybe I just didn't remember.
But like, I don't think it was like ever stated that he was like a super expert at it, so.
Just that he wanted to do it.
Well, so far he's been a traveler, a sailor, a smith, a king.
Someone like me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Someone like me, Sauron.
Right next to you, Galadriel.
You've been looking for me for so long.
She saved Sauron's life.
No.
Yes.
He believed in me.
Oh my god, that's true, she did.
He pushed me to heights that no one else could have.
See, oh my god.
This, in a better show, this would have been an excellent fucking scene.
See, if this was in a show where you never suspected who this guy was, this would have been a fucking good scene.
But it isn't, it's in the rings of power.
It would be one of those scenes where like on your second watch through you could see all the little things.
Yep, and he's like, you believed in me, you pushed me, you made me stronger.
Like that would have been a fucking chill scene if it wasn't in the rings of power.
See, they're trying to fucking do the two thing.
Me stars!
I don't think that's how that works.
You fell from the stars, yet you are greater than they.
Why is everyone echoing?
Because it's dramatic.
In time he will learn to control his powers, for now bind him.
They're messing up my hair.
Oh look, it's a little concept on YouTube.
It's a horror flute.
Oh god, I hate the horror flute so much.
Totally bad.
Now's our chance.
To get what, fucking killed?
Yeah, well I expected to against him.
They're just gonna set you on fire.
They're harfoots, they've got guerilla memes, okay.
I'm afraid they're like little Vietnamese people.
See like the Ewoks, like they'll swing logs down.
When the trees start speaking harfoot, oh they just, they just left, they just left him okay, nevermind.
Well they didn't, then we're gonna get out.
The third person is gonna show up at the last second.
Gotcha kids.
She's gonna show off, off screen.
Watch this.
Oh no, the third person is the bad bitch.
Thank you, that was kind of a clever double.
It doesn't make sense because the harfoots were looking straight at them when they did this, but details, details.
Run.
Oh no, a tiny harfoot is uh.
Oh no.
Nice.
Yes.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
Now twist the knife, make sure.
No, he fell off screen, he's still alive, no.
That's unfortunate, he is still alive.
Fuck.
Well that was a good choice.
Black man dies, archers.
Actually you know what?
So on Andor this week, of the six main characters there was two black guys and they killed them both.
All the black people are dying on TV right now.
But tragically both lesbians survived.
Hey listen, they're both kind of cute.
I don't know about that.
I do.
Deadeye force push.
I'm sorry.
How is that troll sticking to your head there woman?
It's a bit weird.
Wait, how is Sauron losing the mage fight?
I just noticed her staff is the eye.
Look at her staff, it's the eye.
Well yes Dev.
Are you some kind of dev?
Oh cool, Batarangs.
Okay, that was pretty funny.
That was good.
The little lottery.
Batarangs.
That's why there's just a fuck you master.
Yeah, exactly.
If I were Sauron, I'd say that's a good choice.
If I were Sauron, I'd just be like, you're fired.
Look at the stoners.
Defeated by nuts and berries.
Oh, she can't detect them anymore.
I'm really mad, I'm going to burn all of you.
They're hidden behind leaves, everybody.
Uh oh.
Couldn't she just light everything on fire like she did before?
Yep, that's what she needed to do.
Oh shit.
Come on, please kill at least one of the harplets, I pray.
One of them at least.
Nah, they got too much plot armor.
Oh no, my harpits, they're burning.
This is just a normal California summer, after a gender reveal party.
See, now, if anything, I'm slowly growing more skeptical, because they're laying on the herring a little bit too thick right now.
It's very thick.
This is the problem though.
It reveals that this is how Gandalf was formed.
The issue is, they're double layering the story so thick that neither outcome makes sense anymore.
Yeah.
My $20 is in limbo.
Wait, is he just surviving?
After getting stabbed in the gut?
I mean, you fuckers still have knives, you could just stab them.
Check with the Batarangs, could throw them.
Suck it! Get on your knees!
I'm good.
Oh, they're ringwraiths.
Wait, how?
They can't be ringwraiths.
Oh, personally can be ringwraiths.
They're moths.
Yeah.
Barge.
Ooh, that ringwraith style.
He's Nistar.
Okay, so which wizard is he then?
Nothing.
I hope it's the white wizard.
Saruman?
Yep, Saruman.
Before he became a, you know, black-filled wizard.
Oh, thank god he's gonna die.
Oh, he's gonna be saved by magic.
Please, TV show, at least give me this.
They're gonna.
You don't think the maid is gonna heal him?
Nope, because he just nodded.
He's like, yep, I'm not healing you.
He pissed off the priest one too many times in the dungeon.
Oh god, that's quick. He's going fast.
He's going sitting up?
Yeah.
And he still, some still say his skeletons are there to this day.
You know, I'm having fun with this episode.
The thing is, I'm still not even sold that he's a wizard.
Because the problem is, he can't be a wizard from the timeline.
And they have doubled back on what he is so many times.
He can be, because they're just making shit up at this point.
Oh they are, but the thing is, they've doubled back on this like twelve times now.
From good to evil to evil to good to good to evil.
Keep your guessing, right?
What they're doing is, you know, they made the Balrog show up, and the wizard show up, and Mount Doom first erupt.
In the same week. And these things did not happen anywhere close to each other in the timeline.
This is very convenient that they all happen all at once, Dev.
The issue is too though, the wizards are out in the third age.
Which means that Amazon literally does not have the rights to the wizards.
Hey wait a second. She's down in the hold of the ship practicing.
I mean the implication is that she's practicing being blind in public so that no one knows she's blind.
That's what it seems like is happening right now.
But in the last episode there was that scene of her on the deck of the ship with her blindfold on.
Yes.
Yes, Dev.
Yes, Dev. Yes, it doesn't make sense, Dev. Come here, Dev.
Dev, Dev, Dev.
This is the rings of power in a nutshell right here.
This is why even that theoretically great scene with Halbrand is actually shit, because this is what the show does normally.
Maybe Taftash had the right idea, getting sick and bowing out.
This entire blind plotline is...
It feels like one of the two showrunners wrote half of it and the other guy wrote the other half and they never spoke about it.
So one's like, oh she'll be a really strong queen because she'll pretend not to be blind.
And the other guy's like, well she's blind now, I guess she's got a blindfold.
You gotta make her a demon hunter from Warcraft.
Kibbs gets it, because he's actually playing Warcraft right now, you fucking Blizzard shill traitor.
This episode's actually been the most entertaining. Not for any good reasons, but because it's very funny.
I'm just very glad that at least one of the Harfords is finally dead.
This is the first time I've enjoyed the show. Like, wow.
I'm just very glad the show's almost fucking over. Are we really doing season two?
Yeah, but it's in two years time, so I wouldn't worry about it.
And by then we'll be dead. One of us will have died of old age.
My bet is on Dev.
I can't fucking wait.
Time to pretend to not be blind in front of all the people who have seen me with a blindfold.
No, she has a blindfold.
Alright.
Oh, hi. Oh, Jesus. Alright, well, never mind.
So, what specifically was she practicing down there?
She was practicing pissing me off.
Black flags, ma'am. You're fucking dead's dead.
Ta-da!
You're right. Black flags.
I feel bad for the guy who didn't go up to that fucking mountain to do that one.
Just hanging there.
He's like, Jim, I'm gonna need you to go up there. Like, please, no.
It's a living.
Man, I would have felt really bad if I knew who the fuck this guy was.
It's Santa.
If only he had any screen time.
Staring at him with loving eyes.
Oh, they died.
What the fuck happened?
No, no, this is the elves again.
They're making the rings and they're fucking up a bit.
Oh, you idiots.
Oh my god, I thought it was a terrorist attack. Like, they're 9-11 in the Numenor.
Also, hold the fuck on.
Who puts their smith at the top of a tower?
Thank you.
Galadriel.
Pushing ourselves too high.
That's it.
Oh god, it is.
Of course it is.
Fucking hell.
That's it.
I've got it now.
Why did I think of that?
Drawn or coaxed.
God damn, Galadriel just has to do everything in this show.
Everything inside out.
Yes, because this is how metal works.
Sometimes you gotta pet the metal and then it'll just, you know, bind with other metals.
That's how this works.
That's how it's doing a good job.
Here's this thing.
Stroke it gently and then it'll become iron and that's how steel is made.
You whisper gently into the ears of iron and copper and steel.
Armor.
God, I just read something really shocking.
Stupid.
And it rolled away from me because it's on a scroll.
Gasparuni.
Uh oh.
The last man to bear your crest died over a thousand years ago.
He had no heir.
I read there, he had no heir.
No, on the raft you saved me.
On the raft, you saved me.
You convinced Myrios to save the men of Middle-earth.
Oh.
Isaron.
The evil music is revealing it to us.
And mine.
Tell me your name.
I have been awake since before the breaking of the first silence.
And outside.
I have had many names.
Why would you reveal it here, though?
Again, you know, this should be a good scene, but the acting is fucking up a bit here.
Like, Letter's actually doing okay.
But.
He, like.
There should have been a bit more of a smile on his face.
He should have been a little bit more sinister.
They should have shaded him a bit more.
Also.
He hasn't made the rings yet.
This isn't when you...
Oh God, alright.
Well, he's made her into a common as it's fine.
Hello, I'm the brother from episode one.
I've had a grand total of five seconds of screen time, but you should remember me.
He was seeking a power.
Not to destroy Middle Earth.
But to heal it.
He's the good guy.
If it was your fellow elves.
Why would you say such a thing?
Damn them CGI tears.
You can't even get the actors to actually cry anymore.
Geez.
Look at me!
Oh, now we're on the ship.
Well, the ship.
You know who I am.
I am your friend.
I want her to start pulling on the thing again.
He's just gaslighting.
This is like, oh, I'm going to take you to the fantasy world to gaslight you non-stop.
I told you that I had done evil and you did not care.
Because you knew that our past meant nothing.
Weighed against our future.
Wait.
Wait.
So women make him evil?
Someone's actually good.
He got dumped by Galadriel and that's why he turns evil.
He's an incel.
I get it now.
That was a forced scene. I didn't like that.
Yeah.
There is, there is fucking meat to this.
That's what annoys me, but there's no setup.
And I really,
I fucking hate his actor when it comes to this.
Like he doesn't have that charisma that he really should have here.
That gravitas.
Oh my God.
Taking that line from the fucking movie.
I mean, I think this guy could do it, but they just needed an actual show behind it and not just this nonsense.
The romance thing is really cringe though, I will say that much.
I see.
I don't mind that because he's the one trying to seduce her and there's no indication that he actually necessarily gives a shit, but he wants her power and she's got him by the walls.
Yeah, that too was just a fuck.
He doesn't look like Sauron because you give him slit eyes. Like this isn't how this works.
Not gonna lie.
This is really dumb.
No, no, no, no, no. This is the cleverest the show has ever been, which is sad.
Clever for a show, terrible for Lord of the Rings.
But the thing is, this works.
If only it had been constructed better. If only it had been acted better, shot better.
If only it wasn't this.
Like, this is a genuinely fine story point, but very poorly delivered.
Oh, Arch, the comments corrected us from last week. Elrond apparently always was a half-elf.
Also, wait a second. How does that prove that Elrond's real if that's something that Galadriel knows and Sauron can just take it from her mind?
Can he take it from her mind? Does he have that Jedi power?
Yeah, that's what we've been doing this whole time.
Like, you'd have to ask a question that you didn't know the answer to, but would sound real to you when they gave it to you.
Just tell him.
You are making that promise very difficult to keep.
Very easy. It would not require trust.
Really, bitch? You're gonna just sweep this one under the rug?
Why wouldn't you tell everyone? This was Sauron.
She has to be mysterious. She has to be cryptic for no reason.
Three?
I want one. That's why.
Two will divide.
But with three, there is balance.
And we each get one.
There is no sense.
Must be for the elves alone.
Untouched by other hands.
Oh, shit. We've literally rewritten the entire fucking origin of the Rings of Power.
You have potential, Arch.
I need gold and silver.
The most exquisite quality.
I need gold and silver from Valinor.
True creation requires a dagger sacrifice.
Oh, God. Now she can melt that down to cut herself from her brother. Oh, God, that's okay.
Do you remember anything more yet?
Fragments.
Oh, look, the Harfoots are settling down to farm like nomadic communities usually do.
This is the origin story as to why the hobbits started to settle.
It's awful, but you know.
In your tongue, that means wise one.
Oh.
Wizard.
Yeah.
Arch, you were wrong.
No, I'm still not admitting it.
You can't. You've been defeated.
I can. I absolutely can, because they've made him good and then evil and then evil and then good again and again.
This is just another part of it.
So which...
Because he can't be a wizard. Literally.
There is no way he can be.
Why?
Because the wizard was specifically sent as a response to Sauron.
Yeah.
And they were sent in the third age.
Sorry, Arch, but that's old lore. It's been changed.
Yeah, give it the time, boomer.
At least we're almost done, I think.
Okay, let's hover over it.
It's like 20 minutes left.
Arch, jump out a window.
I would rather do something else.
The funny parts are over. I'm no longer enjoying this.
I don't.
I'm quite happy we killed at least one half-foot.
One casualty is a good start.
It's a beginning. We've got a long way to go.
Is he the only named character that's dead?
In the entire season?
I think so.
Well, the king was named.
Well, but he wasn't a character character.
That's true.
So technically, the black guy dicked a hearse.
Oh, good. So she's only going to follow her story with this star.
We're not going to fucking watch the rest of them in season two.
Well, I'm going on an adventure.
Maybe all of the others will be wiped out off-screen.
Hopefully.
The best part is, what they've done here is they basically said that it was actually women were the first adventuring hobbits.
Little girl. What the fuck? Where'd she come from?
They just breed real fast.
Jesus Christ.
You know, after sex, an acorn pops out of the woman's vagina.
In two or three weeks after planting, it'll just sprout right up.
Ain't no stuff. Not a vagina. That'd be weird.
Like a gross barge. I know it's hard for you.
We're birds has preferences.
I feel bad for these poor actors. They were like, oh, that's going to be great for my career.
It's going to look great.
Rest in peace, bro.
Like a sign language thing.
I will actually say one good thing about the Harfoot's their music, their aesthetic, their accents.
It reminds me a lot of that GameCube game, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles.
It's the exact same like theming.
Irish. And dirty.
Yeah.
Sick of the Harfoot's now. Kill them all. Move on.
They're dirty hair. They're dirty hands. They're dirty faces.
It feels like they've done this, this goodbye scene, like three big hugs now.
They kind of have, because there's also different stories where they're doing like goodbye things.
I had to get one for every story. We have yet to get one for the black elf.
Or maybe hit the way he's over.
By the way, there's some race mixing going on here and yet all of the children are white. Explain.
One gene is stronger than the other, apparently.
Oh, no. Fat Sam.
Well, Sam was always kind of fat.
Ploppé. Actually, Ploppé would be a better name. Ploppé.
Don't come with. Don't come with.
Why does everyone I love the most always have to go away?
I don't know. It's never happened before, so, you know.
Is she going to come along?
No, please.
Oh, Ploppé.
It sounds like she's, she's not. Okay.
See, the whole reason that you had to have Frodo and Sam is, is thematically, is because by the end of the journey when, when Frodo couldn't do it, Sam could do the rest of it.
And he was supposed to be the anchor back to the ordinary world.
That was the point of their friendship.
Well, it's, Jesus Christ Arch. It's, it's more that like, there's that final...
No, no. He literally was a manservant.
He was, he was. But there was that final scene where Frodo says, there's no veil between me and the Ring of Fire.
And he's basically saying that the Ring's influence has made him forget everything good in life and he is absorbed by nihilism.
And Sam had to be that anchor back to what was meaningful in life.
Constantly reminding him about the strawberries and everything else and good in the world.
Yeah. Yeah. But you don't need a Sam character for this kind of journey.
Always follow your nose.
Always follow your nose.
God damn it, Arch. How do you know?
It's a saying. How do you not know, Dev?
It's Gandalf. Fuck me. I hate it.
I love it because Barch is me and he is.
Thing is, I'm still not sold on it either.
You will be. Because Sauron was a Maiar as well.
Yeah, but he's a different Maiar. He's almost...
No. No, they're not.
The Maiar or the Maiar?
On the double fake, it's over, Barch. You lost. You got to have one.
Maiar or the Maiar?
I'm going to put Kibbs in my $20.
Listen, Dev. It was that or defeating Barch?
A worthy sacrifice.
You know, he really should have removed the blade from that first.
That's going to fuck up the composition of something awful.
Yeah, but the implication is that the handle is the gold and the blade is the silver.
Yep. Dev, do I need to teach you about how soft silver is?
Oh no, I know. But the show doesn't know. The show doesn't know.
And even then, you wouldn't mix the silver and the fucking gold. That's dumb too.
Well, the idea is they're mixing silver, gold, and mithril to make the magic of the rings.
Yeah, but they do not mix really, though.
Hold on, though. Hold on a second.
So, the original story was that they made all the rings. There was nine, five, and three at the same time.
But also that Sauron made a hidden ring at the same time.
Yes.
But they're already making three right now?
Yes.
They're making them at different times now.
That's why we've got to have like five fucking seasons so they can make the rings little by little.
Just drop that shit in.
This is how you make an alloy right here. You just fucking plump that bitch down there and voila.
It's like a magical...
Look, it's an eye!
Oh my god, it's evil.
Making cabbage soup.
There you go. It didn't need pressure, it just needed light stirring.
Like most metallic alloys.
They got to bend them.
Oh, that's brilliant. That's actually brilliant.
I prefer the scene in the movies where there are like five elves wailing on it with hammers.
Elrond is getting suspicious.
He's doing his CSI thing.
That paper would not be legible after this.
Yeah.
It's magic ink. Don't think about it.
Magic paper.
Oh, don't help. This isn't who he said he was.
Ah yes, completely uncut gems. Brilliant.
It's just pop rocks.
Whoops, I'm too late. Bitch already corrupted. Well, fuck.
Wait, how is it corrupted?
Wait, what if that's...
Sauron was just like...
Those are Sauron's rings.
Sauron was just like, listen, if you use gold and silver, it'll actually make them my rings.
Why?
Yes, you've already shown us this shot. You missed your opportunity to end credit screen.
Although, that being said, end credit screen in...
What, ten seconds?
We need to see what Halbran's doing.
He's going to Mordor, of course.
Yes, I'd like a tower right over there.
No, a little bit more to the right.
Now end credit in five, four, three, two, one.
Blackness.
Nice hovering your mouse ahead, Barch.
You little shit.
I like how they're now singing, how they were actually made, and they've shown that, no, they didn't do that.
I feel like I just had an hour-long aneurysm.
This is more funny.
No, no, the issue is, once more, they've completely violated absolutely everything.
There's no reason for the story to progress at this point.
The elves have made their rings completely separate from anything else.
Halbran had no influence on these three rings whatsoever beyond going,
maybe you should put them in a centrifuge instead.
There is no reason or rationale for him to have any power over them.
It was very specifically made clear in the original that the rings were made by Sauron's direction.
He'd pre-planned this. He had written it into those rings that they would be bound by the Wand Ring.
It's literally coded into them, but there's no reason for these rings to be.
Now, what is the rationale for making more?
They'll make up a rationale.
That's exactly the problem. They will just make it the fuck up.
Well, that's been the whole problem with the entire show since episode one.
It's all made up. None of this matters. None of this has mattered since the beginning.
None of this mattered now.
Let's assume that you wanted to do the exact same plot line, but good.
The plot already sucks, but let's assume all the major plot beats are going to be in place.
We're talking that the elves still need the mithril to stay alive.
Halbran is still going to be Sauron in the end and still finds Galadriel.
How would you do this show but better?
Well, you'd actually have to take more time and develop an actual blossoming relationship between Galadriel and Halbran.
There would have to be a real seduction there.
He would actually have to worm his way into places a little bit more.
He did that a bit on Numenor. He didn't do it anywhere else.
And honestly, it feels like they had to do that big battle scene in the Southlands to turn it into Mordor,
and they had to get Halbran from Mordor to Lindon to have the let's corrupt the elves bit to make the rings,
and then have him reveal himself. They just rushed it all. They had it all in one episode.
That should have been a full season on its own, Halbran with the elves.
This I'm about to agree with you, and so this is a question about time.
Halbran's character needed far more development, but it's a question of using the time.
The show has so much time, but it's wasted on stupid shit.
The problem is too, Halbran was sus from the beginning because he's a king of the Southlands.
We know that's not true. He's been set adrift by corsairs. We know that's not true.
This is an era of unrivalled peace, and he's in the middle of nowhere.
The setup is far too suspect for anyone to ever look at Halbran with a neutral view, because he's set up that way.
The show falls into its own trap, where it's like, okay, we need everyone to think that everybody's Sauron,
but that just means that your Sauron reveal will fall flat regardless of which character you make Sauron.
It's the same problem with the wizard. They've gone back and forth on him being good and evil like six or seven times,
and even now, the only claim to him being good is that he says that he's an Istar, and then there's a Maiar more correctly,
which, again, Sauron's a Maiar too.
There's also the obvious copyright problems here, and this is one of the things where Amazon is just going to do this
because they know the Tolkien estate can't challenge them, but the wizards are specifically a Third Age property.
Amazon does not have the copyright to them in the same way that they do not have the copyright to the hobbits, which is why they're harfoots.
Well, Arch, these are just going to be some new wizards that we haven't seen before, and they're all going to die before the Third Age.
That would be the way they'd have to do it.
This is something that I've seen with a lot of shows. Any show that has been made in the past five years,
that you see a lot of YouTube channels watching and complaining about, and it's like, oh my god, it's so bad.
I see this. I can see, deep within all the shit, the foundation of a possibly good show if they just did everything differently.
Ironically, the scenes between Halbaran and Galadriel in this show should have been the culmination of a story.
Instead, he recites a handful of times where Galadriel did a handful of things,
and that entire story could probably be compacted into a single hour or less.
It's not enough time, and there's not enough subtlety in the plot.
It needed more time to develop, and it needed more subtlety.
It should have been, what they should have done, that entire scene where Halbaran was like, okay, you made me strong, etc.
That should have been the big reveal. It shouldn't then have had a second reveal scene afterwards.
That should have been the big reveal, because they undermined the second reveal massively as well.
What you do is, you put them two up, you have like, oh, you know, you drove me, and then you hear the hammer blow of the rings being crafted like dum.
And then you have a flashback to Galadriel chasing him and driving him off so that he ended up on that raft.
You were the one who made me strong and had the dum of the rings being crafted.
And showing her, like, forcing him to run around and become strong and blah blah blah.
Make up something like that, yeah?
That would have been good, because at that point it would have been too fucking late.
Galadriel would have realised her error as it was already too late.
The rings were already crafted, Sauron's plot was already complete, and there's nothing she can do about it.
Instead now, we have to have some roundabout plot where a bunch of more rings need to be crafted.
It will require Galadriel to stay silent about this plot she knows is in the offing, for god only knows how many more seasons.
And it will require Halibrand to also make another master ring without any involvement in the other rings.
If the secret ingredients is Mithril, we should make another ring.
Just make a ring that says, like, 14 rings, and in the light bind them. Haha!
Just the new version. I also realised we didn't see the black elf, and we didn't see the dwarves this time around.
I guess they're just out. They're done.
I do think that the black elf storyline is complete though, because that sword arc is over.
His arc is gone. He has no reason to be on the show anymore.
They'll have to come up with one.
They won't. I think the story's moving on past that. I think he was just an introductory, like, to the whole fucking back lore as to why Mordor's foundation is.
Because there's an obsession with, we have to demystify everything and show you everything.
Well no, the problem now is, Halbrand's in Mordor, so now there's going to be a conflict with him and Adar, because Adar said specifically that he didn't want to serve Sauron.
And then there'll have to be a redemption arc for him, which will include black elf.
Well, we've got four more seasons to go to see.
You know what's exciting though? The next season's going to be great, and here's why. Because you know their budget's going to be lower, so there's going to be a serious quality drop in everything.
As the show goes on, it'll probably be comical, I had to hope, right?
Probably. Because already, the only thing that's really impressive about this show is the occasional visuals.
God, the problem too is the shooting. The shooting is so fucking bad.
Halbrand, when he is revealing that he is Sauron, you should be shooting him, you should have a slight shadow on his face.
Or he should look beatific, like he should look angelic almost, with a hint of darkness.
You should be shooting him from below and up, making him look sinister, and the actor too.
The actor does not deliver here, in the slightest. He looks weak, soft, fleshy, human, shitty.
I don't know if that's necessarily the actor's fault, or more so on the...
Because they waste the special effects. They should do more with it, with the elves. They should do more with it, with the Sauron reveal.
Because imagine if they used all that art and CG effort to really show dark tendrils wrapping around him, and then slowly wrapping around Gladiel, showing that his influence was, he was trying to corrupt her.
Again, you do this scene, you have the hammering of the ring in the background, you have the dark speak beginning to whisper, etc.
You could make this a fucking impactful scene, and already, already with the shit ingredients we have, already this is a fairly impactful scene.
Imagine if they'd done it well.
Imagine all the people.
But even if they did it well, it still undermines the entire story.
I just realized, the priestess character looks more otherworldly than anyone else in the show.
She does. It's because of the makeup they have her wear, and the fact that they shorten her hair and give her her contact lenses.
Yeah. The way she moves around and stuff, she actually looks like she's a creature from another world.
You know, I think the actress that played the main witch lady, she did a pretty good job, she was kind of creepy.
But the problem is, I feel bad for all these actors and actresses, even the good ones, is that, you know, what a waste.
What a waste of talent with a waste of skill.
Same for the CG artists and everyone else on board this project.
Like damn, all that fucking stuff wasted, because some fucking moron writers had to change a few things.
The Rings of Power audience is actually coping right now, because they are using that, like, at least it's not as bad as Tolkien's work.
And these are like, this is the Rings of Power audience, which goes to show that it's mostly made up of zoomers, because they're like, oh okay.
Lord of the Rings to them is Rings of Power. Like that's the Lord of the Rings.
I don't even think that's the case.
It's tragic, but it's true. A lot of people know, a lot of the newer generations, and I know them.
And my brothers, like, they're a decade younger than me. Do you ask them what Lord of the Rings is? Peter Jackson films? They'll be like, the what? The who?
Well hold on, hold on.
Wow, those are classics.
They still hold up to this day.
They do.
My girlfriend's a zoomer, and she's like, oh yeah, I watched the original LOPRs again.
Yeah, because you told them.
Oh no, she knew it before me.
Hmm, well you lucked out. You got a good dice roll.
Most people probably do know, but this is exactly what Amazon wants. Like, I keep making this point.
This will be the future. Amazon is trying to claim the Rings of Power, but Lord of the Rings. That's what they're trying to do.
They're trying to make this the Lord of the Rings.
And they would have succeeded if they'd put even the barest amount of effort into it.
Because people don't remember. Hell, if people don't remember the Peter Jackson movies, they don't remember the goddamn books. Like, Jesus Christ. None of these people have read the books.
Oh yeah, the books even more so. Like, you're lucky if they've seen the Lord of the Rings trilogy, or the Hobbit trilogy. You're even more lucky if they've read the books.
Amazon had an opportunity here to take over the Lord of the Rings, because they're already doing it. They're already redefining the Lord of the Rings.
They're already rewriting the story. They're already making shit out of whole cloth.
They have an opportunity here to just take it, and own it forever.
But they hired two fucking randoms off the goddamn street. I mean, they must give amazing blowjobs is the only explanation I can possibly posit.
You know what's interesting? They're doing exactly what Disney did to, like, the old Grimm's tales and stuff like that.
Where they're basically taking these ideas, because in the intellectual property sphere, if you take something that's in the, what do you call it, the free space, public domain, and you redefine it, and you make it your own, you can monetise it.
I mean, they do that with Conan all the time. The Conan video games that are coming out lately are a direct result of that, because Conan's in the public domain, if I'm 100% correct there, which I'm pretty sure it is.
Right now Winnie the Pooh is in the public domain now too.
Yep, so it means you can go and you can turn it into your own stuff, and then you can actually monetise it.
So technically, yes. What they're going to do is what Disney did. They're going to take those public domain ideas, and what they're going to try to do is warp it and twist it enough for the newer generations, by changing the lore and making it their own, that it will splinter as its own identity.
Yes. Now granted, there's a little bit of a difference here, because what Disney did was not take public domain. Disney took the things during a time when copyright basically didn't exist, and they changed it just enough to not make it the same thing, and they trademarked it specifically.
Like, Disney has no trademark over the original fairy tale, but they do have a trademark over their version of the fairy tale.
It was a clever distinction, which everybody even at the time saw was predatory, but there was no legal framework to stop them, and so, voila.
Whereas now, if you try to make a Snow White story, oh, you best believe there will be some mouse-haired lawyers under your door.
The problem with that is that the IP is actually enforced now, because it's been established under Disney.
Yes, it's enforced by a company.
Wait, so you can't make a story about Snow White, even though it's like...
You can technically do it in the fairy-use sense, but you can't monetize it or stuff like that.
What if you just don't use Disney design? The story of Snow White predates Disney.
There have been people that do that.
Like, the Alice games by American McGee, they didn't run afoul of Disney at all.
I'm not familiar with those.
You need to make it so substantially different that it is obviously different.
And even then, you are running a certain amount of risk. You are running a certain amount of gambit.
I just think American McGee might have run into some problem if he made Alice Blonde.
And the thing is, American McGee's Alice revamps the character, the setting, the story, everything.
It has virtually nothing to do with Alice anymore beyond the generalized aesthetics of Wonderland.
Yeah, that's true. They made it into Tim Burton's Wonderland, almost.
You need to be able to hold out the two products, and then you need to clearly be like, this is not the same as this.
Listen, though, listen. There's some quality hentai out there of American McGee's Alice getting with Disney's Alice.
My God, the merger's happening.
There was a point where this show seemed like it might have been good, but then they just dropped the ball so hard.
That just makes no sense to even somebody who isn't particularly familiar with the lore.
This show tries way too hard to explain everything of these big events that happened.
There's no real reason for us to really need to see it, but then the show just goes out of its way to be like,
Oh, look, look at the thing. Remember in the movies or the books?
Well, this is how the sausage is made, and you're left with the same sort of disgust.
I do like that it kept people guessing with the wizard thing. Maybe they did that thing a bit way too hard, though.
You liked that?
No, I liked a little bit how the wizard was behaving and stuff. I thought it was pretty funny, whether intentionally or unintentionally.
I also feel like they definitely introduced a bit too much and not spent enough time in places where they should have spent just to develop the more important aspects of the show.
Yeah, you know what I've realized about this? So I think we're all kind of in agreement that there's like a skeleton of a story that could have been good had they actually done it competently here.
I think what they're banking on is that like in 25 years after the show is done, and the zoomers are like middle aged, looking back with nostalgia goggles,
haven't seen the show since it first came out, they're going to think, oh, man, that was a good show.
You know, the seduction of Galadriel by Halbrand. Man, that was that that was really cool back in the day.
You know, oh, you had that neat scene where like the the wizard, he was he was bumbling around because he's like a newborn in an adult's body.
And like he he has to hang out with the very innocent Harfoot's like, oh, that was like there was some cool character interaction there.
And they're going to like be remembering a completely different show than the actual show that we just watched.
You're thinking it'll get the the Star Wars prequels kind of treatment.
But yeah, I don't think so. Because the thing is, if you rewatch the Star Wars prequels, they actually do have all of the setup required to deliver Palpatine is actually a pretty fucking conniving and shrewd political coup maker, you know.
All of the steps required to tell that story is there. They should have focused a lot more on it and they should have made a lot more out of it.
But here, the ingredients for Halbrand's seduction of Galadriel basically doesn't exist because he wasn't trying to seduce her up until the point where he was.
Like there was really no point previously where he was actively flirting with her or trying. Like suddenly it's like, be my queen.
What? This wasn't for if they had if they had had an actual romantic relationships previously.
OK, but they haven't. Like at what point previously have Halbrand and Galadriel interacted in that way?
Like the closest we get is them being sassy at one another occasionally.
There was that one scene, I think after the fight, and they were both sitting down on the logs.
And they kind of like had a weird look where she said, I felt it too. That was I think a couple episodes ago. That was it. It was one scene.
I don't even remember that fucking scene.
There were a couple scenes throughout the show that they tried to allude to the fact that they were kind of liking each other in a way, but they never really went far with it.
And they also never really did much with it other than they kept doing it. They planted the seeds for it, but they weren't like doing a really good job building it up.
Now, I do agree that that's what the showrunners think that they have done, because they've literally said so in interviews like 20 years. People totally love this. I don't think so.
I think in 20 years nobody will even remember that this was a thing. Or if they do, they'll just be like, remember when Amazon did something really stupid and it destroyed their studio? Yeah.
I remember.
There's a lot of epics that have come out, you know, in terms of TV shows and movies. Lord of the Rings, pretty epic.
Harry Potter, I think, qualifies as something that people will still rewatch 10, 20, 50 years down the road.
You know, there's a lot of these shows and a lot of these stories, you know, the original Game of Thrones in the last season, but you know, there's this stuff that will stand the test of time.
Stuff that you could dig up years and years and years later. People will still watch and be like, that was good. Maybe a little bit dated, you know.
I recently rewatched the original Lord of the Rings trilogy. It's slightly dated, but you know what? It's still really, really good.
This show, I think, will be forgotten about. No one watches it in 20 years. No one gives a fuck. No one's going back to their old DVD box sets or whatever. This show will just be gone.
If it will be remembered at all, it will be remembered as Amazon's epic failure.
Yes. It will be remembered for that $5 billion price tag, where they just burnt a giant pile of money like the Joker. What a waste of time this was. God damn it.
I don't know what you were expecting.
