This video is not meant to be a statement of absolute fact, nor does it exist to directly
accuse anybody of anything.
Rather, it's a presentation of the evidence that we've discovered and an open call for
others on both the inside and out to discuss the issues explored therein.
Furthermore, any audio accompanied by the Devon no-talent gaming artwork can be considered
to be entirely our own opinion or conjecture on a topic.
Thank you and enjoy!
Hey guys, Dev here.
I hope you all enjoyed the April Fools video, I'm sorry this one's a bit later than usual,
we actually had it finished by Saturday, but camera lady's computer shit out on her for
a few days.
I hope you've all seen our video on the IGDA, because this serves as an unofficial sequel
to it.
After our video dropped, we received the usual backlash.
People inside who are clearly anti-Gamergate, simply calling us misogynists and whatever
for daring to question the current power structure.
But camera lady got to talking with one notable individual on the inside who wasn't actually
interested in baselessly slinging mud, and his name was Derek Smart.
Now Derek's no stranger to gamergate.
Earlier this month some info surfaced regarding the IGDA's head, Kate Edwards.
She's trans, and was known as Tom Edwards before her transition.
I want to make this absolutely clear, this is not about Kate being trans.
I bring this up solely to show that she performed actions when she was known as Tom, that have
bearings on her current business as Kate.
Any comment or criticism directed towards Kate has nothing to do with her status as
a trans woman.
As Tom Edwards, she founded her own consulting firm, Englobe, which later had its name changed
to Geografie.
As Kate Edwards, she became the executive director of the IGDA.
Geografie, the consulting firm Kate Edwards owns, is contracted to do consulting for the
IGDA, the organization Kate Edwards currently heads up.
This seems like a very obvious conflict of interest, with the well-known gamergate lawyer
Mike Cernovich saying it sounds illegal.
And here's where Derek Smart comes in.
Derek wrote a reply to both our video and this new information regarding Kate Edwards
owning Geografie.
Let me go over a few important bits.
Derek says he listens to both sides of gamergate and tries to have reasonable discourse.
Based on his conversation with Camera Lady, I'd say that's the truth.
He's equally welcoming and critical to both gamergate supporters and anti-GGers and seems
to be willing to talk to just about anybody.
Derek says, in more words, that his experiences with the IGDA have shown him that they're
on the level.
Derek discusses the Geografie claims, stating that given the seriousness and nature of the
allegations and knowing that nobody was going to respond, I took it upon myself to get to
the bottom of it.
If Kate Edwards was one woman holding two positions, who got hired to those two positions
independently of her involvement in the other, and then afterwards suddenly the IGDA is doing
business with Geografie, that would be illegal.
But Derek says that Kate is not actually employed by the IGDA, but rather she is employed by
Geografie and is contracted out to the IGDA as its chairman.
I've personally seen this happen a lot in multiple industries, where a worker will be
employed by a firm that exists specifically to rent workers out to other companies.
A simple way to describe this is like so, Kate doesn't hold positions of power in
both Geografie and the IGDA, and she doesn't use that to funnel money from one to the other.
Kate holds a position of power in Geografie, and the IGDA pays Geografie for Kate to also
hold a position of power and manage the IGDA.
Her management is literally what the IGDA is paying Geografie for.
Now Derek doesn't offer any proof of his claims, but I honestly don't think he's
able to.
He's not going to have access to Kate Edwards contract, and even if he did I doubt he'd
legally be able to publish it.
Is it possible that Derek's lying, or was misinformed by the people he spoke to to get
his information?
Sure.
But the fact that he is one of the only people with any connections that has been consistently
open minded and reasonable makes me want to trust him, and I'm also not willing to completely
backstab and alienate a guy because I have a predetermined outcome regarding the IGDA
and his reply doesn't fit it.
We can't ask for insiders to come forward and then accuse them of lying or covering
things up when they give us answers we don't want to hear.
Not without proof.
If Derek's either lying or misinformed, then Kate Edwards is actually doing some pretty
corrupt shit.
Kate would be in a position to move money from the non-profit IGDA to her own personal
company.
And even if Kate's entirely on the level, the fact that her company was given the contract
over others that may be just as capable is corruption in itself.
However, if Derek's correct, and I think he is, then what he has to say lines up with
the anonymous indie dev from the last video that claimed Kate and the IGDA isn't corrupt,
but just a bit flip-floppy.
However, even with Derek telling the truth, I do think there's a bit of a problem with
Geogrify, even if it's only a minor one.
Geogrify does consulting for not only the IGDA, but also several games studios.
I'm not sure if it's appropriate for the same company to have its hands in the management
of both the studios and the organization that exists to stand up for the rights of those
studios' employees, but this seems to be minor and is nothing like any sort of money
funneling that we all initially thought.
As for the IGDA's connection to UBM's other properties like the IGF and GDC, Derek and
Camera actually agree that the connections looked bad, but having the potential for something
to go wrong is not the same as something actually going wrong, and Derek wants to default to
trust the people running things until they prove they can't be trusted.
At the same time, Derek admitted to knowing nothing about the IGF side of the equation,
as he doesn't deal with them.
Even if the IGDA is completely innocent, IGF has more than enough corrupt bullshit happening
inside to cover the entire UBM family anyway.
A little while back, Alistair Pinsauf gave an interview on TechRaptor regarding what
he knows about the IGF.
He says that a lot of what we had initially dug up was somewhat inaccurate, but there
was enough truth there that he had to take a hard look back at his own experiences and
felt a moral imperative to come forward and share what he had witnessed.
I think his assessment of our video is fair.
We're not industry insiders.
Our lady is just a near-mute autist who is good at digging up info, and I can only read
what she gives me.
We can only go off of what we managed to sleuth up from the underbelly of the internet.
However, the video achieved its goal.
It got the gears turning inside the brains of many people inside the industry.
Indies, journalists, and judges have all come out both publicly and privately to say, something
fucked up happened with me during the IGF and I didn't think much of it until I saw
your video, and that's what we hoped would happen.
The truth of it is, we can't do much.
We can boycott sites and encourage others to do the same.
We can refuse to pay for games or refuse to play them, but reforming the IGF is only going
to happen if the indie devs who enter the IGF come together and demand it.
And we want IGF reform just as much as you do.
Not just so that undeserving games stop getting awards and therefore stop getting press coverage,
but also for every single indie developer who pays to enter the IGF not knowing that
they have no chance at winning regardless of the quality of their game, just because
they're not friends with the right people.
For the indie devs who want to speak out, who have seen injustices but fear retaliation.
For people like the anonymous indie dev we mentioned in the last video that spoke to
Camera Lady, who provided us with a major lead regarding the IGF.
They said to look into winners who were judges before they were winners.
Camera Lady mentioned the only reason that she and her friends had been able to show
judges being connected to winners was due to the Polytron leaked financial documents,
and without that knowledge it would be harder to do.
But the indie devs said not to look at years where a judge won a game in the same year,
but to find winners who were judges in all other years.
In essence, there's a group of indie devs that double as judges in the IGF every single
year except the years in which they enter a game.
And when a member of that group steps out of the judge pool in a given year to enter
a game, the other members of the group push that game through.
And the next year, the judge who received a boost last time around returns to the judge
pool to help push another member through.
Now I'd like to define some terms from the IGF itself using a statement they wrote in
reply to our original video.
In it, the difference between judge and juror is spelled out.
The judges are anonymous, and as of the latest IGF, number at approximately 375.
They're given a random selection of games to judge, but are also able to vote on any
other game in the pool that they'd like.
And although they don't say this in the statement, it's been confirmed by several other sources,
some we even used in the previous video, that it only takes a total of 8 years for
a game to move to the next round.
Meanwhile, the jurors are not anonymous.
Their announcement happens annually with some fanfare, almost as if they're considered celebrities.
And each juror is assigned to a specific award with the task of deciding the finalists and
ultimately the winner of that award from the pool of games that the judges all recommend
from the previous round.
In another statement, this time announcing the resignation of Maddy Brice, the IGF confirms
that a single individual can be both a judge and juror in the same year, by describing
her as performing both of these duties before leaving the IGF.
There's an obvious problem right away, if a game is already well known, it doesn't take
much for 8 judges to peruse the list, find the famous game, and give it an upvote.
Moreover, it's also no problem for 8 judges to come together and push a game through the
system regardless of its quality.
This is one of the reasons why Maddy Brice's infamous tweet describing her personal voting
metric as downvoting all games with men in them was considered to be extremely corrupt.
In any case, this gave us an obvious way forward, find the IGF judge and juror lists, see who
consistently judges every year except the years in which they enter a game, and see
if they consistently win awards every time they step out to enter.
It's not conclusive proof, but it's certainly a start.
Despite the IGF judges being considered anonymous nowadays, it wasn't always so.
The IGF used to publish their judge lists alongside their jury lists, specifically at
the URL www.igf.com slash judges.html.
This is relevant because each year, the judge list for that year would be published at the
exact same HTML file, overwriting the previous year's judge list.
Using the magical powers of the internet wayback machine, it actually becomes relatively easy
to catalog each year's judge list, all right from the same address.
The judge lists archived from www.igf.com slash judges.html are from 2006 to 2009.
But from 2010 onward, there's nothing but dead pages.
Camberlady began cataloging all of the judges into a spreadsheet to see when recurring judges
stepped away for a year, with the intention to cross-reference their stepping back with
the awards winners and finalists for that year.
But those missing judge lists from 2010 onward put a damper on the whole endeavor, don't
they?
Well here's some info at www.igf.com slash 2011juries.html.
But this seems a bit different, doesn't it?
People are grouped by awards and given extensive bios.
Ah, right, that would be because this is the juror list, not the judge list.
Remember, after 2011, the judge list had become private, and the jury list is released every
year with fanfare.
But from the IGF statement on Mati Bryce, we do know that many anonymous judges are
also public jurors.
There's still something odd about this though.
If you go to the public judge list back on the Internet Wayback Machine, you'll see
that they're collectively called the competition jury rather than judges.
Man, it's almost like the IGF just keeps shuffling their terminology around in order
to confuse people.
Well, maybe this'll help.
In depth, demystifying the IGF judging process.
This was posted on IGF.com in January 2010 and was written by Jens Bergensten, otherwise
known as Jeb of Minecraft fam.
Now Jeb talks about being a judge in the current IGF, which was 2010 at the time, as well as
previous years, and that he's never gotten the luxury of a nomination at this point.
Well, the very next year, 2011, Jeb's game, Cobalt, gets nominated for Excellence in Audio
at the IGF.
And in 2012, Jeb tweets that he's been assigned to judge at the IGF again.
And again in 2013, Jeb tweets about his experience judging for the IGF, and how he finds the
good entries, sort by number of judge comments.
This does lend credence to Camera Lady's initial theory that well-known games, or developers,
aka those within the clique, entering the IGF have an inherent advantage over any kind
of new, truly indie dev, and that all it would take to force a game to the top of the pile
is a small number of judges coming together to give it a push.
I didn't even bring up Jeb with the intention of actually looking into him, but he fits
the bill of the rotating cabal of judges theory the anonymous dev put forward.
Jeb is a judge in the IGF in 2009, 2010, 2012, and 2013, only skipping out on 2011 because
he had entered Cobalt.
And would you look at that, Cobalt got to advertise that it was an IGF finalist.
Jesus Christ, let me actually get to where I was going.
In Jeb's writing, he describes the differences between IGF 2009 and IGF 2010.
Starting in 2010, there was a nouveau category that judges could nominate games to via a
yes or no, which does potentially contradict what was written in the Maggie Bryce piece
regarding there being no downvoting in the judging process.
There were 150 judges in 2010, and they were anonymous.
You could only see the name of another judge if they commented on a game.
But Jeb says something of note, I was only allowed to score the games in my list, but
I could try the other games if I liked so I could gain perspective on the quality of
those titles.
It was also possible for me to write comments on the games.
This goes completely against what multiple sources have said that any judge can vote
on any game.
Jeb also talks about the finalist judging back in 2010, saying, following all of the
first round judging, the IGF judges have about a month to play all the finalists and
simply vote for their winner in each category.
No mention of a public division between anonymous judges and publicized jurors.
These are two interesting inconsistencies, which I want to address a bit later in the
video.
Alex May offers a second opinion in Jeb's piece.
He outright admits to being a judge in 2010 and a finalist in 2009, thanks for saving
camera some time there bro, and just like with Jeb, easily found tweets and articles
confirming he was also a judge and juror in 2011, 2012, and 2013.
Alex May admits to having approximately two days per game assigned to him, but decided
to leave it all until the last minute, and that based on the activity of the private
judging website, most other judges did the same.
This lines up with the Rotten Cartridges blog post, where an entrant describes how most
judges assigned to their game didn't actually play it, and how only one judge played it
for more than five minutes, and how he only received a response from the IGF after he
threatened to go public with the information.
The third opinion is written by Michael Rose, and to give him credit, he seems to do the
right thing.
He decided that the only way he was going to judge this list of games fairly was if
he played them from top to bottom, not picking out the ones I had already come across or
was previously excited to play.
The piece ends off with a word from Simon Carlos, the IGF chairman back in January of
2010.
He says, since the independent games festival is becoming so important to many small game
developers' lives, we're committed to transparency because we know that indie game creators
want to understand what is happening to their game in the process of IGF judging.
Of course, the IGF is no stranger to criticism.
It's not just Cameron Lady's digs, or the Rotten Cartridges blog post, or Team Meat's
podcast where they describe their judging experience being a complete shit show, or
Alistair Pynsoff, or any of the others who were inspired to step forward and talk after
a video is dropped.
The criticism goes back a long way, and used to actually come from the people that now
devoutly describe themselves as Gamergate's opposition.
Rock Paper Shotgun's Brandon Caldwell published The Story Behind the IGF's Critics, and in
it he talks to a developer and vocal IGF critic, Anna Anthropy.
Yes, the same Anna Anthropy whose personal friends, Patricia Hernandez and Lea Alexander,
wrote about without disclosing their friendships.
The same Anna Anthropy who is vehemently anti-Gamergate, and is in fact one of the corrupt individuals
GG investigated, was once vocal in her criticisms of the IGF.
The article talks about a pirate cart.
A large number of indie games all entered into the IGF as one game because they were
all contained within the same larger game, like in Action 52.
The article states that some see this as a protest against the IGF's unfit rules and
high entry fees.
Anna herself says it was definitely a reaction to Fez winning the grand prize at the IGF
two separate years.
It raised a lot of awareness both of these games that would never have been so widely
played if the pirate cart hadn't existed, and also just for the fact that the IGF is
bullshit.
It goes on to say, the fact that Fez can have already won an IGF award and now is nominated
for two other awards, including the grand prize, I think it's a really good reminder
that the IGF is all about cliqueyness, the scene-sters that I yell about, the fact that
it's about the established quote unquote indie scene.
Here is not only what we've been saying, but what many indie devs have been saying since
Gamergate began, straight from the mouth of Gamergate's opposition years ago.
Phil Fish himself even decides to step up to the plate.
He says that, after asking Brandon Boye about it, and being told the game had changed enough
to allow re-entry, he did so.
Fish describes the current IGF thusly.
The IGF wants the biggest, best games to enter.
They don't want the best developers to sit it out and be like, oh, we're too good and
this is the kids' table.
They really hate that kind of conception that the IGF is a scholarship.
It kind of used to be.
It got us started.
It got the attention of publishers and it got us the Microsoft deal, but that's just
a bonus.
So, what can we take away from this?
That the IGF doesn't want to be indie anymore?
I mean, it's certainly not a place for AAA developers, but it's pretty obvious what's
being said here.
There is now a divide between developing a game out of your basement indie and owning
your own game studio indie, and it's very clear which of the two groups make up the
judges, jurors, IGF staff, IGF winners, IGF finalists, and ultimately who the IGF wants
at the top.
We have consistently said that indie is just not indie anymore.
It's become its own institution and bureaucracy.
And Phil Fish, being interviewed by a fucking rock-paper-shotgun of all outlets, is confirming
everything we've been saying.
I honestly recommend you read the entire article, because there's just way too much both Phil
Fish and Anna Anthropy say to cover here.
But they parrot everything we've been saying for the past eight months about the IGF, with
Phil even going so far as to say, yeah, all my coworkers and friends are judges, and Brandon
Boy is my friend too, but it's totally not what it seems.
It's fucking surreal.
And as a cherry on top, check out Ed McMillan from Team Meat, and his wife Danielle chatting
about the whole thing while playing Binding
And then there's David Rosen of Humble Bundle fame, who is very anti-gamergate, sparing
no opportunity to call us all misogynists, dig into Total Biscuit, shill for Arthur Chu,
the whole nine yards.
And here he is in 2009, bringing up many of these issues with the IGF, issues that have
only grown since then.
Let's do a quick recap.
Jeb reveals that, back in 2010, judges vote on games, and those same judges then again
vote on the finalists to decide a winner.
In a post titled, Letter from the Chairman, explaining IGF's changes for 2011, the new
system of anonymous judges and specialist jurors is revealed.
Jeb also notes that he can only vote on the games he was given, when we know for a fact
that judges nowadays can vote on any game they like.
From 2006 to 2009, the internet wayback machine has a record of the IGF posting full public
judge lists.
This stops with IGF 2010, and going forward only public jury lists are posted, with their
reveals being treated almost like reality TV show twists by Gamasutra, the news outlet
owned by the IGF's parent company, UBM.
People who were vehemently anti-gamergate, both developers and journalists, were once
completely willing to criticize and investigate the IGF's conduct.
But now?
Not just radio silence from almost everybody, but directed attacks towards journalists and
developers who speak out against the IGF.
It's like a giant switch was flipped at around mid 2010 inside the IGF.
New judging systems were set in place, oversight was slowly dismantled, lists of contributors
were hidden away, and the people who should have been speaking out louder than ever all
suddenly shut up.
What the fuck happened?
Well, I'll tell you what happened.
One of the last public acts of Simon Carlos, the former chairman of the IGF, was to write
the ending paragraph of Jeb's post talking about how committed the IGF was to transparency,
back in January of 2010.
In May of that same year, our good friend Brandon Boye replaced Carlos as the IGF chairman,
and he has remained in that position to this day.
In Brandon's first, message from the chairman post, he ends it by saying, in the coming
weeks and months, I'll be laying out some of the ways that will be modifying and improving
the way the festival operates.
And the very next post on the site is a description of the new system that allows any judge to
vote for any game, and keeps judge lists private.
What the fuck happened?
Brandon Boye became chair.
Now in Alistair Pynsoff's interview on TechRaptor, he too has a lot to say about Brandon.
Pynsoff says, here's a guy who runs multiple award shows, runs sites that promotes indies,
is friends with devs, PR, all media types, and here he is on the Game Journal Pro's group.
To Brandon's credit, it does make sense that he was there, as he was a journalist before
becoming IGF chair.
But he was chairman after 2010, and leaked emails from the mailing list show that he
didn't leave, nor did he remain silent within the list after becoming chairman.
Pynsoff seems to share our opinion on Brandon.
He says, I think Boye is a good guy at heart, but money and power have a way of changing
things.
I'd like to see him and the IGF investigated and better governed in years to come so people
outside Boye's inner circle of investors are given a fair shake.
I wholeheartedly agree with this.
There's not enough evidence to say that Brandon Boye was the undisputed direct cause of all
the corruption in the IGF, but in my opinion, there is enough evidence to show a pattern
of changing rules and behaviours that seem to benefit Boye and his friends disproportionately.
I don't buy that it's a simple coincidence that after Boye arrives in the scene, rules
are changed that allow his friends' games to win finalist nominations and awards, all
the while the IGF's loudest critics suddenly go silent as one of their own, a fellow journalist,
ascends the throne.
Brandon Boye's ethically shaky actions seem to extend beyond the IGF as well.
In Alistair Pynsoff's interview, he mentions talking to Tiff Chow in 2011, who bragged
that her boyfriend, Steph Therrien, would win Fantastic Arcade's Best Game Award, another
award show that Brandon Boye runs, due to Steph and Brandon's friendship.
And sure enough, Steph's game won.
However, on a follow-up article on Kotaku, Tiff denies ever saying that, and Kotaku considered
the matter closed.
Well, that's some quality reporting work there, Totelo.
When you were earning your masters in journalism, which professor taught you that a he-said-she-said
scenario was proof enough for you to drop a subject?
Well don't worry about it, Steven, camera lady did the work for you.
Around the same time as Brandon was running the Fantastic Arcade's award show that Steph
would later win, he also wrote a number of articles on the website Offworld, promoting
Steph's games.
Gamergate will know Offworld as the website Lea Alexander relocated her megaphone to after
she gracefully resigned from Gamasutra, of entirely her own accord, I'm sure.
A large number of social media posts show Brandon and Steph are friends as well, the
posts going far beyond normal industry chatter and discussing dinners, concerts, casual hanging
out, collaborating on projects, and explicit declarations of friendship.
And all of this stuff doesn't only apply to Brandon and Steph's friendship, either.
Just looking at Brandon's Offworld articles uncovers a massive amount of conflicts of
interest.
Here's one of his articles, 20 Games You Shouldn't Miss in 2014.
Of those 20, five games were made by individuals that can be proven to be Brandon's personal
friends.
Fjords by Kyle Reimergarten, HoHoCum by Honey Slug, which his friend Ricky Haggit works
for, How Do You Do It? by Nina Freeman, Pale Machine by Ben Esposito, and Sports Friends
by Dai Goot Fabric, which his friend Douglas Wilson works for.
Recommending their games isn't necessarily a conflict of interest, however recommending
their games and not disclosing friendships with the developers is.
And this really is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to Brandon Boye.
Camera Lady cut her investigation of Brandon's time at Offworld short, mainly because this
video is already coming out late and she wanted me to record this as soon as possible.
But it seems like everything he sticks his fingers into becomes corrupt.
The IGF, Fantastic Arcade, his lack of disclosure in his writing, hell even in Indiecade Brandon
gives Steph an award.
We already know how much of a shitshow Indiecade is, add Brandon Boye to it and you might as
well burn the whole thing down, it's over.
Before I move on from Brandon I want to point out something that some people have noticed,
namely his funding campaign to fight his cancer, and how many people in the industry donated
to it.
We decided not to investigate this as a potential source of corruption for two reasons.
One, because if it were so, Brandon would have to use the money he received on something
other than cancer, and that is pretty much unprovable without either Brandon or a hospital
staff for leaking confidential records.
And two, because we're not heartless monsters.
Our investigations into Brandon Boye are regarding his professional conduct and seeing how some
personal relationships may negatively influence it.
We have nothing personally against him, and regardless of what he may or may not have
done, we hope he gets well.
Of course, while it seems like Brandon Boye is a massive red flag for the IGF and wider
industry all in his own, the IGF's issues don't stop with him.
Remember IndieFund?
We discussed their involvement in our bigger fish to fry video, but I'll give you a quick
rundown right now.
IndieFund is a group of people who band together to invest in indie game ideas that they think
show merit.
It sounds like a noble goal, until those same investors find themselves in positions of
power at various award shows and are therefore able to ensure a bigger kickback of profits
garnered from the increased sales that an award provides.
But it goes beyond Fez.
IndieFund Games seem to get a disproportionate number of IGF and IndieCade wins and nominations.
I'm sure the program's founders would claim that that's how it should be, that IndieFund
funds the best games, and that the award shows awards the best games.
So at the end of the day, it's simply quality bubbling to the surface.
But I don't think this is how it is.
When you look over the list of IndieFund-backed games, you begin to see some familiar indie
cabal names.
Here's Robin Arnott's game, no surprise he got funded.
Here's Framed, one of Zoe Quinn's games.
Oh, and here's a game by good ol' Steph Therrien, Brandon Boye's pal from earlier.
To an outsider like me, and I must assume to many smaller devs who are trying to get
started in the industry, IndieFund looks like a group of friends funding the games of other
friends while more friends give them awards, while the little people, the people who code
out of their living room, the people outside of the clique, the people who pay for a fair
shake at these contests and never get it, get the shaft.
And speaking of Framed, it won in the IGF twice.
Well holy shit, how'd that go down?
I mean, I thought after the gigantic shitstorm a few years ago, when Fez won in 2008 and
then entered into the IGF again in 2012, the rules were changed to prevent that.
Well no, Brandon Boye decided to make 2012 a transitional year, so the rules would be
fully changed in 2013, and Fez would be allowed to win a second time in 2012, but okay okay,
after that, no games winning twice.
Well shit Zoe, how'd you pull it off?
Oh I see, Framed won in IGF China, and then later in the main IGF.
Well that's a damn fine way to skirt the rules, and amongst IndieFund games, it's not just
Framed and Fez that were nominated as finalists or won in the IGF twice.
There was Antichamber, which was nominated in 2012, which also garnered a nomination
in 2011 under the name Hazard.
Is that all you have to do to get around the rules, just change your game's name?
To shift gears a bit, everyone remember Tim Schafer making an ass of himself at this year's
awards ceremony?
Did you know Tim Schafer, who is the physical spitting image of what all these antis say
the average gamer gator is?
It did feel pretty good that he mentioned us in a roundabout way, with this jab at our
video revealing the IGF's corruption.
He seems to think we're an indie dev in that joke though, but no, we're outsiders to the
industry.
And as outsiders to the industry, it seems to us like IndieFund exists to fund the projects
of Cabal members.
Matthew Wagner's the guy that comes up a few times in this video series.
Recall, he funded Fez, and later became one of the principal people behind IndieFund.
He also heads up his own studio, Flashbang Studios.
He's also a co-chair and regular judge and juror in the IGF.
As far as I know, Wagner doesn't work for Double Fine, Tim Schafer's studio, but for
some reason he does have access to Double Fine's Kickstarter financial data, which he
proudly showed off in February of 2012.
So at the very least, there's some type of undisclosed partnership or financial relationship
between Wagner and Double Fine.
Now, Tim Schafer's white guy accusing black guys of being white guys on the internet sock
puppet routine isn't the only dumb thing he's done.
Everybody and their grandma knows about Schafer taking Kickstarter funds and failing to deliver,
but as it turns out, quite a few Double Fine employees are also judges across multiple
years.
Considering that Matthew Wagner coded the IGF's judging software as an IGF judge and
juror repeatedly over the course of the festival's history, has a financial interest in seeing
all IndieFund games get as many awards and nominations as possible, and has some undisclosed
business and or financial link to Double Fine, is it no surprise to anybody that Double
Fine employees start showing up repeatedly on the juror lists, or that Tim Schafer waddled
on stage at the awards ceremony to make fun of people who dare question the actions of
him and his pals?
Let's keep going, what the fuck, I mean we're already this far in right?
Here's an indie game called Hundreds that proudly displays its three honorable mentions
in 2013's IGF, most notably Excellence in Visual Art, as well as its official selection
in IndieCade 2012.
Two of Hundreds devs are Adam Saltzman, AdamAtomic on Twitter, and Greg Wohlhand, A-E-I-O-W-U
on Twitter.
One of the IGF jurors in 2013, in the Excellence in Visual Art category, is Richard Hogg.
And wouldn't you know it, both Hogg and Wohlhand work for Saltzman's company, Finji, where
Saltzman mentions that one of the projects he's worked on is Fez, as well as Hogg having
worked on HoHoCome, a game that was nominated in the IGF while another of its devs was friends
with Brandon Boye.
And just to round this all into a neat little package, remember Maddy Brice?
Woman who outright said, downvoting all games with men in them as an IGF judge, and then
was shocked, SHOCKED, that she received enough backlash to it that the IGF removed her from
her position as judge?
And I do mean removed, rather than resigned in protest, despite what the IGF's apology
piece said at the end about her being welcome to return if she'd like.
Well, that apology piece was written by a person our anonymous indie dev says is named
Scavio.
Scavio refers to Megan Scavio, the GM of GDC, and our anonymous friend has quite a bit to
say about her.
Scavio did write the apology piece, which twisted around so absurdly that she said the
IGF's actions did nothing for Gamergate, when in reality, the IGF did the only thing
Gamergate wanted, which was to enforce objectivity.
The anonymous dev also says Scavio is a personal friend of Lea Alexander's, and she's been
attempting to exert further reach than the GDC's show manager allows, and that Scavio
was responsible for Tim Schafer's sock puppet joke.
Scavio has been trying to push into the volunteer program, and she's also known to give preference
to her friends for talks including those who are literally rehashing presentations from
other people applying, and that her qualifications are nebulous at best.
When asked to clarify, the anonymous dev said that Scavio would regularly threaten GDC's
conference associates with expulsion if they didn't tow the party line.
They also clarified that despite Scavio browbeating the conference associates, or CAs, the GDC
is run by them behind the scenes.
Well, what are conference associates?
Maybe the GDC's website can help.
So, your crowdfunding missed its target, you're a student with limited funds, your company
can't send you, or you just want to lend a hand.
Whatever the reason, you may still be able to attend this premiere event by becoming
a conference associate.
Are you willing to earn your attendance?
Oh, so that's what conference associates are.
Indie devs who are outside the clique.
This page reads like the propaganda pamphlet to a pyramid scheme.
The GDC relies on the labor of those outside of the indie cabal in order to function, and
hears Scavio coming down hard on them, telling them that they'd better not step out of line
if they want to have a future in game development.
What a surprise.
It sounds to me like Megan Scavio got hired on at the GDC not due to any sort of qualification,
but because of who she knew.
That she's been rejecting potential speakers at GDC only to turn around and give their
work to her friends to make panels out of instead, and that she's been trying to push
herself into managerial areas that her job title doesn't cover, presumably out of some
kind of authoritarian power trip.
I am under no illusion that what I'm about to suggest will solve all the IGF's problems
overnight.
But, before the next IGF opens its doors, Brandon Boye needs to step down from the position
of chairman.
The IGF rules need to be examined and changed appropriately.
The judging software of the IGF needs to be audited by a third party.
And given that the IGF operates out of California, the IGF needs to be compliant with state law
regarding contests and regulations for entrant fairness, which states that, misrepresenting
in any manner the odds of winning any prize is prohibited.
And if after an extensive review of the IGF by an outside party reveals this law to have
been broken, legal action must be taken against the parties involved.
And if you're an indie dev listening to this, yes, I'll repeat my now tired refrain of
please come forward and tell us what you've seen.
But also, if you're an indie dev not in the cool kids club, the indie gaming inner circle,
and you're considering entering your game into the next IGF, don't.
Do you know what your hundred dollar entry fee is doing?
It's keeping the Cabal up and running.
You're paying for their rent, and you're not even getting the one thing you bought
in return.
A fair shake at the prize.
And if you're hoping to get funding from Indie Fund, again, don't.
It seems like they won't take your game no matter how good it is because you're
not in the clique.
I don't know how else to say this, guys.
These people aren't looking out for your interests, they don't give a shit about
your games.
To them, you're nothing but a source of revenue.
Your entry fees keep them going, and they're banking on your hope and optimism pushing
you to come back against your better judgement.
Don't let them do it to you.
To end this off, Robert Yang was a first time IGF judge in 2014, and he wrote a blog post
about his experiences.
He talks about the IGF's strengths and weaknesses.
He encourages people to speak out against the IGF if they think they're doing a bad
job.
But most importantly, he talks about the IGF's alternatives.
He says,
The IGF used to be one of the most important things ever, the Academy Awards or Sundance
of games.
But it was always a strange idea that indie developers would fight to decentralize power
and then put all this prestige into this central institution.
Well, I'm pretty sure I know why.
Phil Fish said so himself back in the Rock Paper Shotgun article on the topic.
Back when the first waves of indies were new, they saw the injustices of the industry,
and they wanted a level playing field.
And once they got their level playing field, they promptly built a new industry right on
top of it.
A new bureaucratic structure to benefit them, while the generation of indies after them
is now stuck with looking at two giant corrupt systems instead of only one.
We saw it happen with Occupy, we saw it happen with Project Chanology, hell, we even saw
it happen with the fucking 18th century French intellectual movement.
Social misfits acting in the name of equality will unite under their shared experience of
misfithood, and then emulate the power structures of those that declared them misfits in the
first place, solely to wield authority over the next generation of misfits that comes
along.
Yang goes on to say that one of the IGF's benefits, a steam deal, is becoming less exclusive
over time, and that the attention the IGF garners is beginning to be usurped by the
sheer audience and reach of the popular YouTubers.
And I have to agree with him.
If you're a small indie dev, and you're looking over the content of this video, and
you're just completely dismayed at the giant brick wall you see in front of you, don't
lose hope.
Don't pay a hundred bucks to enter your game into a rigged award show you'll never
win.
Send a review copy of your game off to Total Biscuit, or Angry Joe, or whoever else instead.
Don't support the old corrupt structures when your own customers are providing you
with viable alternatives.
Alistair Pintsov even said in his interview that journalists first rejected YouTubers
who reached out to them, then began to attack them as their popularity grew, and now are
desperately trying to emulate them as their old media methods crumble.
You don't need them.
A vocal anti-gamergate individual, Jen Frank of all people, wrote a reply on Unwinnable
to the allegations of IGF corruption, basically saying, I was an awesome IGF judge, and everything
was awesome, and the only reason I didn't play a game was because it was broken and
wouldn't install.
Hello.
Goodbye.
Camera Lady, along with a different anonymous indie dev than the one we've consistently
mentioned in this video, looked into the game Jen Klein was broken, and wouldn't install.
It became clear to both of them that she didn't actually play the game because the game was
on iOS.
A plug and play platform that requires no install process.
Anonymous Dev 2 also says, right after this incident, the IGF dropped TestFlight, an application
that monitored how long the judges actually played the games.
I guess they didn't want to see how little the IGF judges actually gave a shit.
But this wasn't why I brought up Jen Frank or her laughable article.
I bring it up because of what she says here.
If you think IGF judging doesn't work, find me a better system and I will lay off.
I'll just go.
In fact, I'll never write about video games again.
And a bit later, if you honestly feel that your flame is trapped in a vacuum, move on.
Just go.
There are other communities that will accept you.
Create your own system.
Make your own clubhouse.
I dare you.
The absolute arrogance here is astounding.
She sounds like an abusive lover.
Hey indies, I dare you to leave us.
I dare you.
You need us.
You'll never go.
Well, indie devs, it's time for you to call that bluff.
The IGF doesn't care about you.
It cares about Brandon Boyer's friends, and Tim Schafer's friends, and Matthew Wagner's
friends, and Phil Fish's friends.
It doesn't care about indies.
It cares about people who were indies 10 years ago and have now become part of the establishment
while not wanting to take off the indie hat.
You are nothing to them.
They're daring you to leave, thinking they'll never do it.
Those losers need us.
We have the power.
But there is a new clubhouse.
We're offering it to you, right here and now.
Turn away from these sycophants and never look back.
And hey, Jen Frank, when the indie devs get fed up with your inflammatory bullshit and
leave you and your clique of corrupt friends high and dry, I expect you to hold up your
end of the bargain and never write about video games again.
We'll all be better off for it.
That's all for today, guys.
It wasn't just camera lady sleuthing in my reading that brought this video together.
A lot of us worked on it.
Special thanks to Derek Smart for willing to discuss issues rather than simply mudslinging.
As well as to our two anonymous indie devs, who asked to remain anonymous because they
legitimately fear for their jobs and careers by speaking out against the IGF and all these
individuals.
Special thanks to William Usher, who helped providing us with some contacts, and Thryden,
Stealth Suit, Krios, and somebody only by the name of Temporary Account 2 for providing
some of the information and leads.
And a very special thanks to three people who actually gave us money to keep this show
going.
Pasquale Festa, Hente Logic, and the late and great King of Pole.
At this point, I'm going to spend a few minutes talking about something else.
It's only slightly related to Gamergate, so if you want to check out now, that's completely
fine.
Feel free to do so.
There's no hard feelings from myself or camera at all.
I'm sure this video's gone on long enough as it is.
Camera Lady recently had a conversation over on the Let's Play subreddit.
As I'm sure you know, we also post Let's Plays, anime reviews, and other stuff on this channel,
along with these indefensible videos.
Somebody with 20,000 subscribers and 3 million views started a thread about how to grow your
channel, so camera asked some questions about it looking how to grow our short pet otaku
channel here, and was promptly tore into for supporting Gamergate, accusing us of simply
using Gamergate and not contributing to it, shilling on the hashtag, being misogynist,
and so on.
We always wanted to do a video, or at least talk at the end of a Gamergate video, introducing
us and our other content to our new Gamergate subscribers.
But this conversation made us think long and hard about what we should be saying.
We don't want to appear as shills, we don't want to appear like we're just using Gamergate
for attention.
If we were, I don't think we'd be doing this much investigative work in these videos that
we make.
But at the same time, we do want to promote ourselves, to promote our other types of videos,
and generally just to grow as a channel.
It's no secret that we take money and gifts from people willing to give them to us.
I want to take a minute here and outline exactly what we do with what we get, and why it's
relevant to our Gamergate video series, not just our other stuff.
To start off, yes we have a Patreon.
It's at, predictably, patreon.com slash short pet otaku.
For anybody interested in giving not on a monthly basis, but only once, we also have
a paypal account under the email shortpetotaku at hotmail.com.
And we have publicly posted our address for physical gifts, but I don't think I'm going
to provide that in a Gamergate video.
Now in the interest of transparency, I'm going to provide you with a list of rules we've
set for ourselves regarding the money that we get from you, mainly because we're from
the old guard of the internet that always saw money making on the internet as sketchy,
and social media not being anonymous as a massive mistake.
Rule one, we don't want anybody to feel pressured to give us anything, ever.
If you want to give us anything, or can't afford to give us anything, it will never
ever be held against you.
If you want to run ad blockers in our videos, same deal.
I don't ever want anybody to feel excluded from our channel, our content, or any kind
of community going around us because they can't or won't give money.
Everybody is welcome here.
Rule two, we have patreon set to monthly because we're actually a daily upload channel, and
setting it to per video is a bit ridiculous.
This isn't like so many journalists or developers or mid-tier e-celebs out there who simply
set it to monthly, do next to nothing, and rake in the dough.
We are always posting something.
Rule three, 100% of any money you give us, on patreon, or paypal, or through ad revenue,
will be used on our channel.
Period.
No exceptions.
We don't intend to live off of your generosity.
We have a wish list of sound equipment, lighting equipment, camera equipment, and games and
anime we like to do videos on.
You will not see us rake in 13k a month and then brag about getting a new motorcycle on
twitter.
Like some people.
As a sub rule, whenever we're given a physical gift, like a game or anime, we'll guarantee
you'll get videos on it.
The Bible Black DVD set was given to us as a gift from a fan, and we made six riff videos
out of it so far.
If you are generous enough to give to us, we feel it is our responsibility to give back
to you in kind.
Rule four, we will post the receipts of any purchase made with your money on the short
Fedotaku twitter account.
As an example, we spent $90 on an SNES flashcard using YouTube ad revenue, and Dave put up
a picture of the receipt on twitter.
We intend to use the cart to revive a series called Game Roulette, the first two seasons
of which can be found on our channel.
Over the years we have also purchased an AT2020 microphone, an Elgato, a Dazzle, and several
older consoles using BlipTV ad revenue.
You will always know what we're doing with your money and which purchases contribute
to which of our projects.
Rule five, yes, this stuff will also help Indefensible as a series grow, not just our
let's plays and reviews.
Hamerlady estimates $300 to update our audio equipment, which we intend to use to improve
our gamergate video's audio quality as well as our other projects.
The editing PC and potentially even the new camera will also expand what we can do for
Indefensible.
It's true that your money will be going towards our other projects, but it will simultaneously
also be going towards new gamergate videos.
If you're interested in giving, but you're on the fence because you only watch us for
gamergate, don't worry, your money will go towards gamergate.
Rule six, this bears saying a second time, nobody has to give.
The truth of it is, if we got exactly zero dollars from anybody, we would still upload
daily.
The let's plays would still come.
The anime reviews would still be coming.
We'd still try to put out Indefensible once a week, though I don't know how successful
we'd be.
If you're somebody who just does not give a shit about our channel outside of gamergate
and does not care to give us anything to improve our gamergate videos, that's still fine with
us.
You'll always be welcome here.
We never want to become that asshole who shits on his viewerbase for not doing enough
or whatever.
We leave the option to give it to us open to you if you like our content and feel inclined
to do so, and we will never look down on somebody who doesn't.
The way I see it is the internet has a lot of huge gaping money pits.
Some of them are good causes, a lot of them aren't.
If you decide to throw some into ours, I can promise you that we'll be grateful and that
we'll put your money to good use investing in our channel, and if that doesn't appeal
to you, that's okay too.
Please stay and enjoy whatever videos you want.
Well, that's my pitch.
I don't know how strong it is, but there it is.
If you're interested, the paypal email is shortpilotaka.com and the Patreon is under
shortpilotaka.
And if you're not, thanks for listening this far anyway.
We hope to get up another indefensible video in about a week and a half's time, camera
lady sleuthing dug up several more topics of interest that weren't related to the IGF,
so it's going to be a whole lot of fun in the coming weeks.
And if you want to see me and Dave sooner, come check out our other stuff.
We upload daily.
