Holy fuck guys, can you hear that?
I don't know if you can see just how much rain there is, look at that.
Can you hear me?
The floor is rumbling.
I'm hanging out the second floor window of the SFO mansion.
Garden looks good at least.
All that bramble back there is cucumbers, but uh, that's tomatoes, kale, but...
This is uh, I'm recording this on the day of Vampire the Masquerade episode 4 on Arch's
channel.
While he was reading super chats, power went out, there was a fire down the street from
a lightning strike.
The neighbor's tree came down on the other side of the house, didn't break anything just
rolled off.
But uh, yeah man, this is easily the craziest storm we've had all year.
I'm focusing on the black compost bin in the back there because you can kind of see the
rain in front of it, at least from here.
Oh, see that flash?
There's the back neighbor's yard.
It's a small yard but a big house.
Jesus!
Holy fuck!
Yeah I guess for those of you who are curious, who may remember this old bit of ancient SFO
lore, this is the window that we threw the pumpkin out of during like a game play through
like five years ago of, what was it, was it Costume Quest?
It's like a Halloween game.
We threw the pumpkin out of this window.
Jeez.
Fucking hell man.
I guess I'm just gonna wait.
Wait it out.
I wanted to stream on Game Boomers tonight.
Oh shit, see that flash?
I wanted to stream on Game Boomers tonight.
I don't know if I'll have the time, or not the time, the power, power's out.
I don't know though.
There's something oddly comforting about it, eh?
Like listening to the rain or listening to the wind, listening to thunder.
Whenever it rains like this overnight and it's just pitch black out, I'll actually sleep
with my windows open.
I don't mind if water gets in, I just like listening to it.
It's a nice sound.
Yeah my power went out first, then the tree came down, and then it came back on.
I was able to get back into the call for Vampire for like a minute or two, and then Sargon
immediately asks, oh shit what happened to you dude?
And then like the power instantly goes out again.
So here I am.
There's a flash.
Easy man.
Let's pick him back up again.
I can tell by the direction of the drops and how I'm not getting hit even though I'm hanging
out the window that the wind seems to be blowing like directly east, going west to east.
Since this window here is on the east side of the house.
Oh getting wet, getting wet a little bit, I guess the wind's changing.
There's a siren in the back, I don't know if you can hear that.
I can smell burning too.
I'm going to assume it's from the tree that caught fire down the road.
Normally I post videos like this on the dev kit, my side channel for non-politics stuff,
and I'll throw it up on SFO, why not, oh there's a blink.
I haven't posted, oh, damn dude.
I haven't posted to SFO in a while, I really should.
I have a bunch of videos, but I had to redo some serious electrical in my place here.
Thankfully I did it before the storm, but I had to redo that, that took precedence.
I was on a trip for a while, I was sick for a while.
Basically the past two weeks have not been an easy time for getting work done.
But frankly I also have to get some, I have to get my office computer formatted.
It's been like two years and change, it's definitely time, assuming it survives the
power outage.
Well I don't know if you can tell, maybe I can shine it up that way, I don't know if
you can tell this, but there's a bit of blue sky coming in, just very slightly, might be
reaching the end of the storm.
Rain's slowing down again.
Lots of thunder, but I think we're getting close to the end of this thing.
I remember seeing on the weather network this was going to be like a flash in the pan kind
of storm, like three hours and it's all done.
Pretty loud and then it's gone.
In fact maybe I'll send this in to the weather network, I know that they take submissions.
I kind of feel sorry I didn't come out here sooner, but you know, playing vampire.
I probably wouldn't have come out here if the power hadn't gone out.
With every one of those deep rumbles the floor shakes, like the house is slightly shaking.
My phone just said I connected to the wifi so I assume the power's back.
I'm going to go check that out.
You'll probably see a stream from me tonight at twitch.tv slash game boomers assuming that
I have no problems with the power.
If I do you'll see it in an hour and change, maybe two hours.
And if I don't have power, well I have a camera with a battery pack that still has
quite a bit of juice in it so I'm going to shoot something else.
I've actually been recording some hardware, oh gee that's deep, I've actually been recording
some hardware unboxings that I'm going to put up on the dev kit so maybe you guys can
enjoy those soon.
And yeah you'll see a new SFO video from me soon.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry I was basically out of the game for like two weeks.
There's a lot of sirens in the city, I don't think you can hear them, they're probably
too far away for the camera, but there's a lot of sirens in the city.
Can you hear that one?
I've got to assume with downed lines, you know downed trees, there's a downed tree around
the corner, fires that are starting from the lightning, there's a fire in another corner.
You can still hear like all the drops dripping but the rain's actually mostly done, this
is, oh Jesus, I can't, I didn't have it pointed, it was right there, a giant bolt right there
behind that tree.
I caught the sound though, wow.
I'm sorry I didn't have it pointed out that way man, but I saw it, it nearly blinded me,
so I was looking almost directly at it.
There we go.
That's a lot of seconds.
Where's the thunder for that second one?
There it is.
That's pretty far away.
What was that, ten seconds, so that's ten miles, is that how it goes, one mile a second?
Crazy.
Anyway, yeah, if the weather cooperates, you'll see me on Twitch tonight, and you know what,
the rain's pretty much stopped, all the drips you're hearing is water coming off the trees
and off the roofs, just from wind, like look at this big tree, the wind's pretty strong,
it's moving it around a fair bit, but I think the rain's pretty much done.
I don't know if you can see this, look at the deck, the water's not really rippling
on it as if raindrops are hitting it, so I think the storm's done, it's just thundering
off in the distance now.
Yeah, the sun's coming out a little bit too, I don't know if you can tell though, but okay,
that's it.
Wish me luck guys, hope you'll see, oh, oh Christ, I keep wanting to end the video, and
that always happens.
Yeah, I keep wanting to end the video, and then I get something like that, so I just
keep staying on.
There's a lot of alarms in the distance.
Okay, let's see if Mother Nature will cooperate, if, I guess not, because there it was, this
is just how it's going to be, isn't it?
Okay.
If the weather cooperates, and I think it will, I'll be up on Twitch in an hour or two.
Twitch.tv slash Game Boomers.
If not, I'll find something productive to do with my time.
Man, listen to that siren.
The cars on the road over there, they're getting backed up, I wonder if this is going to be
an accident.
Yeah man, I'll just tack this on at the end.
Rain's stopped, thunder's still going off, but this is the other side of the house, and
you can see the sunny sky.
It's kind of crazy.
Look at all that water, just flowing down the street.
That's nuts, man.
I didn't mean that to be a squirrel pun, but I guess it is.
Anyway, yeah, I think I'll be fine.
Swing by in about an hour and a half, maybe two hours, Twitch.tv slash Game Boomers.
I don't know what I'm playing tonight, but I'm playing some kind of video game, and I'll
chat with you guys and hang out.
Alright, I'll see you there.
I love you.
