This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch the companion video to this, plus tons of
other exclusive videos, by signing up for the CuriosityStream Nebula bundle deal,
currently on sale for an unbelievable dollar a month at CuriosityStream.com slash Wendover.
Airlines are pragmatic. Each, inherently, is a sizable organization, as a degree of scale is
necessary due to the massive capital costs needed to, quite literally, get a plane off the ground.
There are no mom and pop airlines. Therefore, airlines have the resources to analyze choices
to a far greater level of detail than most businesses. Any decision that we, the public,
see has passed through such a level of review, such a level of scrutiny, that it must mean
something. Airlines typically don't make emotional, informal, or off-the-cuff decisions.
Therefore, it's odd how much airlines care about climate change because, from a theoretical
perspective, they shouldn't. It doesn't currently make sense for airlines to care about climate
change. Of course, from a moral perspective it does, but businesses, traditionally and theoretically,
don't value morality higher than profit. That's the role of non-profits—the organizational
structure designed to value social impact first and foremost. For-profit businesses,
in the traditional sense, are designed for profit. Therefore, properly managed, they do what
generates the most profit, and for airlines, right now, what enables that is to not care about
climate change. Carbon doesn't have a cost for airlines. With a few exceptions, emitting more
carbon does not cost the airlines anything, but it enables them to make more profit,
so the theoretically correct thing for airlines to do is to emit the amount of carbon that enables
them to generate the most profit regardless of environmental consequences. Some say airlines
care about climate change for public relations, and they're right, but only to an extent.
Airlines clearly posture as caring about their carbon footprint because consumers
increasingly care about their carbon footprint, so being viewed as a greener airline translates
to being a more desirable choice for consumers, who, unlike for-profit businesses, do care about
what's morally right to an extent. However, net carbon zero is expensive, biofuel development is
expensive, sustainable aircraft development is expensive—all more expensive than would make
sense if airlines and aircraft developers exclusively cared about PR. So, the reason
why airlines are starting to care about climate change is because they're terrified of the R-word.
Regulation. It started already. In France, the National Assembly has passed a bill that would
ban short-haul flights on routes that could be traveled in two and a half hours or less by train.
Here's the worst thing for airlines. Measures like this make absolute perfect sense. With airports
located away from city centers, security lines, less reliable departure times, and more, no journey
that would take two and a half hours by train could reasonably and reliably be accomplished
faster by plane. The bill would still allow the shorter flights to operate for the purposes of
connections to longer-haul flights, but passengers just couldn't book the short flights by themselves.
So, there's no real downside, but there's the massive upside of shifting travelers onto trains,
which in the case of France emit 77 times less carbon per passenger on journeys of this length.
While this bill faces an uphill battle as it needs to pass through the more conservative French
Senate before enactment, it's no wonder why similar measures have been seriously considered
or implemented in the Belgian region of Wallonia, Austria, the Netherlands, and by countless
employers globally. The problem for airlines is that they just don't have any good arguments
against regulations like these. A move away from the shortest-haul, most replaceable flights will
be the start, but it won't end there. As one of the more carbon-intensive industries, airlines
will face increasing regulatory barriers to their operations—unless, of course, flying becomes less
carbon-intensive. Flying must happen, in many cases. Governments will not ban flying full stop.
Governments will not heavily restrict flying, but governments will make it so that the externality—the
carbon footprint—is priced in to the cost of flying. That is, governments will create
structures in which greener flying is cheaper flying with, for example, hefty carbon taxes.
So, why airlines care about climate change is because airlines are pragmatic, and it's quickly
and increasingly becoming the case that competitiveness as companies is linked to how
green they are. Biofuels, engine efficiency improvements, carbon offsetting—these things
all help, but they're incremental changes that can only take flying from being incredibly
carbon-intense to very carbon-intense. However, there is one solution that can actually,
realistically turn flying into a somewhat sustainable method of transport—electric
aircraft. Now, here's the thing. Electric aircraft are no massive innovation. They
existed in 1973 when the MBE-1 became the first to fly with a human crew, they existed in 2015
when the Solar Impulse 2 circumnavigated the world exclusively on solar power, and they existed in
2020 when the Papistrel Velis Electro became the first commercially available type-rated electric
powered aircraft. There's not a whole lot technologically that has or is preventing
electric aircraft from existing. What is, is the business case. Batteries are just more expensive,
and less energy-dense than fuel, so with carbon emissions always having been free for airlines,
it just always made sense to use petroleum-based fuel. Aircraft development is an unbelievably
expensive endeavor, and getting an aircraft certified for commercial use using a new type
of motor is just all that much more, so it never made sense for a manufacturer to go through all
that for an aircraft that didn't have a strong business case. Now, however, for the first time
ever, a strong hypothesis of a business case has developed, and, if it works,
we will see the most dramatic shift in how commercial aircraft work in generations.
Electric aircraft inherently have constraints. While much progress has been made in the past
decade to bring down the price of batteries, and they now cost one tenth as much per kilowatt hour
compared to a decade ago, less has been done to increase battery energy density—that is,
the amount of electricity stored per pound or kilogram. That's because, with electric vehicles,
the primary novel application, weight doesn't matter that much. It's easier to increase range
by bringing down cost and putting more batteries in than improving their energy density. It's
different with aircraft. The lighter they are, the further they can fly, so there are diminishing
returns in adding additional batteries since doing so means one needs to add even more batteries to
provide the energy to carry the weight of those batteries, and so on and so forth. Also, for now,
all viable electric aircraft are propeller-driven, specifically because it would be far more costly
to develop an electric jet engine, and the time savings it would offer on the short-range flights
that electric aircraft would be capable of completing would be negligible. So, airlines
need to find a use case for short-range, slow, electric aircraft. Conveniently, it already exists.
From their Denver, Colorado hub, United Airlines flies to 16 destinations less than 250 miles or
400 kilometers away. In particular in this case, many of these destinations, such as Montrose,
Aspen, Eagle County, and Hayden, are high-yield and high-frequency despite their close distance
since they connect tourists to popular ski towns. In the case of Wiederau, a Norwegian
regional airline, 19 of their 47 overall destinations are within 250 miles of their
Tromsø hub, and a strong majority of their routes are over distances less than this.
Then, there are airlines like Cape Air, who do not fly a single route over 250 miles in length.
The use case for electric aircraft already exists because airlines like Cape Air already found it—just
not yet using electric aircraft. They fly from large hubs to small destinations on 9-seat
propeller aircraft, and partner with mainline airlines to offer connecting itineraries.
For them, the electric aircraft range constraints don't matter since all their routes are so short,
and therefore the speed constraints don't either. When Cape Air flies from Martha's Vineyard to New
York JFK on their propeller-driven Cessna 402, the flight takes an average of 70 minutes,
whereas Delta, flying the same route using a jet CRJ200, takes 45. When Cape Air flies from
Nantucket to Boston Logan Airport, they take 39 minutes, whereas JetBlue, on their E190 aircraft,
takes 28. Those extra 11 or 25 minutes are negligible in the overall travel experience,
especially considering that Cape Air's boarding times, with 9 passengers, are certainly quicker
than with Delta's 50 passengers or JetBlue's 100. So, not only could electric aircraft
seamlessly replace all of Cape Air's flights, but they could also take over some of Delta,
JetBlue, United, or other larger airlines' routes without a negative impact to overall trip time.
So, the use case exists, passengers would accept the switch, but what do electric
aircraft do for airlines, aside from enabling a continuation of operations in the face of
increasing regulation? A very specific answer for this exists, thanks to one short document.
This is the US Department of Transportation's Order Reselecting Airline document for their
essential air service subsidized flights from Boston Logan Airport to Augusta and Rockland,
Maine. You see, the US government subsidizes routes to these small, remote communities
across the country in order to improve connectivity and economic opportunity for
these areas. As it's the US taxpayer funding these programs, the bids from airlines to operate these
routes are a matter of public record, providing a truly unique glimpse into accurate operating
costs for a single airline route. While they competed against Boutique Air, Cape Air ended
up winning the bid so they now operate the route to Rockland, Maine. In exchange, they received a
subsidy of $2,218,126 for their first year, 2018-2019, ramping up to $2,495,090 by their
fourth. Rockland is a tourist hotspot in the summer, but it returns to a quieter state for
the rest of the year, so the airline's obligations for flight frequency varies by the season—
anywhere between three daily round-trip flights in winter to six in the summer. All in all, though,
they're obligated to operate some 1,365 flights annually, representing 12,285 total available
passenger seats in each direction. According to Cape Air's estimates, this route should cost some
$3,350,746 a year to operate. They estimated some 15,122 total passengers would fly,
but publicly available data shows that only 6,733 boarded their planes in Rockland in 2019.
Assuming it's roughly the same in the other direction, as one would expect,
that means they saw only 13,466 total passengers, representing a 54.8% load factor.
Selling tickets for an average of $83, the airline likely therefore brought in $1,117,678
in passenger revenue which, combined with their $2,247,721 year-two subsidy,
means they earned some $3,365,399 in revenue. Subtracting their annual cost estimates,
that means they only turned $14,653 in profit, or $1.09 worth per passenger.
This is how tight airline profit margins can be. But what would they be if this route was operated
by an electric airplane? Well, to start, fuel costs would be almost entirely eliminated.
Electricity isn't free, but its costs are so low compared to fuel that it essentially becomes a
non-factor. Electricity can also be converted into a capital cost, instead of ongoing cost,
through investing in solar or wind energy generation, which Cape Air has hinted at doing.
So, this $844,002 in annual fuel costs, we can consider it, for all intents and purposes,
eliminated. Other costs would go up. Cape Air budgets $269,903 per year on ownership costs,
meaning the amortized, prorated cost of owning their aircraft. While details are not known,
and so an accurate estimate would be impossible, there's no world in which a new, electric aircraft
is cheaper than the mass-produced, long-proven Cessna 402. It wouldn't be unreasonable to expect
that ownership costs would, say, double. Then, there are the maintenance costs. These would be
significantly lower than with traditional internal combustion-driven aircraft. The thing is,
electric motors are just so simple. They have exactly one moving part—the shaft.
Electric vehicles typically never require motor maintenance, as there's really just
nothing that can break or wear down within their lifetimes. The same principle will apply to
electric airplanes, and so much of the maintenance work aircraft require currently is on their
engines. While it's very tough to know with any confidence how this will play out in reality with
planes that don't yet exist, there's a world in which aircraft maintenance would cost a fraction
as much. Overall, these three factors combined—a near total elimination of fuel costs,
a dramatic increase in ownership costs, and a dramatic decrease in maintenance costs—track
with Cape Air's estimates for a 40% reduction in operating costs. That is enormous. On their
Rockland route, assuming no change in revenue, that would take $1.09 in per passenger profit,
and turn it into $100.62—a number so dramatically different that it doesn't even sound correct.
This would immediately turn Cape Air into the highest operating margin airline in the world,
full stop. This is why the future of short-haul flying is inevitably electric.
This is why, in 2019, Cape Air became the first commercial customer to order the Alice,
a nine-passenger electric aircraft developed by startup aircraft manufacturer,
Eviation. It will be able to fly each and every one of the airline's routes round-trip without
charging. There are certainly no guarantees that the Alice will see the light of day—aircraft
development is an incredibly costly, risky, and long process that can spell failure for
even the strongest concepts—but everything so far suggests that Eviation has just as much
a shot at success as all the other players that have entered this race. While Cape Air may be
pioneering the use of these aircraft in the commercial context, as they have the advantage
of a pre-existing route network and business strategy that are conducive to their use,
the release of such aircraft will fundamentally break a long-held truth about aviation.
Short-haul flying is currently more expensive per mile than long-haul flying, due to the high
fixed costs involved with the ground operations at each airport. However, with electric aircraft
available exclusively on shorter routes, at least in the near future, there's a reality in which
it's cheaper per mile to fly 200 miles than 2,000 miles. That will shift airlines' focus to more
regional route networks and connect communities that previously were too small to make economic
sense for airlines. In short, not only will electric aircraft allow airlines to continue
to operate short-haul as regulations ramp up, but it will allow them to increase it in a sustainable,
profitable way. The future of flying is inevitably electric, because the business case
is just too strong to ignore. Plenty of progress has already been made to make electric flying a
reality, and as much as I'd like to tell you in detail about the specific electric aircraft that
you might fly in a matter of years, and how they work, there just isn't the time in this video.
The YouTube algorithm has just decided that 15 to 20 minutes is our sweet spot for video length,
and if we stray from that, the videos don't perform well. Conveniently, though,
Nebula doesn't have an algorithm. So, I created a companion video to this about that topic,
and put it there. Nebula subscribers can watch that, our regular videos early and ad-free,
other exclusive companion videos and extended cuts, and our big-budget Nebula originals,
of which we have plenty, and we have our biggest one yet in post-production right now.
Making that even better, you can get access to Nebula through the bundle deal with Curiosity
Stream, which is on sale for Father's Day at its lowest ever pricing of under $1 per month.
Of course, by signing up through them, you also get access to their massive,
super-interesting library of non-fiction documentaries and shows. For example,
and I've recommended this before because it's so good, you could watch China's Last Little Train,
about the narrow gauge railway that connects one of China's most isolated regions. Altogether,
this bundle provides a massive amount of stuff that you'll actually watch, and it comes at an
absurdly low price. Again, the current Father's Day sale is the lowest their prices have ever been—just
under $1 a month—so there has never been a better time to sign up at CuriosityStream.com
slash Wendover, and, best of all, you'll be helping all these independent creators
stay independent while you're at it.
