Hey guys, no video today but that doesn't mean that I'm doing nothing. What I've been doing
today, and actually parts of last night, was finally formalizing the setup for the SFO
Bitchute channel. I'm kind of following Styx's lead, Styx Hexenhammer, I'm kind of following
his lead on this one. He is right about about alt tech, alternate platforms. I know that Gab
is kind of going in the shitter right now but that's just Gab. You know, Subscribestar still
going strong, Bitchute still going strong, and there's a few others that I'll probably at least
look into. But for now, I noticed that the SFO Bitchute channel has kind of been neglected
recently, and the autograbber hasn't been properly mirroring the videos. So I went back through my
backlog, I re-uploaded, you can see a bunch of old videos here, I re-uploaded a bunch of videos
that the grabber didn't get. I should have every single SFO video now on there, with the exception
of like some really old vlogs from like 2013 or something, they don't really matter. Feel free to
go through, let me know if any videos aren't working, let me know if any videos are missing,
just in case I happened to miss one, if you want to watch the backlog on Bitchute, it's there.
That is, by the way, Bitchute.com slash Sharp Feta Taku, like it has this this ID up here,
but I'm pretty sure if I just put in Sharp Feta Taku, it should work. Let's just see here,
yes it does, okay. So I spent pretty much today and yesterday going through my backlog, re-uploading
all the old videos, and now I'm going to start doing the same for my other alt channels,
Game Boomers and the Dev Kit. Game Boomers is going to be a huge project, but that's not a
big deal. The Dev Kit, meanwhile, is where I'm going to start putting stuff that's not,
it's not politics and it's not gaming, it's just like other, and I've kind of neglected that
channel for a while too, I'm going to start working on that, but basically this is what
I've been doing, please consider following me over on Bitchute, just because, frankly,
YouTube is a dumpster fire, and I'm sure at some point I'll be kicked off of it too,
so swing by Bitchute.com slash Sharp Feta Taku and consider supporting alt tech wherever you can,
and also try to get the other creators that you know, that you watch, that you love,
to migrate to alt tech too, because at some point YouTube is going to come for everyone that's not
mainstream media. Alright guys, I'll see you there. I love you.
