So, we're back again to do another watch party. The first time was a moderate success when
we did Lord of the Rings, The Rings of Power. Not the show, mind you. Just our having fun
with it. We don't even have a name for this series, do we? I just called it Devin Friends
Watch Lord of the Rings last time.
Well, now it's Devin Friends. It's called Devin Friends Watch. There you go. Devin Friends
Watch. I guess so. I guess so. And then insert title. Yeah. We've got Arch, Lilith, and Kibs
here once again. Hello everyone. We're back. We're back. Communism spreads. Communism spreads.
We've come back to watch another one and this time it is The Last of Us TV show on HBO.
I will say we tried to do this once before, but Kibs. Kibs, what did you do? What do you
mean what I do? Well, something killed the last watch party. What was it, Kibs? It wasn't
me. You sneak. I don't know what you're talking about. You sneaker. So, the reason that we're
doing episodes one and two in one go, and also the reason that we are a week late on
episode one. It's Dev's fault. Oh, is it my fault? Yeah. Dev could have told me that
the microphone, my XLR cable was busted, but it took too long. So, we had to wait a whole
week. Can you believe that? We'll let this one slide, Dev, but next time. Alright, Kibs.
Just for that, in post, I'm going to make your avatar a brony again. There's no need
to be mean. So, we are, in fact, going to do episodes one and two in one big, long three
and a half hour session. This is going to be real fun. I'm sure, I'm sure, actually.
You lying sack of shit. So, Arch and Kibs, I was on the Arch cast with you guys, and
we talked a whole bunch about The Last of Us, because Arch, you have no idea what this
show is or what the game is, right? So, we had to fill you in. We talked about the game?
We did, as well. Remember, it's your own show! Where are you? So, Arch, The Last of Us is
a console game. Okay. It is, it's trash. I mean, it is trash, yes. And you know what,
here, because Arch, you never played it, right? Of course not. And you don't know the, you
don't know the, the interest, like the cultural interest surrounding it, right? It's the end
of the PS3 360 Wii console era. The PS3 was a powerhouse for the time. Sony wanted a game
that could truly show off its power. And that game ended up being The Last of Us. This is
at the height of certain trends in gaming. One was the idea of the cinematic experience
game. So, there's lots of, there's lots of cutscenes. There's lots of moments where your
character just walks slowly through an environment and talks to another character. You see a
lot of that in like, God of War nowadays. And like, Tomb Raider does that as well. But
this was, this was kind of the peak of that type of gaming. It's less popular than it
was, but you still kind of see it sometimes. So even though the game had a lot of decent
combat and decent exploration, decent crafting, decent stealth, the game was clearly focused
on a cinematic experience. Second, is that in this period of making video games, and
just in general pop culture, there was a common storytelling motif of an older heroic man
who teams up with an adoptive daughter figure. And generally the idea is that the older man
didn't really have a chance to be a father. And he kind of regrets certain parts of his
past. He's older, he's not really in the game anymore. And the adoptive daughter is
somebody who never knew what life was like before the apocalypse, because this is always
an apocalyptic story. So, older man deals with the fact that the world's gone to shit.
Adoptive daughter doesn't even know what he's talking about. And they come to have a bond.
And if you'll see that in Telltale's Walking Dead with Lee and Clem, you see that in Logan
with Wolverine and whatever that girl's name was in that movie. But basically, this is
a very, very popular storytelling motif back in this period. And probably the best example
of it in gaming was The Last of Us, the relationship between Joel and Ellie. And this game was
basically marketed as the PS3's final triumph. The PS3 was an amazingly popular console.
The PS4 looked to also be similarly amazing. People loved Naughty Dog the developer. And
they were basically hitting all the right notes. All the things that were popular in
what was it 2012 or whatever it was in this game came out. All the things that were popular
this game was doing. So it's less that the game was a high quality game, though it's
like reasonably high quality. It's more that everything that was popular was in this game
all at once at the peak of its popularity. And that turned it into basically a mini cultural
phenomenon within gaming.
Sort of. It was a pretty big deal, but it wasn't like on the power of what you had with
Halo 3. Because that was like everywhere. That was like the Zenith, that was 2007, where
you had gaming where there was like, oh, Mountain Dew can, so you go to fucking Boyger King
and they had stuff. It was it was it was the height of PlayStation's sphere, is what
I would say.
The Archcast clip can fill that in. But Lilith, what is what is your relationship regarding
The Last of Us?
I know about the basic gist and the plot. I've always meant to play it, but like I just
never got around to it. It's just in my backlog, but it's one of those games that's good things
about it. But then I decided that they wanted to do like a remake of the first game that's
pretty much completely the same. Which, you know what? Feel free. Print money. Why not?
I have watched like the gameplay from start to finish, though, so I do know the story
for the first game. I pretty much skipped out on the second one for the most part, aside
from just knowing the story.
You just real good where the transvestite beats everybody to death at the golf club.
Here's the thing. Everyone said that that Abby was trans, but she's not trans. She's
a very muscular woman. Everyone is already like hyper aware of just shoehorned representation.
And also, Abby is very easy to vilify based on her actions within the context of the story.
She's not a well liked character. So I think I think people just like did one plus two
and said, this person's trans. And it's like, well, no, she's actually not trans. Here's
the thing. When it comes to these sort of shows, right, they almost always seem to end
up like trash, these new adaptations, because it happened with Lord of the Rings and it
happened with She-Hulk and it happened with the Halo show and it happened with Velma recently.
Like how many of these shows come out and are just like garbage piles? And I think people
are assuming that it's going to be the same thing with this one. I'm expecting this to
be trash. I don't know about you guys.
Historically, video games and adaptations hasn't been done too well. But, um, lately
seems to people have been breaking the trend. Like Arcane, for example, that was like a
really good adaptation from a video game to a show. And I think, what else? There was
a few, right? Good video game adaptations.
The Super Mario Brothers Movie from 1993.
The best video game adaptations are the ones that have nothing to do with the video game.
Arcane had nothing to do with League of Legends. Cyberpunk had nothing to do with Cyberpunk.
Alright, Cyberpunk.
Oh yeah, the little robot loli that Dimitri likes so much.
But I wouldn't actually discount this one because a key hallmark for a lot of the really
shit adaptations is a really shit cast, because it is usually made as some kind of hobby
product by know-nothing retards like the Winx of Power did, where there's just a large roster
of people you've never heard of and you have no interest in and that can't act to save
their lives. But here, I mean, Pedro Pascal, or Pablo, I'm going to call him frequently.
You fucking racist.
Very solid. No, it's because Pablo Schreiber from the Halo TV series, and now he's the
guy Pablo. I know now. Gabriel Luna as well. This series actually has some actors who might
be able to act.
Well, it's already an issue because they've already dismissed like the spores and a bunch
of other things.
So Arch, the lore of the spores, okay? So there's some, in real life, this is a real
life thing, not a Last of Us thing. There's some sort of a fungus that takes over the
brain of an ant. And what it does is it makes the ant crawl onto the end of a grass blade
so that it can be picked up by a bird. And then the bird eats the ant, and then it gets
shit out. And then that's how the spores of this life form spread across the environment.
It's based on a real, that's a real play, a real...
Yeah, that is a real fungus, yes. And so Amy Hennig, when she was kind of like penning
out the initial ideas of the Last of Us, she's like, well, what if we did a zombie story,
but we did our own twist on it where it was transmitted through fungal spores. And so
you go into these dens of zombies where people are growing into the walls and you're wearing
a gas mask and you have to hold your breath if you ever take the mask off, right? Because
the air is infected with these spores. And the spores are the primary way that the zombie
virus gets around. And basically what happens is the person gets infected by breathing in
the spore and then they have like a zombie stage and then they have a very aggressive
zombie stage called clickers where they have, where they can't, like their, their eyes have
been all grown out and they can't see anymore, but they can echo location. So you have to
like stealth through it. And then once in the final stages, they just turn into like
a giant mushroom and they just grow into the wall.
Yep, and then it's the spores. And then somebody's...
Yeah, yeah. So it was basically a different spin on the zombie story, but the fact that
it was fungal spores was a core component of the lore. And so to see spores will not
exist in The Last of Us HBO, that literally just makes it a normal zombie story.
Yep. They've, they've taken, they've demystified the zombies because like any good zombie setting
like Dead Space or like The Last of Us, when it comes to the fungal spores, what that does
is it helps drive it apart than your just basic bitches, green zambi, you know, it bites
your brains or whatever. Like that's boring. That's old. You got to do something new and
fresh with your zombies.
I don't know if I'd really consider that all that new and fucking fresh, but if you say
so.
What, you don't like stinky mushrooms, you little shit?
In terms of gameplay, it wasn't that different aside from like the, the, the, the breath
mechanic in some of the levels, but in terms of the lore, it did make it feel fresh for
2012 or whatever it was.
Yep.
Remember in 2012.
Very specific spores. I guess they're not absorbed through the eyes.
They had to keep it fresh because by 2012, that was the end.
They wear masks, yeah.
Yep. But 2012 was also the end of the zombie craze because Left 4 Dead 2 and all the zombie
games started to fall out of circulation.
And Walking Dead kind of had its major impact back then. I mean, in World of Warcraft, like
Wrath of the Lich King was wrapping up.
So the zombie thing had come and gone, and this was like the tail end of it.
And so they said, we have to make, if we're going to do a zombie story, you have to do
something different.
So they did, they did spores rather than like a virus.
Yeah, but dismissing console, console stuff is fine.
Well, the thing is you have to respect the fandom, Arch.
I know, they're consoles.
You're about as, you're about as brilliant as they are when it comes to that, if that's
your perspective.
Oh my God, this is Archer's SJW, Arch.
He's rejecting the fandom.
He's like, no, it's my fandom now.
It's not, I reject it.
It's a console fandom.
Whatever damage done to it was probably for the better.
There is one hallmark that I think hasn't been seen too much yet.
So if you recall, when it came to, um, when it came to the Obi Wan Kenobi show, everyone
was, even before the show came out, everyone was talking about all the racist hatred that
the actress of Riva was getting, right?
When it came to the Lord of the Rings show, everyone was talking about the black elf and
his actor and all the racist hatred.
Like I haven't seen much of that this time where there's been this performative wokeness
in the media before this show launches to try to get it off the ground.
Now maybe I just haven't seen the articles yet, but as far as I can tell, that seems
to be absent, which is a good sign.
They also haven't pulled off operation hide behind the black man, uh, to the same degree
in this show.
I mean, if, if Pedro Pascal shows up in episode one now wearing blackface, I'll retract that
statement, but hide behind the Mexican just doesn't have quite the same effect.
Well in this case, they wouldn't be hiding behind the Mexican.
They'd have to hide behind his daughter because I think they race swapped her.
Yeah, we'll have to see though.
We'll have to see.
So hide behind the child.
Because the daughter, the little woman, oh, okay.
Well you can't hide behind the corpse then.
You dumbass.
It's 10 years old.
Okay.
Pulls up the little corpse.
It flops in the wind.
I can't.
Don't attack us.
Like if this child ends up being on screen for like 10 minutes, that was, you just can't
slap him now.
Yeah, probably going to be less than 10 minutes.
She should die pretty quickly.
You can't hide behind the side character, Jesus.
It would be funny if they tried.
So I guess it's time for us to watch the premiere of The Last of Us, another watch party series
begins.
It's going to be awesome.
All right.
Let's rock and roll.
Let's prep up good old VLC because there's no way in hell I'm paying for HBO.
Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah.
I'm a baller.
Yes.
And we end up with a global pandemic pan, meaning all the whole world becomes sickle
at once.
We call it COVID.
No, no, no.
All right.
Well, that's our show.
Hey, that's that dude from the other television show.
That's kind of famous.
I don't like that guy because he used to own slaves, but in the end, what, what would you
just to be clear, you, you do think microorganisms, different show, don't you recognize him?
Kind of bacteria?
No.
You like saying no.
Yes.
He's funny.
It's dominance from Spartacus because there are some fungi who seek not to kill, but to
control.
Let me ask you.
Oh God.
They're actually going to explain that part.
You get it from, I thought that was supposed to be implied fungus psilocybin also fungus.
This is all new to the show.
This isn't wasn't in the game at all because I thought this was supposed to be a little
bit of the secret that it did that whole, you know, brain control, zombie fungus thing.
This is more of a show, don't tell policy.
This is just exposition, which is not good storytelling.
This is, Hey, you don't know anything about this console communist universe of fungus
and by the way, global warming, Cordyceps, Astragalus, anyone in the game already did
the mystery angles and taking control of millions of yeah, I've seen like similar approach to
like the new triathlon series.
So if that happens, we lose.
And that's why you should wear your masks.
Oh, it's not entirely true.
I was like, there are treatments for fungal infections.
It's not literally impossible, but details, details.
That's not convenient.
It doesn't sound scary.
Arch, you know, I don't like, is it game of Thrones again?
It is.
Oh God, I wish people would stop making this fucking intro.
This is creatively bankrupt, but yeah, you know, I'll give it one point, one point because
I really enjoy the fact that they're using the original song for my diverse craft of
creators who never played the video games if they want to go into the fungal and how
big of a threat it is airborne.
You can see the particles in the air like that is the bits of the fungus.
That's not good.
Oh, look, the fungus turned into the two main characters.
Wasn't that clever?
No, not really, but I mean, it was a shot.
It's like baby's first intro.
It's like, Ooh, it's deep and symbolic.
It's like, no.
That was three.
Oh, that was a good year.
Yeah.
Before the bad things started to happen.
You think it's good here because the Iraq invasion, don't you?
Yep.
Iraq invasion and Pokemon Ruby and Sapphire, baby.
Hell yeah, brother.
Everyone was concerned.
Like, Oh my God, it's going to be a big war.
He's going to deploy that chemical weapons.
He didn't have any, but they black washed his daughter.
Yeah.
Did I?
His daughter was like a blonde girl.
Well, now she's a black girl.
I guess, I guess the dad liked racism.
Okay.
Right.
I know this is going to hit somebody here personal, but anyone who makes eggs like these
need to be taken outside and put out of their fucking misery.
Hold on.
Didn't Lilith just make eggs like those before the show started?
Exactly.
What's that?
I lit it with a cold fire.
Yeah man.
I also, I like simple eggs too.
They're just like easy.
The black girl has a watermelon in her fridge.
Oh my God.
Oh my God.
That's a lot of placement.
Would you like some purple drink?
It's orange.
It's orange.
Lilith, Lilith, let's hope that none of your more left-leaning friends see this or else
you'll be instantly canceled.
How does that get destroyed for being in the same presence?
Oh God, I remember this song.
This song was on the radio every single second of every single day, back in the good old
days.
He's dependent on me.
It's not the same.
The outbreak better happen at night or I'll be mad.
I thought he was having pancakes.
He thought he was having fucking pancakes.
The concrete guy is going to be there?
Let me stick that some Tabasco.
He can't frame until we pull.
I had to give the actor some credit though.
He actually does look a bit like Joel.
I'm not splitting his job.
A little bit.
Yeah.
Okay.
See, I kind of hate this introductionary scene.
Not that it's bad.
Like this is actually all right.
They're having a decent little conversation et cetera, but the zombie apocalypse is about
to hit in like five seconds, right?
And so they're like, Hey, care about these characters.
They're all going to fucking die.
Why?
Barge, you have to at least put in the effort of caring.
Barge don't want to.
Barge don't want to.
The little black girl who eats watermelon is smart.
Barge, calm down.
Sometimes I have to create my own entertainment, okay?
We can rip on it in time.
Page to page.
I mean, this is an intro that is similar to the one in the first game, but the one in
the first game happened in the middle of the night.
Very quick.
Listen, we need to build value for these characters so that when this child is eaten to death,
we feel bad.
Gosh darn it, Barge.
If she gets eaten to death, I'll be surprised.
Good.
Oh my God.
Just because she's brown though.
Come on.
Just because she's black, she likes watermelon and stealing things.
I know.
It's weird.
Show, stop.
Please.
Show, don't do this.
Show's like, I'm going to be racist.
I could come by after school, but just for like a little bit.
Look, zombies.
She'll take what you got.
Dad, you love biscuits.
Jesus Christ.
You are fond of biscuits.
I do.
But I'm on Atkins.
What now?
It's, uh, you know what?
We got to run, but Sarah will be by later.
She'll stay as long as you want.
Tell you all about Atkins.
I'm going to stay alive for this.
Dad, why are you making me stay with the white people?
I don't like the white ones, daddy.
They don't look like me.
Operation Desert Storm.
Oh my God, it's the best bush.
You won't use any of this shit.
You won't use any of this shit in later life.
You're going to have a smartphone on you.
You're not going to be calculating anything.
God, so many teachers told me,
you're not going to have a calculator on you all the time.
It's like, yes, I fucking will.
The phones.
The invention of phones.
Yeah, but what if a giant mushroom apocalypse comes deaf?
Good point, Lilith.
Yeah, deaf.
Stupid deaf.
Stupid.
You know, if the mushroom apocalypse came in 2003,
we'd be spared so much fucking bullshit.
Oh, the world would be a better place.
I don't know about that.
Listen, you wouldn't have to deal with
female space marines.
I'd rather deal with female space marines
than figure out where to get food from.
At least female space marines are profitable.
Very true.
Music.
That's it?
Did you steal your dad's watch?
She stole her dad's money to get her dad a present?
God.
Kyle, you were wrong.
She's not just a thief because she's black.
She's actually kind and caring.
She's a kind thief.
Kyle.
You're allowed to interpret that.
I've been cancelled.
In the original game,
didn't she buy a new watch for Joel?
She did.
I hate their language.
I'm sorry.
It doesn't make me racist.
I just don't like any language
that pronounces the...
You should go home.
I don't know, something's going on.
I wonder what.
Maybe it's fire or something.
The outbreak's gonna happen at night, I assume.
Because we're seeing a little bit more
before the video game starts.
Yeah, we're seeing what leads up to it.
Why half those children in the background are eating?
There was just a lot of police and stuff on the road today.
Well, that's true every day, isn't it?
That's American.
It's a hellhole.
Three nails plus one cross equals four given.
Ha ha ha.
Jesus.
Chocolate chip?
Alright, she needs to burn.
Yep.
She should get bit first for raisin cookies.
Seriously, though.
She better die.
Just put the mushrooms into the cookie.
Is the old lady gonna turn into a zombie?
TV show, I get what you're doing,
but this isn't really your story.
Please just get to the zombies.
It's a TV show.
It's the establishing episode.
Come on, Barge.
I understand, but
even I know what this story is.
Oh god, that's before Blu-ray.
They're all low definition.
Look, she's turning.
Ah, shit.
She is.
I like how this house
is more like 1950s than
2003.
Oh, Jesus, she is.
Oh, that's fucking...
I should go.
Yeah.
You're gonna die with your raisin cookies, bitch.
Ha ha ha.
She is.
Like, as soon as she leaves, I guarantee you they're gonna have
a shot of her getting attacked and, like, they don't even notice.
Look, the wheelchair
is empty.
Aw, no?
She was just yawning. It's okay.
Look, the dog is
being sus.
Yeah, the dog knows something's up.
This is an airborne infection. Why isn't the little
black girl starting to eat brains right about now?
Uh, the spores...
The spores die in direct
sunlight.
Yeah, but she was inside a second ago.
There was sun coming through the windows.
It also depends on, again, where the granny got
the spores. Yeah, how long it's been.
There's a bunch of factors.
Yeah, but she didn't strike me like the kind
who would be out and about on the regular.
The spores take a couple hours
to set in.
There you go, man. You gotta plant them.
It's me. Water them.
There's a plant.
Fertilize.
We're at night time.
It looks more like day for night, but still.
Good job.
You know what the show's gonna do.
Yep. Yep, here we go.
Yeah, this is the coach scene. The infamous coach
scene from the start of the game.
They gave us the wrong side.
To be fair, I would rather the
show be too bright and too dark.
True. Remember Game of Thrones?
We couldn't see shit.
Where'd you get the money for this?
Drugs. I sell hardcore
drugs. It's better when I do.
It was only $20, which I stole
from you. I could have
stolen $60, but I put the change back
because I'm an honest thief. Besides,
it's the thought that counts. Well, at least
you missed.
See, Connor, you were wrong about her. She's a lovely little girl.
How did the show end?
In the game, she actually
paid for it herself, and
she had the same joke, hardcore drugs,
but then he just said, where'd you get the money
for this? Drugs.
I sell hardcore drugs. Oh, good.
You can start helping out with the mortgage then.
Yeah, you wish.
Great, you can start paying off the mortgage.
It was a better scene.
It's not nearly
as good. No.
But if she's poor, we'll feel worse about her.
Maybe.
It's somewhat
it's more accurate than the Halo TV show
so far. Oh, god, the Halo
TV show.
And this Pablo's nose is much smaller.
I still kind of want to go back and watch that
because it was such a train wreck.
Wait, that can be our next watch party,
guys.
I don't feel sick.
Well, they're following the major story beats.
So far.
Jumpscare.
Nope,
just explosions.
Fireworks and it's green.
No,
the Borg have showed up.
On this
average evening in the U.S.
The feds are finally coming for your
guns.
It's been awful
protect.
It sounds like
your family's fun.
Mercy.
In those
they're kind of cute
because they look like bananas with lovely bits.
Don't want to go home.
Granny ate
other granny.
I don't want those cookies.
Mercy.
That was not attached well.
Now this is all gone completely
off script from the game though right now.
Yeah, yeah, it is because
Joel's supposed to wake her up.
Look, the wheelchair
is empty now.
Look, there's light coming through the window like
it's daytime.
Listen,
after Games of Thrones, better to lighten
through dark again.
I still wouldn't be walking in here, to be honest.
This is so
coward.
This is so unrealistic behavior.
Oh.
See, this is the point
at which I'd be like, no,
I'm leaving. It's time to go back home.
I
done all I could. Time to leave.
Well, that's mildly
disturbing.
Looks like bean
sprouts in her mouth.
Yeah, to be fair,
being that old and a zombie
is not a good combo.
Now there's the actions of a
seasoned wife beater.
Wait, you should go back
into your house and get your weapons because
you're a soldier. Surely you still have your rifle.
Oh no.
And they're going to get eaten.
Fuck.
Because they want to go help.
So to be fair,
this part of the show is exactly like
the game.
Yep, now we're back on track.
Don't move to the cities,
guys.
Yep, it's the first place that will go in a
fungus apocalypse.
Well, at least Jimmy doesn't have to worry
about the electricity prices anymore.
Yeah,
yeah, from the game,
exactly.
Now we're back on track.
From the point of the game, you play as the girl.
You can crawl around the back seat and see the entire
scene 360 degrees.
It was kind of cool, yeah.
Yeah, it was pretty cool for the time.
We're not getting there.
Yeah, that is a smorgasbord.
This is why
everybody needs to read the
zombie survival guide, so you don't make
these silly mistakes when the zombie
apocalypse hits.
This is actually really good.
I'm pleasantly surprised.
It's actually not
terrible.
Yet.
Keyboard.
I quite appreciated the first person shots they did.
That was nice. Very video gaming.
Uh.
I don't remember that.
Grab something.
Every apocalypse movie
has to have the scene where the jumbo jet
goes meow.
Alright, now I
know.
I'm surprised that they have like
all the buildings the same, too.
Yeah, they make a good town.
Yeah.
Wow.
I really enjoy
the first person shots, honestly.
They're really chaotic and weird.
They feel
non-cinematic, which is good.
It gets me more in the spirit of the video
game style of it.
Quite nice.
Somebody's gonna jump on the fender.
That
jumbo jet is going to have a hard time
pulling off that maneuver.
I think it's sawing.
Yeah.
Move.
Move.
Wow.
Oh, shit.
Actually, rather than explode, I'm pretty sure
the cockpit and pooches of the plane would be barreling
down the street at this point, but
fair enough.
Listen, it was filled entirely with explosives.
But I wish they would have just skipped
to this right off the bat and just
kind of clover-field it, you know?
Don't explain what's gonna happen, just
boom, something awful is happening.
Panic, panic, panic, panic. What the fuck?
Yeah, the prologue kind of sucked on us.
They might have actually been better served just
barricading themselves in the house.
No shit.
You don't say.
Considering they drove into town,
into the shit-show.
Yeah, in the game
at the very least,
a zombie came
through, or at
least the series would call it clicker
with the window,
so they couldn't barricade it.
Yeah.
You should have closed that door.
His hands are sort of on the ground.
Jesus, that guy's just jumping.
That stunt man is pulling out all the
stops, good on him.
It's giving an unbelievable
performance.
My dude, that was a fucking
exquisite shot.
Don't move.
Yes, sir.
That's not a good sign.
He's gonna let him go, though.
He's a good person.
He's gonna let him go, though.
He's a good person.
He's gonna let him go, though.
Sir,
we are not
sick!
Really?
Aw, that's kind of cruel.
They made the soldier
a lot more mean in this version.
He was like regretting it in the game.
He was hesitating a lot more.
I'm sorry.
Oh, there we go.
Though, I will
say, okay, so, he
single shot,
fuck nails, a zombie,
running, tilt, from
the side,
missing the civilians.
But he fucks up a burst at point
of blank range. He didn't fuck it up,
March.
He scored a good couple
hits.
You're okay. You're okay. Move your hand, baby.
Those are 5-5-6's.
Paolo should be hit, too.
I don't think she's gonna be okay.
Come on, baby.
Is she gone?
Come on, please.
Is she gonzo?
You know,
again, I am actually pleasantly
surprised so far. Again, I actually
would have preferred to skip the fucking
preamble. But this is
nice, okay?
I, too, I'm thinking like, oh, surely
he's gonna let them go, right?
I don't know what you're about to say, Dev.
Arch-C's dying black child.
This is nice.
You know, I kind of appreciate that.
This just reminds me of
the good old days.
So that was shot for shot exactly the
scene from the game.
It was very nice. Because I was thinking like, okay,
surely the soldier's gonna be like, I can't just kill
a fucking dude and his child.
Because that would be the normal response.
But no, he puts them down.
That puts some stakes in it, because that means that
the disease is that bad.
Granted, I don't think a single soldier would be
wandering around unaccompanied in the middle of a zombie
pop news, but details, details.
No, I don't even know what this is.
Ah, no.
This is a child who's
outside, probably being
more fungi than human.
Isn't this Ellie?
Uh, that looks like a boy?
Kyle, we don't do the whole gender
thing anymore. Hey, wait, this actually is
Boston 2023.
Damn, shot for shot, Dev. I see what you mean.
Mm, pretty accurate.
Don't worry, kid.
You're in Boston now. Wakes up.
Nooo.
You can't leave.
You know, they never really, I don't remember what they say
happens in the lore as time goes on,
but like, they're not government holdouts.
Just not very many.
Yeah, like, each city has a
US government contingent that are there.
And they kind of
they're run by the Department of Health?
It wouldn't be run by the Department of Health.
I think it's because of the whole
the whole virus part of it.
That's why they're in charge.
But it wouldn't.
The US Army actually has contingency plans
for this shit.
For a zombie apocalypse?
Yep. To be honest, I've heard
that, like, if an actual zombie apocalypse
happened, it would be reasonably easy to
contain, all things considered.
Then again,
Then again with COVID, we haven't really
we haven't really contained that.
The problem would be the hesitation surrounding
it. Figuring out what exactly is happening
and the inertia of going like, yep, nope,
actually, they're zombies.
How well they handle it probably depends on what sort of zombies.
But like, yeah.
It is pretty funny that
the actual US military has
a disease for a zombie apocalypse.
Who knows?
I don't like where this is going.
Toys?
It was red.
It was red.
So she's infected.
Yep, that needle there.
That's medicine.
And now you're gonna die.
Yep.
To be fair, this is a very nice way of doing it.
Like, give her hope, like, everything's fine now,
it's gonna be great, then she pulls sleep.
Yep.
Thing is, she was infected.
Yeah, they didn't have a choice.
Yep.
But that way she went down
and, you know, she had happy thoughts.
Yeah. As sickening and sad as that is.
No, no, that is exactly what you should do.
Like, you can't save her, okay, make the best out of it.
Is this, is this
Joel's girlfriend?
Yeah.
Very ugly looking, if that's her.
Well, here's the thing.
This is actually the voice actor, actress
who played Tess in the game.
They got the same person back.
Probably should have got somebody of the appropriate age
to do, but yeah, I do appreciate the mantra.
It has, it has been ten years
since the game, yeah.
Yes. I'm surprised this isn't a train wreck
so far.
There's the kid.
Uh-huh.
You know, in the
post-apocalypse, that's a lot of valuable
materials you're throwing away there.
Yeah, the shirt and the, yeah,
all the stuff.
But the shirt's probably like
Oh, infected? Yeah, yeah.
Spores on the shirt.
If there were spores on the shirt, then all of these workers
are infected now too.
Yeah, that's true. I mean, to be fair,
she was put down before the
spores could start, you know, coming out of her.
Arch, Arch, don't question
the efficacy of the masks, okay?
That gets you kicked off
YouTube.
He's got peppered,
grey peppered hair.
If he was 36 before,
he should be 50.
56?
Oh, the firefly symbol.
I wonder if they'll ruin the firefly people.
They'll make them communist or something.
Since they're rebelling against the government.
I don't want to spoil for Arch.
But you can never leave.
Uh, pause it for a second.
Okay, sure.
I like how I just tried to pause it.
I don't think I can upload
this file to something that would actually
work on watch together.
What's wrong, Barch? Barch?
It's surprisingly good.
What do you think, Lilith?
I feel like what they added was enough that they
it keeps things fresh because
if it's just like a four shot for shot remake
of the game, then
it's played a game.
It does need to be a little different, true.
And I can get why they
explain the fungal infection
if it's just the viewers who aren't familiar
with the game or the lore.
That way people aren't just going to be like
oh wow, this is just like another
this is just like The Walking Dead
duh duh duh
Yeah, this was like uh
I can see the reason why they did that.
Hit that play button, Dev.
Let's go.
My play button's almost in the mail.
Hope I get it.
I don't know if you deserve it.
Why is every Mexican
drug dealer, Dev?
Communists.
Fucking communists.
Ruin everything.
I don't think she means that.
I think this setup
Wow.
That's different from the game.
Yeah.
Communists, more like bomb-unists.
Dev, seppuku, no.
I knew that would get you.
They don't care.
Like you could be.
They don't know.
Is that the...
Does she have
alcohol fetal syndrome?
Cause her face looks fucked.
How did they find
so many weird looking
female characters?
We went from Ellen Page.
What's wrong with her forehead?
It's huge.
You just landed a plane on it.
Her nose.
Dude, fuck.
That forehead's huge.
Kibs, give me your best Plinkett impression.
Like the size
of Russia is how big
her forehead is to the rest of us.
It's just a huge endless landscape.
Wow, she's giving the Roman salute.
That escalates it quick.
Hydra?
She has none of the charm.
Wow, I hate her already.
Why do you like this character?
She doesn't seem to have any of the charm
that Ellie had.
She's supposed to be charming?
She's got a big forehead, alien looking eyes.
Jesus.
She just delivered them
so not Ellie-like.
Wow, he's being sneaky.
Yeah, that's right.
Regular people can't leave the quarantine zone.
Can they?
Those get shot.
Lockdowns.
The quarantine zone?
I couldn't.
Yep.
That's why when the little kid waddled up, they let him in
but they did the test.
And if you're infected, they put you down.
Yeah.
No, I promised Robert that you wouldn't hurt him.
But I would very much like for you to hurt him.
So let's go hunt that motherfucker.
I know.
How dare you.
Women? Liars?
What?
Ellie-based.
She's not just a Mary Sue.
She's got an ass beat. Hard to be a Mary Sue with an ass beat.
Yeah.
Well, the game was made back in 2013
before a lot of the woke nonsense was everywhere.
Very inspirational.
Now this is new.
Seeing their perspective.
Okay. Listen up, fucking communists.
You're in a zombie apocalypse.
Military dictatorship is the best you can fucking hope for.
You're just killing humans now.
Disrupting supplies.
Ruining shit.
There's a lot of people.
We're quitting? I'd go where?
We're taking that random girl locked in that room.
West.
No, there's actually a reason for this.
Are the African American Women's Liberation Army the bad guys?
Yes.
Yes.
If you're thinking the Fireflies are
quote unquote good guys, they are not.
No.
Immediately. They're blowing shit up
in the only safe zone in the fucking...
I wouldn't consider these people good guys
regardless if they were supposed to be the good guys.
Well, they're also talking about democracy and freedom
though, you know. So, I don't know, maybe...
Here's the thing. If the show
was going to go down some kind of woke
rabbit hole, they would
make the Fireflies good guys.
Even though in the video game the Fireflies were
hypocrites. Yeah, they were just as bad
as the government was.
Yeah, that's what I remember doing.
If you're feeling loud...
You're rude.
Yeah, you just invited him to
join the communist movement. I wouldn't have
given him a warning.
Don't talk about this out walking down the street.
Listen, they need to for the audience's sake.
We've got to know what they're doing.
Yeah, how else would we know?
We're just going to have to guess.
Oh my god.
Oh yeah,
you totally look like the kind of
strong man to pull that fucking thing off
the wall.
Why did you stop him?
Don't zoom into the
forehead show. God dammit.
It's so big.
She might be an alien.
Doesn't she have alcohol, fetal syndrome?
Like for real.
Look it up, Dev. I think she has it.
She was in Game of Thrones.
Did she have alcohol,
fetal syndrome there too? Oh my god, it's not that
character, is it? It's the Bear Island
girl.
That's creepy.
Are you my fucking mom or something?
I look like your mom.
Yeah, that was pretty good.
That's a good point.
Terrorist?
Yes, terrorist.
Oh god, the Pito DLC.
Yeah, don't elaborate on that any further.
Just think about it.
I forgot about the Pito
DLC, okay?
Why is your face so flat?
It's like an anvil.
We could craft great weapons on it.
Jesus.
Shields are the finest
shields in armor.
You know it against her flat face.
There's an expansion they had
for Last of Us 1 where she has a
weird relationship as a child.
And it was like, ooh, that was just uncanny.
Well, it was with another child.
But it was still kind of strange to play through, I will admit.
They were like eight years old
or something.
They were kissing
and I was like, really? Do you need
to do that?
Like, wait until they're older, please.
Is this necessary?
No, it isn't.
Now to be fair, there wasn't any actual Pito
shit because there was no adults interacting with them.
I don't think kissing is inherently
so true.
It was uncanny.
I think it was more the fact that the player was playing
as it, you know?
That was a bit odd.
I just remember it was unsettling with our entire friend group
when we played it.
That's the one.
Because, I mean, Kibs, I don't know,
you remember being like nine or ten years old
and you get your first smooch from
a girl in your class and it's all innocent?
Yeah, but I want to see other
kids do that. That's weird.
You just want to do it yourself.
Yeah, when I did it as a kid,
that's fine. I don't want to see other people do that.
I think
for me,
it was playing as it
that was a bit strange.
Yep, there's a fungus person.
Also, they'd be infected right now.
Yeah, put on your masks.
Oh, there's no mask in the show! Fuck you!
I forgot!
No.
Yeah, they had gas masks.
Yeah, they had gas masks.
Because any time they turn into that,
they turn into sport producers.
But our friend Pedro
didn't want to wear masks
after the Mandalorian, so...
It's a see-through mask, even.
He negotiated masks
out of the lore, basically.
Are you serious?
There are rumors going around that he threw
a hissy fit during the Mandalorian.
That's why they took his helmet off that one episode
and that he refused to do anything like that again.
He's an actor with no integrity,
if that's the case.
I respect actors that wear helmets
and masks more than I do
those that don't.
I don't.
Those that don't.
The fuck?
Like the Tread remake?
That one...
That Tread happy mask on the entire time?
That was an excellent movie.
Great actor, too.
That was Carl Urban, right?
Yep.
Someone's red jelly is leaking out the side.
That doesn't look like gunpowder.
That's a hole.
Oh, someone already got to
the group.
And there's the battery.
That's
very convenient, yeah.
A little suspicious.
Wouldn't that be valuable?
Pull the trigger.
You'll save us all a lot of trouble.
So this is who Robert screwed us over with?
The Che Guevara of Boston?
Really warm up with going pretty shitty
for you to be buying from scumbags like him.
Yeah, it kind of has been.
The merch was bad, and he obviously didn't take fuck off for an answer.
Give me my knife.
What do you need a car battery for?
Go.
Not at her.
What do you mean?
Hey, trigger discipline, though.
That's a pretty basic test to use Che Guevara in a negative sense.
Yep.
You're remarkably chill for a woman whose spleen has been ventilated.
Yeah.
Jesus.
Oh, it is blown off, though.
What I do have is you.
And I know what you're both capable of.
For better or worse.
I don't think you know what the word squadron means.
You get her there safely,
and they'll give you what you deserve.
Yeah, it's not just a gang of people.
She's not a very good revolutionary, okay?
Arch, you gotta be gentle.
You'll talk it through, but please remember that I'm bleeding out.
Actually, I think that was her dialogue if you took too long.
Which is kind of funny.
It's like, hurry up!
Man, I kind of want to just push her nose in to make it flat with the rest of her face.
Jesus.
I mean, then we could use the anvil.
The anvil belly.
She could be a hammer.
She could. Like, grab her by the ankles and just wail her against the zombies.
It's a bit mean, but yeah, you could.
Don't fuck this up.
Effective.
Great blunt force damage.
You could kill many zombies with a hammer that heavy.
True.
Looks a bit unwieldy, though.
I remember when they made this deal, I think it was in a more open location, though.
Are you sure?
Yeah, because wasn't there a firefight that you played in game?
You just got to kill some people.
Because you got to shoot and stab people by this point.
She's just going to start stealing stuff.
Yeah, can she read? I wonder.
Yeah, I guess so.
Killing time.
I'm sure you'll figure that out.
There's plenty of alcohol on the table there, if you'd like to work on that thing of yours.
This is an uncomfortably long shot following that simple sentence.
Because he's having a little bit of PTSD.
Well, this is another scene they're perfectly recreating from the game.
Oh, the radio came on when you were sleeping.
What?
What was the song?
It kept saying, like, wake me up before you go-go.
Ha, ha, cursed.
Gotcha.
80s means trouble.
Code broken.
That's pretty good.
Pretty clever.
Well, Ellie was clever in the game, too.
You got a jacket in your pack?
Yeah.
Is she not wearing a jacket?
Yeah, that's a good point.
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Two jackets.
All right, well, chilly, I guess.
Fair enough.
So far I'm liking the sets, though.
Yeah.
It seems like they sunk a lot of money into this.
And, I mean, I think you only see Boston.
Like, at this point, they leave Boston and don't come back, right?
So, it's not like you're going back to this set.
Yeah, that's true.
Because if they're ever in the game, they never come back to Boston.
Because, you know, they're leaving.
Well, the entrance just kind of looks like a prison.
They probably filled in the gates of a prison, I guess.
Yeah.
Just added to the game.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They probably filled in the gates of a prison, I guess.
Yeah.
Just added some stuff around.
Decorated the town to make it look a little run-down.
Yep.
Well, I think they intend to come back after this job.
They just don't because of reasons.
They were recording a Norwegian big movie set in the World War II once when I was in Oslo.
And there were swastikas everywhere.
And it made me feel a bit weird.
Ha, ha, ha.
Well, I didn't know. So I just walked down the street and there's a ginormous swastika hanging on Parliament.
I'm like, huh, something interesting has happened.
Ha, ha, ha.
That is something to see, yeah.
Ah, yes.
They're walking through the whole universe.
Change in policy, it seems.
Yeah.
That last election was pretty eventful.
Yep.
Also, like, they're recreating the levels.
Yeah, they actually are.
Because you go under a school bus and then through a ravine with concrete slabs.
They're actually just doing area for area from the game.
It's kind of incredible.
I can't tell if I haven't played it, but...
This feels like the game.
Did this fucking demolish the argument of every other poor adaptation, though?
This demolishes the Halo argument.
Where they're like, we couldn't just recreate the TV show, it'd be awful.
This is recreating the video game and it's actually interesting to watch.
Yeah, because they go under a school bus.
And do a pipe, yeah.
Through a ravine with concrete.
There's a red truck there.
And then they go into a pipe.
They remade the level for the set.
It's kind of nuts.
Yeah, that's probably going to be in the military class.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
That's correct, though.
That should be coming up soon.
There it is.
He's pissed again.
You gotta shoot him.
That thing is going to beep red, ain't it?
Not on her or him, but on that chick.
Great.
Yeah.
That's a good research and flashback.
He'll be dead soon.
He's probably dead now.
See, I think this is actually new to the show.
Yeah, I don't remember him having a spur go.
But that's, again...
Nobody lasts more than a day.
Just look at the health to you.
You would have killed me.
When did it happen?
It doesn't matter. You have to trust me.
They're going to catch you if we don't run.
Joe, we gotta move.
Yeah, I think it happened later, though.
It was a different moment.
Mm-hmm.
I think. It's been a while for me, too.
Yeah, take the gun, dude. Take the gun.
Nice.
Good upgrade.
I would have checked his body for some ammo, but, you know.
So they're hitting all the story beats.
They're changing things a little bit
just to make it work for TV,
but they're not changing it ridiculously.
It's not like the Halo TV show
where it has nothing to do with Halo at all.
Wait, what song is this?
That scene looks pretty good, too.
It's easy.
Is that the Tilted Towers?
Yes.
There's that one, like...
There's that one
very well-known level
that happens in a Tilted Tower
that looks exactly like that.
They're doing so much stuff just for the fans,
you know what I mean?
There's a few inaccuracies here and there, though.
Like, you know, his daughter being black,
and her daughter was literally white-haired, blue-eyed.
I'm going to pause this so I don't get fucking copyrighted
any more than I already am.
Listen, Kyle, it's the current year.
They had to do something like that.
I know, but it's our job to look at it with a critical eye,
so there are some differences.
But Joel's hairdo,
like on the actor,
the facial hair, the hairstyle,
him getting the, you know,
black and salt and black pepper-like style hair,
where it's mixed with grey there,
that's accurate.
That is on the right path there.
A lot of stuff is just shot-for-shot identical.
A lot of stuff,
they try to deliver the lines the same way.
They make some mistakes here and there,
they change a few things,
but it's overall, like,
very faithful.
Looks pretty much just like she did in the game.
Really? I thought she had frizzy hair in the game.
She had frizzy hair,
but she pretty much looks right.
With Ellie,
I get what everybody's saying.
I think she, at the very least,
sounds a bit like Ellie,
at the very least, like her tones and inclinations.
She sounds a bit like her,
but she doesn't look like her,
and doesn't have the body language of her.
So for the actress who's playing Ellie,
she's actually doing a pretty convincing job
of winning me over via time,
but, like, definitely the opening shot.
She doesn't quite have the look of Ellie, though.
Yeah.
So, Arch, you don't know any of this stuff, right?
You're completely ignorant of all this.
He's just a blondie, that's true.
From what I see,
Ellie's character is,
from the TV show, not the TV show,
the game,
from the screenshot, she looks clearly designed
to be young and cute-looking.
Like, innocent is a better word.
You know?
Little upturned nose, blue inquisitive eyes,
small mouth, et cetera,
very clearly designed to
give an idea of innocence, right?
She looks like a kid.
This character in the TV show,
she doesn't look like a kid.
She looks like a grown woman
that's been dressed up as a child
for reasons.
Yeah.
Looked it up, her actress
is, uh,
19 years old now.
When she first came to prominence,
it was... Really?
She looks a lot older than that.
She's 19. When she first came to prominence,
was
in 2016
in Game of Thrones
Season 6. So how many years ago
was that? Seven years ago. So she was
what, 12 back then? As Leanna
Mormont, she actually looks like she could be Ellie.
Leanna Mormont, she looks
more like Ellie.
She looks like she could be Ellie at
that age, but she was, she was 12
in that photo. How old was
Ellie in the video game? Do you remember?
I think she was between 12 and 14.
Okay, gotcha.
They're probably just like, oh, she was
great in Game of Thrones, and they're like, wait, that was
seven years ago.
Yeah, it's like she's a little too old now.
It's also just that her
facial features are wrong
for this. Like,
as a kid, she looked
alright for the role, but now
she,
she looks,
she's got this weird androgynous
feel to her, and she looks
way older than
19. Is that just me?
I could see her 19, but she does definitely
look more androgynous than Ellie looked.
Ellie was not an androgynous character. Okay, Arx,
this is more for your benefit,
but it will be interesting to compare.
This is from The Last of Us Part 1 Remake.
It's a remake of the original game. All the
Joel and Ellie cutscenes. We're just going to watch a few,
and we're not going to watch all of them, and we're not going to watch the whole
thing, but I just want to show you
specifically, like...
Let her go.
Yeah, you were right, Kibbs. They were in a
room, not a hallway.
So, they're hitting the
same story beats, and they're doing kind of
the same things.
I think they have to change some of it,
but it seems reasonably faithful.
This is the same scene.
So, again, same scene. They just kind of paste it differently.
I think I've heard the original for this one.
Well, I still think the video game does a lot of things always better.
Yeah.
Because it was how the vision was intended to be.
Yeah, me too.
Alright.
Yeah, this scene was different.
Yep, because it was a soldier, they didn't have a history with it.
Yeah.
That was added for the show, I think.
They also called it in right away.
Yep.
Yep.
No, they do find out here.
Yep.
It's three weeks old.
No, everyone turns within two days, so you stop bullshitting.
It's three weeks.
I swear.
Why would she set you up?
They take a lot better time explaining it here, though.
They do, but I will say I think showing the PTSD was probably a better way to do the scene.
Yeah, a couple of things.
Joel had a better reaction in the show.
Now, a soldier being on guard by himself is fucking retarded.
That was a good scene.
The PTSD was well explained, and it makes Joel feel more human.
Whereas here, they both just fucking coldheartedly kill a couple of soldiers like it's nothing.
Yes.
Ellie's reaction, too, I think I know what I don't like.
Because this Ellie is way softer, gentler.
She feels younger, more naive.
Like she doesn't understand the seriousness of the situation.
When she stabs the soldiers, she says, sorry.
I thought we were just going to hold them up.
TV show, none of that.
She just stabs them.
The far more innocent delivery makes me instantly feel more for her.
It makes her feel like a young kid in need of protection.
Whereas in the TV show, there's far too much strong female character in the mix.
Yeah, she needs to be a little bit more naive.
Ellie is a strong little lady, and she can actually take a punch.
She's also extremely vulgar, even in the game.
But she also is inexperienced, and so death is still hard for her.
Now, in the video game, it makes a lot more sense that Joel and Tess aren't bothered by death as much, because they've dealt with it so much.
They've become desensitized to it.
That's why in the video game, they're not bothered by killing, because they've killed before.
Many times.
In the show, it's implied that they've killed two, but in the game, by the time you get to the end of episode one in the show, you've already killed dozens, if not a hundred people.
Yeah, you could kill a lot of people over the course of the game.
It is because of a video game, yes.
But I think you're right, Arch.
In case you haven't been able to tell at this point, they're trying to do a Joel finds a replacement daughter storyline, obviously, right?
And to do that, you have to have Ellie be at least kinda likable.
Well, she needs to be a kid.
Yeah.
The character in the TV show does not strike me as a kid at all.
At the absolute most optimistic, she strikes me as a late teenage know-it-all.
I looked it up, she's 14 in the first game, she's 12 during the Discovering I'm a Lesbian DLC, and she's 19 in the second game.
She doesn't seem like a 14-year-old in this show.
Again, I think that is the thing. There's too much strong female in this.
Yeah, the whole stabbing the guy and just go rawr at the same time.
And the thing is too, in the clip you showed there where she tried to do the whole stabby thing to begin with, she was clearly shit at it.
And she was caught easily.
Whereas in the TV show, she straight up fucking ambushes Joel, and it's only because he's a ninja that he manages to stop her.
Let's go, episode 2. Enough intermission.
Well, this definitely wasn't in the game.
Nope.
Jakarta, Indonesia. Wow, we've seen change rather violently. Please speak English. You know you want to.
Hello!
We are looking for zombies.
Wait, they're going to do a racist food thing, aren't they? You guys ate some weird mushrooms and now we're all infected.
This is all new.
You say that, but we're going to show you something interesting now.
Oh damn.
I didn't need that video game.
Wait, do I have to censor these boobs? No! Extra work!
Why do you have to censor the pubes, too?
Why do you have to support them, isn't it? They'll free the nipple.
Mmm.
You jailed the nipple. Now.
Oh luckily she took time to paint her toes. Isn't that nice?
Ooh.
Yeah, it's fungus on the inside.
She's going to chomp.
Nah, she'd open her eyes first so she'd really freak out.
Wriggly tentacles?
The little tendrils in the mouth, that's new, Dev, isn't it?
Yeah, that's the transmission method now. Because, remember, they removed the spores. They now transmit via tentacle sex.
That's why when they were on top of people they kept, like, mouthing over them because the tentacles were planting more fungi bits.
It still feels like an unnecessary change, if you ask me.
That is admirably cold and I appreciate that.
I like how the turtle dude's like, holy shit.
Hold on. Wait on your woman moment for a second.
At least be like, wait to bomb till I've left with my family. But no, she's like, I just won't go home and get bombed now.
Well, she's probably thinking that she might be infected because she was just in there, right?
Possibly. She was in a vacuum-sealed suit.
Yeah.
Plus, remember, again, it's not airborne.
This intro is still creatively bankrupt. I can't get over it.
It's like, I don't like these deviations. It feels like the show is thinking to itself, are you actually kind of wanting to do a different zombie apocalypse thing?
They're like, we don't need these 10 minutes, this is what happened befores.
Yeah, because all these scenes are is trying to justify the changes to the lore as to why it's not spore-based anymore, which is retarded.
It's like 20 minutes of pointless justification.
Because the zombies are spores.
So the reason why that zombie was on the wall arch is because at the next stage what happens is they start emitting those spores.
Because that's how they continue to infect and continue to spread.
Yeah, they're in giant mushrooms, they just start blowing spores everywhere.
Yeah, but now that doesn't make any sense for them to do that. There's no reason for it.
The whole point of the zombie reproduction in the game is that it would make spore zones underground.
Yep. And that has now been invalidated, which kind of undermines the whole reproductive process.
I think the reason that the clickers were blind is because they were sensitive to light.
And so that drove them underground to...
Sensitive to UV, hence why the clickers when they're at that stage go underground to then turn into the big giant spores which produce more airborne spores.
They just watch all night to make sure she didn't turn overnight.
That's Boston. I think any spot is as good as any other.
Just you.
That's funny.
I mean you can still just piss in the toilet.
Racism against the infected.
Delicious hardtack.
Bit chewy.
Raises the bugs.
Is it chicken?
Yep.
Or until they get it from smugglers.
Guess not you guys.
Ouch.
Because you are. Because you're 19.
You know what? This scene is the same as the game as well.
They're really sticking to it.
I had the same conversation.
Yep, the exact same conversation. Same lines.
That's kind of funny.
Pick up your sandwich.
Yeah, eat your fucking chicken sandwich. What's wrong?
Absolutely not.
Okay, Jesus, fine. I'll just have a fucking sandwich out there.
Let me turn up.
Jurassic Park theme music.
Just because it's got overgrown buildings.
Look, there's even the dinosaurs there.
That's not dinosaurs. Those are birds.
Birds, dinosaurs, Kyle. That's what Jurassic Park told me.
He's like, the word to dinosaurs waxes.
We should get moving.
Before the T-Rex finds us.
And, dude, they have the same leaning tower. It's great.
They knew what was iconic about the first game.
And they put it in there.
So we could do this. So we could basically be like, I member.
Yep. I'm membering.
I wonder how much of this is CG and how much of it is like they dressed up a street.
Well, the crumbly towers, I would have to say, are definitely CG.
Oh, they're doing the hotel.
This is CG. You can actually see the hard cuts slightly off in the distance.
Yeah.
See, they're going to the hotel and they're just doing the levels of the game.
It's kind of nice to see them just stick to it.
Are you there alone?
Yeah.
How old are you?
Fourteen.
Nineteen.
Mommy, you got some balls on you, sister.
Thanks.
Also, you weren't alone in there, you liar.
Don't bring up that cringey DLC.
I played the DLC.
Nobody's going to be coming after you, right?
Like mom, dad, boyfriend.
I'm an orphan and no.
Because she's a lesbian.
Did she know that?
Hey, that DLC was made during current year policy.
To be fair, she didn't point it out cringily like that one scene in Discovery
where they force the pronouns in out of nowhere.
It makes no fucking sense.
They just use these pronouns to this character.
It's like, oh, Jesus, why is this in the script?
She could have made a deal out of it.
And they're like, no, actually, I'm a lesbian.
It's my identity.
And she didn't.
And I munch rug.
And she didn't.
Just let it be.
That was the mating call of the average Bostonian.
Wow, food.
Yeah, man.
Mm, ducks.
Put bullets inside of them.
Oh, look.
Stop it, frog.
Pepe is playing a tune.
I know this, that's pretty cool.
Yeah, this is the hotel lobby, right?
Yeah.
I feel like wandering around in knee-high water with a zombie infection around is a terrible idea.
But then again, that's just me.
Yeah.
You could get a cut, an injury, you could trip.
Yeah, just in general, wandering around in knee-high, stale water is a bad idea.
That is plastic.
And you can see the fucking plastic mold lines.
Yep.
Oh, good attempt, I guess.
Yep.
And you know what?
To the story's credit, she's acting a bit more naive this episode.
Would you want an arch?
I mean, that was incredibly annoying, the thing she just did, but yeah.
Well, naivety and annoyingness kind of go together.
She's pretty much acted like this in the game too, so.
Yep, yep.
They're doing just shot for shot, scene for scene, interaction for interaction.
They're just making the show.
No excuses, no nonsense.
No, we can't do this.
No, there's not enough content in the original lore.
They're just doing it.
I'm very impressed.
Just shoulder the doors in, man, it's okay.
Right, well.
It's like 56.
You fucking shoulder the door in.
They do have high-powered fucking rifles, so, you know, opening the door wouldn't actually be a problem.
Yeah, a locked door in an abandoned post-apocalyptic building is not that big of a deal.
Well, you don't want to waste ammunition.
You also don't want to make the lock noises.
Also, Mythbusters did...
You can actually shoot locks off with them.
Oh, you can't?
Yeah.
Oh, you absolutely can.
You just need to know where the lock is.
You don't shoot the lock, you shoot the locking pin.
You know, the whole Ellie with the switchblade thing was actually a game mechanic,
because the shivs you could craft were like insta-kill for zombies.
Whenever you played as Ellie, she had a knife that could just insta-kill constantly to make it easier.
I actually like this more...
...sympathetic Joe.
Or Joe.
Joel.
Joel, you got it right.
Whatever the hell he is.
Because he's not just a killing machine, he's just a human now.
Well, yeah, he's on a video game.
Video games, you gotta have action sequences or...
Big game boring.
Where you stealth kill 30 soldiers.
That was always funny.
Wow, the dye in those pillows have survived remarkably well.
Hold on, hold on.
They've completely remade that one scene.
Do you recognize this, Kibbs?
Yes, I do.
Yeah, it's the first encounter with a clicker.
They remade the set.
Like, talk about attention to detail.
Oh, that's a good one.
It's pretty much just like from the game.
Yep.
Well, that's disgusting.
Why are they doing that?
Zombie orgy, baby.
Oh, they're back in the sun.
Yeah.
I don't remember dead, though.
The underground fiber optic.
Yep.
We're doing the fucking Avatar thing.
Because fungi are intelligent now.
I'm pretty sure we've seen like underground corsets and stuff.
No.
We have, but not to the way she just described it.
That was different.
Yeah, it doesn't work like that.
The Sebi, like hive mind stuff, that's new.
Oh, it's the zombies that are communists.
They're all collectivized.
Well, you're saying this shell is actually based.
Okay, you just said that if you touch some of the cordyceps,
everyone around knows, right?
Are you going to go into this really?
Don't touch it, dude.
Dry and dead, I guess.
It's still weird that they're near it.
Yeah.
Without masks.
I guess this is their way to try and replicate the feel
of unease of entering a bungled environment
without having the breathable spores.
Yeah.
I guess.
Yeah.
Again, I don't see, no, no,
I do see the point of why they did remove the mask.
It's because Pablo Escobar there needs to be visualized.
Yep.
Congratulations.
That's why we have the unnecessary flashbacks
that add really nothing, but just exposition.
You know, at least the environments look good again.
Yeah.
Covered in the fungus, it looks like it's infected.
It's weird without the masks and, you know,
having to worry about that.
The Boston Tea Party,
where a bunch of Americans dressed up in blackface
and threw British tea overboard.
They're pretty based.
Yeah, clickers.
I've been attacked by one and it wasn't like that.
Okay, from this point forward, we are silent,
not quiet, silent, well, no question.
You're still whispering, though.
Ah, yes.
Old wooden stairs.
The quietest approach ever.
Well, what do you want?
You want them to fly up there?
True.
They don't have much of a choice, but...
It's like he kind of undivides this whole thing.
Like, we're gonna be quiet, not here, not...
Hmm, cannons.
And this is where you unlock the shotgun.
From Fallout 4.
You know, houses don't behave like that.
They don't just randomly go,
eh, I'm gonna collapse now.
Yeah, it's like a slow process.
Oh, there it is.
Oh, my God, what was that?
It was data.
A zombie.
Yup, there's the clickies.
Yep.
The reason they click is because they use echolocation,
because they can't see.
No, that's not the case, Dev.
That's not how echolocation works.
Yeah, but that's how it works in the game.
And also...
That's not how this works.
And the reason they can't see
is because they're really sensitive to light now.
After they've been affected for this long.
Yep, their face is just a big mushroom now.
Are they immune to bullets?
Nope.
It takes a lot of them.
Remember, shooting a gun in a city filled with zamboos.
Also, if you're fighting an echolocative enemy,
you don't want to be shooting.
Actually, you do.
Do you? Why?
Because it'll blow out their fucking ears.
No, no, not really.
No, they will.
Why do you think sonar stops working
when there's like death charges nearby?
Oh, fair enough, eh?
I mean, in the game, if you shoot, they all just charge you.
So...
Watch where you're running, man.
It's like those enemies in Resident Evil
where you got to hit gongs to make them run around.
Oh god, I remember this.
Zoom in so that you can't see the zombie getting closer.
That way, when the zombie suddenly appears,
Kyle will be frightened and scream like a woman.
Here we go.
Hi.
Eh, less of a jump scare than I expected.
I actually kind of appreciate the fact
they're trying to build the atmosphere
instead of simply just a boop.
Luckily, the ancient wooden floor
has stopped creaking at this point.
The topic of Kyle being a woman,
why do you keep drawing yourself with boobs
and pregnant and womb tattoos?
Kibs, you've got to tell us something.
What's going on here?
It's not my fault.
I can't control the artists.
The fan art of you being a girl?
It's out of control.
Oh.
I'm going to kill a sperm zombie.
I feel like the gut shots aren't really working, my dude.
There you go.
There we go.
You've got to blow off the giant mushroom on their heads.
And there you go.
It seems like head shots do just fine,
so it seems like the best way to deal with them
is to walk up to one,
rest the .357 against their heads, and boom.
Well, they're lucky that there's only two.
Yeah, when there's a lot of them, you're kind of fucked.
Are you fucking kidding me?
And again, I mean, if it was going to happen to one of us.
It's fair.
Yeah.
So do these zombies react to noise?
Is that it is?
Because.
Yep.
I do.
I don't seem to.
In the game, you can like.
You can use noises.
Yeah.
No, it looks scary.
That was scary.
This is wood.
OK, child.
Just wait there.
You're falling.
Give us a minute.
Let's go.
Go watch it.
Pedro thinks you're being a bit fucking snappy.
This is actually the way it was in the game, too.
She was in charge and he was kind of being ordered around
and was kind of a big old grump about everything.
Hey, Collin.
Yep.
OK, is this where the trip wires start coming in?
Well, I can't remember.
Lilith, how about you?
Because, like, this looks like a level from the game,
Kibbs and Lilith, if you remember.
This is.
Yeah.
There was a trip wire between the front of the truck
and the car in the background.
They positioned it like exactly like the level was.
There's such incredible attention to detail.
Probably almost too much, you know.
Not enough.
Halo.
Yeah, fuck.
Or like Kenobi or whatever.
Fuck.
Holy shit.
So many bad shows and movies out there.
Oh, hey, look.
There's a shotgun.
He can unlock it now.
That's something, right?
Our luck had to run out sooner or later.
All right, here we go.
Fuck.
He's infected.
Oh, fuck.
He's sleeping now.
Yeah, it's moving.
They all know, baby.
This is new, by the way.
This is new.
Yes, this is new.
So, gunshots, no big deal.
But the Myconial Network?
Well.
Yeah, I'm not sure I feel less than that.
Well, I think in the game, like, it's soldiers that chase them.
Yeah, soldiers show up here, yeah.
And you have to fight off a bunch of human enemies.
Now it's zombies.
Because Federer does show up.
Yeah.
All of them.
Maybe a minute.
Interestingly, they seem to be going more for the idea of the main characters being human.
Like, they're not vilifying Federer.
Yeah.
What are you doing?
Making sure that they don't follow you.
I mean, even in the game, Federer wasn't, quote, unquote, evil.
They were doing what they had to do to survive.
Yeah, you were killing them by the dozen, I bet.
You were.
You were.
I mean, they were also pretty...
They were sometimes a bit too far.
They still, like, indiscriminately, you know, hung people in the town square.
Say who you can say.
Well, criminals.
But we didn't know.
Yeah, communist dev criminals.
Yeah, they were military court, you know.
Pretty fair and balanced.
Yeah.
Dev's like, I don't believe this.
Oh, okay, that's different.
Yeah, this isn't...
Didn't she just kill herself, if I remember right?
Yeah, she shot herself.
There was no, like, heroic standoff.
No, she fought off the soldiers, and then...
Oh, that's right, yeah, yeah.
She killed, I believe, two, and then she got killed by the soldiers afterwards.
Right, right, right.
As the player, you actually get a chance to ambush the soldiers afterwards and get revenge for the test.
Or you could just run away.
Alright, you better do it.
Oh, come on.
You gotta do it now, dude.
Don't worry, a lighter isn't hot enough to touch off that shield anyways.
It's not?
Nope.
Oh.
Well, TV show. You don't need to do that.
Oh, okay, thank you.
Oh, that's a bit fucking weird.
Yeah, thanks.
Somebody's masturbating right now, I swear to God.
Somebody somewhere.
That's a bit gross.
Also, that's not how a hand-degrainer's cook off either, but never mind, details, details.
But yeah, a lot of that scene was the same.
Like, her revealing that she had been bit, the whole thing.
No, definitely.
The whole sacrifice and the weir of kissing.
The end was different, but most of the scene was the same.
Wow, so there we go.
Episodes one and two down the hatch.
I'm stunned at how good it was.
I was expecting complete and total nonsense.
No, that was actually pretty good.
The changes that they made, well, some were a bit strange.
I think the kiss was probably requested by the actress.
She probably wanted to go out in a weird but memorable way.
Yeah, maybe not the kiss itself, but the actual...
Maybe, I don't know.
The actual sacrificing yourself to stop the zombie horde thing.
And again, I actually quite appreciate the fact that they're making the characters not psychotic murder hobos, as they were in the game.
Yes.
That's actually a good change.
I'm not that wowed by the show itself, like the whole pacing, etc.
It's kind of slow, it's kind of meh.
I'm frankly not that invested in this supposed child.
But the simple fact that it's not awful is already much...
See, for me, one, it's the fact that they actually are following the game as much as they are, which is a miracle in this day and age.
But as you say, for the show itself, Ellie's not nearly as interesting as she was in the game, but Joel is still pretty interesting.
Joel is about as interesting as he was.
It's going to be interesting to see how they go forward, because the thing that's going to make or break the show is the interaction between Joel and Ellie is the same way as it was in the video game.
Because it was their interactions that sold the game.
Yeah, the entire premise of the game was based on their relationship.
And if they don't do that right, then there is no Last of Us.
Still, I'm surprised. I mean, I expected to only be watching bad stuff on this channel, you know?
And here we are, watching at least an okay to decent show.
I'm okay with that. We don't always have to be hit watching Trainwreck.
I mean, we're not watching a shitty Velma show, at least.
Hold on. We should start Velma. We should change gears and switch over to Velma instead.
The show's been shitty enough, we must torture ourselves.
Naomi is like, Dev, do you want to watch Velma with me? And I'm like, listen, there's no good answer to this question.
Because either I'm watching Velma or you think I don't want to spend time with you.
Don't worry. Just the first episode. I think she'll change her mind.
Well, final thoughts then, everyone?
I think it's pretty good. I mean, they changed some stuff from the game, obviously, but nobody expected a one-to-one recreation.
But what they did recreate was actually fairly faithful.
They created the major sceneries, the major vistas, and the major plot points, for the most part.
Of course, with some changes, which just makes things a little bit more interesting.
I find it very interesting that they changed the dates to make it before without explicitly stating it.
Or saying it to your face, like, this is what we're doing, and this is 2013, guys.
Oh, this is what would happen if something happened 10 years ago. I don't know how much that would change.
Yeah, I'm not sure why they did that. I'm not sure why they did that.
In the original game, the past was set in 2013, because 2013 was the year the game came out.
And then the present was 2033. And now, the past is 2003, and the present is 2023, which is our current year.
So I guess they wanted to make it relatable somehow, either way.
But I'm not sure why they made that change.
It doesn't really change that much.
It was fairly faithful to the video game. There are some weird, unnecessary changes.
Like, if they just didn't do the fungal retcon thing, I think the show would be a little better,
because it would be more faithful to the original source material.
I think Arch is correct. I think that the whole reason for the change was down to the actor not wanting to have his face covered up.
But again, I still have to beg the question, like, the gas masks that Joel wear, you could just use a different one where you can see their face.
It's not that big of a deal.
I also don't think Joel wears the gas masks throughout the entire game anyways.
Only parts of it. In parts of it, yeah.
But it's only, it's very small sections in the game.
He does when, like, their room is, like, fumigated with the spores.
Yeah, yeah.
He does a couple points in the game, and that's, honestly, I think that's the thing that bugs me the most,
is because, like, it's such a little thing, it's like, you know, he could have just worn the mask,
and those sections were short, and in this show, they skip most of those combat sequences anyways,
and so those gas mask, quote-unquote, sections would have been incredibly short.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah. In, like, the game itself, there was even a section where they find, like, a smuggler with his mask broken,
and you have to either put him out of his misery or leave him to suffer.
Yep, that was a cool moral laundry.
Yeah.
Oh, you're right, Lilith, I completely forgot about that sequence.
That wasn't even in the game. Or in the show.
Yeah, in the show, yeah.
That was, I think, like, the reason why they didn't do it in a show is because, like,
oh, then the audience is gonna question why aren't they wearing masks or in sections where they should be.
It might have to do with the fact that masks right now are also a delicate social thing, because...
I don't think that's it.
No?
I can actually enlarge the argument for this.
These aren't little masks. These are, like, gas masks.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but masks are masked.
I don't think that was the reason at all.
Well, let's see Arch's logic, though. Let's see Arch's logic.
The show so far has been studiously inoffensive to our point of view.
In fact, it's been studiously inoffensive to any point of view. It's simply been a retelling.
Yep.
That makes me think, they seem to be going out of their way to do this,
and if the objective is to create good television that people want to watch,
that avoids all of the current eardrama, et cetera,
they probably would want to avoid the mask thing too, just even the inference or suggestion of it,
because that was a big deal.
I feel like leaving it out raises more questions.
Exactly, though, but that's the thing.
Leaving it out raises more questions for the law.
The only reason to remove it is either, a, Pedro Pascal and his ego is a word like,
well, I have to wear a mask for, like, five minutes in two hours of TV show,
which, I can see it, but I'm also like, that's weird.
Removing the masks is still a bad thing.
Because they had to work in two scenes,
one mask of exposition dump at the beginning that was completely unnecessary,
and then an entire flashback sequence to characters that don't matter in Jakarta,
to just simply explain the whole fungal thing again.
And these scenes were disjointed, they weren't necessary,
and they were there to try to justify the reason for its existence.
And in the show, before the show went live,
the writers and the runners actually talked about,
oh, the audience, we're doing things this differently,
and it's going to be a big deal, it's going to be really cool.
And so far, the only payoff has been, there's little tendrils that come out of their mouth,
and there's like a really gross kiss scene that just was kind of like,
ooh, that's just gross. I mean, the zombies are supposed to be gross,
but that was just a completely different field of weird.
There's one final thing that I think we should touch on real briefly before we end off the night.
Usually, when we talk about a show on my channel or your channel or someone else,
Gundam or Critical Drinker or Mauler or whoever talks about shows in this way,
I've noticed that a core component of the conversation is the social media backlash,
because the show is bad, right?
With Kenobi, it was Riva, with Lord of the Rings, it was the Black Elf,
but it was really fucking everything, right?
There's a lot of that shit, and people say,
well, you just hate the show because you're racist,
and some people are just racist, and some people,
they're like, well, why did you have to race swap this character?
You saw a lot of posts like this, where people were complaining that Joel's daughter
was changed from a white blonde girl to a half-black girl with frizzy hair.
Complaint, if we're going to remove the racist aspect of it,
because I'm sure some of them were just racist,
but the actual substance of the complaint is that Joel is supposed to be reminded
of his daughter when he sees Ellie, so they're supposed to look somewhat similar,
and the two actresses they got in this show look nothing alike.
It is a pointless change. It does not improve the story in any way.
It only damages it, but she's only in the show for a little bit and then dies.
Yes.
It's not a big deal.
Meanwhile, Aaron Deere is shoved in your fucking face every five seconds,
and when the entire show is bad, it is easy to focus on the bad parts of it,
whereas here, again, he's a race swap daughter, she's there,
she goes through the motions, then she dies, and it's like, okay, that was it,
and every other character seems to be okay, so...
And you know what? She was still a competent actress.
She still did the job of playing the character very well.
So far I say she did a better job than Ellie.
Yeah, she actually did a pretty good job.
I think my only complaint was that by changing her race to mixed or black,
they played into the trope of the black character dies first.
Oh, yeah, that's right, eh? Damn.
That's true.
There's also the weird... Okay, so watermelon in the fucking freezer.
He steals 20 bucks to fix his watch.
Wow.
Yeah, in the original game, there was no watermelon in the fridge,
and she saved up her money to fix the watch, and that was the gift.
It's...
That was a strange show.
Weird choices.
Yeah.
Let's make the one character we race swapped into a watermelon-eating thief.
Hmm.
I mean...
That's a bit strange.
It's most likely that the set dressers didn't even notice it.
Your racist spider senses are not as advanced as mine.
Yeah.
Maybe.
And I think the set dressers would have noticed it,
because who puts a full quarter watermelon slice just in the fridge?
You know what the worst part is?
I went back to the watermelon slice picture.
Yeah?
It's got fucking freezer burns on it.
It's been in there for years as they wait to do the shot.
Somebody requisitioned that thing ages in advance and had to put it in there.
You know what they're doing?
There was leftover chicken in there that his brother ate, was eating out of.
He has wings, yeah.
So it's entirely possible that they were trying to make it look like it's cozy,
or not cozy, but a little bit slobby in terms of the stuff that's there.
Because isn't Joel, if I remember right, he doesn't have...
His wife isn't with him anymore, or is dead.
Ah, no.
His wife left him and left the kid behind.
And so he's kind of a single dad, and so it's giving that single dad vibe.
A little bit unclean, a little bit rugged.
Ah, yes.
Single dads and their fucking random ass watermelons.
Also, wait, wait.
In race-swapping Joel's daughter, he must have had sex with a black woman who then abandoned her child.
That makes that a whole lot worse.
Jesus!
Yeah, because in the original lore of the game, Joel's wife walked out on him a year into their relationship,
and she just kept the kid.
So if that's the same lore, then she just up and left.
This is a win. I don't know if they think it's the win they think it is, but it is there.
Last of Us, turns out, is actually just hyper-based and red-pilled.
Watches Nick Fuentes every weekend.
I will say this too, though.
One thing I also noticed is the fucking stunt people in this show fucking went for it.
Like the scene where she tries to ambush Joel.
Pablo fucking chucks that little bitch.
The wall bulges from the impact.
And also the zombies that are running and crashing into things and jumping over everything and just falling all over the place, yeah.
Oh yeah, the actors are putting their entire zombussy into it.
Zombussy?
I'm a pussy.
Yeah.
It was a surprisingly decent show, which is weird.
It exists and it isn't complete garbage.
Yeah, I'm stunned.
Are we going to keep watching it every week, I guess?
Well, not that it's good. Is there any point?
Yeah, I was thinking that too.
We do gotta switch gears to Velma.
Well, for fuck's sake, you guys have problems.
Before it begins, goddammit, Kibbs, fix your mic.
Fix what?
Your mic keeps going off, like randomly.
You can just hear background noises all the time.
Really?
Yeah.
Wow, boomer.
I'm just gay with that shit.
You're pulling a Sargon right now.
Oh Jesus, that's fucking bad.
No, that's my feelings.
True, fungi cannot survive if its host's internal temperature is over 94 degrees.
And apparently there are no reasons for...
Kibbs, your mic is going crazy again. What happened?
I...
Oh God, for some reason I was like, why is there like a mammogram going off in the background?
Yeah.
And now he's quiet.
You're actually very quiet now, Jesus.
Really? How quiet? How do I do this?
I've cranked you up to 135 and I can barely hear you.
Climate change caused it.
Climate change has caused everything.
Kibbs, any one of them could become capable of borrowing into our brains and taking control...
Wait, Kibbs, are you still there?
Oh my God, dude.
What the fuck's going on with you today? Because I can barely hear you.
Is it just me?
No, he's just boomer.
It sounds like your volume is at 10%, man.
I haven't changed anything.
Maybe my stuff is starting to break, I don't know.
Go into your sound panel outside of Discord, like your Windows sound panel, and see what your mic levels are at.
I mean, it should be fine.
Crank that shit up, Kibbs.
Even louder.
How about now? Is that any better?
Jesus, what the fuck happened?
What, is it too loud now? I'll turn it down.
Not only is it too loud, all the background noise is back.
Is that any better? Is the background noise gone?
I set you to 200 and I can hear you now, but there's like a loud hum in the background whenever you talk.
No, it's not that loud. It's only kinda loud.
What's going on?
I can't hear it now.
That sounds like it might be an improperly seated audio cable, so try like...
Do you use XLR connections for your mics?
I can't even understand you at this point. It's all just humming.
What you should do is unplug your XLR connectors, give them a little dust off, and plug them back in.
Are you back?
Should be.
It sounds the exact same.
Wiggle the cord at the end of the connector and talk at the same time. Try doing that for each end.
Yeah, anything here?
Nope.
How about here?
That's it. That's the broken one. You probably have a break in your XLR cable.
Okay, well...
Get a replacement.
Okay, so chat. Did you tell your chat the story of what happened today? Of your failure, Kibs?
How you were an hour late and then your cable didn't work?
I told them in Galactic Sibs stream, I was like, so I showed up, I was like, hey Dev, how you doing?
Dev's like, I'm a homosexual. Okay, you know, that's cool for you. I'm not judging.
Tell them how that went down, and then my mic stopped working because Dev was being fat and very loud.
That's how it happened, eh?
It caused me to fall on my microphone and bump the cable.
Firstly, I've had XLR cables fail in that exact way before, so I recognized the sound as soon as I heard it.
I was like, Kibs, your XLR is fucked up.
I'm actually glad you noticed because I was trying to figure out what the fuck was wrong with it.
Was that the first time it had been happening?
This is the first time I've ever had to replace my XLR cable.
Okay. Has it been making that noise since before this morning?
For about a year.
Are you fucking serious?
I know, but it was so, like, anytime I'd unplug it and plug it back in, it was like, fixed.
I was like, huh, that's weird. Like, it would just seemingly fix itself.
It's gotten progressively worse in the last month.
You could have just wiggled it, we could have done the recording.
It's unstable.
Like, it's occasionally fasted anyways.
It's not that unstable, you've been streaming all day.
Yeah, but I also have the music of the game turned up, so it covers it up when it does act up.
Oh.
Yeah.
Basically.
