Hello my friends, welcome to SJ Weekly number 14 for the 23rd of September 2018.
I almost forgot to do this one.
I've been spending the whole day house cleaning.
I've cleaned the recording studio, I've cleaned the office, I've cleaned the bedrooms, I've
cleaned the bathrooms, the kitchen, the living room, the porch, everything, pretty much everything
now, without my girlfriend.
And honestly, it sounds kind of weird to say, but it feels good to have it all clean.
It feels good to like sit down in a clean house.
So I've decided to take a break with a delicious sweet green tea and look over some bullshit
with you guys.
Here, just listen to this.
Oh yeah baby.
Mmm, that's good stuff.
So today we have, from USA Today, Donald Trump broke the presidency.
It's time to get rid of the job altogether.
So now we're at the point where the media is advocating for the dissolution of democracy
because they still can't get their way.
Donald Trump is proof that the US presidency is broken and democracy is in peril.
It's time to amend the constitution and abolish the presidency.
Why?
I mean, you might even be able to make a decent political argument as to why the US constitution
should be amended and the presidency should be replaced with like a prime ministership
maybe or a different style of democratic government, something different.
You could have that conversation, but this is quite literally just abolish the presidency
because we keep losing and we can't compete.
Abolish the POTUS.
We've seen it.
The belligerent typo-ridden tweets, the fawning press conferences with autocrats and overlords,
the self-described Nazis on parade praising an American president's name.
We've seen it with our own eyes.
There is a bloated authoritarian lounging in his bathrobe in a 200 year old mansion
that used to symbolize the principal republic of the world.
Yeah, that's all true, at least on some level.
And what makes it more interesting is that despite all of those flaws that you're attributing
to Trump, you still couldn't beat him at the polls.
Your preferred candidate was considered to be worse by the American people.
This is a man who openly conspired to cheat with the help of a hostile foreign nation
in a federal election.
Yeah, they're talking about Russia here and really the left has loved Russia up until
recently.
On election night, he came in second place, yet due to a scab of slavery in the constitution,
the electoral college, this usurper has the full power of the most powerful- I can't-
okay, I can't fucking keep going.
The electoral college is not a scab of slavery, the electoral college is in place to ensure
that densely populated cities with their monoform culture don't get to rule over the entire
nation, including the hinterlands of it.
Because people in the city have no idea how people in the country live, and vice versa.
So they can't simply be trusted to make decisions for the good of both.
I mean, right now you have these elitist leftists who live in San Francisco and LA and New York
City who think that they know best for everyone on the planet, and the truth is they don't.
But they think that their ideas are how society should be set up, not knowing that if it were
actually that way, it would completely destroy everyone not living in their coastal elite
urban centers.
And because they don't know that, they simply can't be trusted with a direct majority, which
is why the electoral college exists.
Here let me couch it in SJW rhetoric.
The electoral college exists to provide some level of privilege to an oppressed class of
people, the people who can't afford to live anywhere but the fucking sticks.
This usurper has the full power of the most powerful military in history, command of the
treasury, the absolute power to pardon and he can unilaterally annihilate millions of
people with his command to deploy nuclear weapons.
He's made refugees begging us for mercy into orphans hoping it will deter other asylum
seekers, because he can.
He's now poised to put a man on the supreme court, Brett Kavanaugh, who believes in supreme
leaders, if they're republican that is.
This may be the most ridiculously skewed paragraph I have ever read on a mainstream media outlet.
It's pretty incredible.
Russia attacked our country.
The target was Hillary Clinton and liberal democracy, and they hit their mark.
Now I'm no expert on the subject, but as far as I know, Russian involvement in the American
election basically amounted to uncovering Hillary Clinton's emails and showing the truth
to the American population about all the terrible shit she had done, and in that case we actually
owe the Russians a debt of gratitude.
If you're stunned that President Donald Trump is still in office because he's so horrible
and so unpopular and so obviously corrupt, you are not alone.
The overwhelming majority agrees with you.
Only about 25% of eligible voters voted for President grab him by the pussy, yet the majority
was apparently powerless to stop him.
Well if you feel that way, impeach him.
Here's what you do.
The 2018 elections are coming up.
If you felt this way maybe a year ago, you should have fielded candidates who one, were
willing to impeach Donald Trump, two, had other qualities to them that would make them
electable by their various constituents, and then once they got into office in 2018,
impeach Donald Trump.
That's how you do it.
If you actually think that you are part of the overwhelming majority, then surely you
could have rustled all this up, but you haven't.
All you've been doing since 2016, hell, since Brexit, is throwing a long unending tantrum.
But of course, she talks about impeachment right here.
Impeachment won't remove Trump from office.
The remedy in our constitution for a treasonous turncoat who got into the White House in our
technicality is impeachment.
But guess what?
Impeachment has never gotten rid of a bad president in this country.
Not ever.
Bill Clinton finished his term after being impeached.
The threat of impeachment got Nixon to step down, but impeachment as a whole has failed.
It's never lived up to its promise.
Well that's the problem isn't it?
Because Bill Clinton wasn't a treasonous turncoat.
He lied about an affair he had.
That's basically it, and you're not going to get someone kicked out of the White House
for having an affair.
If Trump is as bad as you say, and you are the majority the way that you say you are,
you should be able to impeach him, and that should lead to him getting kicked out of the
White House.
However, he's not, and you can't.
Abolish presidency to save democracy.
We can make that happen.
My fear isn't Trump.
It's that the next autocrat is most likely smarter and savvier than Trump.
Every partisan from every niche of American politics should be alarmed.
We have a branch of government that stinks so bad it's wafted over the entire nation
and its outer territories.
The entire world sees it.
We're in trouble.
The presidency is broken.
Our little democratic experiment is in peril.
To be honest, it would be worse under Hillary.
And it would be worse under Hillary.
Trump is, he's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination.
He's actually probably not that good of a president, but he is the president that the
United States needed at this point in time.
And all of this whining because you lost.
I mean, let's be honest here.
This article would not have been written if Hillary won the presidency, even though she
would have been objectively worse than Trump.
We can amend our constitution to save the republic, abolish the presidency, power to
the people, power to the Congress, make the co-equal branches of government more equal.
Give us a council of boring bureaucrats who will do their jobs, serve the people and leave
after their term ends.
Well, frankly, that is what Congress should be.
And as I recall, Trump ran on making Congress have term limits.
Now, who knows if he'll ever actually get that done.
In fact, he probably won't get that done.
Maybe he'll get it done on a second term because by then he really won't give a shit.
Just like Obama didn't give a shit on a second term.
But your complaint here seems to be that Congress doesn't have term limits.
And Trump, well, Trump agrees with you on that one.
Considering that the author of this article sounds like a fucking snowflake, let's move
on to the next one titled Don't Call Us Snowflakes, It Damages Our Mental Health, Say Young People.
This is quite the image.
This is an incredible image.
Being called a snowflake is damaging to mental health, young people say.
Figures show, which figures are we talking about here, that the majority of young people
think the term is unfair and even more think it could have a negative effect on its own.
Well, maybe you shouldn't be fucking snowflakes then.
Holy fuck.
Okay.
Can you imagine if this were flipped on its head?
Imagine if a bunch of young conservatives or alt-right people came out and said, don't
call us Nazis.
It's damaging to our mental health.
Whether or not they were actually Nazis, let's just put that aside for a minute.
They're just saying, don't call us Nazis.
They would be universally shat on by everyone.
The honest truth is, not only can you not choose your pronoun, well, I mean, you can
to an extent.
You can be polite about it.
Like if you're a trans person who gets misgendered, you can politely ask that somebody call you
by a different set of pronouns.
If they don't listen to you, they're being a dick, but it's their choice, right?
But not only can you not choose your pronoun really, you can't choose your adjective.
And this snowflake business is kind of an extension of the choosing your pronouns stuff
because basically what it boils down to is people saying, hey, I get to control what
you say about me because what you say about me might be damaging to me.
So if you misgender me, I should have some kind of power over you to make you stop doing
that.
And if you can do it for pronouns, why can't you do it for adjectives?
It's the same logic, right?
Don't call me a snowflake.
It makes me feel bad.
It's damaging me.
So therefore you must be controlled.
Then we can take it further.
Don't call me an idiot.
Don't call me stupid.
Don't call me dumb.
Don't call me slow.
Don't call me anything that I don't want you to call me.
That's the end result of this political correctness bullshit is this snowflake stupidity here.
The snowflake generation is a disparaging term now commonly used to refer to young people
who are perceived to be oversensitive and intolerant of disagreement.
Well that's because they are.
They can't tolerate any kind of disagreement.
Whenever there's a speaker at a university they don't like, they'll pull the fire alarm.
They'll attack people wearing black masks over disagreements.
It's ridiculous bullshit.
Research by insurance firm Aviva found that 72% of 16 to 24 year olds think the term is
unfairly applied, while 74% think it could have a negative effect on young people's mental
health.
Well of course they're pulling this card because it's how they've controlled the conversation
so far.
If you're somebody who is willing to use violence to accomplish your political objectives, and
then somebody calls you violent knowing that to be perceived to be violent by the public
at large is a negative thing, they're now going to want to control your speech and say
don't call me violent.
Even though you objectively are violent, that person is going to say don't call me violent
because it looks bad.
And that's what this is.
It's not quite the same thing.
We're talking about snowflakes, not violence, but it's a related idea.
These people know that they are intolerant of debates.
These people know that they're intolerant of different types of ideas.
They do it in the name of battling oppression or whatever.
And they know that the public perception of them is that they're basically sissies.
Is that they can't handle anything outside of their bubble.
So they're called snowflakes and they don't like that.
The figures also show that young people are more likely to have experienced stress, anxiety
and depression in the last year.
Get off Tumblr.
I'm sure some of this is real.
Some people have some terrible situations they're going through.
But you live in the most privileged society in the most privileged time on earth.
Get off Tumblr.
Recognize the opportunities you have laid out in front of you.
And get to work.
That's why you have stress, you have anxiety and you're depressed.
The phrase which originated in America has particularly come to refer to universities
and students who use trigger warnings to alert readers or listeners to potentially
distressing material and safe spaces which are meant to be free of certain opinions or
ideas.
You said it right there.
The safe space is meant to be free of opinions and ideas.
Now what is it that a snowflake was described as?
Let me just find it up here.
Snowflake generation perceived to be oversensitive and intolerant of disagreement.
What is a safe space for snowflakes?
Oh, a place where there's no contrary opinions and ideas.
Maybe in that place there will be no disagreement.
It is also used to imply that young people are less resilient than older generations
and quicker to take offense.
Well, that is generally true, isn't it?
I mean, young people have had a lot less experience with the world.
It's not just in terms of being resilient or quicker to take offense, it's also in
terms of, you know, physical strength, experience, capability of dealing with loss, emotional
maturity, physical maturity, job experience, wisdom, like there's a whole bunch of things
that age brings with it, man.
And that's just how it is, I mean, maybe you feel discriminated against by time, but
good luck winning that battle.
It is thought to originate with U.S. author Chuck Pahalanuck's 1996 book Fight Club,
which contains the line, you are not special, you are not a beautiful and unique snowflake.
And he's, he's right.
I mean, being special, there's, there's, I don't know, that's been another video idea
that I've been rattling around in my head is snowflakes and being special because there's
more to it than just you are not special because in as many ways as you're not special, you
are also special.
However, it's important to recognize which ways you're special, which ways you're not,
and not simply assume things are the way that you want them to be.
It's a very complicated topic.
Maybe I'll talk about it some other time, but let's move on to the guardians, the myth
of freedom.
Governments and corporations will soon know you better than you know yourself.
belief in the idea of free will has become dangerous.
We are now at the point where humanity needs to be stripped of free will according to the
far left.
Should scholars serve the truth, even at the cost of social harmony?
Yes.
Okay.
You you're already starting the article with, I think the worst thing I've, I've read in
a long fucking time.
Yes.
They should serve the truth, even at the cost of social harmony.
How is that even a question?
Should you expose a fiction even if that fiction sustains the social order?
In writing my latest book, 21 lessons for the 21st century, I had to struggle with this
dilemma with regard to liberalism.
On the one hand, I believe that the liberal story is flawed, that it does not tell the
truth about humanity, and that in order to survive and flourish in the 21st century,
we need to go beyond it.
Well, the problem is, one, I don't know what type of liberal this person is talking about.
Oftentimes when people say liberal nowadays, they mean left, and liberalism is not an idea
that is specifically tied to the left.
The left's progressive wings and Marxist wings are very anti-liberal, right?
However, if we're talking about liberalism, actual liberalism, you know, valuing free
will, which apparently this author does not, but valuing free will, valuing choice, valuing
equality of opportunity, valuing an open market, you know?
With a social safety net, yes, but an open market, these things are liberalism.
And if she's talking about this type of liberalism, there's no going beyond that.
That is basically the political apex, in my opinion, that humanity is ever going to reach.
I mean, maybe not, maybe we'll find something different that's more amazing, but belief
in the supremacy of the individual is why we had the industrial revolution, why we had
the computer revolution, why we had any form of human rights movements, why we have a reasonable
amount of environmentalism in society, why we have any of the things that make our society
the greatest society to ever exist.
That's because of liberalism, that's because of the value of the individual.
This person doesn't fucking understand what they're talking about.
What's more, liberalism is now attacked by religious and nationalist fanatics who believe
in nostalgic fantasies that are far more dangerous and harmful.
Now that describes Islam, but because this is the Guardian, I have to assume they're
not talking about Islam.
liberalism's great advantage over other ideologies is that it is flexible and undogmatic.
It can sustain criticism better than any other social order.
Indeed, it is the only social order that allows people to question even its own foundations.
Liberalism has already survived three big crises, the first world war, the fascist challenge
in the 1930s, and the communist challenge in the 1950s to 70s.
If you think liberalism is in trouble now, just remember how much worse things were in
1918, 1938, or 1968.
See, so far this person seems to basically be on the money, but then we kinda get into
some weird territory here.
Liberalism is founded on the belief in human liberty.
Unlike rats and monkeys, human beings are supposed to have free will.
This is what makes human feelings and human choices the ultimate moral and political authority
in the world.
Liberalism tells us that the voter knows best, that the customer is always right, and that
we should think for ourselves and follow our hearts.
Unfortunately, free will isn't a scientific reality.
It is a myth inherited from Christian theology.
Theologians developed the idea of free will to explain why God is right to punish sinners
for their bad choices and reward saints for their good choices.
If our choices aren't made freely, why should God punish or reward us for them?
According to theologians, it is reasonable for God to do so because our choices reflect
the free will of our eternal souls, which are independent of all physical and biological
constraints.
This myth has little to do with what science now teaches us about homo sapiens and other
animals.
Humans certainly have a will, but it isn't free.
You cannot decide what desires you have.
You don't decide to be introverted or extroverted, easygoing or anxious, gay or straight.
Humans make choices, but they are never independent choices.
If every choice depends on a lot of biological, social, and personal conditions that you cannot
determine for yourself, I can choose what to eat, whom to marry, and whom to vote for,
but these choices are determined in part by my genes, my biochemistry, my gender, my
family background, my national culture, etc.
I didn't choose which genes or family to have.
The problem with this point of view is that it's conflating circumstances with choices
and they're not the same thing.
What's a good example?
Boogie is a good example.
Boogie was like a 600 pound goliath of a man, like grotesquely fat, okay?
But he has made the choice to make some lifestyle changes, and there was definitely some surgery
along with that, but he made choices.
In fact, the choice to get the surgery was a choice too, and as a result of those choices,
he's losing weight.
He's significantly thinner than he was before.
Circumstances are not choices, and they can influence choices, but people always have
the ability to choose beyond their circumstances.
A fat person who has been fat their whole life, who chooses beyond their circumstances
to become thin, that's free will.
An alcoholic who has been drinking for 20 years, who makes the choice to stop, that's
free will.
It's not easy, no one's saying that it's easy, but the choice is still there.
This is not an abstract theory.
You can witness this easily.
Just observe the next thought that pops up in your mind.
Where did it come from?
Did you freely choose to think it?
Obviously not.
If you carefully observe your own mind, you come to realize that you have little control
of what's going on there, and that you are not choosing freely what to think, what to
feel, and what to want.
That's partially true.
However, that does not disprove free will, does it?
I mean, yeah, there's obviously some kind of unconscious part of your mind that you
do not have any kind of free will over.
You're going to get stray thoughts, you're going to get dreams, you're going to get all
these situations, and yet you can still choose what you do with them.
You can get some kind of thought in your mind, you can choose to ignore it, you can choose
to act on it, you can choose to ruminate on it but not actually perform any action.
You can do a lot of things.
Just because there are some uncontrollable parts of yourself doesn't mean that you are,
on the whole, uncontrollable.
There's a lot of thought experiments in this article, it's probably actually worth reading,
but let's get down to the end of it here.
If humans are hackable animals, and if our choices and opinions don't reflect our free
will, what should the point of politics be?
That's actually a very good question.
However, I'm not sure that those ifs that you started with, those presuppositions, are
actually true.
But I think there's a far worse problem here than even just politics.
If free will really is gone, let's say that it just turns out that undeniably, unrefutably,
there is zero free will.
Not all free will, not partial free will and partial uncontrollability.
Zero free will.
If that's the case, how can we morally hold anyone responsible for anything?
How can you say that a murderer is responsible for the murders that he committed if there's
no free will?
Even if we get to a point where there's no free will, it might be beneficial just to
keep the illusion of it around, just because society would completely break down without
it.
And maybe that's the point of this article.
In any case, it's good to be back making these again regularly.
Hopefully you will see a new video from me, a new full video in fact, coming up this week.
And if you do want to see more of me, you can always drop by my Twitch channel, twitch.tv
slash shortfatotaku, I usually stream there five nights a week.
I'll see you there, hopefully.
I love you guys.
