It's TikTok Tuesday time once again, guys. I'm getting some new channel artwork made.
You know, the background that you currently see with the big fat dev and you just holding
the phone and looking at a computer with a big smile. I'm getting a new one made. But I think
I'll keep this one for the TikTok Tuesdays because it kind of matches and the new one
will be for my other videos. That's the plan anyway. Let's see how it goes.
Let's watch the TikToks you guys have sent in this time.
Bro, this is fucking crazy man. I'm at the fucking grocery store with my daughter, bro.
And we just look nigga in this beard, dude. And my son weirdo ass. They got motherfucking steaks.
They got fucking steaks locked up. You see this shit? They got steaks locked up. Oh my God.
Those are the alarms. Yeah. What the? Come on, man. Stop stealing people. Yep. That's just how
it is. When everyone's stealing stuff, this is what's going to happen. Either the store is going
to close or everything's going to be locked up. If you're living in one of these low trust areas,
you already know what I'm talking about. It's fucking ridiculous. This one says volume up.
Should I turn the volume up? Here. I'll turn the volume up just for this one video.
Oh my God.
How did you like glue your hair down, lady? Yeah, it's called ballroom hair.
So I guess it's all held in place by some sort of some sort of gorilla glue.
Oh, why would you do this to yourself?
Ah, just cut it all off. It's done lady.
Oh my God. It's like a shell over her head. Well, what did you expect would happen? I swear
to God, guys, you're just sending it. You're not even sending me tech talks that I can actually
comment on or make a point or like a, like political tech talks. You're sending me like
nonsense now, like people being retards. Show me some fucking respect. Did you ever consider
setting up somewhere for us to actually school board fight guys. So we're doing it ourselves.
Who added in the sound of that?
Oh my God. We will identify as a fucking problem.
The same goes for you.
Why, why, why can't you allow both sides of the issue?
So what it seems like is as if you want free speech, as long as it benefits you,
as long as you get what you want. Yep. That's how they operate, dude. That's how it is. You
got to figure it out. So it looked like there was a bunch of trans people coming in and disrupting
some sort of school board meeting or some kind of meeting. Something was going on probably over
like the trans kids thing, which is all the rage right now. Hold on. Let's watch it a bit though.
This person here is speaking and that was like a very feminine sounding voice.
You know, is this person actually trans or are they like a she, they non-binary therefore trans,
even though they're not transitioning in on hormones. Like a lot of the people here seem
like that. They seem like she, theys or he, theys. You know what I mean? Now who knows?
I could be wrong. My transdar is like somewhat accurate, but it's not, you know, it's not perfect.
So who knows? Like this person here seems more like a gender goblin or something. You know,
someone who's like non-passing, but that initial speaker, that was someone who was seen definitely
like a she, they, who just is like a masculine woman kind of tomboyish, but not really trans,
but in 2023, she can call herself trans, you know?
My goal is not to pass.
What?
My goal is to present in a way that makes other people go, okay, this person probably wants to
be called she, her, not to make them think that I'm a cisgender woman. I don't mind people knowing
I'm trans. In fact, in many cases, I want them to know that I'm trans. I want them to know that a
trans person can take up space in the same space they are, especially as someone in STEM. I deserve
to be here and I need younger trans people to see that. I think it'd be a better world for trans
and non-binary people if nobody assumed anyone's gender or even their pronouns for that matter.
What's the difference between you and a cross-dresser then? Because the whole point
of cross-dresses is that like, yeah, they're cross-dressing, but you can kind of tell,
right? You look at like a passing trans woman and a cross-dresser are not the same thing.
Cross-dresser is supposed to be like, yep, got it. Man in a dress. They're playing with gender
in a weird way. I understand where the trans woman, the point is to stealth. This person's
like, no, I want to be clocked. I want people to notice that I'm actually a dude. What the,
why? You know what? I was so stunned. I missed the end of the, of the video. Let me just play it
again real quick. I want them to know that a trans person can take up space in the same space they
are, especially as someone in STEM. Isn't that part of the joke is that there's tons of trans
people in STEM? Like they're vastly overrepresented in STEM. I think it'd be a
better world for trans and non-binary people if nobody assumed anyone's gender,
or even their pronouns for that matter. Why? Assuming people's gender is kind of a fundamental
part of being human. The main reason for that is reproduction, right? Like you have a guy,
looks like a guy. You have a girl, looks like a girl. They see each other. They're attracted
to each other. They assume that they have genitals that are compatible for reproduction. If it turns
out that one of them doesn't, well then they feel like they've been betrayed because that's
a reasonable assumption to make. The world is actually better that we assume gender. Things
are more functional that way. Now there's always going to be outliers where that assumption doesn't
apply, but we should not tailor the entirety of society for the outliers. I am not, sir. Oh God.
Do you want to say that to the camera? Hundreds and hundreds of people watching you. Well,
this person has an audience, eh? No, go ahead. You just called me a man. Don't be a coward.
Don't be a coward. Okay, dude, use some voice training or something. Jesus.
Say what you got to say to me. Oh, you don't want to call me a man. Is that a Che Guevara
shirt in the background? Yes, it is. What do you got to say? What do you got to say? What do you
got to say? What do you got to say? Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. I did not know this man was trans. This
what do you go by? Does it matter? It does because I'm asking you. This guy sounds like a troll.
There's a lot of people watching. The real question is, it doesn't matter if you're
transgender or not. Are you with that? Are you with the, are you with the people that
march and be like, we're coming for your kids. That's where it's bad. Yep. That's when he gets
this guy. Yeah, he's got it. What's your name? Me. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. What's your name?
You certainly don't. What's your name? JJ. And is your thing a cult?
Oh my God. This is fucking hilarious.
Wait, the staff. These are just random. Why you didn't step in?
They're just random passerbys, dude. You're standing and watching. They called me a pedophile.
Wait, no, they didn't call you. Oh my God. Listen, I don't know about you. Like a lot of things went
crazy in that, especially when she was like, they called me a pedophile. No, they didn't.
All right. But here, if someone's like, do you want to say that to the camera? I'd be just be
like, yes, get your head. I I've been waiting for months and years of my life to have a situation
like this happened to me to unleash the maximum troll effect. And have you planned how to gain
my concern? For I would rather gouge out my eyes than permit someone who speaks so disrespectfully
of women within 50 feet of me. Hold on. I got to watch that one again too, because I don't know
what's going on. Hold on. Okay. Hold on. Okay. Tonight's tug sorted. I have so many questions.
What does this mean? And have you planned how to gain my consent? For I would rather
gouge out my eyes than permit someone who speaks so disrespectfully of women within 50 feet of me.
Okay. Where's the JonTron thing. I have several questions. You know what I'm talking about? Okay.
Okay. Firstly tonight's tug sorted. Question one, why is this your tug? Why this, this person,
maybe you just like really fat chicks. I don't know, but like, this isn't going to be most
people's tug for tonight. Okay. Secondly, why is she dressed up as an elf and why is she replying
in the character of an elf? I, I don't know. Is this, have we stumbled onto like a LARPing corner
of TikTok where they just role play as their character in their replies? I guess. Question
three. Listen to the video again. And have you planned how to gain my consent? Okay. So,
Oh my God. That was quite the cross-eyed stare to start the video on. Okay. So she immediately says
that you need her consent to masturbate to her. Now is it, are we, are we going to go down like
the whole, this is masturbation rape. Like it's masturbation sexual assault. If you jack off to
another girl who like, who actually exists in real life, you don't tell her like you just fantasize
about her in your own head. That's a form of sexual assault or a form of rape. I've heard
some weird progressive say that like, it's not necessarily that common in lefty spaces,
but I've definitely heard some like rad femmes say that, right. That if you masturbate to someone
who exists without their permission, you're sexually assaulting them like psychically or
something. And I guess that's her logic because this person says tonight's tug sorted and she
goes, well, you need my consent for that bucko. Like, what are you going to do? Are you going
to call up the precogs and have them arrest this guy for psychic crimes or something?
Okay. I think, I think I'm done for today. Thanks very much. Right after this goes up,
I'll be streaming. So make sure that you drop in and say hello. I'll be playing some more
Starfield because it's a great game. Have a good one, everyone. I love you.
