Do you ever have funny feelings with a person that someone's personality is just a bit off?
I have those feelings with Hillary Clinton.
Hello, I'm the right opinion and today we talk about yes, you know what the Clinton
Now let's get some background on this in 2008 Hillary ran against the political behemoth that was Barack Obama and lost
Despite winning the popular vote Clinton lost on the number of contests and delegates
So she lost overall the great electoral college working its magic again
now that was probably better for the Democrats in hindsight as Obama went on to win the presidential race convincingly against John McCain and
Subsequently hold that position for another term after defeating Mitt Romney
Hillary was back though like an annoying Veruca on your left toe. She wouldn't go away bazooka that Veruca in
2015 she relaunched her campaign for the Democratic nomination running on her so-called platform of extreme liberalism that she often likes to project
But something just didn't feel quite right
Well, not for me at least. I think a good place to start is our attitude
I'm
Just chillin in Cedar Rapids
Now in case you haven't seen that video that is Clinton trying to get down with the kids and it's not the first time she's
Trying to do it. She's done some very cringe-worthy moves on Ellen DeGeneres
And some other skin-crawling statements have been rightfully parodied by many youtubers in my bag
And
Some people may say well, you know at least she's trying
There's something so out of touch about it
And if she is too disconnected to understand how to appeal to them
How should people be able to trust her to understand their problems?
Another problem I have is her tendency to switch political
Standpoints and I'm not doubting this can be a good thing
It can often demonstrate an open-minded progressiveness to evolve as a person
However, Hillary Clinton has been exploiting that a bit too much for my liking. Here's a few examples in
2003 she opposed same-sex marriage in 2004. She favored 2014. She favored deporting children coming from Central America in
2015 she opposed it in 2000. She opposed lifting the trade embargo on Cuba in
2014 she favored it and
They're just a few examples and I'm not doubting she has had very volatile opinions a lot of people have
But at one point she was a Republican working for Barry Goldwater a candidate so far
Right. He opposed the 1964 Civil Rights Act
The problem with regards to this is that when you fluctuate your opinion so radically you risk sacrificing credibility
Whether it's with public opinion or not
How are people going to trust you to not change your mind once you're elected?
It also means that people start to question your principles
How many of these policies you genuinely believe in and how many of them you are just
Reiterating to massage that popular vote. My final problem is that she is so so damn establishment
She made more in one speech than Bernie Sanders did in a whole fiscal year and I'm not criticizing her for being successful
I think we'd all take that money if we could
But her donors her rhetoric her campaign
It's exactly what a load of middle-aged men in suits sat around a table in NYC would come up with
It's all about how much she cares about the problems you're facing without any
specification on what these issues are in the era when people are really beginning to question how
Democratic American democracy actually is people question how free Hillary is when she's being funded by so many corporations
They wonder how much control Clinton would have to enact the policies
The people want rather than what the companies want and this is why Sanders is doing so well
Because he's not under the finger of corporate control
I've a lot of arguments about how it'd be great for America to have their first female president
And yeah, it would be cool and progressive and radical even Oh
How about we prioritize having a good president regardless of any extensible features? So what are your thoughts?
Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe Hillary Clinton is the best thing to happen to the u.s. Since
Bill Clinton. Oh
Yeah, I almost didn't mention him at all anyway on that note I'm the right pinion and I'm out
