Hey guys, Dev here. I figured I should probably make a short thinking video regarding what we
had talked about in the pre-show of The Weekly Sip yesterday. Tomorrow's video is still gonna
be Project Melody, it'll still come out, and in fact I might sound contradictory between this
video and that video, but I'm not. And hopefully I'll be able to show you why, so let's dive into
it a little bit. There were a few people in the chat room yesterday who objected when I said that
women had the ability to override their biological imperatives the same way that men do.
Just so we're all on the same page here, what I was talking about was the fact that as humans,
we all have biological urges that pull us in this way or that, but as competent rational beings,
we do still have freedom of choice. This came up in the context of hypergamy. Hypergamy is a term
used in the social sciences for the act or practice of a person marrying a spouse of
higher caste or social status than themselves. More colloquially though, it refers to the general
practice of women deciding to marry up, and how the average woman, though obviously not all women,
prefer to share a high status male with other women than have a low status male all to
themselves. Obviously this is a very general rule, doesn't apply to everyone, does not apply to all
situations, but there definitely does seem to be a trend in this direction. So my logic was that even
though hypergamous behavior in women exists, there's no reason women can't choose not to
follow that biological directive, because I do think that it is at least somewhat biological,
and in fact there are biological directives that impact men and women both that individuals still
choose not to listen to. If everyone ate as much as their biological drives wanted them to,
we would all be a lot fatter than we are, and this is coming from a guy who's already fat.
People who are thin and in shape just wouldn't exist if we were all slaves to our biology,
but that's not the case. The very existence of people that are in shape, of either gender,
it kind of disproves that. So very clearly humans have biological directives that pull and push them
in certain ways, and very clearly we can choose not to follow them. But the people in my chat room
during that stream, they kind of had a double standard about it. They were saying that men can
choose to overpower their biology and act rationally, but women can't, and that just
doesn't make any sense to me. Like if men can override their destructive nature, certainly women
can too, and when men fall into it, certainly women can as well. It's the same rules for
both genders, and I don't believe that women are entirely driven by prerogative because men aren't.
There are definitely differences between the sexes obviously, you can't deny that, but I don't think
the differences go so far as to all men being able to be purely rational beings, and all women simply
being slaves to their impulses. I think that's how it works. I am definitely not in agreement with
Arthur Schopenhauer when it comes to the woman question. It's been a long time since I've read
Schopenhauer, but I think I can still at the very least give you an outline of what he believed.
He believed that while men had the ability to have wildly different tastes in profession,
in passion, in talents and abilities, in fundamental personality, women ultimately had
no personality at all. Women instead were the great mimic. They would latch on to who they
perceived to be a successful male, temporarily take on attributes that would make her attractive
to him, at least in terms of personality, and then once her children were secure focus exclusively
on them to the detriment of him. Basically he did not believe that women were fully rational beings
the same way that men were, and that they had enough intellect basically to attract men not
only physically but also mentally, but deep down they only really had the goal of reproduction in
mind. And that's definitely an attitude that you see every once in a while among the red pill
communities. That's why there's like objections to gamer girls or whatever it is, even if the
girl in question actually does love video games for the merit of the video game, sometimes people
just believe that they can't and they're just simply there for attention. And you know what,
sometimes they are just there for attention, but it's certainly not all the time. One of my mods
said to me after the stream, if you make any facsimile of anti-feminist, anti-woke videos on
YouTube, or you say any hard truth about the state of most women today, you attract MGTOWs,
incels, pickup artists, and the rest of the manosphere. If you dare to say that most men
have problems, problems related to their attitudes and behavior, you'll attract feminists.
And to be honest, I'm not on either of those sides. I'm not a feminist, and I'm not a men's
rights activist. I am fundamentally an individualist. Of course, if the solutions
to some social problems have to be gendered because they overwhelmingly affect one gender
rather than the other, that's fine, I don't object to that. But at the same time, I'm also not
interested in this kind of tribalism. And I think some of these comments will actually let me
express what I'm saying more clearly. The chat wasn't saying women can't override their biological
prerogatives. Well, to be fair, yes, they were. The chat was definitely saying that. Maybe you
weren't saying that, but other people in the chat were. They were saying that they simply choose not
to and society only holds men accountable for doing so. I don't think so. I think things are
definitely swinging in that direction, but we're not there yet. And there are definitely instances
where men don't override their biological prerogatives and they get in no trouble for it.
I think it happens all the time. I don't think that this is specifically a gendered issue.
There are shitty men, there are shitty women, and they probably exist in roughly the same ratio.
And then he says that me dismissing an issue that I frequently do videos about does come
across as smug and irritating. This is the whole smug argument, which I do think I should probably
address. When I disagree with you on anything, that's not me being smug and it's not me
having an ego about it. Disagreement does not mean that I think I'm better than you. It just
means that we disagree. I've been having to deal with a specific group of haters for like a year
now. It's a small, very vocal group. And they started out as actually being fans of me. And
those fans, whenever I would disagree with them, they'd say that I'm getting a big ego because my
channel's growing or something. And it's like, no, I just don't agree with you, man. So you accept
that men and women are physically dimorphic, but not mentally? No, they're very clearly mentally
dimorphic as well. But I don't think that they're mentally dimorphic to the point that women can't
not act on impulse or something. I am extremely sympathetic to the individualist view you're
promoting. But the objection of not all is a bit of a dodge. I don't think it is. I think not all
is in fact the core issue here. Whenever some ridiculous feminist says, kill all men, or all
men are rapists or something ridiculous like that, all of us here say, hold on, not all men. And
that's the right reaction to have. And there is no reason to not have that exact same reaction when
things are going the other way. That's the point of individualism. It's that you treat people like
individuals. You know, another obvious example, if I meet an individual black man, I don't
necessarily think of black crime statistics or something. I treat him as a person, as an
individual. If he's going to be a criminal, it will be because of something he is, not because
of his race. The individual case is a drop in the bucket, except that all cases are individual
cases. Women have the hypergamous instinct and yes, they can fight against it, but it feels good
to do it. And what's more, the social pressures that once discouraged hypergamy have been reversed.
All of the major cultural influencers, Hollywood, the mainstream media and social media are almost
unanimous in their cry of you go girl, but that's certainly no different from men at this point.
Yeah. Men are getting more pushback because, because they don't want to marry anymore and
that's causing certain, certain social problems. And the media is going after them for that,
but you have to keep in mind male sexuality can be just as destructive as female sexuality. If
it's allowed to be irresponsible. And if you seriously think that there's actually social
pressures right now on men to stop sleeping around, I don't know what world you're living in.
It seems like everybody, regardless of gender is incentivized to be promiscuous nowadays.
And that's probably to our detriment. In any case, this isn't me picking on any of these individuals.
I certainly don't want them to receive any hate. I just wanted to have the discussion.
I believe that men and women are fundamentally different in many ways. However, I do not believe
that women are some kind of sub race entirely enslaved to their hormones and their uteruses
who spend their days going around trying to find the alpha male to get pregnant by while keeping
the beta at home to raise the children. I'm sure there are some women that do that and we can
safely call them immoral. And we can definitely say you shouldn't be around them, but you can't
say that it's all women that do that. Just like you can't say that all men do whatever crazy thing
it is that feminists think that they do. And I'll leave you with some food for thought by going back
to this comment. Women are entirely driven by prerogative. They don't care who's owed what,
as long as they get what they want. If you actually think that, then how could you possibly
blame women for it? If it turns out to be true that women have no rational mind at all, they just
have the facade of rationality. And in fact, they are driven entirely by prerogative and there is
no possible way for them to help themselves, then they're not moral actors, are they? And you can't
blame them for what they do, can you? If it turns out that there actually is something fundamentally
different in the biology of women that means that they lack freedom of choice, then you can't blame
them for what they're doing. You can't put any responsibility on them and you certainly can't
punish them. They're simply doing what they're programmed to do. But none of us actually see
women that way. The fact that you're getting mad at women who do these terrible things proves that
you don't see them that way either. So yeah, I can't believe I actually have to say this,
but women are people. They have rights and they have responsibilities. We can hold their feet
to the fire when they don't fulfill those responsibilities, but the solution is not to
take away their rights. But just because I'm an anti-feminist, if you think I'm going to be taking
the black pill on the woman question, you guys are on the wrong YouTube channel.
