If we find aliens, what do we do next?
When discussing first contact, many are quick to point out that historically, contact between
culturally different civilizations has almost always led to the destruction of one of those
civilizations.
Because of this, you could argue that we should stick to ourselves, leave the aliens alone,
but in almost every one of those historical examples, it's the civilization that makes
contact that destroys the civilization that receives contact.
So perhaps we should go on the offensive—find the aliens before they find us.
Of course, we've been trying for decades to find extraterrestrial life—it's one
of humanity's great questions—are we alone?
One way we might find aliens is by looking at stars, or more specifically, the light
level of stars.
As the earth has developed, our energy consumption has skyrocketed.
That's just the consequence of an increasingly technologically advanced world.
It's suspected that this trend will continue and it's also suspected that with any alien
civilization, they'll also require more and more energy as they advance.
Eventually, any planetary civilization will reach a point where the amount of energy on
their planet is not enough to sustain their advancing civilization.
Theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson speculated that when a planetary civilization needs more
energy than their planet can provide, they'll turn to the sun.
Stars are the most abundant source of energy in any planetary system so a super-advanced
civilization could build a series of satellites to orbit around their sun to collect energy.
When sunlight travels through space, it loses energy and so the amount of energy captured
by a solar panel near the sun would be astronomically higher than a solar panel on earth.
With more energy a civilization could produce more satellites and eventually there would
be a swarm of satellites orbiting the sun.
Freeman Dyson believes that this is the most logical way that any civilization would harvest
the energy they need so if we search for a star with orbiting satellites, we might be
able to find an alien civilization.
No telescope is powerful enough to see the individual satellites, but we can rather easily
observe the light level of stars.
You see, once a far away civilization builds enough satellites, the swarm will start to
block our view of their sun as the satellites orbit.
From our perspective, it will look like the star is twinkling—something completely unnatural
so, by looking for stars with highly variable light levels, we might be able to find an
alien civilization harvesting the energy of their sun.
KIC 8462852, also known as Tabby's Star, is a star in the Cygnus constellation of the
Milky Way.
Scientists observed the light level of this star for years and they regularly came across
irregularities like this.
Maybe there are comets or a debris field obstructing our view of the star, but astronomers have
doubted that either of those could dip the light levels by this much.
This has led some to suggest that an alien civilization has built these orbiting satellites
around their sun, but we may never know for certain.
Of course all of this is somewhat speculative and it's unlikely that we'd actually find
a so-called Dyson sphere around a sun.
It's more of a thought experiment, demonstrating that we could find aliens through looking
for their impact on the universe.
Conversely, aliens might find us based on our effect on the universe.
That's why we very purposefully sent out messages to our hypothetical cosmic neighbors.
The Pioneer Plaques were designed and placed on the two Pioneer spacecrafts which were
the first to explore the far reaches of the solar system.
Since these two are some of the farthest man-made objects from earth, they were sent with a
message in case extraterrestrials come across the probes.
This is what was sent—the Pioneer Plaque.
It has a representation of hydrogen, the most abundant element in the universe, a picture
of a man and woman including a raised hand, a gesture that most likely wouldn't be understood
but shows how our limbs move and the existence of the opposable thumb, an image of the Pioneer
spacecraft behind the humans so that the extraterrestrials could figure out the rough size of humans,
the location of the sun relative to 14 nearby pulsar stars using hydrogen spin-flip transition
frequency as the unit—something far too complicated for me to explain, and lastly
an image of the solar system with the rough trajectory of the Pioneer spacecraft.
But there are issues with this image.
We have no idea how aliens gather information.
Humans are a visual species since we have relatively good vision so it's natural for
us to convey information through images.
Aliens on the other hand, could have poor or no vision and therefore no conception of
the idea of transferring information through images or they could interpret the symbols
vastly differently.
Perhaps the most frequently criticized aspect of the plaque is the arrow.
It's believed that the arrow symbol is derived from either the shape of arrows or the human
hand pointing, or perhaps a combination of both.
Aliens would most likely have neither arrows or hands and therefore no idea what this symbol
means.
They could also make the dangerous assumption that the symbol depicts a weapon launching
meaning that the spacecraft was sent to harm them.
Other sets of images have been sent with subsequent space probes, but the chance of aliens finding
these few tiny objects in the vastness of space is miniscule.
What's far more likely is that aliens will discover humanity off of something we've
been sending out for over a hundred years—radio signals.
While most are too weak to reach far away galaxies, some do travel through space and
could be picked up by extraterrestrial civilizations—especially more advanced ones with better detection
technology than us.
It's entirely possible that we've already unintentionally sent the signal that will
be our first message to an extraterrestrial civilization.
It's also entirely possible that the first sign we will have of extraterrestrial life
is a radio message from another planet.
The problem is then deciphering it.
The first step is deciding what the message even is.
Is it binary?
Is it radiation?
Is it natural language?
What is it?
We can figure this out.
In the English language, the most common word, the, accounts for about 7% of all word occurrences.
The second most common word, be, accounts for about 3.5% of all words.
Then and is about 2.3% and so on and so forth.
The distribution of words, it turns out, in all languages follows a logarithmic scale.
The second most common word occurs about half as frequently as the most common, the third
and third as often, the fourth one-fourth as often, the fifth one-fifth as often, and
so on and so forth.
This is somehow true for all languages, even ones with no common ancestral language, which
means that, more than likely, an alien language will follow the same distribution.
It's not entirely understood why languages follow this distribution, but one possible
explanation is that people are lazy.
It's called the principle of least effort.
People, animals, even machines will always pick the path of least resistance—the easiest
path—and in the case of language, the meaning that needs to be most frequently conveyed
will be attached to the most common word rather than a number of other words since that is
easiest.
That keeps happening down to the least frequent word therefore creating this distribution.
With an extraterrestrial transmission, if we rank the sounds by frequency and it follows
this distribution we can believe that it's most likely a language.
But then we need to try to understand the language.
For this, we need to drop all assumptions.
There are innate similarities across all human languages, mostly related to grammar.
For example, pretty much every language separates description words, nouns, from action words,
verbs.
Grammatically, there are huge similarities between all languages, even ones that develop
separately.
Some have suggested that this means that humans have a genetic framework for language.
Perhaps we are hardwired from birth to understand what nouns and verbs and sentences are and
learning a language is just the process of filling in and understanding that framework.
From everything we understand about the communication systems that animals use, they do not have
a universal grammar like humans.
We therefore have to assume that an alien language would be fundamentally different
than ours.
We don't know how they'll structure sentences.
We don't even know if they'll have sentences.
The problem is, if we just receive a natural language transmission, there's really nothing
we can do.
When deciphering ancient languages, linguists figure out meaning using context and relations
to other languages, but with an alien language transmission, there is no context and no other
similar languages to compare it with.
All this is assuming that aliens use a verbal language and that's a huge assumption.
Many, if not most, animals have no verbal communication system.
Cuttlefish and chameleons alter their body color to communicate while ants and honeybees
use pheromones to talk to other members of their species.
Even if we understood their language, could we understand what they're saying?
Take this sentence in French.
Translating it literally word for word gets you,
The Palace Bourbon is the name commonly given to the building that houses the Assembly National
French located on the Cay of Orsay in the seventh borough of Paris of the square of
the Concorde.
Even if you clean it up to structure it like an English sentence, how much meaning is conveyed
to you?
What exactly is the French National Assembly?
Where is the Cay of Orsay?
Where is the seventh borough?
Where is Concorde Square?
Someone familiar to Paris and France would understand what these words mean, but someone
from the other side of the world would infer little meaning from them.
Philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein famously wrote,
If a lion could speak, we would not be able to understand him.
Language is all based on cultures and requires a common frame of reference.
If you said, I'm taking an Uber to get some coffee at Starbucks, there's no way it would
understand what you're saying.
You'd have to explain what Uber is, then explain what a car is, what the internet is,
what a phone is, an app, coffee, Starbucks stores, the monetary system—all stuff that
is intuitive to modern humans.
Translating the words of an extraterrestrial civilization is just the first step.
Understanding what they're saying is the more difficult task.
Centuries or millennia after detecting aliens, we might reach a day when an extraterrestrial
being comes to earth.
If this happens, the alien civilization is almost certainly more advanced than humans
since it has accomplished interstellar travel and perhaps even faster than light travel,
but we want to show that us humans are intelligent as well.
Of course the ET would see everything that humans have built, but they might interpret
the structures of mankind as natural phenomenons.
We can't assume that they'd think that buildings and cars and artificial light are
not part of the natural structure of earth.
We therefore need to show them that we have at least a basic understanding of the universe.
Math, as far as we know, is universal.
No matter where you go or who you ask, two plus two is four and the ratio of a circle's
circumference to diameter is 3.141592 and so on and so forth.
Of course what you call two or four or pi would be different, but the concepts are the
same.
Therefore, we could show the aliens our understanding of math, put two then two then four, four
then eight, keep this going until they get the point.
Although, perhaps the best mathematical principle to demonstrate would be the Pythagorean theorem.
It's complicated, but easy to show.
The Pythagorean theorem, of course, demonstrates that in the case of a right triangle, the
square of the side opposite to the right angle is equal to the square of the other two sides
combined in an equation that reads a squared plus b squared equals c squared.
Visually, we can demonstrate this by drawing squares on the two shorter sides out of smaller
squares and show how the amount of squares on the two sides equals the amount of squares
on the longer side.
Showing this theorem cements that humans do understand how the mathematical aspect of
our universe works, even though we're less advanced than the aliens.
So now that we've found the aliens, now that we have met them, we can talk to them.
Someone needs to speak first, but let's say it was you.
Let's say you were given the chance to ask the first question from humanity to an extraterrestrial
being.
What if you became the first point of contact between humanity and the universe?
What would you ask?
I hope you enjoyed this Wendover Productions video.
These videos are hugely expensive to make and I can only do it thanks to the help of
my Patreon supporters.
I have to buy stock footage, buy music, hire a sound designer, pay for programs, pay for
hardware, and that's not even taking into account the time that I personally put into
these videos.
If you'd like to make sure that I can keep doing these videos and make them better and
better, please consider supporting me on Patreon by clicking here.
Every dollar contributed is spent directly on the channel, none of it goes to me, and
I'm held to that by releasing expense reports at the end of each month.
There are also some great rewards including early access to videos, stickers, handwritten
letters, and most recently, t-shirts.
You can also order a t-shirt by itself for only $20 through DFTBA.
The link is here and also in the description.
Other than that, please make sure to follow me on Twitter at WendoverPro, watch my last
video on why cities are where they are here, check out my fan moderate subreddit here,
and most of all subscribe to this channel to receive all my future videos right when
they come out.
Thanks again for watching and I'll see you in two weeks for another Wendover Productions
video.
