This video was made possible by Skillshare.
Learn new skills for free for a month by being one of the first 1,000 to head to the link
in the description.
The story of Saudi Arabia's oil problem starts with success.
Almost a century ago, after three decades of bloody, complex conquest over belligerents
as small as tribes and as large as the Ottoman Empire, Abdulaziz bin Abdulrahman al-Sad finally
held nearly all of the Arabian Peninsula's territory.
His military and political triumph was rewarded with his ability, on September 23rd, 1932,
to unify his dominions into a single modern Arab state—the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
That was hardly the end of his success, though.
With newfound, tenuous stability across the peninsula, Abdulaziz started work to verify
a long-held hunch.
He believed, without any real evidence, that there must be oil in Arabia.
This was typically brushed aside by oil companies as the starry-eyed fantasies of a desperate
ruler of an inhospitable land, but he was, of course, correct.
In 1932, neighboring Bahrain struck oil, and suddenly, the king's fantasies weren't
so fanciful after all.
On March 3rd, 1938, Standard Oil of California struck oil at Saudi Arabia's Daman No. 7
drill site.
Successful oil exploration was followed up by more exploration, which too was successful,
and as more and more wells punctuated the Arabian Peninsula, the success only compounded.
As it turned out, this barren, dusty peninsula was home to the single largest proven oil
field on earth.
This was good for Abdulaziz.
He grew rich, his country developed, his kingship was solidified—in a mere decade, he went
from leading some lowly nomadic tribes in an uncharted land to striking diplomatic deals
with the President of the United States.
Prosperity reigned over the coming decades, as power was passed from Abdulaziz to his
son, then to another of his sons, and so on and so forth.
In an era defined by unprecedented success, there was little reason for the people to
push back on a now antiquated form of governance.
A social contract started to emerge—the people would support the monarchy politically
if the monarchy supported the people financially.
Infrastructure, subsidies, handouts, housing—the monarchy provided all.
Saudi Arabia's fortunes only improved as the start of the 21st century ushered in a
historical rise in oil prices.
The country's GDP nearly tripled in just eight years, and Riyadh was inundated by high-end
hotels, foreign faces, and international consulting firms.
The money and fortune seemed endless and effortless… until, of course, it ended.
Crude oil traded at an all-time high of $147.26 in July, 2008.
Over the coming months, as the world descended into its deepest financial crisis since the
Great Depression, prices steadily slid down to just $40 a barrel—a nearly four-fold
collapse in half a year.
The direct impacts of this crash on Saudi Arabia were surprisingly minimal, as the government
had amassed vast financial reserves over the prior decades of prosperity, and oil prices
quickly started ticking up again, ending 2009 at around $80 a barrel—a figure the Kingdom
could live with.
But then it happened again.
In summer 2014, prices began a steady slide that would bottom out at $33 a barrel in January
2016—a symptom of incredible global oversupply.
Between 2016 and 2020, prices would average about $51.20.
The problem, however, was this number.
Over the same period, the break-even oil price—the average price at which the country's oil
industry as a whole turns a profit—was $85.70.
This isn't to say that Saudi oil companies simply couldn't turn a profit, but it does
mean that there were fewer opportunities to turn a profit—there were fewer wells whose
operating costs were low enough to enable profitable operations.
With an oil sector representing close to half of GDP, Saudi Arabia had to dip into its financial
reserves, which therefore began a precipitous decline.
In a country defined by its social compact—financial support by the monarchy in exchange for political
support by the people—seismic changes occurred.
Starting on January 1st, 2018, for the first time ever, the Saudi people were asked to
help fund the government.
On any purchase of goods and services, they would now pay a 5% value-added tax.
Some of the risks of running such a deeply oil-entrenched economy are straightforward.
For example, we know that, sometime in the future, a day will occur that will come to
be known as peak oil.
Experts agree that either demand decline, supply constraints, or a mix of both will
lead to the world's oil production reaching a plateau before a decline.
Now, past predictions on the timing of such an event have overwhelmingly proved inaccurate—most
in the 70s expected production to level off by 2000—but there are now stronger indications
that peak oil is nearing.
Between 2018 and 2019, oil production ticked down slightly.
This wasn't the first year-to-year production drop in the 2000s, but both other instances,
2002 and 2009, can be directly attributed to major external crises—9-11 and the Great
Recession.
In 2019, production dropped simply because of market factors.
Of course then, in 2020, another external crisis occurred which led to the steepest
year-to-year decline in recent history, but the pandemic might lead to structural, long-term
changes, such as less driving with more people working from home, that would result in a
permanent drop in demand.
So now, whether oil production will fully recover and start growing again is in legitimate
question and some answers have started to emerge.
Shell, one of the world's largest oil producers, has said that it believes 2019 was its high
watermark for production.
Peak oil might have already occurred.
That is undoubtedly bad for Saudi Arabia, but potentially less devastating than one
might think, at least in the near term.
Located on some of the most accessible oil fields in the world, Saudi wells boast some
of the world's cheapest production costs, meaning they will not be the first to close
down once demand declines.
However, it's still the case that going forward is going to be harder to base an economy
on oil than before.
Looking at the graph of crude oil prices since 1983, the era before 2005 is noticeably different
than that after.
It's not the prices themselves that matter here—it's the fluctuations.
Oil prices have never before been this volatile.
These semi-regular fourfold spikes or drops that occur in mere months are a new phenomenon.
Running an economy on such a volatile commodity is incredibly difficult, and this price volatility
is only expected to increase in the future as industry disruption ramps up.
Simply put, running an economy on oil, in the 21st century, is not a good idea.
Some in Saudi Arabia know this.
Of King Abdulaziz's 45 sons, 36 survived to adulthood and six ascended to the throne.
Upon the death of his half-brother in 2015, King Salman bin Abdulaziz became the latest
to rule the kingdom.
Already aged 79 and with brothers only marginally younger, the decision was made that Salman
would be the last of his generation to rule, and so Mohammed bin Naif, a grandson of King
Abdulaziz, was appointed crown prince—next in line for the throne.
Meanwhile, Mohammed bin Salman would serve as deputy crown prince.
Two years later, however, shortly before midnight on June 20th, Mohammed bin Naif was summoned
to the Safa Palace in Mecca for a meeting with the king.
That meeting did not materialize, however, as he was led into another room, held captive,
and told by royal court officials that he must give up his claim to the throne.
After hours locked in that room, Mohammed bin Naif agreed to resign.
The deputy crown prince and son of the king, Mohammed bin Salman, was now next in line
for the throne.
Over the years prior, the 31-year-old had quietly worked to amass power in the background,
and increasingly became the face of the Saudi royal family.
Reports indicate that he was indeed responsible for orchestrating the former crown prince
ousting, which is not a stretch to believe.
In fact, he has gained so much influence over his father's decision-making that he is
now considered, nearly universally, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia.
Mohammed bin Salman recognized his country's oil problem before his ascent, however.
In late 2015, the McKinsey Global Institute published a detailed 144-page report analyzing
the future prospects of Saudi Arabia's economy in the wake of 2014's oil price crash.
This issued some dire predictions.
Their base case—what they expected would happen without any major, proactive changes
by Saudi Arabia—predicted that between 2014 and 2030, the country's average monthly
household income would fall from $3,800 to $3,000, the unemployment rate would rise from
12 to 22%, and $900 billion in government assets would be replaced by $2 trillion in
debt.
In short, Saudi Arabia was on the path towards fiscal collapse.
This attracted attention—most importantly, that of Mohammed bin Salman.
Marking the first major move on his rise towards de facto ruler, MBS took on the country's
biggest challenge ever.
He fulfilled his reputation as a reformer, and plotted a path to transform Saudi Arabia.
It was called Vision 2030.
According to this plan, transforming Saudi Arabia into a sustainable nation involved
three primary objectives—improve the government, the economy, and society.
That first pillar, government, was perhaps the broadest in scope, ranging between decreasing
corruption, stripping down bureaucracy, moving government services online, and far more.
Perhaps the most dramatic manifestation of this mission occurred mere months after MBS's
promotion at Crown Prince, when some 500 government ministers, businesspeople, and
royal family members were rounded up and detained in the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Riyadh until
they could stand trial for corruption.
The degree to which this crackdown was legitimate is up for debate, but it did net the government
a hefty $170 billion in assets in the ensuing settlement deals.
The second pillar, related to economic reform, was also composed of a broad collection of
initiatives, including privatizing certain government services, increasing participation
among women in the workforce, attracting increased investment in the country by foreign companies,
recharging government coffers, and growing private sector industries.
In addition, in a country known for its prohibition of all but religious tourists, Saudi Arabia
would now allow and embrace foreign visitors—taking a page from the UAE's Economic Diversification
playbook.
Of course, to make tourism work, one needs a place that tourists want to go, and that's
a key focus of the third and final pillar—improving society.
Now, Saudi society has long been defined by a strict interpretation of Islamic principles.
Shops briefly close for each of five daily prayers, religious police roam the street
enforcing strict dress codes, homosexual activity is punishable by execution, adult women are
required to have a legal guardian to make decisions on their behalf, atheists are legally
defined as terrorists, and plenty more.
In sum, Saudi society was not one that many foreign tourists would feel comfortable visiting,
and beyond that, considering their interpretation of Islamic principles prohibited it, there
was little of what most foreign tourists would consider entertainment.
Therefore, MBS went on a mission to change that.
The country reversed a 30-year ban on movie theaters, and partnered with AMC to open dozens
of cinemas across the country.
It established the region's largest music festival, with artists like David Guetta,
Steve Aoki, and Tiesto.
It inked a deal with Six Flags to open a theme park in the country, and it gained a coveted
spot on 2021's Formula One calendar with the first-ever Saudi Arabian Grand Prix.
In addition, some of their most regressive social policies were abolished.
Women were now allowed to drive, leave the country without their guardian's permission,
watch live sports, and wear a wider variety of clothing types.
Altogether, Saudi Arabia increasingly, on the surface, was starting to look more like
its neighbors, Bahrain, Qatar, and the UAE—countries socially and politically rooted in Islam,
but open to elements of the increasingly globalized Western lifestyle.
Below the surface, however, it soon became clear that far less had changed.
On October 2nd, 2018, shortly after 1pm, journalist and Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi entered
the consulate of Saudi Arabia in Istanbul, Turkey to seek necessary documentation for
his upcoming marriage.
He was never seen again.
In the days, weeks, and months that followed, it emerged that Khashoggi had been assassinated—seemingly
in retribution for critical coverage of the Saudi government, and according to the CIA
and other intelligence organizations, the killing was ordered directly by Mohammed bin
Salman.
While stifling dissent was nothing new for Saudi Arabia, the assassination of a journalist
for a Western paper on foreign soil struck a chord with international observers that
elicited a level of outrage unfamiliar for Saudi Arabia.
The country was used to condemn nations by Amnesty International, critical statements
by ministries of foreign affairs, and world news section stories about their various human
rights abuses, but never before had the country's misconduct reached front-page status globally.
Never before had an instance of Saudi cruelty permeated into common knowledge.
Backed up by less-covered incidents such as Saudi Arabia's alleged war crimes in Yemen,
the hacking of Jeff Bezos' phone, who owns the Washington Post where Khashoggi's columns
were published, and continued stifling of dissent, an informal international consensus
was formed.
Despite the more liberal laws, the theme parks, the music festivals, and more, deep down,
Saudi Arabia was not reformed.
And now, the world knew it.
This is an issue for Saudi Arabia.
Now, when David Guetta performs in Saudi Arabia, he has to deal with a barrage of critical
articles.
When Formula One announces its upcoming Saudi Arabia Grand Prix, it is faced with memes
liking it to racing in Pyongyang or Kabul.
When AMC continues with its planned expansion into the country, it encounters reputational
damage when its competitor pulls out on ethical grounds.
This all has a cost.
If a business faces similar profit opportunity in both Saudi Arabia and, say, the UAE, they're
going to pick the UAE as it's been far more successful at building a friendly face for
the West, despite an also iffy record on human rights—altogether.
These and other factors have meant that Vision 2030 is still but a vision.
The plan laid out four key performance indicators to track the highest-level goals of the project.
The first was the percentage of the country's gross domestic product attributable to the
private sector, rather than state-owned enterprises like Saudi Aramco.
Considering the private sector involves non-oil industries, growing it is key to diversification.
In 2016, this percentage stood at 40%, and the goal was for it to reach 65 by 2030.
Today, over the past four financial quarters, that number stands at 42.7%.
A crucial aspect of growing non-oil revenues involves attracting foreign direct investments.
They want, for example, an investor from Singapore to decide to open a Hilton at the new Six
Flags theme park.
Foreign investment is key to kickstarting natural, compounding, private sector economic
growth.
In 2016, foreign direct investment represented 3.8% of the country's GDP, at least according
to the Saudi government, and the goal was for it to grow to 5.7% by 2030.
Today, according to the World Bank, foreign direct investment represents only 0.57% of
GDP.
The next indicator, non-oil exports as a percentage of overall exports, is perhaps the only glimmer
of hope.
With a 2016 baseline of 16% and a goal of 50% by 2030, 22.4% of the country's exports
are now non-oil products.
This is, however, well below the pace of growth needed to reach the goal.
Finally, the unemployment rate of Saudi nationals stood at 11.6% in 2016, and despite the goal
of bringing it down to 7% by 2030, it has since ticked up slightly to 11.7%.
All around, the vision of 2030 is not being realized.
Now, of course there's been an unprecedented pandemic, of course oil prices have been low,
and of course these are only the first years of reform, but all that notwithstanding, there's
little evidence of deviation from the current failing path.
A huge chunk of the government's money is being sunk into mega-development projects
like a $500 billion planned smart city along the Red Sea, or a $3 billion entertainment
district near Riyadh to play host to the Six Flags, Formula One track, and more, but mega-projects
like this don't work.
In the United Arab Emirates, flashy developments like the Burj Khalifa and the Palm Islands
weren't what transformed the country into the most diversified economy in the region.
It was the unglamorous, boring task of crafting a business environment that the world feels
they can cooperate with.
Businesses want access to Saudi Arabia because it's a massive untapped market, but right
now it's just too risky an environment for them.
It's too risky to operate in an absolute monarchy with a track record of volatile infighting.
It's too risky to operate in a country known for eye-catching human rights abuses at home
and abroad.
It's too risky to operate in a country where women in the workplace have fewer rights than
their male counterparts.
It's too risky to operate in a country whose legal system is based on a strict yet ambiguous
interpretation of Sharia law.
Saudi Arabia has the riches to brute force some private sector growth.
It has the money to lure some international investment, but as of yet, it does not have
the vision to kickstart organic economic transformation.
Reform so far has been superficial, but those making the decisions that matter to Saudi
Arabia can see through that.
Therefore, if Saudi Arabia actually wants to cement its place in 2030's world, it's
going to have to engage in what its leaders want least—radical, fundamental, systematic
change.
As the story of Saudi Arabia proves so well, diversification is crucial, and this doesn't
only apply to massive world economies, but also to you.
Being someone who can do one thing well is great, but being someone who can do a wide
variety of things makes you uniquely valuable and irreplaceable.
That's why I find Skillshare so useful.
They're an online learning community with thousands of well-produced classes taught
by the actual practitioners of a given skill.
For example, one really useful skill applicable to almost any job and even school is graphic
design.
It can help spruce up your reports, PowerPoints, websites, and really any other visual project.
Skillshare's class on graphic design basics is taught by Ellen Lupton, curator of the
Smithsonian's Design Museum in New York, and in just 36 minutes, you'll pick up principles
that you'll use for the rest of your life.
Whether you want to learn web development, painting, music production, video editing,
or really any skill, Skillshare is the place to go, and you can start improving yourself
for free for a month by being one of the first 1,000 to click on this button or head to the
link in the description.
Signing up helps support Wendover and your own skill development, so head to Skillshare
today.
