Hey guys, Dev here. I'm just going to do a quick little vlog.
When Dave went off to work today, he found an Amazon package and this would be the package
outside the door. And he was really excited about it, so he came to get me, but he couldn't
actually stick around to open it up with me. And then I immediately started ripping it
open and I realized, you know what, I should probably actually do a little video on this,
if only because, well, you guys made this possible. This is about 250 bucks worth of
sound equipment, which we got the money from, this time from ad revenue. Not from Patreon.
Patreon is going towards something else, but this time this is from our ad revenue from
YouTube over the past little while. So thanks a lot for watching, if you watch without ad
blocker. And if you watch with ad blocker, that's totally fine too, but thanks. For all
you guys who watch, thanks. We couldn't do this without you.
So the first thing we got was the Zenix Q1202 USB audio mixer by Behringer. And the main
reason we picked up this is because we're going to use it to vastly increase our sound
quality of all of our videos. It'll work for the Let's Plays, the anime reviews, vlogs,
gamergate stuff. It'll do something for everything. Let's just kind of take a look here. Like
I said, I jumped the gun and I started opening it up a little bit. We have here standard
USB. This is where the sound kind of comes out of the device and into your computer.
Standard power cable, nothing too special about it. And here's the thing itself. I'm
just going to open this up. There it is in the packaging. Let me just pull it off and
kind of look at it. This is normally on for about 200 Canadian. We picked it up for about
130 Canadian because Amazon was having a special. And here it is all outside of the packaging.
It did contain one of those little containers of candy that you should always feed your
children but not today. The actual device itself is pretty sturdy. It's some pretty
good plastic, some pretty good metal on it. I'll get this box away. It's kind of confusing
actually. But it seems like it's very solidly built. And that's always a plus. Just because
there's always some objects that you buy and you spend a lot of money on them and they
fall apart right away. But here it is. Now there is an instruction manual so I'm sure
we'll go over the details of what each of these functions does. But basically you plug
your microphones in up there. You can adjust levels, adjust audio quality. You can do effects,
various things. And then on the back it all outputs by USB to your computer. And then
you record it with Audacity or some other program. So if you have a large number of
people speaking at once you'd want a board like this. Or if you have only one person
and you want to do an effect or increase the audio quality you would also use this board.
As you can see there's a number of different types of connectors. You can plug in all different
types of mics. A bunch of different knobbies that I have no clue what they'll do yet. But
I mean we'll figure it out right? But basically this will have the biggest impact on the Let's
Plays. This camera that I'm using right now has a shotgun mic on the top of it. And usually
what happens is because we cannot cut out the TV volume from the shotgun mic picking
up our speaking, what will end up happening is that the camera audio track will have the
TV game stuff and then our speaking. And that's what we end up using. And some people have
noticed the game audio quality is kind of low because it's coming out of the TV and
back into the camera. Our only real solution for this was to pick up a bunch of mics, have
them wired through a panel like this, and then kind of attach the mics to our shirts.
In that situation only our voices would be picked up and then we could use the higher
quality audio from the game capture. And we needed technology like this to be able to
do that. And now we have it. So that's great. The second thing we got today were these lavalier
microphones to go with it. Now we are going to need adapters for these mics to make it
work with this panel but the adapters are cheap. They're like $2 a piece. We got three
of these mics. Now these are two in the box here. We were hoping to get four because usually
we would use four on the Let's Plays at maximum but only three of them were on sale. So when
the fourth, we're not in a rush, when the fourth one comes on sale we'll buy the fourth
one. Let's take a quick look at these. They're from Audio Technica which is the same company
that we use for this mic which is our AT2020 which is a very good mic. It's lasted five
years now and it's still going strong. These ran us at 30 bucks a pop so that ends up being
around 90. And these honestly are only going to help with the Let's Plays. We'll use the
panel with other microphones for the gamergate stuff and for the anime review stuff. These
are our Let's Play only thing. They are a lower end lavalier mic but I did see a video
online showing off their quality and they're good for what we need. We don't need to spend
100 bucks a person, at least just yet. This thing, this is actually a mic that's primarily
made to be used on cell phones so this thing is basically for that. It's like a cell phone
connector. Everything else here, the clip attaches it to your shirt, there's the mic,
there's the windsock if you want to use it, there's the power thing and there's the battery.
So it all really is standard stuff. The sound quality on it, from what I could tell was
very good, at least for the price of 30 bucks. You can't ask for more than that. And with
three of these, Dave and I will use one each during the Let's Plays and when we do Skyward
Sword again with Cabbage we'll have three of them going. And then we'll just have to
get by using our old method for any kind of four player game until we get the fourth mic.
So yeah, all in all this stash of stuff ran us about 250 bucks, probably another 30 for
a fourth mic. We're going to have to buy some replacement batteries because these, they're
not common, you can't just go into a hardware store and just pick them up like a watch battery,
they're a different size. So we'll probably need to buy some spares of those. And we will
need to buy the cheap connectors that allow us to plug these mics into this board. But
here's the great thing about it, is that these mics are cheap, but they'll do. If we ever
get big, these can be easily replaced, but this board will work with everything. And
this really is the more expensive piece. So like, if a few years down the road we have
enough money and enough of a demand to actually get like really good mics, like $100 mics,
these can be easily replaced because they're kind of cheapos, but the new mics will work
with this thing too, which is great. So we do have the ability to expand and upgrade,
and these will work as long as I just buy that little adapter because this is a standard
computer mic size for the jack here. Meanwhile, those jacks over there are for the next size
up, but it's completely compatible. All you got to do is just buy the thing and stick
it in. So it's going to be great. I don't know when you'll actually see this stuff in
use, but I'm sure we'll make a big hullabaloo about it on the show. So yeah, thanks to everyone
who watches, thanks to everyone who watches without adblock, who donates to Patreon, who
donates to Paypal, everything, you're all great. And I know some of you are probably
looking for the gamergate video, I know, I know. It's coming, trust me. There's just...
I'm not involved in the digging process, but apparently Camera Lady will pull a thread
in digging and then find more stuff and they want to get back at it. So I mean, you'll
see it, we haven't given up. But yeah, thanks everyone, and see you next time.
