Good morning everyone welcome to this week's the weekly sip and in fact
During the the premiere yesterday. There's a whole bunch of people saying where's the sip? Where's the sip? Well here it is
Mmm
Even got a bonus gulp in there. How'd you like that and it is a very good morning indeed
how many of you guys are on the sfo discord because if you were
I did a uh a morning wake-up call 5 a.m
Everyone and hopefully your phone did not wake you with notifications
Time to get up guys
It uh, it seems that not too many people uh appreciated it
Speaking of premieres. I'm only really using them for long-form videos like uh, like yesterday's don't have kids video
All my short videos and the weekly sips and dumping with scrump
And anything else that I decide to do will probably not see a premiere only the big ones will see one
And I gotta say yesterday's video was uh quite divisive
As it's still playing out in the comment section all the uh, all the arguments. That's good though. That's good
There's a bunch of people who agree with my analysis. There's a bunch of people who think that I am just a fucking cuck
And you know, that's fine
But the best part about it is that we're talking about the subject
We're talking about whether or not to have kids. We're actually talking about the contents of the christ church shooters manifesto
We're not simply shutting off our brains and taking in the media narrative wholesale
It's more important that we discuss and disagree
Because the radical lefties in the media simply want us to shut off our brains and assume that it's all racist
So keep talking guys
Here's an article that I meant to actually put in yesterday's video, but I just couldn't find a way to uh to worm it in
Thousands of dads are left in shock as do-it-yourself paternity tests soar. Oh
Maybe there is something to the fact that everyone's fucking cheating nowadays
Up to 30 000 tests are being performed every year the dna tests can be carried out with a simple cheek swab
20 of men will learn they are not the father of the child. They're testing one in five
Sales of secret paternity tests are surging according to suppliers of do-it-yourself home kits
The dna tests which can be carried out with simple cheek swabs are leading to growing numbers of men discovering
They are not the biological father of children. They have been led to believe were theirs
So guys how long until this is made illegal?
Think about it for a minute on the argument that it's causing more and more men to
Disassociate from their families drop their responsibilities to these kids and their mothers break up marriages
Rather than actually blame the woman who cheated on the man
How long until the people in power make some sort of a claim that children have the exclusive right to their genetic material?
And that you can't steal it from them to do a test like this 20 of men will learn they're not the father
In some regions the figure is higher including the northeast where it's 30
Holy fuck. Can you imagine that's almost one in three. Holy shit
The explosion and demand for the test have been fueled by the ease with which definitive dna paternity results can now be obtained
For about 99 pounds testing kits which promise 100 accurate next day results can be bought online
Yeah, I think the era of mom's baby dad's maybe is is rapidly coming to an end to be honest
I think that a paternity test should probably be mandatory at birth
It's a trust but verify situation. I know the arguments against against not having the government involved
But if it is say a legal statute that all kids have to be paternity tested at birth
It removes the the awkwardness of it, you know, because let's say you're in a relationship and you have a suspicion
That your girl might have been having kids with somebody else and you're the sucker
But you have no proof you just have like a feeling
And then you ask oh, hey, can we get this kid?
Paternity tested they're going to instantly take that as an affront and you know if they're innocent
Why wouldn't they from the point of view of the girl if you're innocent?
If you have been faithful and your guy comes to you and asks for a paternity test that is a slap in the face
There's no easy way to do this
So if it becomes mandated
Then it becomes a lot easier to do
Of course, I don't think the government will ever actually mandate something like that because it goes against their interests
Their interests are to keep family units complete are to keep men working
And if necessary to keep child support payments flowing and if mandatory paternity testing disrupts that
A government is not going to implement it as long as the man is named on the child's birth certificate or has parental responsibility
No permission is required from either the mother or child meaning the test can be carried out in total secrecy
That's going to change too. There's going to be a legal statute for that. They're going to be like no
It's it's the mother's child. So the mother has the say in some u.s
States concern over this has led to a recent ban on do-it-yourself home dna testing
With all tests now having to be ordered by a doctor or court official and conducted under their supervision
In britain, there is no such legislation currently be considered
Yeah, see I didn't even read ahead in the article
I already knew where they were going with it and that's where they went and of course whenever this topic comes up
I am always reminded of this old article from 2010
Who's the daddy paternity can now be verified by a simple test, but it doesn't mean it should be it's a wise child
They say that knows its own father nowadays wisdom is hardly required
Dna tests can do the job with scientific certainty for the entire course of human history
Men have nursed profound troubling doubts about the fundamental question of whether or not they were fathers to their own children
women by contrast
Usually enjoyed a reasonable level of certainty about the matter
Now a cotton wool swab with a bit of saliva plus a small fee can settle the matter
At a stroke the one thing that women had going with them has been taken away
The one respect in which they had the last laugh over their husbands and lovers
You can see how this person's a sociopath their husbands and lovers
Last laugh does that really sound like the basis to have a long lasting functional stable relationship?
Dna tests are an anti-feminist appliance of science
Yeah
Because they take away a woman's ability to cuck a man
The subject has resurfaced lately because a married television presenter for who?
Years had been paying for the support of a child conceived as he thought as a result of his relationship with a writer
It seems that after meeting the child for the first time he asked for a dna test
It duly turned out that he was not after all the father poor child
Poor child. Yeah, you know what it is that that's true poor child, but also poor father or rather poor fooled father
The children are the victim here, but they're not the victim of society. They're not the victim of the dna test
They're the victim of their shitty mothers the next bridget jones movie may turn this under discussed issue into a talking point
Bj becomes pregnant
But she is not entirely sure by whom having been seeing the nice
Colin firth boyfriend and the bad hugh grant one in pretty short order the matter could have been fruitfully ambiguous
With bridget having a choice of fathers. No, no, no
Are you actually saying that it's better if women can just choose the father of their baby?
This is ridiculous
This is insanity
And apparently it's a sordid contemporary fashion for for them to get a dna test
And so she found out the paternity of the baby in the most ancient game of humankind. Guess the daddy wasn't played anymore
Yeah, and that is to our benefit
You fucking sociopath
The actor jude law recently found himself in just this position and unhesitatingly and ungallantly demanded a dna test
It's it's ungallant to demand a dna test
It's it's gallant to raise a child that's not yours
I mean, I guess on some level it is like if you if you decide to take on that responsibility willingly that is a supreme sacrifice
But nobody should be shamed for not wanting to fucking do it
Uncertainty allows mothers to select for their children the father who would be best for them
Because apparently the father's rights the father's life the father's feelings the father's finances just don't matter
What matters is that as a male you were selected
By the female and that is now what your life is about being selected by your betters
In making paternity conditional on a test rather than the say-so of the mother it has removed from women a powerful instrument of choice
That's because it should have never been your choice to begin with. Anyway, yeah this this melanie mcdonough
She seems like a complete fucking piece of work. Let's stay in the uk for a little bit longer
Nhs
Transgender clinic accused of covering up negative impacts of puberty blockers on children by oxford professor
I've always maintained that
If you want to transition if you want to become a trans person or you want to you know, do whatever that's your right
Obviously, obviously it's your right
But you should also be properly informed about the medical risks and to say that oh, it's no big deal
Snap your fingers become a woman snap your fingers become a man again. Don't worry about it
But that's not how it works there are risks and costs involved and talking about them frankly is not gatekeeping
At some point i'm going to have to do a video on on the transit situation
And I think lillith is going to help me out with it
We've been talking about it an oxford university professor has accused the nhs's only specialized clinic for transgender children
Of suppressing negative results while undertaking experimental treatment on adolescents
This is hideously unethical
Suppress negative results as you test on children because you have an ideology you want to push
They've been giving puberty blocking hormones to children without robust evidence as to the long-term effects
They declared the trial a success and the clinic has continued to treat over a thousand children with hormones
But dr
Biggs's research suggests that after a year of treatment a significant increase was found in patients who have been born female
Self-reporting to staff that they deliberately try to hurt or kill themselves and this is when you realize that the radical trans activists
Don't actually care about trans people. They are actually quite anti-trans because they will push the trans acceptance agenda
To the point that they have no problem with actual real trans people killing themselves
The normalization of trans status in society is more important than keeping actual trans people alive
According to these idiots puberty blockers exacerbated gender dysphoria
Yet the study has been used to justify rolling out this drug regime to several hundred children aged under 16
Yeah, maybe you should be waiting till they hit 18
Maybe you should you should be waiting till they're fucking adults before you do anything this goddamn serious
Let's shift gears a little bit a belief in meritocracy is not only false. It's bad for you
Said by somebody who probably can't fucking compete
Most people don't just think the world should be read meritocratically. They think it is meritocratic
well
On some level it is
Think about it
If everything was corrupt if all of our institutions were purely 100 corrupted
Everything was just an eternal power struggle between the people at the top and the people at the bottom
Why do things work?
How come the power is on right now?
How come I can record edit upload this video and you can watch it halfway across the world
How come you can go to the grocery store and get food?
How does the food get from farm to warehouse to store to your kitchen?
I'm not saying that there's no corruption and i'm not saying that psychopaths don't occasionally enter into a system
And hideously corrupt and destroy it that happens a lot
But if you think that our society isn't at least partially meritocratic
Then you have to be living in in some kind of isolated bubble meritocracy has become a leading social ideal
Politicians across the ideological spectrum continually return to the theme that the rewards of life money power jobs university admission
Should be distributed according to skill and effort. Yeah
Yeah, that's how it should be
You shouldn't get something for nothing
Although widely held the belief that merit rather than luck determines success or failure in the world is demonstratively false
This is not least because merit itself is in large part the result of luck
Talent and the capacity for determined effort sometimes called grit depend a great deal on one's genetic endowments and upbringing
Well, here's the problem with your argument, you know, it is the result of luck definitely
But do you know what luck is luck is effort over time?
That's really all it is
Let's say you want to you know play in sports or something. All right, and from a young age
You you practice and you're terrible at the sport of your choice
But you practice every day you practice every day you practice you do get better you get better you get better
After years after a decade of practice, you're you're pretty good at your sport. All right
And then you get lucky your one shot comes along
And because you have a decade of experience under your belt
You've at least accumulated enough skill to take a decent chance at that shot
Now if you didn't practice for that decade and the shot came along you would instantly blow it
And here's how you can conceptualize it
Every single day that you practiced
And you didn't get lucky and and your shot didn't come along
That was a failure in a sense. It wasn't a failure because you practice you gain skills you you broaden your horizon a little bit
But it was a failure and that you didn't actually accomplish your long-term goal
You had to wait you had to wait a decade's worth of days where you practice with no results
That's what getting lucky is because all of us every single one of us every single human being on this planet will at some point
Get lucky we will have a chance to do something that we love
We will have a shot if you have prepared for your shot
If you do the work when nobody else is watching then when you finally do get lucky you can take advantage of it
So this person is right in that it is the result of luck
This person is wrong because they don't know what luck is
You'll notice that people who are exceptionally unlucky are also people who are exceptionally lazy
Now one of those things the laziness or the luck didn't cause the other they're they're not correlated in that way
But what happened was that when those people had their chances they had their shots
They couldn't rise to the challenge in addition to being false
A growing body of research and psychology and neuroscience suggests believing in meritocracy makes people more selfish less self-critical
And even more prone to acting in discriminatory ways
Meritocracy is not only wrong. It's bad
I can see more selfish because if you have earned your success rightfully, you may want to hold on to it. That's understandable
I don't see self. I don't see less self-critical because the most successful people are are very self-critical
They're constantly reinventing themselves. They're constantly burning away the dead wood that exists inside of themselves
There's no way that they're self. There's no way that they're less self-critical
As for prone to acting in discriminatory ways
See this person doesn't really
Expand that idea in this article. What do you mean by discriminatory ways?
Do you mean that they just become racists or sexist legitimately? They just view other groups as naturally inferior. That would be a problem
If by discriminatory ways do they say things like well
Maybe america's black community is doing poorly not because of racism
But because fathers don't stick around to raise their kids and those kids grow up with fewer opportunities
because
That's true
It also makes you a racist to say in today's climate
But it is the heart of the problem at least in in terms of black america what this sounds like to me
Is that meritocracy is not only wrong it's bad to this person because the lines of thinking that lead you to meritocracy
Also lead you to realize that there are causes for the world's problems other than racism and sexism. Here's something really dumb
Hawaii considers raising legal smoking age to a hundred years
So you just want to just want to ban smoking in hawaii then basically
You can have hundred year olds show up and smoke and that's about it
Hawaii already has some of the toughest laws in cigarette sales
But democrat politician richard kiegan who is a doctor believes more needs to be done to ban the deadliest artifact in human history
to be fair, you know, um
Like I wouldn't want smoking to be banned
But I wouldn't necessarily fight for it too hard if it was like it was just out of my hands
I wouldn't be like this is a travesty like smoking's pretty fucking bad
It really is the the drug argument. I can see both sides right like should poison be legal
Probably not you would not knowingly ingest radioactive isotopes or some bullshit right at the same time should people be allowed to
Get high at the expense of their own health
Yeah, probably
and you know cigarettes and alcohol provide a very a very tame sort of high in comparison to marijuana and in comparison to
harder drugs
but
It is ultimately a victimless crime, isn't it?
The person's choosing to do it to themselves so I can see both arguments
and because
I don't smoke. I don't drink
I don't use drugs and i've never felt any serious push to do any of those things
I personally do not care about this conversation
But this is one of the but this is one of the times where the arguments are very evenly balanced because on the one hand
You know
There's the arguments against the nanny state
The state of hawaii has no place telling their citizens whether they can smoke or not
A legal age of 100 is ridiculous because people past 21 are adults in the states on the other hand cigarettes
Are and they produce toxic substances and we often regulate toxic substances
While I can understand both arguments if I really had to choose one
I would I would ultimately fall on the side of letting people do what they like even if that's completely self-destructive
You know as long as they're not destroying somebody else on their downward spiral, you know, I I don't really care
Let's end off with something stupid
Cher calls for laws to control men's bodies. They must be circumcised and show papers or penis
Cher
Cher
I'm reasonably sure that over 50 percent of your body is artificial
You have no place to be talking about whether or not men's bodies are natural here
Let's read her ridiculous tweets
Republicans believe they've got god-given right to dictate what we do with our bodies
Women must make laws to control men's bodies. No viagra rogane or testosterone how transphobic of you
All men must be circumcised and show papers or penis to prove it
Massage parlors punishable by death men must take the pill
What
You mean like estrogen?
Do you I don't know exactly what you mean by the pill
Cher I think you might have gone off the fucking deep end here lady. Why is trump always pr man for villains?
Why does he kowtow kiss ass of dictators child molesters murderers wife beaters?
anti-semites white supremacists hater of any skin not lily white
Why he's sick with envy he wants to be a king, but how can he care nothing for auto warm be?
What?
Cher
I think it's time for you to retire
You're like you're going off the deep end in your old age
Anyway, I am out of here. Thank you very much guys. Thank you very much for watching this video. Thank you very much before
Watching yesterday's premiere. I am for the most part back on track again and doing regular videos
I appreciate your support on subscribe star because ever since I did the patreon is dying
You know sargon's last laugh video my subscribe star support has has rapidly bumped up
We are about one third of the way on subscribe star to me being able to comfortably live on this channel and continue to upgrade
My equipment so thank you very much for all of your support. It's quite incredible
If you're interested in this sort of thing, I will be streaming mass effect 2 tonight with my girlfriend
We're continuing our playthrough through the entire series. She's never played it before
Doing that on twitch.tv
Slash game boomers tonight and as always because I am doing the content creation thing full time
Now I stream my video games on twitch every night
I'm a variety streamer. So just drop in whenever you see a game that you like
I don't know if dnd is on this week. Sargon's really really dragging his butt about it
Let's hope it is it's been like five fucking weeks
So whether you're catching me on discord seeing me on twitch or checking out my videos
Thank you very much
I love you
