So, while everyone's attention was turned towards VidCon this past weekend, and the
absolute shitshow that erupted there, something else was happening at about the same time.
Something that I personally believe to be equally as important to the conversation of
free speech, fair use, and ethical conduct as Sargon getting called a garbage human for
simply sitting quietly at Anita Sarkeesian's panel and listening to her talk.
This is actually the sort of thing I expected all of the usual skeptical suspects to cover,
and to my surprise, I don't think anyone's talked about it yet.
I'm not blaming them, of course, they were busy.
But this is pretty important, so I guess it's left up to me.
Let's discuss the curious case of Alex Maurer.
Star Maser DSP is an arcade-style spacecraft shoot-'em-up that recalls the glory days
of games like Gradius, Phalanx, and Zero Wing.
Being a 2016 indie game, it's got that hyper-smooth pixel style that seems to be trending right
now.
It raised $200,000 on Kickstarter, and was first pushed to the forefront of people's
attention when the early access demo hit Steam in August of 2016.
I haven't played it myself, and I'm not a super-huge fan of the genre, but from the
gameplay videos I can find, it looks to be a polished, lovingly-made, serviceable entry
into the shmup genre.
Maybe a bit repetitive, but that's more of a failing of the genre rather than Star
Maser DSP itself.
For a while, all was well and good with Star Maser DSP.
And then suddenly, people from all across the internet began getting hit with copyright
strikes for their reviews and let's plays of the game.
And not from Imago Softworks, the indie dev that created Star Maser DSP, but rather Alex
Maurer, the composer of the game's music and sound effects.
Alex Maurer, before this incident, had made a name for herself as a composer.
She'd worked on games like Death Road to Canada, Spy Hunter, Need for Speed, Serious Sam, and
Penny Arcade's On the Rain Slick Precipice of Darkness.
She'd also worked on multiple short films as well.
And according to her Wikipedia page, she'd actually released an album designed to be
played on NES, using an NES cartridge.
Cool.
Maurer was contracted to do the soundtrack for Star Maser, in which she was paid monthly
until the work was completed.
However, due to reasons that have understandably been kept private, Maurer was released from
her contract with Imago Softworks before the work was complete.
Due to non-disclosure agreements and the general state of the game's industry, I don't think
we'll ever find out exactly why Maurer was let go.
But I think we can extrapolate from what I'm about to show you in this video a pretty accurate
picture of the situation.
Maurer claims that the contract she signed was legally binding to a game called Star
Maser, not Star Maser DSP, and that because she was let go before she completed the work,
all of the music and sound effects in Star Maser DSP are her own intellectual property,
and that it is her right to levy a copyright strike against any YouTuber or streamer that
plays Star Maser DSP on their shows.
However, if we take a peek at Maurer's contract, which has actually made the rounds on the
internet, we can see that the contract specifically states that her position is work-for-hire,
meaning that any content she creates under this contract is explicitly owned by Imago
Softworks, not Maurer personally.
Furthermore, Imago Softworks' position on this contract is that it covers both Star
Maser and all related Star Maser products, like Star Maser DSP.
Maurer's counter position is that, because she was released from the contract early,
without completion of said contract, that those stipulations are null and void, that
the music is owned by her.
And using that line of reasoning, Maurer began issuing copyright strikes to YouTubers and
streamers playing Star Maser DSP on their channels and shows.
Her logic was that because the music in the game was her intellectual property, and that
because the content creators in question failed to obtain permission from her personally,
her only legal recourse of action to protect her intellectual property was to use the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, or the DMCA.
Maurer began to file false DMCA claims to what would ultimately be over 100 YouTube
channels and just as many, if not more, Twitch streams using each service's auto-claim process.
And we all know how unforgiving this shit can be at times.
Content ID is bad enough, where Scattershot matches auto-claim videos, even when the holder
of the copyright doesn't want them to be claimed.
But on both of these platforms, somebody like Maurer can show up, file a claim, and it just
goes through.
Nobody at Twitch or YouTube actually looks at the claim, it's all automated, it just
goes through without a hitch, and it's on the channels involved to actually appeal them.
And these strikes are no laughing matter for anybody who seriously values their channel.
They constitute legal action that the platform must act upon in one way or another, and many
channels have vanished, never to return, due to both valid and invalid DMCA notices.
Many of the larger names that we all know and love, including Nintendo, Sega, Sony,
Konami, and so on, have automated strikes issued in their name.
I think every YouTuber, both large and small, has a story that they can tell about the DMCA,
but I'll just stick to my own personal one, just to give you a sense of scale.
Check this out, my gaming channel gets almost no traffic, I've got about 20 Twitch stream
regulars, whom I all appreciate very much, and just as many views per Let's Play episode
on YouTube on average.
Do you really think that somebody over at Nintendo of Japan is issuing Japanese language
copyright strikes on my 10 view Breath of the Wild Let's Play parts?
If so, I would absolutely hate to be the dude doing that job, but I'm pretty sure this
is all automated, with computers mass blanketing strikes wherever matches take them.
Over the course of the past week, as all of this was unfolding, I actually emailed Mauer
myself, to ask her exactly what was going on, but she didn't reply to me, probably
because I'm a 500 sub pleb.
However, a larger YouTuber by the name of Sid Alpha, who had also been watching the
drama unfold, did in fact get a reply from her.
Let's read it.
The fact that Temi Noko, one of the YouTubers hit by Mauer's DMCA clams, is directing
her complaints to me instead of the developer is a problem.
This seems to be a general response of those who were hit with DMCA strikes.
I did suggest to some who complained to me that I would reverse their DMCA strikes if
they were willing to redirect their complaints to the developer.
No one was willing to do so, and I no longer want to offer anyone the possibility of having
their DMCA strikes reversed.
Wow.
So this is what this sounds like to me.
Mauer, it sounds like you're pissed from being let go from Imajos Softworks.
It sounds like you believe you should still have that job and be paid the remaining money
from finishing the contract out.
And it sounds like, rather than keep your dispute between you and Imajos, you would
rather press-gang YouTubers into fighting for you in the court of public opinion, by
filing DMCA notifications against their videos, and then telling them to redirect their complaints
to Imajos.
Except Imajos didn't file the notification.
You did.
That's your name there on the strike.
Nobody else's.
Let's be charitable towards your interpretation of events, Alex.
Let's assume that Imajos Softworks let you go for a completely bullshit reason.
Let's assume that you're entirely innocent, and that you should have been able to complete
your work and get paid as promised.
Let's even assume that Imajos Softworks' actions towards you were illegal.
Why do you think that gives you the right to start issuing notifications against uninvolved
third parties?
What did you expect would happen here?
Did you expect streamers and let's players to just give in and go fight Imajos on your
behalf?
Did you want to frame this as a David and Goliath situation?
A poor video games composer versus the big bad company?
Forming her out into the street with little recourse?
Or maybe, did you want this to become a grassroots thing where mobs of people show up at Imagoza's
digital doorstep to fight for your cause?
Well, there's no fucking chance of that happening now, and then after you've threatened
their channels with copyright strikes.
Channels which, for some of these people, are their livelihoods.
You know what might have worked?
Alerting the games press.
Yeah, Kotaku and Polygon and the others are absolute shit-suckers.
But you're an indie woman apparently getting trampled by a company.
They'd lap that shit up.
They'd signal boost it among their crowd.
And you may have actually ended up with some support.
Or maybe contacting the YouTubers and streamers playing Star Mazer DSP without a DMCA claim
and informing them of the situation and asking them to help raise awareness.
Even a GoFundMe for your legal action would have probably worked.
All of these options were available to you, but you chose to pursue legal action against
uninvolved individuals.
I'd ask you why, but I think I have a pretty reasonable assumption here.
You don't really have a leg to stand on regarding your claims, and you know it.
There are legal consequences to filing a false DMCA claim.
Mauer lives in the USA, as do many of the people she's filed against, making the legalities
of the situation a bit more straightforward.
And I doubt she has the army of lawyers that a major game dev would use to stall countersuits
until they fizzle out.
If the use of content is covered by fair use laws, a DMCA claim is considered to be false.
And even if the use of content is not covered by fair use laws, a contract that Mauer signed
states that she does not actually own the content.
And a DMCA claim filed for content one doesn't own is also considered to be false.
Abuse of the DMCA does have legal consequences.
If Mauer's interpretation of the contract is upheld over the course of any legal battle
she undertakes with Imago Softworks, many of these strikes and claims will also be upheld
as legitimate.
But if Mauer's interpretation is not upheld, she has opened the door wide for many content
creators to set precedents regarding copyright law as it pertains to streams and let's plays,
as well as absolutely destroying herself financially and legally.
Either way, I think she's already destroyed herself professionally.
Despite her impressive body of work, I don't think anybody would ever dare hire her again.
However, as the week went on, rather than back down, apologize, delete Facebook, lawyer
up and hit the gym, Mauer decided instead to double down.
She began filing DMCAs against people who had done videos on Duck Game and Death Road
to Canada, games unrelated to the Imago debacle but ones that she did work on, as well as
sending a cease and desist to Turner Broadcasting due to their own involvement in Duck Game.
Holy shit.
Let's see what she actually has to say about it.
I don't have to give anyone permission to have my music be in their videos.
I told people to contact Imagos because Imagos is responsible for releasing a game that violated
copyright.
Also, I don't think that video recording yourself playing video games is a realistic job.
Creating video games is, and it is a very risky business to be in.
This is a continuation of her previous stance regarding her owning the rights to Starmazer
DSP's soundtrack, not Imagos.
But it's also a rebuke that many content creators face by a lot of less than charitable individuals.
That it's not a real job.
A job is what pays the bills.
Period.
Alex, did you know that at one time, being involved in television wasn't considered
a job?
Or being involved in radio?
Did you know that at one time, people stood around in a field to watch very basic airplanes
fly about 40 or 50 feet, say to themselves, golly gee, isn't that something, but never
once considered that a multi-billion dollar industry would spring up from that innovation?
Every single time there's a new invention or new medium, there will be people who may
think that it's a novelty, but does not actually consist of any real work beyond hobbyism.
Let me repeat, Alex, streaming and let's playing is not a real job to you.
Likely because you're 34 years old, and grew up in an environment where such a thing
was unthinkable.
Thankfully for the rest of us, we've moved beyond that.
And as a quick aside, TotalBiscuit got involved in all this bullshit too, quipping that, for
this not being a real job, it sure as hell can afford the lawyers that Alex's real
job seemingly can't.
I love you bro.
TB decided to reach out to YouTube Gaming and Twitch using the clout of his own channel,
in order to help expedite some of the counterclaims filed by smaller channels against Maurer's
bullshit.
Additionally, a GoFundMe was set up to help pay for legal expenses against Maurer, which
hit $10,000 in under 24 hours.
It's still going by the way, so please go donate if you can.
At the time of recording this video, they need another 2,000 American, and I have confidence
that we can scrape it together.
Additionally, even though it's been a very long time since August 2014, the internet
still has no tolerance for unethical practices, and I'm personally absolutely proud of you
guys for that.
Here's Maurer addressing TemiNeko, the content creator she mentioned earlier as being one
of the ones she refused to back down on.
Thanks for helping me get death threats for doing nothing wrong.
These death threats are coming from people who have my address.
They are literally ruining my livelihood, as in whether or not I'm alive.
Happy?
Now of course, I don't think anybody should be sending actual fucking threats to anybody.
And man, if you're doing this sort of thing for the lulz or whatever, please stop.
But doesn't this whole thing sound familiar to any of you who went through gamergate?
Didn't Brianna Wu, Nita Sarkeesian, Zoe Quinn, and many others start complaining about this
type of shit as soon as they started getting seriously criticized for their unethical practices?
Maybe the call of victim bucks was just too seducing for Maurer to ignore.
But unlike the aforementioned fraudsters, there's probably not going to be much money
for Maurer in all of it.
She's destroyed absolutely everything around her to the point that even the SJW Gaming
cabal seems to be reluctant to get involved.
Over time, Maurer's comments on the topic began to become more and more deranged.
Fucking playing video games is not a job!
If there was a way to DMCA punch you in the face through my computer screen, I would.
You and your fucking friends do not have the right to post videos with my music.
The DMCA system exists so I can say no when the creepy fucking people like you are trying
to fuck my music.
Fuck you.
This sounds like a 50-50 mix of a grumpy old father who doesn't approve of his kid's
career choice and a whining child who's throwing a tantrum when things don't go her way.
Another YouTuber by the name of Musical Anti-Hero managed to get a hold of Alex Maurer and conduct
an interview regarding this whole Star Mazer DSP debacle.
There was honestly nothing too special about it.
Musical Anti-Hero brought up the same points that many others brought up regarding the
use of DMCA, YouTubing being a legitimate source of income, and so on.
Maurer, of course, restated her positions.
But the video Musical Anti-Hero did on the interview was, you guessed it, hit with a
copyright claim by Alex Maurer.
The video itself had none of Maurer's content, and none of Imajos' content in it.
It was entirely Musical Anti-Hero's content.
What was Maurer's twisted reasoning this time?
He used an old photograph from before my gender transition in his video.
It's an extremely sensitive issue for trans people.
I asked him to take it down and he said he would.
Over 12 hours later it was still up, so I decided to report it.
The photo came from my camera and I technically owned the copyright.
Are you fucking kidding me?
I don't care that Alex Maurer turned out to be trans.
She apparently goes by Niki Maurer sometimes, but still seems to use Alex.
It's a gender neutral name anyway, and it's ultimately a non-issue.
And I understand why it may be sensitive to have pre-transition photos thrown about
when you're trans, even though Maurer uploaded said photo herself.
And I'm not even interested in arguing her trans status, even though transtrenders are
absolutely a thing, gender questioning and confused individuals are absolutely a thing,
and just blatantly faking trans status for SJW support is absolutely a thing.
But an individual's face is not automatically protected by copyright.
That is not a right that you intrinsically have simply for owning your own face.
And showing a pre-transition photo is clearly not justification for abuse of the DMCA.
It's about at this point in the story that Imogos just got fucking fed up with the whole
thing.
Imogos began to move forward with legal action against Maurer, stating in a Twitter PM that
"...we have become represented by Leonard French in this case and we intend to litigate.
We are seeking absolutely no damages in this action, only a court-ordered establishment
of our queer defined rights chain and subsequently the place in that chain for YouTubers who
have been affected."
Leonard French, the attorney hired by Imogos, as well as the one behind the GoFundMe intended
to help protect content creators affected by Maurer, released this statement on behalf
of Don Thacker of Imogos.
"...it is with a heavy heart that I announce that we have a plan to help the community
and Imogos through the legal gauntlet that Alex Maurer has set for us.
We feel it is our duty and responsibility to do what we can to mitigate the damage Alex
has caused."
Don's journey with Alex began seven years ago when he met her at PAX East after asking
her to work on one of his films.
They quickly became friends.
Her talent and skill as a musician and artist was readily apparent.
Don and Alex worked on several titles together over the years.
In 2015, Don saw the opportunity to create Starmazer, a dream he had since he was nine
years old.
Don asked Alex to create the music and sound effects assets for the game.
The Kickstarter, the development, the team, it was all a dream come true.
But then Alex's behavior began to change.
Slowly at first, it had become what you have seen publicly recently.
Don tried to keep the matter as quiet as possible out of respect for Alex and in the hope that
the situation would be resolved peacefully, amicably, and to the benefit of everyone.
Unfortunately, the copyright system in the United States has allowed her to assert rights
that she does not actually own, and her assertion of those rights has caused Imigos and Don
to lose credibility with many of the people and companies that they do business with.
This has resulted in Imigos and Don losing developers, financial support, potential and
existing film clients, and that has further caused them all a great deal of stress.
Alex has recently become very public about the matter.
We have decided to pursue court action solely to educate Imigos' rights and to clear up
any dispute with Alex.
This is all in the hopes that the developers, including Don, can continue with their first
left, development of the game.
It is and always has been my understanding that Imigos owns valid copyrights in all their
works from which Alex has issued takedowns.
It is also my understanding and position that Alex has no right to issue takedowns for Imigos'
and related content.
Imigos and Don have engaged me to pursue these legal rights as reasonably and appropriately
as possible.
It is our primary goal to establish Imigos' rights and the community's rights to publish
Star Mazer and Star Mazer DSP content.
Meanwhile, Maura continued her long descent off the deep end.
I just expect former clients to not disclose copies of paper containing my contact info,
redacted social security number, and signature.
For all I know, you creepy fucking scumbags might photoshop my signature from the document
into other things, to sign me up for shit like credit cards or god knows what the fuck.
Go ahead.
I dare you to fucking do that and see how long Don Thacker remains out of jail.
Oh, and if you could all stop threatening my life now that would be good.
For all I know, someone is going to be standing outside of my house waiting for me.
I may as well go buy a gun for protection.
Let's see your doxxing.
Uh, that's 1x love.
Fucking faces, meet me outside of my house with all that shit now.
I guess that's a part of the job description for YouTuber now?
Death threats and meeting people outside their doxxed fucking houses?
There's a lot to reply here, but I'll just say one thing.
There is no job description for YouTuber, it's apparently not a real job.
Sid Alpha, the original YouTuber that actually managed to get a reply from Maura back when
this all started, was soon sent another message from her, that simply stated, I want to literally
kill you.
In a short span of time, she went from being apparently fearful of her life from death
threats, to issuing one herself.
Sid Alpha's reply was only, oh, do you?
Maura quickly replied again with, never ask for my comment again.
You are a cyberbully, 100,000%.
And you are transphobic, seriously.
You think your fucking cisgender world is all that exists?
You think I don't own a photograph of myself?
Then you're a fucking robot.
I want to kill myself, but I have to kill you first.
It's here that we've hit the rock bottom of the situation, and also where Maura herself
has hit rock bottom in her personal life.
What comes next is entirely my own speculation, but I think this is what happened.
Alex Maura's mental health has been on a slow decline for a while now.
I think this decline caused her to lose her job with Imogos, which most likely contributed
to Maura's furthering instability due to her close friendship with Don Thacker, the
man who had befriended her nearly a decade ago and brought her on as both a colleague
and pal.
This was likely extremely personal for Maura.
It wasn't about the YouTubers, and it wasn't about Imogos, it was most likely about Don.
It could have been a betrayal of friendship on the job.
It could have been romantic in nature.
It could have been just the slow decline of an individual due to other unrelated mental
problems that was compounded first by the firing, and second by the massive internet
backlash.
Who knows?
I don't think any of us ever will.
But this all smacks of a personal dispute that exploded wildly into the realm of DMCAs
and SJW bullshit.
And yes, I do say SJW bullshit for a reason.
Alex Maurer followed a tried and true formula that Gamergate knows well.
You start with unethical practices.
Add in a spice of accused privilege and power for your opponent.
When things hit the court of public opinion, cry harassment to all your detractors.
When things get worse, claim bigotry by any possible metric you can.
In this case, transphobia.
Overblow any death threats, insults, and harassment you may receive, and begin issuing similar
death threats, insults, and harassment yourself.
There's one big difference, though.
At the end of this formula, all the big SJW names, the Zoe's, the Anita's, they get
money, prestige, and protection.
Instead, Maurer got isolation, legal repercussions, and eventually a complete mental breakdown
causing her to seek the help that she so obviously needs.
Leonard French, Imogosa's lawyer, posted a video on Maurer's final collapse.
Eventually became actual threats of imminent bodily injury or harm.
At one point, I was threatened with having my windows broken, my building set on fire.
There were some colorful ones in there that I'll leave out because I don't want to encourage
it.
There was, of course, this ever-present image of a knife to her neck, and she said that
that wasn't a suicide threat, it was something else.
Literally, she said something else.
Okay.
Whatever that is.
I have been searching and investigating and doing a lot, a lot of back behind-the-scenes
efforts to try and find Alec's help, and the long and the short of it is that we were able
to get Alec's some help, not me alone.
It was an effort of a lot of people, including people I didn't expect, so thank you for all
of you who came together to help an obviously suffering individual in her time of need.
The DMCA claims have been redacted.
Alex is receiving some form of help, which has been kept confidential.
And yes, the legal action is still going forward.
I think it's important to really split this into two discussions here.
Alex Maurer has abused the DMCA, has hurt a lot of people, and must face whatever appropriate
punishment is deemed necessary for that.
Imogosa's rights need to be protected, as do the rights of the continent creators dragged
into this unwillingly.
At the same time, Alex Maurer is clearly suffering.
She did all of this of her own volition, but guys, it's not worth her life or her health.
She's still a person who needs help.
Her actions, and her punishment for those actions, and her issues and the potential
for her recovery are two different things.
I want to make one thing absolutely clear.
It is my opinion that the curious case of Alex Maurer ended on a good note because despite
her self-claimed status as a trans woman in the gaming industry, Alex Maurer had no institutional
support from the usual anti-Gamergate suspects.
No Journos.
No Gamergazi.
No feminist frequency.
No crash override.
Nothing from the usual suspects on Twitter or YouTube.
I'm sure she, at one time, positioned herself as the next Zoe Quinn, at least in her head,
but thankfully that didn't manifest in reality.
When the support wasn't there from the SJW clique, the only option left was to seek
professional help.
Which really makes me think, how many others that Gamergate knows so well are in the same
boat?
What if there's a nugget of goodness in people like Zoe and Anita and Brianna and
so many others, covered up by years of bad habits, of corruption, of self-destructive
tendencies, of social justice inculcation?
SJWs and feminist YouTubers are, slowly but surely, starting to come around, not becoming
anti-SJW or anti-feminist zealots, but at least beginning to use their critical thought
processes more actively, and getting punished by the clique for it.
Laci Green is a great recent example of this.
She's nowhere near to being an anti-feminist as far as I can tell, but just talking to
the antis has caused her own group to excommunicate her.
It's my opinion that the hardcore strands of social justice indoctrinate in the way
that an extremist intolerant religion does, and when the ideology is threatened, the natural
reaction is to go deeper and deeper down the rabbit hole.
I don't know if Alex is actually trans, and that her transness brought her into social
justice, which inevitably led her into the sorry mental state she found herself in, or
if her claims of being trans were a side effect of an already fragile mental state to begin
with.
Here's what I do think, though.
Alex Maurer's claims of transphobia near the endpoint, as a person who already had
emotional or mental issues, showed that those issues were rapidly compounded by exposure
to extremist social justice views.
Like any religion, like any cult, the SJW mindset needs only a small opening to turn
your average person with a bit of depression into an emotional wreck, self-destructing
constantly and taking everything down with them.
I think this is what happened to Alex Maurer.
And I think, if people like Zoe and Anita and Brianna didn't have the massive amount
of wealth, connections, and privilege that they do, it would be happening to them too.
But in the end, it was a good thing that Alex Maurer didn't have them, because her lack
of them is what allowed her to get the help that she needs.
At least, regarding that, I'm very happy for.
But please, stop selling Chiptune albums for a thousand bucks, Alex.
Thanks for watching, guys.
This is the second Indefensible in a week, and I'm happy to say that I'm back to
doing this stuff full-time.
It won't always be Indefensibles, it might be political stuff in the style of my Trouble
with Trudeau video, but I plan to keep this channel updated regularly from now on.
Thanks to all of you supporters on the SFO Patreon who motivate me to keep doing this
stuff, even when I thought that I couldn't do it myself and had nothing of value to contribute
to the community.
And, just as a treat, this video should be releasing on the morning of July 1st, 2017,
the 150th anniversary of Canada's founding.
To celebrate both Canada Day and Alex Maurer's hopefully impending recovery, my friends and
I are going to be streaming Death Road to Canada over at twitch.tv slash sharpadotaku,
one of Alex Maurer's games.
Please don't DM CAS.
The stream should be going right when this video goes live, so come say hi, I'd love
to chat with you.
Alright guys, I love you.
See you next time.
