Dude, why is Sargon a part of every recent controversy? He was the center of the slop
gate thing from before, he's all over the starfield pronouns thing, and today's topic,
the body count discourse, yeah that was Sargon too. Here's a reddit post that went viral.
I, 27 female, hate how men value me because of my body count. So I've been with 58 different
men which I know is higher than average but I wanted to have fun and enjoy new experiences
and it's my life so I did. But I've settled down the last year and have really been trying
to find someone special to settle down with and start a family. All my friends are now
either married or in relationships now and whenever I meet a match with a man or meet
one in real life and they always ask what my body count is and I tell them, they always
make a disgusted face and unmatch or ghost me. I even met one guy who I liked so much
and I thought he was so sweet who told me he wasn't interested in a woman with such
high mileage and ended up dumping me. I cried my eyes out for days over it. I'm more than
just the men I've slept with. I have a decent job, fun hobbies and interests and I'm still
young but I guess I'm just a hoe in most men's eyes.
Sargon retweeted this story with a caption. The question we must ask young women is this.
Who told you it was acceptable to have a high body count? That person has ruined your life
and dating prospects. You should be angry with them and ensure future generations of
women are not deceived by them as you were. And of course, this got everyone really mad.
How dare you say that a woman's past choices matter when it comes to her future attractability?
Of course, in the real world, a woman's past choices do matter when it comes to her future
attractability. But you know what? So do a man's. Not in exactly the same way, but it's
not like men are somehow untethered from the consequences of their actions. But this actually
was the first line of attack from progressives. One of the common replies was, what about
men's high body count? Sargon replied, since women use virgin as an insult towards men,
it seems that women find a man who hasn't penetrated another woman to be pathetic and
scornful. Men and women are totally different. Women view the number of women a man has slept
with as a measure of the value of that man. Now, this isn't exactly right. I know many,
many women who would not fuck a guy who's been with, say, 100 or 1000 girls. But this
is in the context of women using the words virgin or incel as insults. Here's the exchange
being replied to. This woman says, I was single for a decent amount of time in my 20s and
30s. I had fun. Make of that what you will. Now I'm in a relationship, which started when
I was 35, and we have a young daughter. We have a normal relationship, hard times and
great times. We share and often laugh about our prerelationship shenanigans with total
honesty about all the different things we experienced. A guy replies to her, that's
a funny way of saying you got ran through by Chad and Tyrone throughout your prime,
and then you finally settled down with a simp who was completely unaware and oblivious of
your whorish past when she became old, used up and blown out. Jesus. The woman replied
to that. Well, look at that. After all this time on Twitter, I finally found the incels.
Now I'm sure you know this, but incel means involuntary celibate. That means guys who
want to fuck but can't fuck because they can't find a partner. There's also an incel
community with guys who are honestly pretty sad and bitter about their lot in life. And
you know what? Fair enough. If you thought you were a zero out of 10, lowest of the low
male with no chance of ever getting a girl ever, that would probably be a pretty rough
existence. However, there is legitimate misogyny in these communities too. Pent up resentment
towards the women who find them ugly and the more successful men who actually find partners.
I talked about this in my incel video years ago. But basically, the incel community is
equal parts learned helplessness, legitimate helplessness, and legitimate hatred of women.
A lot of these guys would actually end up a lot better off if they just finally got
laid, but some of them definitely wouldn't be. Which is why the incel community has gained
such a negative reputation online, and why the word incel is thrown around as an insult
so commonly by women who are being judged for their sexual experiences by these guys.
It's a way for them to sneakily judge their judges for their own lack of sexual experiences,
while hiding it behind the veil of talking about a hate group.
Here's what I mean. It was once very common for women to insult men by calling them virgins.
The implication being, as Sargon said, women view the number of women that a man has slept
with as a measure of value of that man. If a man's body count is zero, he's a pathetic
failure and you can't attract women. I was certainly called a virgin by girls who hated
me back in high school. Even after I actually got laid, they still called me that, because
they know that guys tend to be sensitive about it, especially if it comes from a girl that's
out of their league. But as the world moved more progressive and sex positive, shaming
people for their sexual practices became unpopular. So, progressive women stopped saying virgin
and started saying incel instead, masking their attack as being related to an online
community with some pretty questionable beliefs. But more often than not, they're still referring
to a man's lack of sexual experience. In fact, I had the opportunity to talk to one
of the women attacking Sargon a little bit, a writer for the feminist rag Redux, and
here's how that went. She said, this is clearly fake and written by some incel who loves fantasying
about promiscuous women, aka women that sleep with other men and not them, being knocked
down a peg. I replied to her with, here you are using sexual history to shame men through
the use of the word incel, and you think it's bad to use sexual history to shame women?
She replied, what's wrong with incels isn't their sexual history, it's their attitudes
towards women. They're entitled, resentful, and misogynistic. Not all male virgins are
incels. Okay, fair enough, but I did find several instances of her using the word virgin
as an insult in the exact same way. It's not just incel subculture with you, you actually
shame people for being virgins. You shame men for their sexual history. You are entirely
guilty of this. You shame men for not having enough sexual experience, just as men shame
you for having too much sexual experience. She said, again, it was the misogynistic attitudes
towards the woman that was the problem. I replied to her, why do you default to talking
about their sexual activity as your go-to insult then, rather than the actual topic
at hand? Their attitudes. It sounds like sexual prowess is the only unit of value you understand,
which is why you insult men using it and get so offended when you're insulted with it.
Yes, I was pulling the idea from that one meme that we've all seen. She basically
said, paraphrasing here, that when she insults men by calling them a virgin, it's due to
their lack of experience. That it's valid to point out when a man appears to not understand
the mechanics of sex, and that it's likely due to their lack of personal experience.
I replied, so let me get this straight, you're insulting men for not knowing anything about
sex by calling them virgins, and you're claiming that this isn't about shaming men
for their sexual history? She then said, yeah I know this is getting long, we're getting
to the end of it, where did I shame men in this tweet that we're talking about? It
seems like I'm insulting people who don't understand sexuality is based on biological
sex and not gender expression and saying they must not understand sex if they say that.
I asked, and how are you insulting them specifically? She replied, by saying they clearly don't
know what they're talking about. I then asked, using what terminology? Which is a
question she never answered. That was a bit long, but I went through the whole conversation
with you because I wanted to point out what happened with her, from a logic chain perspective.
Most of these people will simply block you long before the inconsistency in their argument
is laid bare like this, so I really wanted to see it through. She admits that she uses
virgin, and frankly probably in cell 2, to not only insult some men's bad attitudes
or bad behaviors or bad ideas about sex, but specifically to highlight that those bad attitudes
and behaviors and ideas stem from their lack of experience. Even in instances where there
isn't actually any bad attitudes, behaviors, or ideas, she still uses virgin as an insult
because the idea of somebody who is so uneducated about sex that they don't understand the basics
is humorous to her. In other words, she is judging men based on their lack of sexual
experience, by calling them virgins and incels. The same way that men judge women based on
their glut of sexual experience, by calling them whores and sluts.
I have no evidence for this claim. This is purely conjecture, based off my own intuition.
But I think, if you actually were able to follow the logic chain of most people who
use incel as an insult, and they didn't just block you right away for daring to question
them, you'd probably arrive back at this point eventually. Incels are bad because they
have bad ideas about sex and women. Those bad ideas stem from lack of experience. I
am making fun of them for their lack of experience, therefore I insult men for their sexual history
while complaining men insult me for mine.
Another claim that came out of the Sargon thread was that women can simply lie if they
think their partner cares about their sexual history. This is true. But there's two problems
with this. One, if you're willing to lie to your partner, you're a low quality human.
Your partner deserves better, you aren't good enough for him, and you're going to have
to routinely betray him as a part of the normal course of your relationship. Two, lies need
to be maintained, and either you're going to have to be an expert manipulator, or you're
eventually going to slip up and the truth will come out. It might take years, but for
most people, it will eventually happen. The number of people who can maintain a perfect
facade for decades is very low. That's why this isn't the own you think it is. You're
simply admitting you're a horrible person if you do this.
Here's another issue with that Reddit post. Many people replying to Sargon said that the
post was fake. No woman would ever actually say, I've been with 58 men. And you know what?
Fair enough. Any woman that I know who's actually promiscuous, they tend not to keep track of
that exactly. She might say 60, she might say in the 50s or 60s somewhere, but to come
out and say strictly 58, that doesn't usually happen.
And this point gets me to the other side of the conversation. It is completely reasonable
to judge people based on their past sexual experiences, man or woman. There's this idea
among progressives of the atomized individual, the year zero moment zero blank slate every
man where nothing in the past matters and the future isn't guaranteed. So the only thing
relevant is this moment, which naturally leads to the idea that you shouldn't be judged for
your past behavior. That's in the past, man. Why are you bringing that up? The conservative
view is that we are our past. We are a continuum with our past selves and the present self
is the culmination of everything we've ever done. The progressive view taken to its extreme
leads to a lack of foresight and extreme self-indulgence. The conservative view taken to its extreme
leads to an inability to grow, being constantly chained to your old mistakes. The golden mean
therefore is understanding that you can change from past bad behaviors. They don't have to
define you forever, but it takes hard work and self-transformation. And that's something
you can't simply declare by fiat. Most men don't necessarily want a virginal wife or something,
but they tend to want women around the same level of sexual experience that they have. The idealized
first love is that you're both virgins and high school sweethearts or something. Most guys in
their 20s who have around five previous partners are going to be fine with a girl who also has
around five previous partners. There can be serious relationship problems if there's huge
disparities. It doesn't mean the relationship is doomed, but it does mean you have a lot of work
But most people are fine with someone who's more or less on their level. And since the average body
count for both men and women is somewhere in between four and eight, most people are going
to be fine. Now, I'm not saying that having standards is a bad thing. For example, if you're
a very religious person, you might want an equally religious partner. And that means you might
actually want that virgin wife or at least somebody with a low body count. But I don't think this
whole body count conversation applies to people like that. And here's why. One, if a girl's got
a high body count, you can generally figure it out without autistically asking about it on the
first date. Picture it in your head. You've got a religious guy going out to meet with a girl for
the first time. How she dresses, how she speaks, her interests, her history, they're all going to
be pointers towards what sort of personal life she has. Hell, how you were introduced to her is a
pointer. If you met the girl on Tinder and she shows up with a shaved side head and facial
piercings and talks about going to art school, the chances of her being a virgin is very low. Not
zero, of course. But I don't think you need to actually ask the body count question here. Two,
this goes back to the self-transformation thing, a truly religious person with religious morals
understands forgiveness. If you're a religious guy and you meet the blue sundress, Wojak GF,
and she tells you that yes, before she came to God, she was promiscuous and she asked for
forgiveness for it every day. And she's not simply lying to you, but she shows it in her actions and
how she behaves in church, how she behaves with her family and her community. I find it hard
to believe that a religious guy who truly followed that morality would reject her. I mean,
he still might, but Christianity is all about forgiving those who fall to temptation and a
true reformation goes a long way. This is ultimately the issue with a woman in this
Reddit story, assuming it's a true story. The first thing is that she did what many men consider to
be unattractive. If you think that that's unfair or only incels care about her or whatever, too
bad. You can't shame people out of their sexual preferences. This is how it is and no amount of
dismantling the patriarchy will change it. But the real nail in the coffin is that she's
unrepentant. If you think there's nothing to repent for, then there isn't. Fine. There
absolutely are men out there who believe that a high body count isn't something to repent for,
and she can go for them. But for some reason, she's not. She's going for men who actually just
aren't compatible with her sexual history. To them, there is something to repent for,
and her unrepentance is just unattractive. Merrick, being a terminally online failed
crumbtuber, chimed in by saying that the story must be fake because men never ask about the body
count question, and that those who do are losers. They're not worthy of a woman's time. Except in
this story, again assuming it's true, the woman seems quite put out by being rejected by these
apparent losers who shouldn't be worth her time. I simply replied to her with,
I'm still not going to date a woman with a considerably higher body count than me,
as it's a sign that we have different moral tastes. I found a girl I match with nicely.
I don't need to settle. And that's what's at the heart of the conversation.
Unlike other people, I'm not going to judge women who sleep around and rack up a huge body count.
I don't care. I don't hate you like some incels might. I just won't date you. You do you,
and I'll do me. This is a moral conversation, and morals are at their heart a part of your intuition.
One person replied to me asking, I'm curious what moral tastes you input on your perception
of somebody's character because of their body count. I replied, if you value chastity,
then not being chaste is inherently of poor moral character. If you don't value chastity,
then it's not. She then asked me, do you have a logical reason to value chastity, or is it just
vague personal interpretations or feelings? The issue is, that is what morality is. When
something appears to be good or evil to you, it's because it feels good or evil.
Even if you're a consequentialist performing some sort of calculation to get to your desired end,
what you desire as the end is ultimately going to come down to personal taste.
Some people don't care if their partner has a massive sexual history. Other people do care
quite a bit. Neither option is objectively correct. It's all a matter of personal taste.
And your personal taste is not something you should tolerate being shamed for.
That's what's at the bottom of this conversation. When women have too many sexual partners,
some men find them unattractive as a result. Not all of them, of course, but enough that it's
an identifiable trend. The problem, though, is the double standard. That feminist women bristle
at the idea of being held up to their man's standard, while they hold men up to their
standard. On the other side, the more red pill types of men do this too. They hold women up to
the standard of chastity and virtue while they themselves sleep around. It's the same problem,
but the double standard is still at play. Both of these groups, the feminist women and the
red pill men, will call their targets insecure. Those slutty women are just insecure. Those incel
dudes are just insecure. But our society treats male and female insecurity very differently.
If a man is called insecure, it's generally meant to be derogatory, like it's his fault he can't
shore up his own mental state. If a woman is called insecure, she's cast as a victim, like,
oh, she's traumatized or something. Even if both of these people were cheated on, the woman's a
victim, the man needs to get a grip. Our society views male insecurities as inherently unjustified,
stemming from a personal fault, while women's insecurities are the fault of the men around them.
It's this double standard that the whole body count conversation rests on. If male insecurity
is self-defined and invalid, then all male activity as a result of the insecurity is a
reason to shun the affected men until they smarten up, including them having any sort
of sexual standard. If female insecurity is a result of being victimized by men,
then all female activity as a result of the insecurity is justified, a self-defense mechanism
to prevent further abuse, including them having any sort of sexual standard. In other words,
women can have standards for men because women are victims. Men can't have standards for women
because men are abusers. As a side note, go back and watch the super mega video I made with
this understanding. Lex is an excellent example of what I'm talking about. Feminist women tend
to excuse away all of their bad behavior as trauma responses, even if they actually haven't
been traumatized, because I guess simply being a woman in 2023 is apparently traumatic enough.
When the conversation becomes about body counts, that validates men's experiences and preferences,
but it necessarily also must discredit the eternal trauma response narrative that feminist
women employ. Even though feminism claims to be all about women's empowerment, when women become
empowered agents responsible for their choices, including their sexual ones, and therefore it's
not actually men's fault when men reject them, but women's fault because of the choices they made?
Well, that's just something that they can't allow.
