Hey guys, Dev here and I'm currently filming a giant pile of junk.
Recently we've been going online and making a whole bunch of purchases for show equipment.
We've been reinvesting a lot of money that we've gotten out of this and there will be more in-depth
videos regarding some of the stuff we've gotten. Like we're building a new computer and we're
going to show a vlog about that. We got a very nice microphone which I'll just grab right here
and we're going to make an in-depth video about this thing in the near future. But for the time
being we're just basically waiting for some other parts to come in. There's some more junk over
there. And when some of these projects are completed we'll actually have videos on them
for you. Second thing of note is that it's Christmas time! Yeah! Our channel's Christmas
videos will start coming out around I think December 15th, I think, and they'll go until
December 26th. The reason for the 26th, for you Americans who don't know this, in Canada the 26th
is Boxing Day which is a holiday after Christmas. The first video series we're going to put out is
Snowboard Kids on the N64 which is going to be a lot of fun. Additionally we have some videos that
were actually recorded for last year's Christmas that just didn't get out. So we're going to put
them out this year. It actually made our workload a little bit easier just because, well, we didn't
have to film as much this year. I guess another thing of note is that I've actually been streaming
Otaku to Twitch channel over at twitch.tv. I did my first stream about a week ago or so. It was
Hearthstone and it was actually quite fun. I think I'll be doing more of these in the future.
When the holiday season's over and when January begins I'd like to actually start getting a
regular streaming schedule up because it's just really enjoyable. And actually we do have a number
of new projects coming out in January. Yes, I know we've said this for like a year but we're
actually getting back to proper anime reviews and other types of videos. That's all coming
after Christmas. We have a very large break, all three of us, and we're going to use that to just
basically get a whole bunch of shit done and ready to go. So stay tuned to all this.
If you want to come say hi to me in relative person compared to this video go over to Twitch.tv
next time I stream. It might be in the next couple days actually and I'll see you there.
