Hey guys, Dev here. I'm finally doing that Update Vlog I've been talking about on the
stream so much recently. I'm actually doing this just before I work out. I seem to wear
the same workout clothes every time I do a Vlog because I'm always doing it before or
after a workout. There are four topics that I want to cover in this Update Vlog, and those
are the main SFO channel, that's this channel, the NTG channel, that's our No Talent Gaming
Let's Play stuff, our other projects, and our new social media accounts which we're
starting out. Regarding SFO, Sharp at Otaku, this channel, the one that you're currently
watching this Vlog on, I know that we initially started as an anime review channel, but it's
become very obvious to you and to us that everyone's here for politics stuff. A lot
of you guys found us during Gamergate, and a lot of you guys stick around for political
videos. The political videos that we put up get, you know, 1000 or 2000 or 4000 views
in the first, say, week, and the other stuff that we do doesn't get near that. So there's
about 5000 people subscribed to this channel right now, and it's pretty obvious to me at
least that about 4 fifths of you are here for that type of content. And now that I'm
doing political videos regularly again, I'm going to make this channel, the main SFO channel,
the home for that project. I'm going to aim for one new video of this type a week. I'm
not sure if I'll hit it because, you know, real life sometimes gets in the way, but that
is the goal. Next week, I'm hoping around Monday or Tuesday I'm going to put out a video
on pedophilia. Right now, everyone seems to be talking about pedophilia and politics.
I wrote a script about pedophilia about 6 months ago that I just didn't put out. I just
got lazy basically and the script is still just sitting on my hard drive. There's still
a lot of good research and work that went into that script, so I'm going to retool it
and update it and make that next week's video. After that, I'm considering doing a video
on Justin Trudeau because I'm a Canadian, I know a lot of the domestic policies that
he's implemented, and I know that he's kind of a joke among, you know, the, I guess you
can call it the skeptic circle on YouTube, like for some of his ridiculousness, but he's
done some stuff here at home in Canada that is equally ridiculous that has not really
made the rounds outside of Canada. So I'm going to do a video on Trudeau. I think that
will be the one after the pedo video. So obviously you're here watching this on this channel
so you probably know this, but just in case you don't for some reason, the channel that
this all happens on is youtube.com slash short fat otaku. And if you're interested in supporting
me in doing this, the Patreon for that channel is patreon.com slash short fat otaku. And
I also have some news about that Patreon as well. For a long time we've used the short
fat otaku Patreon as a way to fund all of our projects and come March 1st we're going
to be stopping that. On March 1st the SFO Patreon will be used only to fund the political
videos and to reflect that change, rather than it being a monthly Patreon, it's going
to become a per article Patreon. And the rules that I'm setting for that will be that every
time a political video comes out on this channel that is at least 20 minutes in length, it's
going to cycle a payment on Patreon. So if you like the political videos that come out
around here and you feel like financially supporting the channel patreon.com slash short
fat otaku would be the place to go. Another thing that I'm going to do on March 1st is
remove the backlog of our let's play series No Talent Gaming that is currently on the
short fat otaku channel. For a long time we used the SFO channel as a place to upload
our let's plays and there's like a thousand let's play videos on there. And what I've
realized is that when new people show up to watch our political videos and then they
sub for those political videos, even though we haven't uploaded a let's play to this channel
in over a year, their inbox and their suggested videos box gets bombarded with all of our
old let's play videos, even though they're old because there's just so many of them.
So on March 1st I'm removing them from this channel. Now they're not going to be gone,
if you are somebody who actually likes or liked our let's play series, they're not gone.
They have been re-uploaded on the NTG YouTube channel for about a year now. Their backups
are there and if you're interested in like going over there and seeing them you can do
so if you want to like repost your comments or rewatch the old let's plays for whatever
reason or you're just somebody who's new and wants to see what we're doing over there,
I'll talk about that in a minute. But on the SFO channel I am removing those videos primarily
because we want this to be a politically focused channel going forward and having those videos
around kind of interfered with that. NTG or No Talent Gaming is what we call our let's
play series and for a while like I said we had that hosted on the SFO channel but for
about a year now, since January 2016, it's been over at youtube.com slash c slash no
talent gaming and about six months ago we started streaming our let's play sessions
live on the NTG YouTube channel itself but also at twitch.tv slash short fat otaku, hitbox
tv slash short fat otaku and also over on beam at short fat otaku as well. And generally
how it works is that we'll stream a session of the let's play and we'll interact with
the chat, generally only the twitch chat even though we stream to four sources because the
program that we use to do so, restream, they don't have a unified chat application for
Macs and we do use a Mac to stream. So generally if you're tuning in and you want to talk to
us you know twitch is your best bet until they sort that out anyway. But generally we'll
stream a session of a game, it usually lasts between two and four hours and then the next
day that session will be uploaded at the NTG YouTube channel. We generally stream five
days a week, we generally do you know the usual Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday at approximately seven pm. Though sometimes a little bit later. The chat room will attest
it's often a little bit later but we do our best to aim for seven. And if NTG sounds like
something that you want to financially support you can do so over at patreon.com slash no talent
gaming. We decided to split up the patreons for SFO and NTG, one to make it easier on us financially
just to understand where the money is coming from and what people are interested in and two
to make it more accountable and transparent to you guys. However NTG it is in fact a monthly
thing. If you're donating money to the NTG patreon there will be a monthly charge cycle
basically. And the whole point with that is that it's kind of hard to do you know significant
rewards tiers for a live let's play series you know everything that you that you're there to see
is already live you just go to twitch and you see it you know. I can't really release a video early
or whatever because you already see it live. So the NTG patreon is a monthly thing while the SFO
patreon will be a per political video thing. And the NTG patreon will also be set up on March 1st.
And I know that there are some of you out there who are currently donating to the SFO patreon
but primarily watch us for NTG there are at least two people I know who do that for sure. And if you
are one of those people you will want to make a switch on March 1st. Let's talk about some other
projects. For example the SFO channel originally back in like 2008 or 2009 started off as an anime
review channel. And we have largely kind of outgrown that and not completely because I still
like anime and Dave still likes anime. We have at least five scripts written and several of them
already shot just kind of unedited and and the voice work for them hasn't been done yet. So
there's there are still anime reviews coming down the pipes but it's not gonna be like the old days
where it was like one every two weeks because frankly the audience just isn't there for it
anymore. We did like four years of anime reviews and barely scratched the surface in terms of you
know interest on YouTube and then as soon as we started doing politics tons of people started
showing up. So at some point in the future probably at the end of March we're going to be moving our
anime reviews off of the SFO channel and onto its own channel as well. And I'll have more details
about that when the time comes but we really want the SFO channel to be focused on politics
because that is what you guys are here for and the other projects like the let's plays and the
anime reviews aren't dead they're just going somewhere else. At the same time I also started
up a channel called Gentrifying Games that was basically meant to be my game design project
which I'm still very interested in but I'm also going to broaden that channel to include any kind
of video game content that is not a let's play like reviews or like in-depth analysis or maybe
unboxing videos or perhaps best ofs or super cuts of the let's plays just in case some people don't
actually have the time to sit down and watch like 20 parts or 30 parts or 50 parts of a let's play.
And the main reason that I'm keeping all that stuff separate and not just putting all the gaming
stuff on NTG is because on a daily upload channel like no talent gaming stuff gets lost very easily.
You know if you were to spend say 10 hours or 20 hours editing some kind of long-form content and
then you upload it on a daily upload channel it immediately just gets washed away by everything
else that's on that channel you know. In a couple days the daily uploads will just kind of bury it.
So any kind of edited gaming content that is not a let's play will be also up over at the Gentrifying
Games channel and that's going to include game analysis and game design that's going to include
reviews that's going to include basically anything that I feel like will fit there.
And that's basically just going to leave the SFO channel for politics because most of the
viewers here are here for politics. I will occasionally like cross-promote them and link
back to them and say like hey if you're if you're a new viewer here come check out the let's plays
or something. I'm gonna do stuff like that once in a while but for the most part the videos that come
out here will be political stuff it'll be like gamergate stuff even though gamergate is not
really relevant anymore there are still some things to be talked about in that sphere so I'll
make a few videos on them and just sort of related culture warring type of stuff. And with all that
being said I also have some new social media stuff to bring up. It's a surprise to nobody that
both Twitter and Facebook are kind of going tits up at the moment so I've been looking into
alternative social media platforms just to see if anything's really interesting out there. I did
sign up for a Mines account at mines.com slash Shripetotaku but that's going to primarily be
used to talk about politics and promote the political and gamergate and other type of that
stuff. That platform is really built for that sort of discussion and the primary focus of that
account will be to build up that project. I also made an account over at Gab which I think is
positioning itself as an alternative to Twitter. Considering how draconian Twitter's getting with
like censoring people's tweets and banning people and like throttling them and stuff I'm going to
give Gab a serious try. And finally I'm also looking into vid.me. The main reason for that
is because YouTube even though it's it's not really going down the censorship route it has
always been kind of this this monolith this unreachable monolith with especially after it
got bought out by Google or if you had like a problem with your videos or like someone did
like an obvious an obvious false copyright claim or something on your videos and you had to like
message them and be like listen guys this is obviously something that's wrong. They would
never ever talk to you. YouTube is notoriously bad for just kind of letting the chips fall where
they may in terms of their content creators. And I really don't want to put all my eggs in one
basket in that regard. For a long time back in the day for example blip TV was one of the big
alternatives to YouTube and I was very big on blip back then. Believe it or not you know I got I
think it by the by the time blip finally shut down we were nearly at a million views. My most
popular video had over 200,000 views on blip and really from like 2008 to 2011 or so blip TV was
the place to be over YouTube and then you know maker studios bought them and then completely
drove the thing into the ground and that was the end of it. But now vid.me is around and they seem
to be very very promising as a great YouTube alternative and you will see at the beginning
at least all of the SFO political content mirrored over there and of course if the platform takes off
I'm probably gonna put some projects over there exclusively but for now this is a test run. I'm
gonna mirror up the SFO stuff the political stuff over there and we're gonna see how it goes. I am
aiming for the vid.me channel to be up around March 1st as well but it might be just a few
days later too and of course we still are on Twitter you can go to twitter.com slash short
flight otaku and facebook.com slash sf otaku and see us there and we'll be there basically until
either the service shuts down or they decide to ban us and considering how the services are going
right now I have no clue if and when that will ever happen but if it does we are looking into
these alternatives. So yeah that's pretty much it guys. If you're here for politics please please
stick around for next week's pedo video. If you like no talent gaming or if you are interested
in checking out no talent gaming Naomi and I will be streaming Chrono Trigger tonight over at twitch.tv
slash short flight otaku and any of the past let's plays and streams that we've done before are all
up over at youtube.com slash C slash no talent game if you're interested in supporting financially
any of these projects that would be at patreon.com slash short flight otaku and patreon.com slash no
talent gaming and regardless of which of these projects you're actually interested in I will be
very happy to see you there. Alright guys that's it for me I'm out I love you.
