How's your collection coming along?
Well, I don't mean to brag, but it's pretty-
Yay.
On September 30th, 2010, Valve released an update
to their flagship online multiplayer shooter Team Fortress 2.
Nobody realized it at the time,
but this update would go on to be so influential
that it arguably transformed the core business model
of the gaming industry for the following decade.
TF2's Manconomy update introduced
what was then a radical concept.
Players can now purchase cosmetic items
through in-game microtransactions,
but more importantly, they can now trade those items
among themselves.
Almost overnight, the update ignited a robust free market
economy of virtual items,
and no items were more valuable than unusual hats.
Valve would go on to make a fortune
off of TF2's new trading bonanza,
an outcome that would ultimately convince them
to make the game free-to-play less than a year afterwards.
And despite the variety of items for sale
on TF2's storefront, the bulk of Valve's revenue
would come instead from what you couldn't purchase.
Yo, yo, yo, break it down!
Break it down for those crepes!
In the very same update,
Valve introduced the gaming industry's original loot crate,
an unlockable mystery box with a 1% chance
of granting the player an unusual hat,
items so comically ostentatious
that they would instantly catapult you
to the center of attention on any server you joined.
Unusials were desired by all, but obtainable by few.
The only way to get your hands on one
was to spend hundreds of dollars unboxing
or to trade with someone
who spent hundreds of dollars unboxing.
Naturally, this meant that unusual hats didn't come cheap.
The most coveted hats and particle effects
started to sell for thousands,
and eventually, one item ascended
to the holy grail of TF2 trading,
the Burning Flames Team Captain,
the only TF2 item to consistently sell for five figures.
Ever since this hat was added,
it has reigned supreme
as the single most desirable item in the game.
Out of the hundreds of millions of items in TF2's economy,
only 18 Burning Flames Team Captains exist.
If you happen to be in the market of obtaining one,
it's gonna cost you a pretty penny.
Most of you watching are probably recoiling in disgust
at how much someone would be willing to pay
for a virtual item
that you didn't even know existed 20 seconds ago.
Why would somebody spend $16,000
on a bunch of worthless pixels?
Well, conceptually, unusual hats are nothing new.
It turns out that plenty of people
are willing to fork over a lot more than 16 grand
on items that the rest of us would consider worthless.
A few years after bringing the joy of crates to TF2,
Valve decided to double down on this business model
in their newest shooter, CSGO.
This game took TF2's economy and put it on steroids.
Compared to unusual hats' two degrees of variation,
CSGO weapon skins may differ in quality,
wear, kill trackers, and stickers,
which greatly influence the item's overall value.
Ideal versions of all these variables
can drive the prices of top CSGO items
into the six-figure mark.
The most expensive item ever sold in the game
incorporates an additional variable of rarity.
The AK-47's case-hardened skin
is far from the most expensive on average.
However, pattern number 661 is prized by collectors
for its uniform blue top.
In addition to this one-in-a-thousand attribute,
an AK-47 with minimal wear, a stat tracker,
and four holographic Titan stickers
sold for $150,000 earlier this year.
But the most valuable item in all of CSGO
is speculated to be another case-hardened weapon.
The factory-new pattern 387 Blue Gem Karambit
was last sold to a collector in 2016.
Out of the nearly one billion items ever unboxed in CSGO,
the factory-new Blue Gem is the only one of its kind.
Today, some traders appraise its value
at three-quarters of a million dollars.
If you're not interested in dropping the value of a house
on a bunch of pixels, then perhaps you'd rather
put that money towards a three-inch piece of paper.
Before the age of virtual cosmetics,
trading cards were the epitome of intrinsically
worthless items that could potentially cost a fortune.
Last year famously saw an explosion
in the Pokemon trading card market.
In December, a first edition shadowless
holographic Charizard card sold for a record $369,000,
one of only 122 copies in pristine condition.
That record was broken three months later
in February of this year when a Pikachu Illustrator card
sold for $375,000.
The promotional card was only awarded to winners
of a 1998 Japanese art competition.
Of the estimated 24 billion Pokemon cards in circulation,
only about 40 Pikachu Illustrators are known to exist.
Magic the Gathering predates the Pokemon trading card game
by three years, giving collectors a bit more time
to salivate over the game's most exclusive finds.
Magic's holy grail is the infamous Black Lotus,
the single rarest card of the game's original release.
Earlier this year, a signed Black Lotus
from the game's Alpha set sold at auction
for more than $500,000.
While the market for Magic and Pokemon cards
have had around 25 years to develop,
sports trading cards have spent the past century
rising in value.
In 1909, the American Tobacco Company was ready
to release their T206 baseball card series,
which they distributed in packs of cigarettes.
However, prior to the sale, Pittsburgh Pirates shortstop
Onus Wagner revoked the rights to his likeness,
forcing the tobacco company to remove his cards
from circulation.
Due to the sudden retraction, as few as 50 Wagner cards
were ever distributed to the public.
By the 1930s, the T206 Wagner had already become
the most expensive baseball card in the world,
selling in 1933 for the present-day equivalent of $1,000.
In 1991, one of three remaining mint-conditioned Wagners
was acquired by hockey-grade Wayne Gretzky
for nearly half a million dollars.
In 2016, another Min Wagner was sold for 3.1 million,
a record that stood until just last year.
Currently, the most expensive baseball card
is a PSA Grade 9 Mickey Mantle rookie card,
which sold for 5.2 million this past January.
However, after nearly a century of dominance
in the card-collecting market,
baseball cards look to soon be surpassed
by basketball cards in value.
In April of this year, a one of 23 autographed
LeBron James rookie card tied for the record of 5.2 million.
Dude, you are like a fry cook legend.
Will you sign my spatula?
Autographs provide collectors with a much more
personal touch to their prized possessions.
The value of autographs vary wildly
depending on its signee,
but the most valuable ones typically belong to figures
who are no longer capable of producing them.
In 2017, an autographed copy of Albert Einstein's
iconic tongue photo was sold for $125,000.
In 2018, a baseball featuring 11 signatures
from the sport's original Hall of Fame inductees
sold for more than $600,000.
Some autographs can derive their value from the macabre.
On December 8, 1980, Mark David Chapman
would receive an autograph from John Lennon
moments before assassinating him.
30 years later, that autographed album
would sell for $850,000.
However, by far the most expensive autographs
are forged out of time.
The signature of 16th century poet William Shakespeare
has only been identified on six surviving documents.
Today, it's estimated that a Shakespeare autograph
would sell for up to $5 million.
The most expensive autograph ever sold
belongs to George Washington,
whose personal copy of the Constitution
was purchased for nearly 10 million in 2012.
Autographs are a form of memorabilia.
Objects and souvenirs prized for their close association
with illustrious people and events.
Sneakers have been one of the most popular
forms of memorabilia to collect
ever since the meteoric success
of Nike's Air Jordan brand in the 80s.
In 2020, an original pair of Jordans
worn by Michael Jordan himself sold for $560,000,
becoming the most expensive sneakers in the world.
Of course, the decades-long supremacy of the Air Jordans
have recently been challenged by Kanye West's Yeezy brand,
and in April of this year, an original pair of Yeezys
worn by Kanye at the 2008 Grammy's sold for $1.8 million.
Memorabilia from the most prestigious athletes and artists
can fetch a hefty price,
but by far the most expensive memorabilia
belongs to the whimsical world of cinema.
Darth Vader's helmet from the Empire Strikes Back
sold for just under $900,000 in 2019.
Marilyn Monroe's iconic white dress
from the seven-year itch sold for $4.6 million,
but the most expensive memorabilia ever worn
by a movie star may be Dorothy's groovy slippers
from The Wizard of Oz.
The most recognizable symbol from the most beloved movie
of the 20th century was listed
at a price of $6 million in 2018.
Although costumes may embody iconic characters
more so than any other type of memorabilia,
vehicles end up edging them out in price.
James Bond's Aston Martin DB5 from Goldfinger
sold for $6.4 million,
possibly the most expensive piece of memorabilia ever sold
was the General Lee from Dukes of Hazzard,
selling for a whopping $9.9 million.
When we come back, we'll take a look
at what lies beyond the eight-figure mark.
Well, I can't even fucking talk to me
and then look me in the eyes.
And just a moment ago, here's what's happened.
A fan somehow gets out of the infield area,
comes out on the track,
and is trying to get Pat Kidd's autograph.
People ask me all the time,
Emp, how can you afford all of these
exceedingly rare and special items?
Well, everyone, where I get my money isn't important.
What is important is where that money doesn't go,
paying some stupid bank a bunch of unnecessary fees.
Current is looking to change the face of mobile banking,
and this card represents your ticket
to accessing more of your money faster.
With Current, you can stop trading
and buy your own digital card.
With Current, you can stop throwing away
your hard-earned cash on hidden fees
and put that money towards something useful,
like expensive collectibles.
The premium card comes with no minimum balance requirement
and up to $100 in overdraft protection.
Tired of getting ripped off by ATM fees?
Current lets you access over 40,000 free ATMs across the US,
which can come in handy
whenever you find the next hidden gem in the wild.
Earn points towards cash back on purchases
from thousands of participating vendors
for even more savings to feel your addiction,
I mean hobby.
And the best part is that Current
lets you get paid two days early,
so you can finally get in on that auction before it expires.
So visit current.com slash amp-lemon
to sign up for your premium card today.
And in less than two minutes,
you could be on your way to owning
that sweet 1969 Dodge Charger from Dukes of Hazzard.
While the General Lee
may be the most expensive piece of memorabilia,
it's far from the most expensive automobile.
Lamborghini is one of the most recognizable
exotic car brands for average Joes to daydream about.
A new Lamborghini Aventador
will set you back around $800,000
with just over a thousand units being produced each year.
That price is about 10 times less
than Lamborghini's most expensive model, the Veneno,
only 12 of which were ever sold to the public.
However, for the most elite car collectors,
a typical Lambo might as well be a Toyota Corolla.
It's seven o'clock in the morning
and Elon Musk anxiously waits for his golden payoff.
I expect to receive a car that I've just bought,
which is called McLaren F1.
In the 1990s, the McLaren F1 set the record
for the fastest top speed reached by a production car
and has been prized by collectors ever since.
Including special variants,
only 71 McLaren F1s were ever sold to the public
and recent sales of the model
are now approaching the $20 million mark.
The most expensive supercar right now
is the ultra rare Pagani Zana HP Barchetta
listed at a price of 23.5 million.
However, the title of the most expensive automobile
in the world belongs to fellow Italian automaker Ferrari.
In 2018, a 1963 Ferrari 250 GTO sold for 70 million,
truly showing that old money still reigns supreme
in the automotive world.
While car collectors have existed for over a century,
stamp collectors date back even further.
The first postage stamps were issued in the 1840s
by the British government.
In 1856, a shipment of stamps to British Guyana was delayed
forcing the postmaster to issue an emergency batch
as a temporary replacement.
The provisional stamps were then distributed
and quietly forgotten until 17 years later
when a young boy discovered the unusual
one cent magenta octagon on one of his uncle's old letters.
The boy would end up selling the stamp to a collector
for six shillings.
That stamp would go on to become the only surviving copy
of the British Guyana one cent magenta.
Today, it is worth over $9 million
and to the 60 million stamp collectors in the world,
no other piece of postage is more valuable.
If stamps are one of the oldest fixations for collectors,
coins may be the oldest.
Evidence of coin collecting dates as far back
as ancient Rome.
One of the most infamous events in Roman history
was the assassination of Julius Caesar.
Two years after usurping the throne,
Brutus had several coins minted to commemorate himself
literally getting away with murder.
In 2020, 2,062 years after its creation,
Brutus's gold coins sold for over $4 million.
The most expensive coin ever sold
happens to be another gold coin,
the last gold coin ever minted by the US Treasury.
In 1934, President Roosevelt issued an executive order
outlawing gold coins from general circulation.
The Treasury was ordered to destroy all 450,000
newly minted 1933 double eagles.
However, a few dozen were illegally rescued
and distributed to collectors.
Over the next several years,
the federal government located, confiscated,
and destroyed almost all of the remaining copies.
Only one double eagle acquired by King Farouk of Egypt
managed to evade apprehension.
Today, that lone coin survives
as the only 1933 double eagle in private possession.
In June of this year,
the coin was sold for nearly $19 million,
more than 900,000 times its nominal value.
See anything you like?
Yeah, I'll give you a buck 50 for this umbrella.
A buck 50 for that?
But it's an antique.
If you keep something in good condition for long enough,
it will eventually be worth a fortune.
Antiques provide a treasure trove of rarities
and have accounted for some of the most expensive
collectibles ever sold.
Action Comics No. 1 marked the beginning
of the superhero genre in pop culture.
After selling for just 10 cents apiece in 1938,
a mint-conditioned copy of the original Superman
is now worth more than $3 million.
In the 17th and 18th century,
the Stradivari family built string instruments,
which became world-renowned
for their unmatched sound quality.
In 2008, a Stradivarius cello sold for $20 million,
becoming the most expensive musical instrument in the world.
Leonardo da Vinci was the most recognizable figure
of the 15th century, and he would end up writing
what would eventually become the most expensive book
in the world.
In 1994, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates
purchased Leonardo's Codex Leister
for more than $30 million.
Unofficially, the most expensive antique ever sold
was this 18th-century Qing Dynasty vase,
selling at auction for over $80 million.
It's at this point where the line between antique
and artwork starts to blur.
Approaching the nine-figure mark,
we are beginning to enter the highest echelon
of collectability, fine art.
For centuries, expensive artwork has served
as an enduring symbol of high-class society.
For those who are so disgustingly wealthy
that the concept of dollars and cents
has practically lost all meaning,
fine art has often acted as the final frontier
of what money can buy.
Currently, Alberto Giacometti's Pointing Man
is the world's most expensive statue,
selling to a collector for $141 million.
If you consider jewelry to be art,
then the prices become even more staggering.
The infamous Hope Diamond necklace has been valued
as high as $350 million and is generally considered
to be the most expensive gem in the world.
However, some sources claim that the title
actually belongs to the Cullinan One,
the largest colorless diamond ever cut.
Part of the British royal family's scepter,
it has been valued as high as $400 million,
but that's still not as much
as the most expensive privately-owned painting,
Leonardo da Vinci's Salvador Mundi.
In 2017, it sold to a collector for $450 million
and may quite possibly be the most expensive single item
owned by any individual.
Of course, the most expensive painting in the world
is another Leonardo da Vinci work, the Mona Lisa,
the most famous painting in human history,
a work of art so valuable that it defies private ownership.
The Mona Lisa is technically property
of the nation of France
and resides on permanent display at the Louvre.
It has an insured value of over $800 million,
equivalent to the GDP of Samoa.
Beyond this point, we struggle to accurately appraise items.
Anything more valuable starts to enter the realm
of pricelessness.
Certain items are deemed so anthropologically important
that they transcend collectability and ownership.
It's possible that ancient artifacts like the Rosetta Stone
may be more valuable than the Mona Lisa,
but we may never know if it really is.
It's insightful to discover the point
at which we stop pricing items.
Based on what we know about how older objects
continue to become significantly rarer and more expensive,
then this 40,000-year-old flute made out of a mammoth tusk
should intuitively be one of the most valuable items
in the world.
However, the mammoth flute has substantially less fanfare
than a Stradivarius violin,
despite the flute being 100 times older.
This exception may reveal what exactly it is
we find valuable about collecting rare items.
Welcome to the Batcave.
This is the Guinness World Record Batman collection.
The act of collecting is far from rare.
At least a third of Americans collect something.
When I was a kid, I used to collect
164-scale die-cast NASCARs,
and I can truly say that it was one of the most satisfying
and rewarding hobbies I've ever participated in.
But why exactly do so many of us find collecting so rewarding?
The psychology of collecting is not very well understood,
but our obsession with rarity may result
from our brain's innate desire
to seek out the extraordinary.
The modern-day activity of collecting
is largely a manifestation of foraging for food
in prehistoric times.
For our early ancestors,
discovering novel and unique forms of sustenance
meant a better chance at survival.
Thus, our brains adapted to release dopamine
whenever we are presented with new, extraordinary items.
Obtaining food is no longer the satisfying challenge
that it once was,
and present-day collectors may be attempting
to recreate the rush of discovering
a new berry in the wilderness.
The subconscious desire to recapture our foraging roots
may be but a microcosm of a far greater desire
to recapture our tribal roots.
Today, we live in a very alienating society,
a far cry from the tightly-knit clans
which our ancestors occupied.
When we spend 400 million on a painting,
or nine million on a stamp,
or 150,000 on a virtual gun,
we are not just buying a rare item.
In many ways, we are buying into the community
that comes with owning a rare item.
The act of foraging in prehistoric times
was as much of a social event as it was a day-to-day task.
It provided people with constant opportunities
to demonstrate their usefulness towards their peers.
Forging allowed people to feel valued
by the community around them.
We now live in an era where the average person
has arguably never felt less valued.
For many, joining a niche subculture
is their only way to rekindle feelings
of esteem and belonging.
For collectors, it's a matter of finding a unified culture,
one which truly represents their ideals and motivations.
This may help justify why a 400-year-old violin
is so much more desirable than a 40,000-year-old flute.
When an item becomes too old,
it loses the cultural relevance
that makes it so compelling to us.
People don't necessarily pay nine figures
on an original da Vinci
because it's centuries old or aesthetically pleasing.
What they are truly paying for
is a slice of what da Vinci represents.
They want to attach themselves to the prestige
that Leonardo da Vinci's name carries.
People admire da Vinci, Michael Jordan, Superman.
Maybe if we own an iconic piece of them,
we can be admired too.
While the impulse to collect
once helped us gather survival resources,
today it may be helping us gather social resources,
which many are now finding more scarce
than food, water, and shelter.
For some, collecting rarities is the first step
in connecting with others,
and engaging with an exclusive culture.
The rest of us may consider it a waste of money,
but for certain collectors,
belonging to something meaningful is worth every penny.
In addition to belonging,
collecting may be attempting to account for another aspect
many find sorely lacking from modern society, autonomy.
With each passing year,
the world around us gets more complex,
more chaotic, and more unpredictable.
You can't go a few moments
without discovering some new threat
that you didn't even realize it was possible to worry about.
After a while, it all starts to become overwhelming,
and most of us end up feeling more and more
like riders on the storm.
Collecting may be one of our most effective
psychological mechanisms at reclaiming autonomy
in the face of chaos and uncertainty.
Cultivating order out of so many disparate objects
can help anchor us to a more stable state of mind.
In this sense, collecting may serve as a therapeutic activity
especially for those who've experienced trauma.
It's no wonder why the recent explosion in collecting
occurred when most of us were in lockdown,
a period when many had never felt more uncertain and isolated.
No matter the reason we collect rare items,
it's clear that many of us are far better off because of it.
And if the past year has shown us anything,
it's that collecting isn't going away anytime soon.
In the time I've been working on this video,
several of its records have already become outdated.
The future of collecting is more exciting than ever before.
Following the advent of cryptocurrency and digital assets,
non-fungible tokens have spawned
a whole new genre of collectibles.
In June of 2017, Creative Studio Larva Labs
released a limited supply of 10,000 unique crypto punks
for free on the Ethereum network.
Each punk was algorithmically generated
to have one or more distinct features,
with about 100 spawning with a special classification
of zombie, ape, or the rarest of all, alien.
In March of this year, one of the nine alien crypto punks
sold for $7.6 million,
becoming the most expensive NFT ever sold.
One day later, digital artist Beeple
would shatter that record with his composition Everydays,
a collage of all 5,000 images that he published
over a time span dating back to May 2007.
The Everydays NFT was purchased for over $69 million,
about 8% the value of the Mona Lisa,
a hell of a price to pay for a bunch of worthless pixels.
.
