This is Virginia, this is Fredericksburg, and this is Plank Road.
It's the kind of road that forms where interstates output their trucks and cars—peppered with
gas stations, fast food chains, mid-market hotels, big box stores, and ample parking
for all.
If you've traveled the US, you certainly know the type.
The convenience of quick interstate access, the space for car-centric design, and the
co-location with other establishments has drawn retail and restaurants away from city
centers and into the hinterlands, so, increasingly, for all but the most urban or most rural Americans,
these interstate exit areas have become a constant in daily life.
In fact, places like Fredericksburg's Plank Road have become so ubiquitous, so persistent
in the US, that it'd be remarkably easy to miss that this is not actually Plank Road
in Fredericksburg, Virginia.
That was a lie.
In fact, not only are none of these clips from Virginia, they're not even from the
same location.
This is Portland, Maine, this is Cookeville, Tennessee, Marietta, Georgia, El Paso, Texas,
and Los Angeles, California.
These interstate exit streets have a style—one that's consistent across the 50 states.
It's so intuitive to today's Americans that when we see the golden arches approaching,
we know we just need to take the coming exit and follow the road straight until arrival—nothing
complicated like burdensome turns.
Upon arrival to the subject McDonald's, we know where to look for the bathroom—it's
typically towards the back, next to the side entry door.
The same can be said for roadside hotels, for gas stations, and for big box stores—we
might not realize it, but before even stepping in, thanks to nationwide standardization,
we have an intuitive understanding of where the bathroom or register is.
The US is a fantastically inconsistent country.
The degree of difference between the landscapes of Utah and Maine, or Florida and Alaska,
is one typically reserved for continents, not countries.
The people of New York City and North Dakota live enormously different lives—a given
day in Minot looks nothing like that in Manhattan.
A defining characteristic of this country is its heterogeneity, and yet, the places
in which its people live, the cities and towns they've constructed, are eerily similar.
Anchorage could be in Alabama, and Columbus could be in California.
Simply put, outside of the oldest areas, the way in which urban America is being built
is exceptionally homogeneous.
Consider these.
If one type of building has come to define the increasing sameness of urban and suburban
America, it's the 5 over 1.
While they're never the exact same, they do look similar.
With punchy names like the Union or Uncommon, and advertisements prompting a sense of community
and trendy amenities, they feel similar, too.
Their 5 over 1 moniker stems from their building code designation—structurally, they're
a wooden, Type 5 fire-resistant building sitting atop a Type 1 base floor of concrete.
Dotting the edges of downtowns and dominating new developments, these mid-rises teeming
with young professionals are big, pushing up to the very edge of sidewalks, they're
blocky, an unrelenting assemblage of 90-degree angles, and they're popping up everywhere
from Maine to Montana.
In the past, apartments were small, looking not so different from a large house, or they
were massive—steel and concrete structures that scraped the sky.
Nowadays, when you conjure up an apartment building in your head, it looks like this.
And just how these boxy, boring, but important structures came to define the current apartment
building boom comes from a surprisingly specific few lines of building code.
In the US, building codes are each municipality's choice.
The rules and standards by which a city is built can vary from town to town in relation
to what exactly a town wants.
And yet, building codes in the US rarely differ.
A town of 500 just doesn't have the time or resources to write their own comprehensive
thousand-page building code, so they typically just adopt this one—the International Building
Code.
Originally written within living memory of the Great Chicago Fire, these codes, on account
of fire prevention, limited wood buildings to three stories.
While floor limits eased to five over the decades, codes into the 1990s required walls
built out of non-combustible material, hampering the cost advantage of wood-framed apartment
buildings.
But then the code added an exception—that exterior and interior walls built with flame-retardant-treated
wood could be considered non-combustible.
As the story goes, an LA architect, Tim Smith, caught the change, identified his potential
as a cheap alternative to steel and concrete, and built the first ever five over one.
Building codes made these structures possible.
They didn't, however, make them profitable.
That was the work of American zoning practices.
The rise of boxy, balloon-framed housing cubes is the result of just how much urban and suburban
land is zoned for single-family homes—around three-fourths of all residential land in the
US.
In the western states, with generally younger and more sprawling urban areas, these numbers
trend higher.
Take Fort Collins, for example.
Fort Collins is a college town of over 100,000 north of Denver.
It's a place with a perpetual need for housing to keep up with an increasing student body
and a growing city population, yet, despite the flat plains of seemingly developable land
that surround it, it really has no room for dense housing projects.
All this is zoned for low-density single-family homes and duplexes—this, too.
This is downtown where apartment buildings are fair game, but Fort Collins is relatively
old so much of downtown is already accounted for.
This area next to downtown is old, too, so it's zoned to protect the historic neighborhood
and is largely off limits.
All this is commercially zoned, so apartments are allowed there, but it's on a state highway,
so any housing project will have to compete with businesses for the prime real estate.
With so much of the town accounted for, this is the result.
Five over ones cluster in the tiny area around campus zoned for high-density housing, while
the rest randomly pop up on the edge of downtown or just off the highway.
This pattern is not unique to Fort Collins.
While housing is desperately needed nationwide, so much land has been ceded to detached family
homes, cul-de-sacs, and white picket fences that high-density housing is left to fight
over the scraps—maximizing the amount of units they squeeze onto pricey plots and competing
with retail and office developers over highway exits and the fringes of downtowns and industrial
areas.
Of course, what makes these five over ones look like they're all built by the same
people is the fact that they're all built by the same people.
Of the 293,000 large building housing units developed in 2019, 94,000, a third, were constructed
by the country's 25 largest developers.
Over the past decade, the US multifamily housing market has fallen into a vicious cycle of
consolidation leading to consolidation leading to consolidation.
To start, the limited availability of multifamily zoned land drives up its price, meaning a
smaller tranche of developers can afford it.
Not only that, but an even smaller tranche of developers can afford to develop that land
into a project large and dense enough to attain profitability given the higher purchase price.
Simultaneously, however, these large developers enjoy economies of scale with these large
buildings.
They're able to build equivalent apartments for less thanks to more shared walls, elevators,
mechanicals, management, and more.
And of course, thanks to American building codes, deeper pockets, and an inherent need
to build bigger on more expensive lots, they're able to do what smaller developers cannot
and further reduce per-unit costs by maxing out the lot lines with 5 over 1s.
On a per-unit basis, 5 over 1s are cheaper to build—wood is far less expensive than
alternate materials.
It's easier to work with, too, driving down labor costs and minimizing the use of unionized
trayspeople.
Therefore, these buildings outcompete smaller buildings in the market, the developers grow
wealthier, and with that wealth they're able to expand across state lines.
And of course, the process becomes even cheaper when they recycle plans, shuffle specialized
staff across the country, and apply these same proven strategies to different markets.
From the pool deck, Greystar Real Estate's Ayla building doesn't look so different
from their Canvas on Blake development, despite two time zones separating them, but in today's
housing market, this is hardly surprising.
Now, on the surface, these 5 over 1s appear to address a major need in the American housing
market—walkable, reasonably priced multifamily rental units in and around urban cores.
However, the consolidation behind these buildings has accelerated the propagation of another
can of worms—the corporate landlord.
Now, these 5 over 1 developments are almost always constructed as rental buildings, yet
rarely act as affordable housing.
In Denver, for example, the rent for the cheapest units at the Broadstone on 9th, Canvas on
Blake or 20th Street Station buildings either meets or exceeds the city average.
Rather, these apartments succeed because they out-compete their closest mid-market competitors.
You typically just can't get a new, modern, walkable apartment in smaller boutique or
massive older developments for a similar price.
Therefore, 5 over 1s and these massive developers have cornered an underserved segment of the
housing market, and that means they can get away with a lot.
Countless examples have emerged of the difficulty of having a corporation as a landlord.
San Francisco renters, in a building where a one-bedroom went for $2,800 a month, recounted
how Graystar increased rents and fees, while cutting staffing and services to the point
that trash piled up in hallways, and neighbors had to borrow one another's showers when
building boilers went out of service.
Now, looking at 2020 census data, the US is building more multifamily housing than it
has at any point this century, and while the data don't directly tell us how many of
these are 5 over 1s, when looking at building material, style, and size characteristics,
it becomes clear that 5 over 1s and buildings like them make up the vast majority of these
new builds.
Of course, in the face of dramatic housing shortages, this should be a good thing, but
the reality is that 5 over 1s are not built to house those most acutely feeling the effects
of these shortages.
While there is an argument to be made that their construction frees up units for those
who might otherwise have been displaced, that clearly comes at a less than ideal cost.
Across America, plenty more places and circumstances have converged to create the ideal environments
for homogeneity.
Within those ubiquitous interstate exit roadways, there is a common landscape of Hampton, Holiday,
and La Quinta Inns.
Rarely are these areas punctuated by independent hotels—it's almost always the same selection
of nationwide brands—and when walking into, say, the Sleep Inn in Chiloquin, Oregon, you'd
be forgiven for thinking it looks familiar.
That's because the exact same hotel exists, down to the inch, 1,500 miles or 2,500 kilometers
away in Webb City, Missouri.
Of course, this is all part of the business model—in fact, it's the genius of the
business model.
You see, Sleep Inn is a brand owned by Choice Hotels International—one of the largest
hotel chains in the world, running some 7,000 properties globally.
However, the company doesn't own these hotels—only the brands.
That's because they're a franchisor, just like McDonald's or Burger King.
An independent franchisee comes to Choice when they want to start a hotel, and the company
provides a menu of brands to choose from, each targeting a slightly different segment
of consumers.
Then, the franchisee must decide what floor plan they want, whether to include a pool,
and which of the four color schemes to use.
They then sign a contract with one of the Choice Hotels approved contractors for construction,
write some checks, and that's about it.
The franchise model cuts huge chunks, and therefore costs, out of the process—designing
the building, adapting the design in response to permitting issues, vetting contractors,
figuring out how to manage a hotel.
It allows anyone to become a hotelier, which is exactly what Choice Hotels wants because,
as long as it's anyone but them, the financial constraint and risk is gone.
On the consumer side, whether it's a road-tripper pulling into the parking lot after dark, a
pilot stopping for their ten hours of mandated rest, or a consultant hitting their sick city
in a month, uniqueness often has little value—in fact, it might be a negative for the weary
traveler compared to a standardized, familiar offering.
The market speaks for itself, and so does the market research.
Independent hotels are no longer truly able to compete in this mid-market sector—they
now focus on the higher end of the spectrum, where the hotel is more of a destination than
a waypoint.
So, in the hotel sector, this standardization stems from the cost savings born out of homogeneity,
and the consumer apathy towards its detriments.
These conditions have created this.
Comfort Suites, Hampton Inn, Burger King, Best Western, Shoney's, Quality Inn, Dunkin'
Donuts, America's Best Value Inn, and Marathon Gas are all franchises.
Every single business here is built on the principles of standardization, and this is
hardly a cherry-picked example.
Across America, 57% of limited-service restaurants operate as part of a franchise, and this proportion
tends to rise in step with the state's poverty rate—while it's only 31 and 38% in New
York and Massachusetts, respectively, it's as much as 71 and 78% in West Virginia and
Mississippi.
But the economic and social forces supporting sameness are not restricted to the working
and middle class—they're not even restricted to the US.
These are four major business districts in Sydney, Santiago, London, and Frankfurt.
Without first-hand knowledge of the intricacies of their skylines, it'd be tough to differentiate
which is where, and there's a good reason for this.
For all intents and purposes, these are the same places.
These are ten major multinational businesses either directly in or tangentially related
to the finance sector.
Out of a whole city of options, nine are located in London's compact Canary Wharf
neighborhood.
Meanwhile, in Frankfurt's Bencken-Wirttel neighborhood, eight of the same companies.
Across the Atlantic, 7,500 miles or 12,000 kilometers away in Santiago's San Hatton
neighborhood, nine of the same companies—all located within a few blocks of each other.
Then, finally, across an equally sized stretch of the Pacific, there's Sydney's central
business district, home to all ten of these multinational companies.
These areas and urban cores are often home to the most evocative buildings in a city's
skyline, but these buildings are typically used by people whose preferences are standardized
on a global scale.
On a micro-level, that's because people often move between these business districts
as they move within their companies, and of course, on a macro-level because it's the
exact same companies signing the leases for these buildings globally.
They want the same thing, whether it's in Sydney, Santiago, London, or Frankfurt.
This all starts to point towards a cause broader than building codes, franchising, or the international
flows within multinational companies.
The world encourages sameness.
No matter who we are or where we go, we sometimes just want to be able to get quick, decent,
cheap, warm food.
When we just finished a double shift or woke up early for a 6am flight, we don't want
to have to comb through a menu we've never seen to eat something that we might like or
might hate.
We want what fast food provides—we want to be able to get the same burger in a few
minutes no matter where on earth we find ourselves.
Fast food provides consistent mediocrity.
We might not always want this, but when we're eating just for the sake of eating, that can
be a feature.
The wants and needs of humans were no different a century or two ago.
McDonald's would have been just as successful in the 1800s if it existed.
What has changed, however, is the world.
Devoid of jet airplanes and internet access, it would have been impossible to run a chain
of cheap restaurants spanning the globe.
Not only that, but you can't grow tomatoes in Norway—it's too cold.
Therefore, lacking the long-distance, cold-chain supply lines of today, there was no way to
get the tomato necessary to make the same burger in Norway as in California.
Local conditions dictated what was possible locally.
That's no longer the case.
What happened next is globalization.
The walls came down.
With cargo ships, airplanes, and internet cables linking each country to the next, getting
that tomato anywhere and then instructing the local staff on how to cut it is hardly
a challenge anymore.
The forces encouraging difference disappeared.
What's left is economies of scale, is consumer preference for consistency, is the effectiveness
of branding, is the creeping consolidation of capital—what's left, in a world devoid
of walls, is the pervasive power of sameness.
Now, it's this exact power that has yielded plenty of the advances of the modern age.
It's for these exact reasons why the standard of living of the average person has never
been higher.
If we still had to build houses in the timber-scarce American Southwest out of adobe bricks, it'd
hardly be the fastest-growing region in the country.
Nowadays, timber prices barely differ whether you're at a Lowe's bordering the forest
in Oregon or a Lowe's in the middle of the desert in Arizona.
In an environment devoid of difference, it's just as effective to build those five-over-ones
in Arizona or Oregon.
So, is this a problem?
If there's an objectively best option for addressing the country's crippling need
for more multifamily housing, should it be avoided?
If a national chain of hotels is able to offer consistent, decent rooms at a lower cost than
competitors, is that a bad thing?
If there's simply a style of skyscraper that those who use the skyscrapers want most,
are they at fault?
Well, consistency should be recognized for what it is—a convenience with a cost.
The difficulty is that the convenience and the cost are experienced by different parties.
When that roadside hotel in Chiloquin, Oregon uses the exact same floor plan as its equivalent
in Webb City, Missouri, the majority of the benefit is experienced by the owners who are
able to set up an equally profitable business or less.
Meanwhile, the majority of the cost is experienced by those living in Chiloquin, who experience
the built-up environment of an area as unique as Oregon's Endless Wilderness adapted
into the epitome of any town USA.
The creeping sameness of the modern world is not a big problem—rather, it's a series
of small problems that are experienced again and again and again by everyone—but just
because a problem is small, and just because a problem relates to far bigger ones, it's
still a problem.
Solutions respond to their environment, and humans are part of the urban environment.
If priorities change, the environment changes, and so will the solutions.
As of yet, few seem exceptionally concerned—no surprise in the country that's now been
building cookie-cutter suburban developments for decades—but we don't have to be content
with reality just because it's happening.
So, consider what a common development style does to cities.
Consider whether we want the same dining options in every town, big or small.
Consider the sameness.
This is the first ever video I posted on this channel, and as you can see here, it has stock
footage.
That stock footage, and a huge chunk of the footage we've used since then, came from
the provider I've used ever since, and who's actually today's sponsor, Storyblocks.
Most stock footage providers charge per clip, sometimes in the hundreds of dollars, which
really just doesn't work with the economics of digital video.
Storyblocks, however, offers an unlimited download subscription for less than what the
other providers charge for one clip, and with that you get access to their huge catalog
of footage for your videos, your posts, your presentation, anything you do online.
Not only that, but Storyblocks also offers stock images, music, audio, After Effects
and Premiere templates, and more.
The reason we've been using Storyblocks for years, long before they sponsored us,
is because they are the one-stop-shop for digital creation.
I don't think I know a single full-time creator that doesn't have a subscription
to them.
So, if you make anything online, it's worth checking them out—subscribing could be one
of the best investments you ever make in your content.
Click the button on screen or head to Storyblocks.com slash Wendover to sign up, and you'll be
supporting Wendover while you're at it.
