The last time I made a gaming-centric video, it was about Fourspoken, a game that we here
on the channel know pretty intimately. Fourspoken is a bad game. There's no two ways about
it. We gave it a 4 out of 10 because while the magic system and the open-world parkouring
showed a lot of promise, the rest of the game was just awful. They could have packaged a
completely different, better game around that core. And while the topic of today's
video, Hogwarts Legacy, is also a third-person, magic-based fantasyland adventure, I haven't
actually played it yet. Yeah, tons of people are online right now enjoying the game and
sharing their experiences, but that's because one of the perks of buying the deluxe edition
is that it comes out on February 7th, while standard edition plebs like me have to wait
until the 10th. That's okay, though. By all accounts, the game seems to be not amazing,
but not bad. Third-person, over-the-shoulder, shooting spells and deflecting in shields,
all the stuff you'd expect to see. The people who have played the game reported to have
a couple of oddities in how certain things function, but overall it's a very serviceable
game. It doesn't break the mold, but it also isn't in any way bad. If not for the
Hogwarts name, it would probably be considered very average. Unlike with Fourspoken, where
a huge chunk of the story surrounding that game came from just how fucking broken it
was, and the political aspect was clearly just a distraction from the game's terrible
quality, the story of Hogwarts Legacy has almost nothing to do with the game itself.
But it has to do with this woman, J.K. Rowling. Now, we all know who J.K. Rowling is. I made
a video about her years ago, in fact. Author of Harry Potter, and… that's it. Her other
work isn't really that good. It just seems like she was in the right time, right place,
to come a phenomenon in the 90s and 2000s. And it's not hard to see how. Harry Potter
is a coming-of-age story. The boarding school environment always serves as a good fish-at-a-water
location, and the magic puts it over the top. It's a hero's journey. The villain is
a foil for the protagonist. It's a grand, epic quest to save the world. It hits all
the marks. There's nothing intrinsic to the setting of Hogwarts, or the wizarding
world itself, as fantastical as it is, that draws people in. It's the adventure that
really counts. The rest of it is window dressing. I think that's the main reason nobody cares
about the Fantastic Beasts movies. They're all window dressing.
However, relevant to this conversation is the fact that J.K. Rowling is a TERF, a trans-exclusionary
radical feminist. TERFs are a component of the left that believe that trans women are
not women, and do not have a place in female-only spaces. This puts them at odds with trans
activists and gender abolitionists, two other components of the left that fight for trans
equality and want to abolish the concept of men and women respectively. In my recent Christmas
video about Mary TERFmas, a phrase Rowling made go viral over the holidays, I went into
a bit more detail. The TLDR is that J.K. Rowling is most certainly a radical feminist. Her
political activism revolves around women's liberation and attacking the patriarchy, specifically
from a point of view that is strictly biologically female-centric, and for a long time she was
the left's darling. Within the past decade, however, her brand of leftism has declined
in favor of trans activism, specifically as intersectionalists have begun to see white
women not as the victimized oppressed, but as entitled oppressors themselves. So for
a while this put a lot of the rank-and-file lefties in a bind. We all remember those 2016
protests against Donald Trump's then-new presidency were like, right? Leftoids comparing
themselves to Dumbledore's Army and Trump to Voldemort, with the rest of us telling
them to read another fucking book? Old memes, good times.
When it comes to storytelling, leftists tend to claim rebellions against a corrupt tyrannical
order. Harry Potter and Star Wars immediately come to mind, because those stories map onto
revolutionary politics pretty well. They attempt to claim stories where they are the institutional
power like Star Trek or Mass Effect, but those ones don't quite fit, and you can often
find some leftoids decrying the lionization of those heroes because they're part of
the system. And of course, their attempts to colonize stories where they clearly don't
belong just seem petty and ridiculous. The point is, though, for the left-leaning terminally
online culture warrior, Harry Potter was one of their go-to references for years. But
now that the political winds have shifted, that's over.
I mentioned in my White Nervosa video that the attempt to make Harry Potter owned by
the fans instead of by JK Rowling because of her political views mirrors the attempt
to delegitimize Scott Cawthon's creation of Five Nights at Freddy's. Not that it
matters, though, because JK Rowling's still getting a big fat check every month. I remember
seeing the trailer for Hogwarts Legacy like a year ago and remarking on stream that the
trans activists were going to try to boycott the game. This is mainly because they were
actually successful at boycotting the Fantastic Beasts movies, or at least they think they
were. Personally, I think the main reason those movies failed is because they suck.
But to the trans activists, it probably appears like their boycott was a success, so now it
was time to go after Hogwarts Legacy. However, I never thought it would blow up this big,
though. I don't think we need to go over every single tweet on this topic. Lots of
other people have done that already. If you want to pause and read these moronic takes,
be my guest. But they're all saying the same basic thing, and I would rather analyze
it a little bit. Here's their logic. If you buy Hogwarts Legacy, you're killing trans
people. Why? Because JK Rowling gets even more money from the game's success, which
she will turn around and use to fund her TERF activism. And because TERF activism specifically
excludes trans women, when JK Rowling decides to do activism with her money, like, for example,
opening a female-only domestic violence shelter, that is a facility that won't help trans
women, meaning there's less resources available to trans women than there could be if the
shelter included them. Which means that trans women are now at a higher risk than they would
have been, meaning that they're more likely to be stuck in a domestic violence situation,
have to endure abuse, and be driven to drug use, prostitution, and suicide. The problem
with this example is that it presupposes that trans women have a right to JK Rowling's
activist money. And because JK Rowling refuses to give it to them, that's the same thing
as directly killing trans women. And if you give JK Rowling money, by buying this game,
you're killing them too. It's part of the wider logic that the existence of billionaires
kills the poor, because the billionaires could be using their wealth to help them,
and they don't. And so, if you support the billionaires through voluntary trade,
you are part of the problem. This is where the phrase, no ethical consumption under capitalism,
comes from. Because if you engage with the system, you uphold it, whether you want to or not.
Now, this idea is what lies beneath a lot of the pro-theft, pro-looting, pro-riding ethics on the
left. But it's hilarious to see people who sell a product say this phrase, since it implies you
should have just stolen it from them. There's many examples of this. But to stay on topic,
Emma Watson promoted a clothing line with the phrase, this is what a feminist looks like printed
on them. But it turns out, the shirts were being made with sweatshop labor, and the women who made
them earned a dollar an hour and slept 16 people to one bedroom. Karl Marx said at one point that
if given the chance, capitalism will commodify the revolution, and in doing so, reroute revolutionary
tendencies away from real change and towards purely symbolic efforts, like spending $25 on
a Che Guevara or a feminist shirt, and feeling like your practice for the day is complete,
while the systems of oppression remain in place. The problem with this point of view is that it
goes directly against another commonly stated leftist viewpoint, often encapsulated by this
comic, where the serf is suffering under the current system, and a smarmy internet asshole
tells him he's being hypocritical for participating in the system, when he has to in order to survive.
Cue the Vosch clip of him saying that socialists maximizing their wealth under capitalism is good.
On the one hand, there's no ethical consumption under capitalism. All of your engagement with the
system props it up, even if you are spreading an anti-capitalist message. And so, if you're going
to oppose the system, you must do so with violence, not with collaboration. This is the Sorelian
socialist view on violence. The Leninists also somewhat believe in this, though with a few
caveats. Lenin thought that exploiting capitalist consumption to directly further the revolution
was a good deal, famously saying, the last capitalist will sell us the rope that we hang
him with. On the other hand, there's the idea that socialists maximizing their wealth and power
within capitalism will give them a better position when the revolution comes. This is the Gramscian
view, where socialists have a moral obligation to infiltrate liberal institutions, and once firmly
entrenched, begin to use that institution's power to tilt the world more leftward. Movements like
feminism, racial activism, and the like, serve to destabilize liberal sensibilities, making these
institutions more vulnerable. Of course, no online leftward has ever read Georges Sorel,
or Vladimir Lenin, or Antonia Gramsci. They have no idea that these two views, that there's no
ethical consumption under capitalism, and that people should engage with liberal institutions
to subvert them, are mutually exclusive in practice. But they don't care, because at the
bottom of it is just hypocrisy. They want you to not buy Hogwarts Legacy because of a transphobia,
and you're part of the problem if you refuse. However, even as they hate Jeff Bezos and Amazon's
monopoly on everything, they still use Amazon Prime for that sweet two-day shipping. They
still watch Twitch because their favorite lefty still streams there, and they still enjoy the
boys on Prime Video for its subversive deconstruction of Americanism. They still shill
for games like Overwatch or Valorant, made by companies that support absolutely terrible
regimes overseas, involved in the suppression of racial, religious, and sexual minorities.
They're still addicted to Twitter, where their constant use supports one of the people they hate
the most, Elon Musk. They still use a phone built by child slave labor that the government uses to
track their every location, unless they've got a Fairphone like I do. All of these people
screeching about Harry Potter and no ethical consumption are literally unethically consuming
under capitalism themselves, with the excuse that they have to do it. But you guys need a new iPhone
or Amazon Prime just as much as the rest of us needs Hogwarts Legacy. The fact of the matter is,
you do it because you want to do it, because it's convenient, because it's cheap. That's
the material analysis. The reply of, you need a phone, you don't need Hogwarts Legacy, is stupid,
because that doesn't make the phone more ethically made. Again, unless it's a Fairphone. If there's
anything I've learned from environmental activists, it's that your needs do not make
your consumption ethical, and that leaving your needs unfulfilled is the only moral choice. But
even then, the environmental activists tend to excuse massive amounts of waste in the service
of their cause, while demanding that you turn off the gas. All of this is rooted in hypocrisy. They
don't want to stop exploitation, they just want to be the ones doing the exploiting. Of course,
I'm speaking about this entire topic within the Left's moral framework. Personally, I don't give
it. I don't think any of this is exploitative or immoral. I'm a capitalist. Play the game,
have fun. It's not your responsibility what other people do with your money after it's changed
hands, any more than it is their responsibility what you do with their product, after you own it.
And most of the normies agree with me, because the push to boycott Hogwarts Legacy absolutely
backfired. Calls for streamers to not cover the game, for players not to play it, for the whole
thing to just silently go away, it all fell on deaf ears. Hogwarts Legacy peaked at 1.3 million
viewers on Twitch, the highest view count for any single-player game on the service. Twitch,
the capitalist collaborationist that they are, partnered with Portkey Games to allow viewers
to get items in their own game for watching streamers play it, as long as they had their
accounts linked up. The Hogwarts branded controller immediately sold out upon release. Hogwarts
Legacy smashed sales records on PS5, Xbox, and Steam, with the Steam page being particularly
hilarious. Trans activists try to slap the game with tags such as transphobia and genocide
simulator, and gamers just leaned into it, turning the comments section into a shitposting
battleground. The truth is, people don't care about leftist moral sensibilities anymore. They
don't give a shit. They're tired of cancel culture, they're tired of being told what to do
and say and think by moral busybodies, they threw off the chains of the religious dogmatic right,
and now they're throwing off the chains of the woke oppressive left. Of course, the activist
wailed and gnashed their teeth in response. How dare the gamer chuds not fall into line! It's
always funny when this happens. I remember what it was like early in gamergate, where the game
journals and woke devs tried to spin consumer boycotts of their work as oppressive because it
denied them resources. Now they're crying that their own boycott failed, and that gamers are
apparently twisting themselves into pretzels to justify their behavior. It's always about
hypocrisy with these people. The funniest thing about their boycott is that it likely contributed
to the game's success. Hogwarts is being talked about like Elden Ring was when that game launched,
another title that progressives tried to boycott, that time with the smokescreen of accessibility,
and Elden Ring is a way better game. Once the Hogwarts Legacy boycott failed,
the trans activists turned their ire onto the streamers who dared ignore their commands.
The first blow was struck with the website HaveTheyStreamedThatWizardGame.com, a site
that you could plug any twitch stream into and it would tell you if they played Hogwarts Legacy.
This was built to be a simple boycott tool that the progs would use, but it was rapidly turned
into a tool for people to find streamers playing the game. One of my mod's shitposts went viral,
specifically because the trans activists initially took it to mean that she was one of them. The
site was actually pretty stupid, because all it measured is if you changed the game setting on
your stream to Hogwarts Legacy. You can change that setting without streaming the game, or you
can stream the game without the setting, and the site wouldn't know. In the end, the site shut
down after just a few days because everyone realized it was a fucking joke. After that
failure, the trans activists moved on to harassing streamers for playing it. There's multiple viral
clips of leftoids raiding streamers' chat rooms to shit on them for daring to play the game.
Go ahead, talk about it. I will ban you so fast, I don't give two fucks. This is my escape, this has always been my escape.
I love your face.
It will continue to be my escape. Fuck right on off if you have a problem with me playing this game.
I'm almost like thinking of just like either going offline or like, I'm barely into the second combat
here. And every time I look at chat, it's just, the conversation is just like, bothering me.
Maybe we can do like a pure, a be right back, like a, like a little break or something?
You can take a break if you want. I'll just stop talking and I'll just go fight and do the combat.
Y'all done did it now.
Harry Potter and anyone that plays it is a bigot. Oh, you're just a weird person. And a bully.
I'll tell you guys to end this right now. If you go around telling people who bought this game simply
for the enjoyment of playing the game, no other reason, you're an asshole. Plain and simple. You
are a fucking asshole. If you go around bothering people, you are a dick, you're an asshole. You are
the scum that people walk in the street and want to pass by as quickly as possible. Let's be clear,
streamers have a ban button and they should be using it. Crying over this sort of thing is kind
of cringe. But at the same time, this is absolutely demented behavior. None of these people are
actually viewers of the streamer in question. And even if they were, that doesn't give them control
over the stream. The activists are literally just bullies of the exact same caliber they claim to
oppose. When that tactic didn't work, the trans activists resorted to simply spoiling the game.
I'm not going to read off the spoilers, but I am going to display them on screen. So if you're only
listening to this in the background and don't want to be spoiled, you'll be all right. The
Prague's last ditch attempt to ruin everyone's fun was to simply post the endgame twist all over
social media. This doesn't stop streams. It doesn't make JK Rowling any poorer. This is just
being spiteful. This is the person screaming stop having fun. Okay, spoilers over. You can look back
now. Now I'm pretty sure that Portkey Games knew the shitshow was coming and added in a trans
character as token representation. It didn't work though, because the Wokes ignored it and the
Normies just saw her as being shoehorned in. Funnily enough, following in the JK Rowling
tradition of having weird racialized names for all of her characters, the trans woman is named
Sarona Ryan, which a lot of trans activists took as a slap in the face. Get it, sir? Sarona?
There's a deeper problem though with the call for trans representation. How do you know if a
character's trans? If they're the ideal trans woman, then they're passing, they're stealthing,
and you shouldn't know that they're trans, unless there's a sex scene with them. If they're not
passing, if they look manly or they have a non-feminine voice, then they're viewed as an
ugly caricature of a trans woman. The only way to make non-sexual, non-grotesque trans representation
is to shoehorn in the fact that she's trans into dialogue, to have a cringy pronoun scene or some
shit. There was also a smaller side controversy about anti-semitism, where the progs believe that
the goblins are meant to be Jewish because they're greedy, short, hook-nosed little creatures who
love money. Listen, I don't see a Jewish person when I look at this picture, and if you do,
you're probably the fucking racist here, not me. But to be honest, there's not much of a story
here. However, it was funny seeing Vivian Wolf twisting herself into pretzels, explaining how
goblins were Judeo-Bolsheviks, therefore making JK Rowling a Nazi, because the goblins don't
believe in the concept of trade. That is a rabbit hole I'll have to cover another time, though.
All of this stuff was used as justification for the boycott, but apparently none of it applied if
you had the correct politics. Again, hypocrisy. As left-leaning game journos, bloggers, and content
creators all had a field day talking about Hogwarts Legacy, earning clicks and money virtue signaling
about how bad it is, how terrible you are if you play it. They are as much a part of the machine
as everyone else is. As I am. The difference is, they're leftist, therefore they're allowed.
Apparently you can engage in exploitative systems if your politics are correct. It is all hypocrisy.
At the end of the day, Hogwarts Legacy appears to be a pretty good game. It's not a 10 out of 10 or
anything, but certainly something you can pick up to get yourself through the dry spell of new
releases that always plagues the first few months of the year. Most of the people talking about the
game right now are doing so because of the controversy, the failed boycott, the activist
screeching. The game itself doesn't actually warrant this much attention. And because I
personally think that progressive morals and sensibilities are retarded, I'm going to be
streaming Hogwarts Legacy right after this video comes out. So make sure you tune in,
guys. Let's shit on the leftoids together. I'll see you there. I love you.
