Tiktok, Tiktok Tuesday. I don't know why I'm singing it. Hi, guys. Welcome to Tiktok Tuesday.
I know I missed last week, so a bunch of these have been saved up. Let's see what we've got.
One such thing as parental rights.
What?
It's not recognized in law. It's not in the charter. It doesn't exist. Children's rights,
however, are recognized and have been for a very long time. Parents have responsibility,
which is recognized in the law, but no rights. If your child does not want to
tell you something about them, that's your problem. Not the government's, not the school systems.
Maybe you should ask yourself why your child might not want to tell you whatever it is your
conspiracy brain thinks that they should have to.
There's a strange situation going on with this one. Man, this is the first one today,
and we're already going down some weird rabbit holes here, guys. On the one hand,
we all remember what it was like to be a kid, right? We did keep things from our parents.
If we were doing a little bit of underage drinking at our friend's house, we didn't tell them.
If we were 15 or 16 or 17, we were hooking up with a girl, we didn't tell them.
Kids absolutely keep things from their parents all the time. You're lying in bed in the middle
of the night, and you're jacking off because you're a horny 14-year-old or something.
You don't tell your parents that. Now, your parents also aren't dumb,
they can sometimes figure out some of the nonsense you're trying to pull as a kid.
But the point is, is that it is understandable why a child would want privacy from their parents.
And yes, this also extends to gay and trans stuff. Let's say you have a 14-year-old boy,
he thinks he's gay, he doesn't want to come out to his parents, he doesn't have to,
especially if he thinks his parents are going to beat him or something. That all makes sense,
but from the other side of the situation, there actually are parental rights,
especially when it comes to things that are considered to be medical.
When it comes to a medical procedure, parents do have to sign off. Now, medical practitioners
can go around the parents and get a court order if they think the parents are being neglectful.
That's not for school teachers to decide or school officials. That's also not for random
adults on TikTok to decide. That is for courts and doctors. And as I'm constantly reminded,
the trans conversation is a medical conversation. That's why you're literally killing trans people
by inducing them to suicide if you don't affirm them. So because it's a medical conversation,
and transitioning is treatment for a mental illness, yeah, it would seem to be the case that
you can't actually just go around parents in that situation. So while it might be the case that if
you have a child and that child thinks that they're trans, they don't have to tell you,
even though you're their parent. That's true. But if you have a teacher who is affirming that child
and allowing them to cross-dress at school or something, well, that's a medical treatment,
and the teacher isn't qualified. And that does, in fact, usurp the rights of the parents.
God loves you. God loves you, man. It is the love of God,
of why you're angry, of why you're mad. Oh, this is like an on-campus presentation.
Is this like a pro-choice versus pro-life thing?
Is she trying to rattle them? Figure it out, lady. What else?
What's your name? That's none of your business.
I mean, we're being cordial here. You hear? Got my mic? We're being cordial, right?
She's just trying to get under her skin. It's not working.
My name is Lancaster. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. I mean, nice to meet you. Is that,
you just came up here and tell us your business without giving us your name?
Yeah, that's what I did. Okay, all right. We'll pray for you, okay?
We'll pray the Lord saved you. Oh, don't put your hands on her,
dude. That's assault now. I wish I knew your name so we could know where to pray.
Well, either way. Either way. You're a soul. Either way, you're a soul.
You're kind of an asshole. What makes me that?
You kind of ruined everybody's lunch. You took the cord out?
Yeah, I took the cord out. You want to give me my mic back? Please give me my mic back, please.
Please, young lady. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good day, okay? You're not stronger than me,
all right? God bless you. She just wants to steal the mic?
Hey, officer. This young lady, she's trying to rip my stuff up.
Oh, I'm assaulting her. She's assaulted. She's taking his stuff.
Come here. I have it on video.
Yeah. I'm assaulting her.
Yes. Yeah, dude, like, leave.
Yeah. Let go of my stuff.
Okay, if I get arrested right now, I would literally lash out.
You're literally going to lash out? Oh, my God.
Like, what the fuck, Lee? Just let go of the mic.
We get it. You don't agree? Just let go of the mic.
Walk away right now. I already said I was going to let it go.
Can I get my stuff? Can I get my stuff, ma'am?
She's going to get arrested.
Can I ask a question? Of course.
But let go right now. Let go right now.
Yes or no? Let go right now.
Yes, no. Yes or no?
You're under arrest.
Yep. That's what you get.
Put your hands behind you.
We pray for the grace of God for you.
Wow. Like, that was over nothing, guys.
She could have just walked.
Yeah, okay. They disagree and all that.
I know she went up there trying to be edgy as fuck,
and she thought that she would get these Christians all mad and triggered,
and they weren't, and they simply said, we'll pray for you.
And then she got mad that they weren't getting mad, and she got herself arrested.
Like, it's stupid. It's fucking stupidity.
I'm ultimately pro-choice, and this is still fucking stupid.
This isn't how you do it, man.
Oh, man, that's beautiful, isn't it?
Going to Indian Hogwarts.
iPhone 14.
That's why you gotta wear, like, a wrist strap or something on your phone, dude.
Especially if you're in the third world.
Jesus. I wonder if that was staged.
That might have been staged.
It was, like, too good to be true, but I don't know.
Probably wasn't.
My belief is that we should be centering the voices and experiences
of the most marginalized people and communities at all times.
So when I think about what fat liberation looks like to me,
it looks like centering the voices and experiences of those who live in
and who maneuver through spaces and institutions in a fat body.
It looks like making accessible spaces and having conversations that are aware
of the fact that people have different bodies and that they are interacting with space and people
and institutions and communities in a different way.
Fat liberation looks like fully embracing those differences
and having those conversations instead of shying away from them.
To learn more about fat liberation and the campaign for size freedom that Dove is supporting,
visit dove.com forward slash size freedom.
Well, wait a minute.
This is like, this is sponsored by Dove?
This is important and we should all be talking about it.
I guess it makes sense, doesn't it?
If you're fatter, you have more total skin.
So therefore you need to use up more of their soap.
This is like a good, this is a good, this is a good,
this is a good business decision for them.
Okay.
I got to rewatch some of that.
Give me a second here.
So when I think about what fat liberation looks like to me,
it looks like centering the voices and the experiences of those who live in
and who maneuver through spaces.
I don't know what spaces you're maneuvering through,
but it's probably a pretty tight squeeze.
Isn't it?
Haha.
Yeah.
That's it.
I just wanted to rewatch for a joke.
I finally cracked the code for permanently staying in the honeymoon phase with your partner.
Awesome.
Before you think that's not possible, I can be gone for 15 minutes and this man will greet
me like I've been gone for a week.
There's not one time I've said, Hey, I really feel like a walk.
And he's been like, nah, I'd rather stay home.
And no matter how mad we may be at each other, we always sleep in the same bed.
Isn't that right?
It's a fucking dog.
I knew it.
Get a dog.
Dog pill, guys.
You cannot escape it.
As soon as she said going for walks, I was like, this is, it's going to be dog pill,
isn't it?
Fuck.
Then what is Mexico?
What is this weird video we're watching?
Is Mexico a continent?
Hold the time out.
Oh my God.
This is the world.
Mexico.
Yeah.
Okay.
See each of these large masses.
How many do you count?
One, two, three, four, five.
Right.
However, this right here, Oh no, down here.
Where's the city and what's the county?
She's already telling you it's not on here right now.
How dumb are these kids?
What about Greenland?
Are there seven?
I thought it was seven.
It's seven.
Even the teacher doesn't know.
Oh, oh, oh, oh my God.
Okay.
This is actually like unlocking a few memories for me.
I know everyone looks at videos like these and they're like,
Oh, the zoomers are uniquely stupid or something or like,
Oh, there's so many like terrible teachers.
I'm thinking back now I went to, uh, to grade school in the nineties.
There were some pretty dumb fucking kids.
I know these, I think the kids are high school, right?
Even in high school, there were some pretty dumb fucking kids.
Yeah, man.
I remember, I'm remembering now, like sitting in like various geography
classes in like grade three or something and kids not understanding what maps were.
Maybe it was because I played video games, you know?
I was really young, really young playing Super Nintendo games that like my, um,
that I think were my dad's old games or something, you know?
Link to the past, you hit select, you pull the map and it's like,
Oh, you get it.
Like when you're playing a game because you care about the game.
So when I get to school and it's like, here's how maps were children.
I was like, yeah, I already got this shit.
And you know, being like seven years old or something, just slap it down.
Yeah.
Here's what the city is here.
Here's the road.
And the kids are like, whoa, whoa.
Yeah.
I'm not sure that like zoomers, keep in mind, this is high school now, not grade
school, right?
But even in high school, there were kids who still didn't know what maps were when
I was there.
Maybe zoomers are uniquely stupid or maybe we're just capturing more of their
stupidity with smartphones.
Who knows?
Either way, it's disheartening to watch.
It was really bad because I was like, I felt so bad about it.
What is its quality?
I called like child services on this one.
I called child services on my ex because he pissed me off.
And then I was like, yeah, I'm done with this person, whatever.
Like, you know, cheater, fucking piece of shit, lies, bullshit.
He had kids.
I called child services on his ass and I like fabricated everything and like
said certain things and they like went to the door and like there was a whole
process.
Like, I don't even know if the children's aid worker still visits them, but she
probably does because what I said, like the way I AI'd that shit, you know, like
real AI shit, like fake bruises.
Oh my God.
Be careful, fellas.
Yeah.
Yeah, pretty crazy.
What a terrible fucking person.
And then you just made like an exaggeration story.
And on their kid, on his kids.
Yeah.
Like, so like, yeah, then they came.
What a piece of shit.
They're both pieces of shit.
She actually cheated, but your kids are being abused.
You know, you could lose your kids.
This fucking sociopath.
Yeah, should have been nicer to me, bitch.
Wow.
Oh, okay.
I'm, I'm, I'm done with TikTok Tuesday for today.
Holy fuck.
That was, uh, that was like a hardcore black pill.
That black pill was darker than her fake fucking tan.
All right.
That's enough of this guys.
Let's get the fuck out of here.
All right, listen, if you're watching this on release, uh, I'm streaming right
after this gets uploaded.
Okay.
So drop in, say hi.
If you don't, you're not a real dev fan.
If you don't, uh, I'll call protective services.
Okay.
In all seriousness, I'm going to go, I am streaming tonight.
Drop in and say hi.
I'm playing some, uh, some more of that sea of stars game with my friends.
And, uh, thanks for being here guys.
I'll see you next time.
