This video was made possible by HelloFresh.
Use code WENDOVER14 at the link in the description to get up to 14 free meals across your first
five HelloFresh boxes, plus free shipping.
So you want to go to space, and you're not a billionaire.
You find yourself in a rather common situation—humanity has entered a futuristic era where commercial,
civilian rocket launches are getting boring.
In September 2021, a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from Kennedy Space Center's Pad
39A, carrying four civilian crew members, and it was hardly a front-page story.
These occurrences are getting commonplace, and the commonplace is not news.
Precisely this, however, represents massive progress for humanity's access to what's
beyond.
For the first time in history, leaving Earth is as simple as signing a check, but, right
now, few have the ability to sign these checks.
Current ticket prices for space tourism stretch well into the hundreds of thousands or millions,
so assuming one needs a net worth of $50 million to afford that, there are only about 100,000
people out there who have the ability to travel to space.
SpaceX, Virgin Galactic, Blue Origin, and others insist that will change, though.
They insist that, just as the civil aviation industry began as a novel luxury for the upper
class, space tourism will steadily march towards a luxury for the masses.
Many are skeptical, though.
Rockets are different animals than planes, and there might just be inherent constraints
that prevent the kind of cost innovation that made hopping on a plane a chore, rather than
an experience.
So, how realistic is mass-market space tourism?
Is there a reasonable possibility that within your lifetime, you will be able to leave Earth
for an achievable price?
Despite their differences, the closest analogy to the commercial space industry is still
the commercial airline industry.
Back when the Wright brothers started to experiment with flight, the pair had few commercial ambitions—they
were simply infatuated by the prospect of controlled, powered flight.
Once they achieved that, the brothers did find some commercial success with their new
technology, but most uses of aircraft at the time were linked to their novelty, rather
than any commercial purpose.
The first wide-scale practical use of planes came in World War I, when militaries flew
above battlefields to conduct reconnaissance on their enemies.
This proved useful, so aircraft development and construction accelerated.
After the war, there were plenty of surplus planes, which early airlines were able to
acquire rather easily.
Seeing its potential, governments incentivized aviation, such as in the US, where Congress
authorized a system of airmail contracts—airlines would get paid to carry mail, so airlines
started to develop as businesses.
They found that they'd often have extra space beyond the mailbags, so more and more
seats were offered up to paying passengers.
Western Air Express, for example, started service between Salt Lake City and Los Angeles
in 1926, for which they charged, inflation-adjusted, $1,400 for the eight-hour flight.
At these prices, though, few chose to fly, so in 1931, still 85% of airline revenue in
the US originated from airmail contracts.
World War II immobilized an already stagnating industry, but it did once again create a mass
massive, practical purpose for airplanes.
The few years of conflict spurred huge industry growth and innovation, including the invention
of the jet plane, so after the war, many of the new technologies permeated into civil
aviation, and there was a vast catalog of pilots and aircraft available for airlines.
The jet engine then killed the ocean liner industry, which meant airplanes quickly became
the primary method of long-distance passenger transport, which increased demand, which increased
industry innovation, which decreased prices.
Industry deregulation starting in the 70s meant that airlines could compete in a fully
commercial manner, which led to the development of the first low-cost airlines.
These pushed down prices industry-wide, and helped all airlines become a service for all.
Today, on the same Salt Lake City to LA route that Western Air Express flew for $1,400,
airlines regularly sell tickets for $50.
If that same level of price innovation happened in the commercial space industry, the $450,000
Virgin Galactic ticket of today would cost just $16,000—an approachable, once-in-a-lifetime
luxury for well-off, but not absurdly wealthy individuals.
So, can the process that the airline industry went through work for space?
Well, it's actually working already.
In its era, transporting materials on the American Space Shuttle to low-Earth orbit
cost an estimated $7,700 per pound, or $16,900 per kilogram.
SpaceX's Falcon Heavy rocket currently has eight launch contracts with publicly available
pricing data, and excluding those that have other costs included in the top-line numbers,
the average price for these missions sits at $145 million.
Now, while most payloads are far smaller, the Falcon Heavy could, in theory, carry 141,000
pounds or 64 tons into low-Earth orbit, meaning its cost is roughly $1,028 per pound, or $2,261
per kilogram.
A nearly eight-fold reduction in price is impressive, and the trend is expected to continue
as the company's Starship launch system comes online, and industry competition heats
up in the coming years.
SpaceX, along with many other commercial space launch companies, has achieved these cost
reductions largely through a focus on one factor—reusability.
The previous generation of rockets, such as the Atlas V, were not reusable—essentially,
every element of the rocket was built, launched, and never used again.
This understandably inflated costs, creating a perfect opportunity for commercial companies
to come in and develop reusable launch systems to dramatically undercut prices.
This wasn't to the extent of the cost innovation—SpaceX, in particular, achieved success with insourcing,
manufacturing optimization, and inherent private sector cost focus—but reusability did represent
the lowest-hanging fruit, and the first big leap in reducing the cost of reaching space.
So, what's next?
While there's certainly more work to be done, we do know that reusability alone will
not be what brings the cost of space tourism to an achievable level.
For example, running rocket launch facilities is extraordinarily expensive.
While getting an accurate picture of costs is difficult, since most launch companies
have no financial reporting requirements, we do know that when SpaceX started developing
its launch facility at Vandenberg Space Force Base in California, it estimated $40 to $60
million in initial costs, followed by $5 to $10 million in annual ongoing costs.
Using the lower end of those estimates, that means the company has sunk some $85 million
into the facility.
During that time, they used it for 17 launches, representing a per-launch cost of at least
$5 million.
This is almost certainly a gross underestimation, but assuming it were true, that would mean
that SpaceX CEO Elon Musk's claim that their upcoming Starship rocket will operate at a
cost of $2 million per launch is impossible without intense focus on the ground operations
aspect.
The problem is that right now, operating a launch facility is like running Heathrow Airport
for just a couple flights a year—clearly an inefficient process.
Of course, one fix for that is simple—launch more rockets.
The majority of the cost of running a facility like Vandenberg is fixed—launching 100 rockets
a year would not cost 10 times more than launching 10 rockets a year, so by increasing the number
of launches, the company reduces the per-launch facility cost.
This is just one example, but the point is that across the board, much of the remaining
opportunity for cost innovation is not in technology, as was the case with reusable
rockets, but with process.
What the commercial space industry needs is scale.
It was no different with planes.
The miniscule size of the industry in the early years meant that operating a single
plane was extraordinarily expensive.
Early airlines had to do essentially everything themselves.
When Pan Am was working to start clipper service to Hong Kong, for example, they lacked
an existing, necessary refueling point between Midway and Guam.
However, Juan Trippe, the airline's founder, discovered records of a little-known atoll
in exactly the right spot—Wake Island.
He then had to lobby the President to place the atoll under the control of the Navy, then
persuade the Navy to send a boat to survey Wake Island, then negotiate a lease from the
Navy.
Next, the airline hired a freighter ship to bring materials and construction workers to
the atoll, where they built a landing area for the clippers, dock, narrow-gauge railway,
refueling facility, hotel, and more.
The airline had to do all of this just to run their twice-weekly service, simply because
they were the first airline to cross the vast Pacific.
There were simply no economies of scale, which is precisely why a ticket on this service
from San Francisco to Hong Kong cost, inflation-adjusted, $33,000 round-trip.
What happened next, though, was World War II.
The prominent role that aviation played in the conflict spurred the will for infrastructure
to be built, for development to be conducted, and simply for more planes to be built.
Altogether, it pushed prices down.
This can happen in the commercial space industry, too, because economies of scale exist in every
industry.
The problem for them, though, is that space doesn't have a World War II.
So far, there hasn't been a massive external factor that rapidly scaled the industry.
So, it's a classic catch-22—the industry cannot scale without reduced costs, and it
cannot reduce costs without scale.
Every new industry faces this conundrum, and every large industry has resolved this conundrum,
but it might be tougher for the space launch industry than most.
In any case, there are essentially two ways to pass the scale hurdle—you wait for demand
to grow, or you gamble with scaling before the demand comes in order to reduce costs,
which should increase demand.
The problem with the former is that right now, there's not really much reason to go
to space.
For everyone but government-employed astronauts, the reason to go to space is to go to space,
and once they're there, the only thing to do is to be in space.
The number of people today who both can afford to and want to go to space is miniscule, and
it's abundantly clear that tourism alone will not spur the kind of demand growth needed
to reduce costs enough to induce a rapid spiral effect of industry growth.
So, why don't they gamble?
This is, in effect, how every startup surpasses the scale conundrum—they take on investment
or debt, scale up, reduce their costs, open to a larger market of consumers, and use the
greater earnings to pay back their investors or creditors.
Now, to be clear, nearly every space launch company does this—SpaceX, Blue Origin, Virgin
Orbit, and Rocket Lab are each investor-driven.
It's impossible to surpass the rocket development process without investment, because the businesses
can't earn revenue until after the rockets are developed.
However, no company has yet taken on the level of investment or debt needed to scale their
process beyond current demand in order to dramatically reduce costs.
That's because the industry has a data problem.
Right now, there are just so few space launch customers that it's impossible to accurately
model how the market works.
In most industries, companies have a good idea of their product's price elasticity
of demand.
That's a measure of the extent to which demand changes given a change in price.
For example, consumer fuel demand is very inelastic—when people need to drive, they
need to drive—so they'll pay for fuel no matter the price.
One study found its price elasticity is negative .09, meaning if someone buys 10 gallons at
a price of $3 per gallon, they'll still buy 9.75 gallons when the price rises to $4.
Meanwhile, the demand for a can of Coca-Cola is found to be very price elastic.
If someone buys 10 a month at $1, they'll only buy 4 a month if the price is raised
by 25 cents—at least theoretically.
This data is crucially useful for businesses to determine whether an investment in reducing
costs is worth it—they can directly compare how much they'll have to spend versus how
much additional revenue it should bring in.
This is exactly how businesses make these investment decisions.
However, in 2020, SpaceX had just six different customers—NASA, the US Space Force, the
South Korean Army, the Argentinian Space Agency, Sirius XM, and the US's National Reconnaissance
Office.
With six customers and their 12 launches, there just isn't enough data to accurately
model price elasticity.
SpaceX just doesn't know, for example, whether investing a billion dollars in reducing launch
costs by $10 million would be worth it—they don't know if it would induce enough additional
demand to compensate for the cost.
This is the big reason why the industry cannot invest in scaling dramatically—it would
just be a crapshoot, which is far too risky for a commercial company.
So, the industry is largely reduced to waiting for the first option—waiting for demand
to come.
The industry needs their World War II.
Now, of course, space-based warfare is rather unlikely and extremely undesirable, but there
is potentially another way that demand for getting both materials and people to space
could ramp up rapidly—space-based industry.
Space-based industry is, of course, a different environment than that of Earth.
Therefore, it enables the manufacturing of materials that Earth cannot.
For example, one of the nearest, most realistic possibilities for space-based manufacturing
is in fiber optics.
These cables are incredibly efficient at moving huge quantities of data over long distances,
so they act as the backbone of the world's communications infrastructure.
Therefore, the manufacturing of them has turned into a massive, extremely fast-growing industry.
Now, ZBLAN is a type of fluoride glass that theoretically could make fiber optic cables
orders of magnitude more efficient, but the problem is that when manufacturing these in
Earth's gravity, tiny crystals and bubbles appear that restrict data transmission.
However, in space, when manufactured in microgravity, the fiber is clear, meaning these hypothetical
orders of magnitude efficiency gains are realized.
In addition, ZBLAN fiber optics would be incredibly price-dense—a single kilogram of the material
would sell for hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars.
So, this is a near-term case of something that can be made in space, has demand on Earth,
for which the transportation process would not be cost prohibitive.
This is crucial.
This is what could start the space gold rush.
If there is an in-demand industry that can only be conducted in space, people and materials
would need to get to and from space.
That would scale the launch industry, which would lower launch costs, which would enable
more industries in space, which would scale the launch industry, which would lower launch
costs, and so on and so forth.
So, what's the answer?
When will you and I be able to travel to what's beyond?
Well, as of yet, this natural cycle of scale and growth, this gold rush, has yet to begin.
However, it seems that it could be near.
So, the industry to watch is less that of space launches, and more that of space-based
industries.
On Earth, there has been reason to travel since the beginning of civilization—airplanes
as a technology came into existence as a replacement for other methods of travel.
Rockets are enabling travel to a new place, to which there is currently little reason
to travel.
Therefore, industry will be what gives that crucial reason for travel.
The airline industry never grew off of tourists, because few tourists could afford the fares
in the early days.
It grew off of companies and governments finding rational reasons to send people around the
world by plane, whether for war or business.
The tourists followed in increasing numbers based on the price reductions that others
induced.
Space will not be different.
At its deepest level, enabling low-cost access is not a technological problem—it's an
economic one.
So, follow the money.
Once you start seeing products coming from space, that's when your ticket to what's
beyond will start to become cheap.
One industry that's yet to see much cost disruption is that of delivery food.
With all those fees added on by the apps, it's quite expensive to have food delivered
to your door.
Many still do, though, since it's convenient.
I certainly did, until I realized how poor it was for my health, my wallet, and the environment.
Therefore, I switched to HelloFresh.
Now I pick out all the meals I want, and the following week, a box arrives on my doorstep
with all the ingredients and recipes.
For example, this week I made the meatballs with bulgogi sauce, which were rather quick
to make, since all the ingredients came in the exact right quantities, and also delicious.
This is all completely true, by the way—I was using HelloFresh for almost a year before
they sponsored a video, and I genuinely value the convenience of cutting out shopping, researching
recipes, and long prep times, while still being able to make fresh, healthy, home-cooked
meals.
Also, University of Michigan research found that HelloFresh cuts down on food waste by
25% compared to grocery shopping, since you get everything in the exact right quantities,
and the box it all ships in is made almost entirely out of recyclable or recycled materials.
I know HelloFresh is worth it since I've been using it for so long, but I'd encourage
you to try it out as well to see if it fits into your lifestyle.
You can do so super easily, and help support Wendover, by clicking the button onscreen
or heading to the link in the description, and using code WENDOVER14 to get up to 14
free meals across your first five HelloFresh boxes, plus free shipping.
