Once again, friends, it's TikTok Tuesday time.
Some people said that I should actually get like a different background or maybe different
music to differentiate TikTok Tuesday from the 10-minute takes videos, now that it is
kind of becoming its own thing.
I probably will eventually, I just got to shake the tree of the guy who does my animated
backgrounds.
Then again, fat dev at the computer table with a phone, that kind of fits, doesn't it?
I don't know.
I don't know.
But you guys have sent me a handful of more videos, so let's begin.
They are writing another ticket, I think number 15.
15 tickets?
We're handing out food to those who don't have the chance to get it easily.
Whoa, what?
There.
Wait, hold on.
I got to watch that again.
They are writing another ticket.
Tickets for handing out food?
We're handing out food.
Yeah.
To those who don't.
To the homeless, I guess.
To get it easily.
Is that really a thing?
You can't hand out food to the homeless?
They're still getting ticketed?
Maybe it's because they're not an official charity.
Maybe it's because the food hasn't been checked by some sort of authority or secured or something,
so maybe it's full of poison, who the fuck knows, right?
It's possible.
Maybe you have to actually be working with some sort of certified aid organization to
be able to do this legally.
That's possible, I guess.
It's kind of funny to listen to commies scream about, mutual aid, mutual aid, let us help
our poor unhoused neighbors, and then complaining when they get ticketed without doing it with
some sort of accreditation, when in other areas of life, they clearly understand the
need for accreditation.
Everything can't simply be anarchy.
I put a microchip in my arm, and it's the best thing ever.
What?
This chip is a powerhouse.
It's got everything I need.
My credit card, my ID, my phone, even my keys.
Oh, this sounds unsafe.
And when it's time for grief, she's through it, and bam, transaction done.
It's like magic.
It's a medical emergency.
It can save my life.
The future is now, old man.
It's a medical history.
I feel like a sci-fi kid.
And I'm loving it.
This amazing chip is totally free.
That's right.
Oh, don't trust the Australian government with this chip.
The surgery is quick.
It will give you a cookie afterward.
The government has frozen my bank account, and it can freeze your chip.
So you have to listen to my story.
Oh God.
Let's hear it.
A few days ago, I made a post on social media about a danger of having a chip implanted
in my arm.
I thought I was exercising my right to freeze my arm.
I thought it was that it was a
Hahaha, oh god. Let's hear it
Yeah, oh
Oh, no, oh your Starbucks doesn't get your Starbucks anymore
Oh
Oh, no, darlin, I
Remember back
Jesus I think was the I think was during gamergate times when Zoe Quinn was going around saying she was the first
Cyborg because she implanted like a magnet underneath one of her fingertips so she could do like certain magnet jobs, right?
You know if you like a piece of if a tiny screw falls like deep into a tiny crevice inside of a computer
You're working on you got to get like a little magnet thing to fish it out
You have a magnet in the tip of your finger. You just reach in there poke it. Oh, you got it
You got it. Nice. Okay, what she also did was she put an NFC chip inside of her hand
I think the FCS are the same thing used in
Nintendo's amiibos the idea is that they can store very tiny amounts of information and even back then I was always thinking man if you're
Storing like sensitive information on this something can always go wrong
There are people who can scan cards by like running a device over your wallet or something
That's what the whole Ridge wallet thing is is supposed to block by the way not sponsored by Ridge wallet
But I do like their wallets
So if you want to give me some money Ridge wallet
But the point is is it the the the the I think they call them RFID blocking plates
You could have someone run a machine over your your wall or over your pocket as they walk by you
Scan information off the chip on your credit card and then use that to spoof the credit card
There's lots of ways to just scan people and get information from the stuff in there in their pockets nowadays
And so I always thought if you have a chip underneath your your finger or your arm or your hand yeah
It's convenient, and it's kind of cool to just like scan your hand and like a futuristic cyberpunk II kind of way
But man, that's dangerous
Criminals can just get your shit, and now as you've seen with this woman governments can just can just fuck you up
Oh, everything's on a chip. They can just lock you out if you have wrong think on the internet
She just told the police where they are hiding on live TV. Oh, no. Oh, oh my but
I just came out here to clear his name cuz I just I want him to go to jail and nothing like that
And I know they looking for him. They're not gonna find them. He at my mama house
Chilling they're just chillin no they waiting for me to pick them up right now, but I'm about to leave is this life
Oh, is it? Oh?
It's live Oh
James and um and big my if y'all watch I'm on my way to come get y'all now y'all know I got y'all y'all know
I got you even though we ain't officially married. I got you, right?
Oh
I hope the Instagram clout was worth it girl. They're getting arrested and now you're an accessory my god
Nice music
Thanks for shopping as you just take everything
Wow
They're just walking out I keep finding videos every week that I do one of these tick-tock videos someone sends me a clip of
People just walking out of stores with arms arms full of stuff like no one gives a fuck
I I've been sitting on a on a book
It's a small book, but it's a leftist political theory book called in defense of looting
I've been sitting on that book for a while and now that the whole shoplifting craze is kind of going wild on social
Media, I should probably finally do that video too. This one's soundless. I think so just talk through it
Why the fuck's my hairline already receding? I'm only 17. Oh, dude, that sucks
Like that's my hairline now, and I'm in my 30s. He's 17. Fuck that sucks. You trying to trade homie?
Let's see. Let's see what this kid's got. I think how they're all growing their hair long to hide it. Oh
buddy, oh
Yeah, you got to grow that hair long to hide it man
It can't get worse than this. Let's see that all all these bros are feeling it together. Oh
God oh, dude
We're all in it together
Let's see
Here's a twink kid. Oh
No, dude twink death is real. Oh my god
big foreheads unite
oh
I his isn't so bad. This isn't so bad, right? I win. Okay, let's see it. See what you got going on
Yeah, yeah, oh
gee
He's like almost fully bought. Oh my god
I'm sorry guys, like like I've still got most of my hair and I'm thankful for it
My hairline is definitely receding over the years
I can tell you can go back and watch a video of me from ten years ago. Definitely
Oh God girl harasses Gaston and he rightfully forces her to leave
Don't just touch him lady geez
Yeah, he's like get out oh
He's not joking get the fuck out
She's like, yep, you're done fuck you dude like that's just sexual assault and she's laughing like oh, it's completely fine
I'm a girl. I'm a harmless. Oh, it's like what the fuck?
No, in fact one of the comments underneath this was like, yeah, he overreacted you didn't have to embarrass her like that
What are you fucking kidding me reverse the sexes on this and see if you'd say that shit
You got some let's say you had Belle up there and a guy starts grabbing her tits. Like what the fuck is wrong with you?
It's a performance. There's kids there. Like are you are you fucking retarded? I just see him being a jerk
I wouldn't have done what she did but come on lol. These people actually think that women can't sexually assault men
It's pretty fucking disgusting. Oh shit. The drive-thru order is no good. Oh, no her car
Oh my god, oh the tree
Oh
My god, is she rolling out into traffic?
Sometimes McDonald's workers might put the wrong burger in your in your bag
But lady, you know, you're gonna step out of the car and freak out then it rolls away like oh my god
No
Now that Naomi and I actually have our own vehicle and we're driving around the city and we're doing stuff the more that I see
these car
Videos the more that I'm like, I'm still laughing at them. Like they're just oh, you're stupid
Haha, like I used to but now I'm like seeing how could you be that dumb?
How could you be that negligent considering how much stuff you have to like know and learn
To own and drive a car and what it's like to actually be behind the the driver's wheel
How could you how could you forget the important things to freak out about a burger? I don't I don't get it, dude
Hey, so you've come to my house to complain about my baby wearing pink
Well, I'm just asking really why you keep putting her in pink and not other colors. Well, traditionally girls often wear pink
It's not your baby lady. Well, I think you'll find that was back in the day. I don't think it's today
I think you can wear any color you want now. It's a fucking baby
It's even your baby yet. Just she doesn't just she actually she has over like clothes as well, but her favorite color is pink
Yeah in pink, and I think that's this fucking busybody dude
What do you mean freedom wants to be?
She's a baby
She's baby. She's two
Oh my god, well many of what's any of your concern?
Business lady because I believe that the world has got better since we've got all this fluidity with genders
Christ
Imagine the local Karen coming over to police what you put your kid in
So I think it's nicer to dress people in all different colors, I mean she looked beautiful in yellow wouldn't she
She was sorry, she's got pink trousers on. Oh my god. I do like the rainbow. I definitely like the rainbows on
Like what the fuck is this lady's problem?
Okay. Okay. Firstly. Yeah, you're wearing pink glasses
Oh
My god
Yeah, she says pink, but they're not they are mode mode mode glasses
Okay
I'm actually stunned here to like why you're actually here. She just comes up to their place
It's like why you keep dressed him going in pink. I think you should give her more choices of color. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, but
She's however, I want to dress her. Okay. Yeah, the way how I parent it is
With you, that's true
Feel the people these days and I think they should have more choices of what colors they want to wear
This lady is a book club or something. Fuck. I don't need to teach her about all this my god
Like you can tell were those those weren't Austrian. Those are bonger accents, right?
This is a Brit bong thing, man
Imagine living in some British suburb and the local Karen comes up to you and complains that you put your daughter in pink clothes
You know what?
I think I finally understand why Sargon swung to the right wing because you wouldn't ever see this shit here in Canada
Yeah, there's some weird shit happening with their government
That's for sure. But like a random Karen coming up and complaining that your daughter's dressed in pink clothes. No fucking way
No, wait, no shot as the zoomers say. Alright buddies. That's another tik-tok Tuesday clipped and shipped
I know combined with yesterday's video in today's this was not exactly the most highbrow content that I've put out but don't worry
We're coming back tomorrow with some good shit. I will see you guys there. Have a good one. I love you
