I have to run downstairs for just a second.
Sure, okay, go ahead.
If you want to respond to chat,
you're more than welcome to,
just don't say anything to us, all right?
Sure, okay, sure.
Well, the fact that Sanzil is 28 years old
and supports a senile child sniffer, Joe Biden,
who is obviously not any sort of strong young man
to guide the country in a right direction
is absolutely sad, pathetic,
and borderline criminal on his end.
Sanzil should be embarrassed.
He should be,
Biden doesn't want to do the right thing.
Biden is just,
doesn't care about the people of this country.
He cares more about people from other places.
That's very clear.
He's allowing for many people all across this country
to suffer in the broken systems and so forth.
And he's allays policies, especially regarding the border,
and he's trying to take people's guns,
and he's trying to get you to take the very suspect vaccine,
as well as many other things.
And so, Joe Biden is not to be trusted in the slightest.
He's just a criminal Democrat
that doesn't give a fuck about the people
and allows them to be fed slop for all time.
He won from fraud.
There's no way in hell he got 80 million votes.
He has no rallies.
He has nobody show up, nobody support him.
And basically people just voted for him,
not because they want what's right,
not because they want an actual country,
just because they want free stuff.
So that's the situation in America today.
It's, and Sanzil doesn't,
Sanzil would rather support these criminals
than actually do what's right
and understand that this whole motherfucking system,
this whole motherfucking country to some degree
needs to be re-evaluated, re-looked at and so forth.
Sanzil doesn't understand that we're just degrading
as time goes by.
Hello, sir, hi.
Hi.
So you sound like a lefty, dude.
Maybe, I mean, I can tell you
I'm just against the American government wholeheartedly.
Yeah, you sound like a revolutionary socialist
who, you know, wants to overthrow the government
and did you a lot of social spending to-
You happy with how America is today?
Okay, I'm back.
I'm not an American.
I don't care how America is today.
I don't give a fuck.
Okay, well, where are you?
I'm in Canada.
Okay, well, that's the state
maybe someone could argue even worse.
What, do you work for the government or something?
You and Sanzil, two best buddies,
one works for the Canadian government,
one works for the American government,
both corrupt, both evil,
both don't believe in the right thing.
Does Sanzil work for the American government?
In the loosest terms possible.
I'm like in education.
Sanzil looks connected to FBI agents.
He's convinced that I'm a CIA agent, but-
Oh, please.
Okay, well, what do you actually do?
I'm going to education.
So right now I'm working like it's a substitute teacher
and getting experience there.
Oh, okay, fair enough.
Didn't you get a degree for political science, bud?
I'm in school for political science, yeah.
Oh, okay, okay.
You're best friends with Destiny,
who's like a confirmed anti-extremist online federal agent
or something like that, right?
Well, I'm also anti-extremist, right?
But I just like engaging with them
because they're funny online.
You don't think this justifies a little bit of a-
I think that the only reason that these are extreme times
are because people like you buy into literally
every single fucking conspiracy that's ever been written
on the face of the planet and you warp them all into one
giant amalgamated fucking horrible conspiracy
where somehow 9-11 is tied in with flat earth,
is tied in with the JFK assassination,
is tied in with fucking Wuhan fucking China lab leaks
and shit.
Yeah, I think it's your group
that is making the world more extreme.
And then we see extremism in the early 2000s
after 9-11 from the right.
And then there was a massive backlash from the left on that.
It made a whole bunch of extremist lefties
because you'd expect extremists on one side
to breed extremists on the other side.
And then, oh, okay, bye.
Oh, okay, there you go.
It's not, yeah, no, my mic had just an issue.
It's not, no, it's not us.
I disagree wholeheartedly.
That's us making the extreme.
The extremists are generated
vis-a-vis failures of the American government.
The extremists are produced by-
But you always talk about the failures of the government,
but you never tell me like specifics
about what the government is failing us with.
Well, we just laid it out, man.
What about-
Hold on, I just got here
and I have a few questions for you.
Yeah, I'll let you guys talk for a second.
What do you want me to call you?
Will you work for the Canadian government
or what's the deal?
He's a YouTuber, dog.
I'm a YouTuber.
I work for myself.
That doesn't tell me anything.
Yeah, okay.
Okay, well, here, I'll tell you what.
Give him a little bit of a,
give him a little bit of a cut.
I don't support Trudeau, no, no.
I'm equal parts liberal and conservative.
I've voted for the liberals before.
I'm probably gonna vote conservative
in the next Canadian election.
I am definitely unaligned politically.
Okay, sure.
What do you think about Trudeau with his black face,
with all of his various,
have you seen all the costumes,
outfits, these pictures of him in?
Yeah, it's fucking hilarious.
Oh yeah, the black face one's really funny.
When he looks like Hitler in that other one,
that one's hilarious too, man.
That's a real joke.
I think that, I think he was doing some,
I think he was doing de Gaulle actually, but yeah.
Yeah, Trudeau's a fucking joke.
He's made Canada into a fucking joke.
I'm not a fan of Trudeau.
To be fair, I voted for him in 2015,
but if you listen to Trudeau's speeches in like 2013,
he was a significantly different person back then
than he is now.
I wouldn't vote for him again.
Look at what the poor truckers in Canada.
Imagine you're a trucker in Canada.
That's gotta be the worst experience ever.
Oh man, poor Canada truckers.
I actually want to talk to you about that a bit, okay?
So I don't want to put words in your mouth,
but I kind of have a feeling of what your position is
on this just by listening to you.
So I want you to confirm this, all right?
Were you one of the guys who, let's say a year ago,
maybe two years ago, you were saying that
the COVID lockdowns were going to be used by the government
as a way to seize power and take away liberty
from the people and that this was going to turn into
some kind of everlasting situation?
Well, it may not have turned,
I agree that that still could happen.
It's always possible that it could happen, yeah, but-
Yeah, I agree with all that, yeah.
Okay, yeah.
So the thing is, is that you're correct
in that there is a danger of that happening.
And there were some, let's say pretty bad politicians
who actually wanted to do that.
Maybe not in the States, but in Canada
and in the UK, definitely.
There were some politicians who said,
you know, this is the new normal.
We're going to have lockdowns and masks forever.
And you're going to have that VAX pass on your phone
for the rest of time.
And your liberties are gone and you're fucked
because it's going to be all in the name of safety.
And fair enough, there were some people out there
who seemed pretty evil, who were pushing for that stuff.
But here's the white pill, they all lost, all right?
Because the VAX pass is gone in Canada.
It's gone in the UK.
I think it's gone in the States.
None of these policies have actually come to fruition.
It's not gone in the States.
Really, so are you scanning a VAX pass
every time you have to go into a restaurant
like you did a few years ago?
Not me, but not me personally.
And I never, I got the VAX,
so I never have scanned any pass ever.
But not me personally, but I know people
that still are having to present their VAX, yeah.
100% that's still happening.
Like password, whatever.
In California that happens, I know for certain.
But it probably happens in other places in America too, yeah.
Now, to be fair, I don't know many Californians.
I do know one who says that the VAX pass,
she told me the VAX pass is gone in California.
So it's, well, it seems like
that all of these measures were temporary.
And though they could have been used to,
let's say, expand a government tyranny,
and there were some people who might have
even wanted to do it, they lost, all right?
And democracy actually won because those policies
were so unpopular they vanished.
Okay, but I agree that there's nothing really
that they could do.
I don't think it necessarily is about popularity
or unpopularity or anything of that nature.
I think-
Why do you say that?
I think to some degree, people just got tired of COVID
and they got, they refused to be locked down anymore.
Well, is that not popularity though?
The policies of keeping people locked down
became unpopular and so they vanished.
That's how it would work in a democracy, you know?
When the policies are popular, they happen.
And when they're not popular, they stop.
Yeah, but I don't, it's not about like,
I don't think COVID happened because it was popular
to shut everything down necessarily.
And that's why, you're saying that's like
kind of a warped view of like popular policy
will always prevail or something of that nature.
And that's just not the case.
Well, not always, but it often prevails, yes.
Okay, often is, I mean, it depends on the situation
I'd say, but-
Okay, so I don't know what your, hold on, hold on.
I have to ask you a question here.
It's gonna sound slightly insulting,
but I'm not meaning to be insulting.
I just wanna get to the heart of the matter, okay?
What's your education level
when it comes to this sort of thing?
Education level?
Yeah, how much do you know formally about politics?
Canadian politics, I don't know too much about,
but I can tell what they did with the trucker
shutting everything down was not good.
Like forcing them to get the vaccine
when there's the massive protests.
It's so, because they have to get the jab,
they don't even trust the government.
So why would the government,
how can they ask them to get that?
How can they require that?
I don't necessarily disagree with you on that because-
The threat of you can't feed your family.
I don't necessarily disagree with you,
but what I'm getting at though is,
are you an elite theory guy?
Is that like your framework that you're viewing
all these government actions through is through elite theory?
No, I don't, no, no, no, no.
It's just obvious the whole system's corrupt, man.
Biden's 400 years old sniffing kids.
Is that a leader you should have?
Is that what's right for the country?
Like it's just obvious that everything's broken.
Everybody's 400 pounds, yeah, through fraud, bud.
Everything's broken, everybody's 400 pounds.
The government's jack full of corrupt people
that don't care about what's right.
The systems are all broken.
They're not producing good people.
Their operation is horrible.
They don't know what they're doing.
They're not running correctly.
They're not running well.
I can't respond to everything, but-
Yeah, let him talk a little bit, all right?
I can't respond to all those points,
but there is one that I want to talk about
because you've mentioned a lot
about how you don't believe democracy is working, right?
100%, yes, absolutely.
So is this a case-
Look at where we are in America today
with so-called democracy.
Yeah, it's real beauty.
So is this a case of you think democracy itself,
like the practice of voting is just a bad practice,
or do you think that democracy could work,
but it's not working and it's been corrupted?
Well, you've got to do it correctly, I believe,
if you're going to do it,
but you have to have laws that make sense
and so forth in that regard.
Right, so you're not anti-democracy.
It's just that you think that democracy
right now isn't working.
Well, I'm not anti-democracy, not necessarily, no,
but whatever the best political structure
for any given country is, is whatever it is, I'd say.
So, certainly I don't believe
that every nation should ascribe to democracy,
but I think-
But America should?
Well, I think maybe there can be some regards
where it works, I guess,
but ultimately, by and large, I'd say I'm against it
because I think that you can produce
a better world without it.
It doesn't even make sense necessarily to me
that everybody gets a vote,
everybody gets treated as they're equal.
The government asks everybody's opinion on these matters.
I don't think that that even makes sense necessarily, so.
Go ahead.
So, wait, I just want to make this clear.
So, that sounds like that even if democracy
was perfectly functioning,
you still wouldn't want democracy
because you don't think democracy itself is good.
So, it's not that democracy is currently broken,
it's that democracy isn't good, even when it's working.
Is that what you think?
Like I said, I think maybe it can work in some regards,
but yeah, I'm generally by and large against it.
Yeah, especially in the U.S. more so,
but I can't really speak to other places that well.
Oh, that's fine.
We can talk about America, that's fine.
Why are you against democracy in the U.S.?
Well, because look at the situation, man.
Look at what it's been able to produce.
Look at what we're dealing with today.
It's produced-
What if it actually worked?
It wasn't rigged as you think.
Assume for a minute that the elections
were all actually not fraudulent, all right?
Even in that situation,
would you say that not democracy is not good?
Well, even, yeah, yeah, yes.
As for America, yeah.
Because look at what it's produced societally.
Look at what the point, look at what it's led us to, man.
The people in America are dying all over.
They're killing each other.
Nobody has anything.
Everybody's 400 pounds.
The government is shutting everything down.
The mad scientists have taken over.
Biden's 800 years old with a voice changer.
He's got an application for the illegal aliens
and he's sniffing the youth, man.
Okay, don't go on a whole monologue
because I don't know how much time he has, all right?
I don't want to-
To be fair, I kind of enjoy some of these.
Yeah, I don't want to make you feel like
you're wasting your time here.
There's no justice.
Nobody believes in what's right.
There's no, you have tremendous problems in all of this.
I know what you mean.
I know what you mean.
It's just that, so like, did you vote Trump in 2016?
Yeah, I voted for Trump twice, yeah.
Right, right, yeah.
And do you think that democracy worked in 2016 then?
Worked, I don't, to some degree, I guess, sure.
It's always working to some degree.
I don't know, that's kind of a weird question, worked.
Well, because it sounds like your problem
is not necessarily with democracy.
It's just with the outcome, right?
So if Trump actually won 2020,
you'd be a lot more cool with it.
I mean, it would be better,
but I don't know necessarily if I'd be cool with it.
I think there are problems that need, that are,
do you agree, do you think that democracy
always produces the best results for any given society?
No.
Okay, okay.
So you're not even for democracy necessarily.
I am in America.
I am in the West.
Oh, okay, so you, so do you, hold on, sir, sir, sir.
Has democracy produced,
has democracy in America produced better results
than a fascist state?
Yes.
How do you know that, you fucking idiot?
Tell me how, tell me, hey, stupid fuck.
Tell me how you know that.
You can't open your eyes all the way, tell me.
How do you know that, bud?
That democracy's produced better results
than a fascist state?
Yeah, yeah, tell me how you know that.
Or a fascist dictator would.
Tell me how you know that.
Tell me how you know that.
We'll look at, okay, I can tell you.
Look at the results of all the various fascist states
that we've seen in history.
That does, that says nothing to me.
That's absolutely retarded
and it's an unbelievably stupid take.
So I disagree totally.
So are you saying, hold on, hold on.
That as those, those would not necessarily
play out in America at all.
That would not be what happens 100%.
Just to be clear,
are you doing the real fascism has never been tried thing?
No, I'm saying that you are stupid, man.
If you don't believe that there are better systems
that could produce results superior than democracy.
Here's what I'll say.
Dude, that's just stupid.
I think that like, nobody's gonna ever say
that like we have like the perfect best system
like right now and nothing could ever be improved upon.
No, no person with like a half a fucking brain cell
would say that.
But what we're saying, I think this is what,
there's a lot of syllables.
Can I call you anything but.
I think you're my name.
My name's Dev.
Dev, okay.
My real name.
Two government agents, two government agents here.
I don't think that anybody.
I work for YouTube, baby.
I don't work for the government.
But I don't think that either of us are saying
that like this is a perfect system
and I've never fucking said that.
But like you can always like obviously improve
on the system, but you have to like improve on the system
and like fix the things that are broken.
But like why fix what's not broken, right?
I guess my question is more that
why do you think an American fascist state
would be better than what you have now?
Why fix what's broken?
It's all, cause it's all broken to answer both of you guys.
Yeah, fix what's not.
It's all broken.
To answer both of you guys at once, it's all broken.
It's all not working how it should.
It's all, the corporations rule the country, man.
Nobody believes in what's right.
The people are like being turned into robots.
The people are being like.
Why would a fascist state fix that?
A fascist state could actually maybe, I believe,
produce better results than a democracy has produced.
But why?
Because I think it could be managed better.
I think that it could be altered.
It could be controlled better.
I think that you have problems that are,
people are, criminals are voting for.
Like our legal, our political system isn't about
necessarily the best and brightest rising to the top.
Most of these politicians are just front people
for their constituents or their financiers
or their backers and the likes.
So like they vote in ways that aren't,
like that they know are not necessarily the best.
Democrats vote illegal people in so they can get them
to vote for their party someday, potentially.
Okay, I understand the criticism.
And there's actually some decent criticism in there.
It's just, why do you think a fascist state
would manage that situation better?
Because I think it could be, you could easily control.
I think, oh man, because when you have that,
you have like a realm of possibility that's different
than there are gridlocked bureaucracy now.
Our gridlock bureaucracy that can't change anything
or takes forever to change it.
We live in the world of problems, man.
And it's like a fascist leader could come
and clean that up in, in my opinion, rather quickly
versus what we have now.
Like, you don't think so?
You don't think a fascist leader who believed
in the right thing, who wanted to do what's right,
could just come in and produce results like crazy?
You're skeptical of that?
You think democracy is producing better results
than a fascist leader could?
A fascist leader could give you a real cut?
I understand the point of view.
I understand the point of view because for example,
you know what NIMBYism is, right?
Oh no, NIMBYism?
N-I-M-B-Y, NIMBY means not in my backyard, all right?
NIMBYism is a problem unique to democracy.
So what the idea is, is, you know,
let's say that your country needs a nuclear power plant
or it needs a prison or it needs something
that is necessary, but it's unpopular
for the neighborhood that it's built in, right?
And so what you have is you have people
who are democratic voters, they turn around
and they say, well, you know what?
I know we need the nuclear power plant,
we need the prison, but I don't want it in my neighborhood
because I don't feel comfortable with that.
And so everyone votes to not have the necessary
infrastructure in their neighborhood,
so not in my backyard.
And so it gets built nowhere.
And that's a problem unique to democracy is that
people tend to vote in their own interests.
And when that interest doesn't line up
with the wider society, society tends to suffer.
So-
Yeah, when that interest doesn't do what's right
for the country, it doesn't produce the right result,
then yeah, there's a problem there, obviously.
You know, people are voting Democrats for free stuff
and illegal aliens are just pouring in our country
at this point in time.
So here's the thing, so you could have, for example,
a benevolent dictator who says, you know what?
We need the nuclear power plant and we need the prison.
It doesn't matter if it's unpopular.
I'm going to do what's necessary
and I'm going to build the infrastructure.
And if individual people don't like it,
well, they can suffer because fuck you,
we have to get what we have to get.
And that's a pretty reasonable critique,
a pretty reasonable authoritarian critique of democracy.
So I understand your point of view.
I've done a lot of reading of fascists recently
for some projects that I've have going on.
I know what's going on.
The reason that I brought up elite theory
is elite theory is basically,
it's a description of how governments operate.
It's a theory of how governments operate, right?
And the idea is that a small minority of people
and they consist of members of the economic elite
and people who make policy in government,
they hold the most power in society
and that that power operates independently
of democratic elections, all right?
So oftentimes-
I probably agree with that to some degree.
I mean, independently to some degree.
I mean, go ahead.
Right, so you've been talking about
an American fascist state
where a dictator could come in and clean everything up.
But at the same time, you've also been decrying
the very same use of that power
that you want to seize by other people.
It's a cabal of people
that don't necessarily have government control.
You're talking about elites in all different regards
that don't necessarily have anything to do
with the government, right?
I mean-
But here's the thing.
You would make the exact same elite structure.
That's what a fascist state is.
It's not some libertarian decentralized paradise.
It would be different elites.
It would be different elites.
The elites that you agree with is what he's saying.
Yes, so your problem isn't with the nature of power
as it currently exists.
Your problem is with who is currently wielding it.
You want the actual structure to be the same.
You just want somebody else in charge of it.
Well, those people don't have any power
akin to a fascist leader now.
So in that regard, you're comparing elitism
in two different guards that are not comparable,
in my opinion.
Oh, sure, you want more elitism, right?
Okay, here.
I'm gonna grab something real quick.
Okay, sure.
When it comes to elite theory, I'm gonna post this.
If you wanna bring it up on screen so and so, you can.
You agree that there are elites
that are controlling things, right?
Of course there are, of course there are, yes.
I don't think anyone can disagree with that.
Okay, and then these elites have more influence on,
they have a tremendous influence on society
compared to your average person, right?
Of course, yes, absolutely.
Okay, okay.
So this is a study.
This is what most people who believe
in this form of government lean on.
They lean on this study here.
It's from Cambridge University,
Testing Theories of American Politics,
Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens.
Let me just tell you what this says, okay?
Real quick, real quick, okay?
So the data in the study is basically that
if you take, if you divide people by income,
income brackets, right?
And then you discover who they vote for
and why they vote for them.
If the person that they voted for wins,
the reason that they voted for them
is less likely to become policy the poorer that you are,
if that makes sense.
So basically, let's say poor people voted for Trump
in 2016 for policy A and rich people voted for Trump
in 2016 for policy B, all right?
Once Trump got into office,
the chance that he would implement policy A
for the poor people is around 0%.
Meanwhile, the chance that he would implement policy B
for the rich people is around 60%.
So, oh, he just took off.
Oh no, he's back.
Okay, well, I'd have to look at this.
That doesn't sound right to me
that just because of your financial situation,
you're more likely or unlikely to have a politician
do any given thing for you is,
I mean, I probably to some degree that's true,
but I don't think the way you're framing it
is very dishonest, I feel, but okay.
How do you mean?
I mean, it's-
Well, because it's the idea that like,
if you had large numbers of poor people
pushing for something like versus like rich people,
like I just don't, the way you said there
in regard to the poor people,
like it's just Trump's doesn't do anything
for the poor people,
it only does things for the rich people.
That's like laughably retarded, so.
Well, yeah, but I mean,
if we're talking about a cabal of people
who run the government, this is exactly how it would be.
It's not a cabal of people who run the government though,
the elites, like.
No.
Do you think elitism and fascism are the same thing?
Really quick, I'm gonna help you explain your point, okay?
So like, I think the way that he would describe things
is that the elites aren't necessarily
like in control of government directly.
They're also like pushing culture in such a way
as to like make people more subservient
or to make people, you know,
like he keeps on bringing the fact
that people are like fatter now than they used to be.
So like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So you're going more down like a James Burnham
managerial revolution route, right?
No, sir, I believe in what's right
and I believe in fixing America, man.
I believe in stopping terrorism,
stopping doing what's right.
Yeah, that's what I want to happen, yeah.
I think a fascist leader could speed rocket that.
Right, so what I mean to say is James Burnham,
he theorized this idea.
And the idea was basically that Marx's analysis of classes,
the bourgeoisie and the proletariat
had been completely rendered useless by the post-war era.
And so he theorized of, he called it the managerial class.
And I think people like Moldbug came along later
and they talk about the cathedral in the same way, right?
But the idea of the managerial class,
the managerial class is a class of people
who they defy Marxist expectations because they own nothing.
They own no property,
but they control massive amounts of wealth and property
because they're managers, they're not owners,
they're managers.
So they have control without ownership.
And generally right-leaning people view the government
and view elites as being members of this managerial class
who don't actually own all that much,
but they wield tremendous amounts of power.
Is that?
Oh, he left again.
What you said was just like weird and confusing.
So what?
Managerial class, what's your point?
Well, does that sound like how you're viewing this?
Joe Biden isn't like super rich,
but he still wields all of this power, right?
And that's what the elites are.
They're not like the hyper wealthy.
They're just the-
I agree that you can have elites
in probably a lot of different regards, sure.
We were in terms of government and wealth.
And I mean, there's not many things beside that.
I mean, I guess that's it.
I mean, but yeah, you can have elites that have,
you know, financial backings.
And what are you talking about with the managerial class?
What was the point of saying that?
Like, I just don't understand.
So every time we've gone down a few rabbit holes now
in this conversation.
And it seems like every single time that we discuss this,
you don't actually want to change much about the way
that society is structured.
You just want to be, you want your guy to have the power.
That's it.
You know, cause like everything that you said.
It's not about, it's not about, it's not, sir.
It's not about my guy having the power.
It's about what's right and what's saying
and what's rational prevailing.
But you think that your people are the ones
that would be able to like do what is good.
Yeah, I do.
Leftists think that too.
Yeah, exactly.
Other people think that that's what's going on
with their side as well.
Like when I was a, when I was a socialist,
I tried so hard to find ways to like, you know,
like pretzel myself into a position that like,
or into like figuring out how like Joseph Stalin
wasn't like nearly as bad as he was, right?
But like, then I realized that that was fucking retarded
as fuck because he was a really bad dude.
I don't think he's so bad.
No.
I think he was a real bad,
he's a bad hombre in my opinion, but.
You hear guys like Vash and you listen to this guy talk
and he talks for like 15 minutes.
And what he's actually saying is good things are good
and bad things are bad.
And it's like, well, it doesn't tell you anything.
You know what I mean?
So you keep saying, I want to do what's right.
Well, what is what's right?
What is the good?
Like, what are you appealing to here beyond,
it just seems like you're just appealing to power.
Yeah, well, what's right is obviously not this, sir.
That's what it's to say.
I mean, you, you know, you say that it sounds complicated
to say what's right is right and what's bad is bad.
But I think that like, if people actually,
the thing is people don't know what's right
and what's wrong anymore in our society.
So they go, so that's how we have the society we do today.
People don't, quite frankly,
people don't care what's right anymore.
How did people know in the past what was right
and what was wrong?
I don't think that they,
I think maybe they had a different, I don't know.
Did they know in the past for certain?
I don't know if I think that they knew
in the past for certain.
But I think that it's obvious that things aren't right now
and you can't tell that democracy's not,
okay, but you think that it's going to be fixed
through democracy.
You think that what the best ideas are going to prevail.
Why haven't they prevailed already?
Why hasn't democracy led to a better results
than we have now?
Why is, because like-
I can answer that.
I don't think democracy is the problem, all right?
I think the reason that democracy is failing,
and I don't even think it's really failing that much,
but there are some problems with it, obviously.
The problem is the US government, sir.
The problem is the US government, go ahead.
Well, any problems that we're experiencing
regarding democracy right now,
it's not a problem of democracy or of liberal government
or of the types of governments that we have
or anything like that.
It's that there's something else going on with people
and that the cracks in democracy are a symptom
of a different problem
and changing government won't fix that.
Are you, how would it not fix that?
Because not everything comes from the state.
Okay, not everything, but the state could,
dude, if the state wanted to,
if the US government wanted to clean up the mess
that we are in today, they very easily could
if the right person was in office
and decided to do that, but they won't.
They won't fix it.
They don't care.
They're okay feeding the citizens slop
until revolution transpires, and that's who they are.
They don't care about you.
You've said slop a lot, but where's the slop?
In every regard, I've been laying it out.
Look at our society, you stupid dude.
It's filthy.
Okay, so you can't go to the grocery store
and buy broccoli instead of a hamburger?
Like you guys have broccoli in America, don't you?
Broccoli is good for you.
What, oh, sir, you don't have broccoli in Canada?
Yeah, we have broccoli.
I eat it every day.
It's good for you.
It's healthy.
It's not slop.
Oh, the broccoli is not slop, man.
Okay, that's obviously not what I'm talking about though.
What are you talking about?
Do you mean like cultural slop or not food?
Is that what you mean?
No, slop in all these different regards, man.
Like with the media as an example,
they feed you gray slop.
Our justice system, which isn't about justice,
feeds the citizens gray slop.
The government that's ran by a senile child sniffer
is in a sense feeding the citizens gray slop.
Like our economic system, which is tremendously unjust
in some degree, in my opinion.
Yeah, I think that's feeding the citizens gray slop.
Yeah.
Are you going for a socialist revolution now
or are you talking about the economic system?
Oh, I'm saying that.
I'm saying that if you've got, hold on, hold on, hold on.
I literally agree that if you've got mass wealth inequality
to the point where everything is horrible,
then yeah, that's a problem.
So, and obviously if you have mass wealth inequality
to the point where everybody is dying
and people have to like work like as slaves
and it's like the slaves are revolting
and it's like totally unjust and everybody knows it
and such, like that's obviously an issue.
That's obviously not gonna be productive for any nation.
Go ahead.
I figured a fascist doesn't mind inequality
as a general rule.
Well, sure.
Yeah, I mean, but I'm not a fascist necessarily, so.
You just advocated for a fascist government.
Okay, but again, I'm not a fascist necessarily.
I mean, you could advocate for a fascist government
and not be a fascist, right?
Here's the, here's where I-
Is it like your second choice?
Like, what do you mean?
This is the like breakdown in communication
every single time I have this conversation with them
because this isn't me and this guy's like first conversation.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So like, he doesn't have a holistic like worldview
that he wants to see like put out there necessarily.
He just doesn't like what's going on right now.
He doesn't have a form of government
that he particularly like enjoys,
but he just won like,
except for like some sort of authoritarian state.
Like he sucks off like current Russia
and like communist China pretty hardcore
because I, fuck, I don't know.
But like he claims to want freedom of speech,
but he also loves like the like tamping down
of political opposition like they do in Russia and China.
So like there's this like big amorphous political system
that he like kind of more enjoys,
but it's largely predicated on just like-
I want good things and I don't like bad things
and the bad things need to be like tamped out
with like brutal efficiency
and the good things need to be implemented
so that we can have whatever the good is.
I think I understand, I think I understand.
I mean, I don't know how you get the hyper efficiency
without any sort of competition, right?
Like any kind of command economy or command structure
generally leads to lack of inefficiency
because there's no competition pressure.
True.
Well, who's the competition for the US government?
Well, that is the problem.
It's the parties within
and the like sub factions within those parties
is the argument.
I don't know if Dev agrees with that, but.
There's no competition for that.
If there was a breakaway state
that actually competed with the government
and fixed the laws and like actually raised the children
and taught them good things.
Well, breakaway state would be like fixing
the like system itself.
It would just be, you know,
that you are advocating for revolution at that point.
I'm saying, well, then maybe that is
what I'm advocating for.
I mean, I'm advocating to,
I'm trying to make people's lives better.
And I'm saying that this,
the way we're living now is unacceptable.
The way we're living now is it doesn't even make sense.
It's horrible.
It's bizarre.
Everything is a land of injustice.
So many of the problems that you bring up,
I don't think are problems
that the average person actually deals with, right?
I feel like-
It is, I just dealt with injustice, man.
That's what I was about to say.
People that are fed through-
No, you are not the average person.
You are you, right?
But like the average person,
like in the past, you know,
ever since I stopped streaming full time,
like I've touched a lot of grass.
I've met a lot of people who are actual
like regular people, right?
And they don't talk about like
the government's feeding a slot.
They don't fucking like feel like
that's what the big issues in the country are, right?
They're worried about like the fact that
like if they're liberals,
they feel like the government is being,
like attempted to be taken over by like fascist factions.
Yeah, because-
If you're on the right wing,
if you're on the right wing,
then you believe that like the liberals
are using like bad intentions
to try and like circumvent the laws to steal elections.
But like more personally to them,
the average person is more concerned
with like the meat and potato issues,
as much as I hate to call them that.
Like, you know, inflation, cost of living,
you know, how expensive it is to afford a house,
how difficult it is to find a job.
They might not believe that revolution is possible.
I mean, I'm much younger than-
No, most people don't want revolution.
Yeah, that's true.
There's a lot of older people
that do not support revolution,
but I think you're gonna see really the young people.
Do you think I hang out with a bunch of like anti-communist
or anti-fascists, like 70 year olds?
Maybe people don't support, maybe people don't.
I do think there are a lot of people
that, more now so than ever,
that do support revolution.
But I think a lot of people might believe
revolution's unreasonable or can never happen
or these sort of things,
or they're just not capable of it
or things of like that nature.
So, you know, there's plenty of reasons
why they'd focus more on less substantial issues
than total revolution, but I'm going for it all
in the sense that I see everything broken with the US.
I can see this whole, the US government is an operation.
You have to view it like an operation.
Probably other countries too,
but especially the US government,
that's all I really know about.
And they're an operation that doesn't know how to,
like they're bad operators.
These operators are like taking the train
down the wrong railroad and I'm screaming at them,
do what's right, take it down the right path.
And they-
Hey, hold on, hold on.
I wanna drill down on this.
How do you know that what you think is right
is actually right?
Well, I think that, well, right is a,
we can go into the whole morality conversation
if you want to, but I think-
We have to, because you're saying,
do what's right over and over.
That's like your main point,
you have to live in that conversation.
Well, I mean, we do to some degree, I guess maybe,
but mostly I'm just talking about results being produced.
I'm talking about just like normal,
good things happening to people.
Like I'm not, I don't wanna go like nitty gritty
about moral issues.
It's good if people are living, people are prosperous,
people are successful, people are happy,
people trust the government and the government trusts them.
Like these sort of things.
Like people are, people feel like they're living in like a-
A utopia.
Honest place, I guess, to some degree, I'd say,
where it's not the core,
it's not McDonald's arches ruling the society
and mass injustice transpiring, but rather-
God is telling us to comment on this, holy fuck.
No, I get it.
So you want a return to like the 1950s high trust society
where you could walk down the streets of New York
and not get fucking mugged or like stop-
Well, I think there are countries
that have already erased crime.
There are countries where crime, there is no crime.
Our government isn't capable of erasing crime,
but it's already happened in other places.
And I believe it's possible to produce a society
where there is no crime.
Great, so you want that high trust society back
where it's like I said, you could walk down the road
in a city and not get mugged by a random person.
There's not random violence in the streets.
You see videos of random violence go viral all the time
on TikTok, that's what you're talking about, right?
Yeah, it's horrible.
Yeah, I think that's horrible.
So here's the thing,
authoritarian systems always destroy high trust societies
because everyone's an informant for the party.
A fascist state wouldn't do this.
It would do the opposite of it.
It would make everyone distrustful of everyone else
because that guy might be a snitch.
I disagree that that's what necessarily would happen.
Can you give an example of a fascist government
or like a highly authoritarian government
that that didn't happen in?
There wasn't like, I mean, to some degree,
there's always gonna be trust in an authoritarian country.
I mean, I'd probably argue, but I mean,
you're saying it's just less trust than,
you would literally argue that we, like,
I mean, within any government,
there's gonna be levels of trust.
If we're just talking about trust,
but you would argue that like a fascist state,
there would be less trust amongst the people
than what we have now?
Yes.
No, well, it's not necessarily about trust
within the government.
I mean, that's a different conversation,
but I think that you could produce,
I think there could be a fascist state
where people have trust in the government.
Probably people had trust in the government
in the Nazi state,
but it's more about the people's,
I'd say it's more about the people's trust in government
than anything, I think.
But even then, it would be destroyed,
because for example, it's very easy in Nazi Germany
for one person to just trust their neighbors,
because who knows if they're hiding something
that they should be reporting,
or if their neighbor's gonna report on them.
Who knows if that's happening in America today?
And you're talking about reporting, like what kind of,
yeah, that's, what are you talking about reporting?
Listen, listen, listen, okay, okay, so,
do you call back- What if somebody reports,
what if somebody reports,
what if I report my neighbor for being black,
or just cause I don't like him or something?
What are you talking about, reporting?
Well, nothing's gonna happen
because you live in a democracy, right?
But do you recall, hold on, do you recall back-
How do you know nothing's gonna happen?
What happened to George Floyd?
They pulled up and killed him,
and we live in a democracy, right?
Yeah, let's not get started on that one,
because I probably have a spicier take on that than you do.
But, but hold on, hold on.
So, do you recall back during the,
let's say the first third of the pandemic,
there was a big uproar because having,
at least in some countries, in some,
I don't know about the states,
but definitely in Canada, definitely in the UK,
having more than like six or five people in your house
was considered a crime.
And so you had people snitching on their neighbors,
being like, listen, officer-
That happened in the US too, yeah.
That happened in the US?
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, see, but here's the thing.
A democracy like the US, like Canada, like the UK,
these democratic liberal countries
only started becoming low trust
to the point that you had neighbors snitching on neighbors
when the government became more authoritarian
to enforce these lockdown rules.
The neighbors only snitched on neighbors
when the government became more authoritarian
to support the lockdown rules?
Yes.
Well, people probably snitched on their neighbors
before that, but I mean,
these aren't authoritarian countries,
these are democracies where people are snitching.
Yeah, but here's the thing.
What is the argument exactly?
You're saying they're democracies
that operate as authoritarian style societies
and then people are snitching.
So therefore authoritarianism is bad?
Like how naive is, how retarded naive is that?
So the argument is that a lot of right-wing people,
correctly in my opinion,
said that democratic government-
The snitching, hold on, the snitching has nothing to do-
Hold on, just a sec.
The snitching has nothing to do with democracy
or any of it, authoritarianism or any of it.
It actually does.
It does not, sir.
It does not.
I'll explain it to you.
I'll explain how it does, okay?
So the right wing correctly criticized liberal governments
for becoming more authoritarian
as they implemented more harsh lockdown measures
during COVID.
That was a correct assessment of the situation.
And a lot of people who are, let's say,
more classically liberal, like me,
were worried for a time that some of this stuff
might actually remain in place for long periods.
Turns out it didn't, that's good.
But in a more free society,
there's no impetus to snitch on someone, right?
Like if you have a more authoritarian society
where the government can come in
and arrest people for mundane things
like having to-
You're not understanding what authoritarianism
actually is or means, but okay.
So real authoritarianism has never been tried?
When they're arresting those people,
that's on the back of democracy.
That's not on authoritarianism, right?
You're saying that, what are you saying?
I'm confused.
I mean, do you believe that,
why are they arresting those people?
You're saying because of fascism,
they're snitching on their neighbor?
Are you retarded?
Fascism doesn't produce snitching on their neighbor
necessarily. Hold on, let him speak
because you're not understanding a word he's saying
because everything he's saying-
No, fascism does not.
Oh, he's saying fascism produces this snitch style society.
And I'm saying that that is-
No, he said authoritarianism does.
Okay, whatever.
Okay, that's authoritarianism.
Because socialist governments do it too.
Socialist governments do it too.
So for example, I actually know a YouTuber in Romania
who has described the low trust society
he finds himself in after several generations
of communist rule.
Authoritarian societies,
because of the fact that they're authoritarian,
they have secret police,
they have very strict laws and regulations.
These societies produce a low trust society.
And the reason is, is because you have people
who are snitching on other people.
Citizens don't trust each other because-
Do we trust each other here?
No, you don't.
I think you could produce a fascist state
or authoritarian state where people trust each other
literally 20 times more than what we have now, sir.
I don't think it's possible.
I think that's very easily done.
You're so naive if you think that.
People don't trust each other now.
People don't trust each other with democracy right now.
People snitch on each other
because they think it's funny in our country.
Because in that kind of country,
some snitching is justified.
But I don't think there would necessarily be
these authoritarian style laws
where people would be snitching on each other
in a fascist state.
I just can't imagine.
If it's a fascist state,
how are they gonna produce those sort of things?
You would think that they would be running
a better operation than everybody going around
snitching on each other in these tiny regards.
Well, how do they get the information though?
How do they get the information?
Here, let's say that in fascist America,
let's say I'm living in fascist America, okay?
Your idealized fascist America.
And I'm running some sort of underground group.
I have like a secret liberal group where we get together
and maybe trade banned liberal books.
And we talk about one day
reinstituting a liberal government.
You would have to have a snitch in my operation
to actually come in and stop me.
Well, sure.
I mean, if it was a fascist state to the degree
where they're banning books and they're like, you know,
but I mean, I think that if the books are really bad,
then they probably should be banned.
So you probably do deserve to be snitched on.
I mean, to your degree,
some snitching is always justified.
Some snitching can be justified.
It depends what we're talking about,
but generally I think the answer to that is no.
Snitching can never be justified?
Not never, but generally.
So for example, I wouldn't snitch on my friend
if he managed-
You would have better laws where-
Hold on, hold on.
You could have better-
Hold on, hold on.
Hold on, hold on.
Holy shit.
No, no, no.
Cause he's not, cause he's not,
everything he says is retarded.
You could have better laws
where less snitching actually transpires
in an authoritarian style country.
Like you're saying,
because the laws could,
the kind of society, the operation-
Anti-snitching laws in a fucking fascist society?
An operation could be run where there is the snitch,
snitching isn't a thing where nobody wants to snitch,
where it doesn't even make sense to snitch.
There is nobody to snitch to.
And-
In an authoritarian government?
So how does the government get the information
that it needs then if no one's snitching?
What's, how do they get the information they need?
Yeah.
What kind of government?
The authoritarian government?
Yes.
In your idealized government.
Okay.
Your idealized system,
there's no snitching,
but it's a fascist state.
Okay.
How does the fascist state get the information
that it needs from people
if no one's telling them anything?
Well, I mean, obviously they have to talk about something.
Like if somebody breaks a law, man,
then snitching has to happen
no matter what country you're in, right?
You agree with that, right?
Sure.
And here's the thing, like, for example,
I would probably snitch on my friend
if he murdered someone.
But if my friend got away with a speeding ticket,
I wouldn't snitch on him.
If he got away with a speeding ticket,
or what do you mean got away?
As in, if he-
Or ran from the police and got away or something?
Yeah, like if it was like a misdemeanor crime
and he got away with it,
and there's no danger of him being caught,
I wouldn't tell the cops, no.
Oh, well, maybe you should then.
If it was a misdemeanor, maybe then.
Yeah, I mean, but that could easily happen
in an authoritarian state.
It depends on the crime, right?
It depends on the crime.
Why do you think, you know,
it could be more unlikely for somebody to snitch
in that exact example in an authoritarian state
because of, it could be more harsher and-
Go ahead.
I can describe it to you.
So the fundamental issue is that authoritarian states,
they have to take behavior that is relatively normal
and make it illegal.
And the reason that they have such wide,
like secret police apparatuses,
is because in order to get people to not do normal things,
you have to have some sort of,
well, here, this happened in East Germany.
Well, what kind of normal behavior has to be illegal
in a fascist state?
Tell me what exact normal, what exact normal behavior.
Yeah, harboring Jews is a big one.
But here's the thing,
I can give you an example from a communist.
It's normal to harbor Jews.
It's normal to harbor Jews.
If they're being exterminated, yes, you should do that.
Let's not go super down this rabbit hole
because I feel, I have a feeling I'm afraid here.
You don't think anything could justify their extermination?
Ah, let's be real.
Let's be real.
Let's move past.
Wait, are you talking about?
Yeah, he's full JQ.
Okay, listen, I can give you an example from East Germany.
Okay, communist state, just as authoritarian, okay?
So they had to outlaw ownership.
I think they had to outlaw ownership of multiple properties.
So for example, you couldn't own two houses, right?
And what they had to do is like,
well, how can you tell that this house is owned
by somebody else without someone informing, right?
One of the reasons that East Germany
had the most extensive secret police in the world
is because they were literally using it
to track people's purchases and discover,
hey, like, are you buying things
that you shouldn't be buying with your paycheck?
That's extremely authoritarian.
But that sort of authoritarian control of an economy
requires massive amounts of data collection.
So you have the secret police
and you have informants.
That's why something like in Romania,
something like one fourth of all citizens
at one point was a government informant, you know?
These top-down overarching systems
have to have such ridiculous secret police systems.
How many people work for the government in that regard?
Like 25% of people.
Yeah, 25%, one in four.
Yeah, like you're saying two houses in a fascist state
and then somebody snitches, like that's the least of them.
This would be a communist.
Or authoritarian state, whatever, communist state.
It's two houses and somebody snitches is like,
that means nothing to me, man.
True, but here's what it is though,
is that if you have enough money,
buying two houses is a pretty normal thing to do.
Who's to say that?
Just let me explain, let me explain this.
So what I was getting at is that authoritarian governments
have to make some normal behaviors illegal.
I disagree with that.
That's where we disagree.
I don't know where, can you give me an example?
You're saying harboring Jews,
but can you give me another example
because we're on YouTube?
Okay, so we're not gonna talk about the harboring Jews.
That's your one, like, okay, there's the freebie.
Okay, okay, because of YouTube, because of YouTube.
Otherwise I would be open to taking that on, but okay.
Okay, okay.
I disagree, normal behaviors have to be illegal.
I think you're naive to what a fascist state would be.
I think even you-
Would you make non-heterosexual sex illegal?
Now you're asking me what my personal ideal is.
Yes, your personal, because you're telling us
what the good is. Your fascist state.
Yeah, your fascist state.
You're the leader.
We're saying-
You're the Fuhrer of your own state.
Okay, okay.
Would you make non-heterosexual sex illegal?
I'm not saying I should be the Fuhrer.
I'm not necessarily, like I said, I'm not necessarily-
Would your ideal Fuhrer make non-heterosexual sex illegal?
Non-heterosexual sex illegal.
I think it's hard to say.
I don't think so, no, I don't think so, no.
Illegal is one thing,
but the punishment of a legality
is a whole other thing, right?
So I think it wouldn't be bad
if necessarily it was frowned upon.
I wouldn't necessarily be so much against that,
but illegal is, maybe you could say it's too far,
but maybe there's some punishment is just,
I mean, it depends.
If it's legal, how can there be punishment?
No, I'm not saying it to be legal.
I'm saying it can be illegal,
but maybe the punishment isn't,
you kill the person obviously or something.
But what's the punishment though?
I don't know, you have to take classes,
you have to figure out what's going on with you
that would make you wanna engage
in that type of behavior.
I mean, there are ways to mitigate that behavior
and however that can be best enacted in the law
probably should be.
Okay, so how would your government discover
if somebody is having gay sex?
I don't know, maybe somebody would inform
somebody else about it, but I'm not saying that-
So you'd have snitches.
In regard to the gay sex thing and sexual degeneracy,
I think that any amount of sexual degeneracy
is gonna be normal to some degree in a society.
And so, yeah, but if people were snitching,
I mean, people snitch about bestiality in our society now.
So snitching, you agreed to me earlier,
snitching can be okay, but you don't like snitching
when it conflates with your personal moral views
of the world.
And so- Yes, but it's the same thing with you though.
Sir, but sometimes your personal,
sometimes that snitching is justified
whether it's your personal view of the world or not.
And so- Okay, if that's the case,
how is snitching on a person having gay sex justified?
I'm not saying that that necessarily is justified.
I'm saying that maybe you need to look into that
to some degree and figure out what's going on
with the person.
And if somebody's got a snitch,
again, people snitch about bestiality.
People snitch about homosexuality now to others,
but it's just not to the legal system.
They snitch to their friends about it.
They snitch to whoever, they tell other people,
I don't know if you consider that,
I don't know if that's really snitching,
but they'll, you know, it's just not done
to the government. Not in terms of what
we're talking about, no, it's a different thing.
That's a different thing.
In this conversation, we're talking specifically
about how does the government get the accurate information.
No, no, what I'm talking about,
and I'm talking about how does the government
get the information necessary to implement its laws?
That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, and it's the same way that it's done
in every other country, dude.
That's what my answer is.
It's the same way it's done now,
and I'm telling you it can be done even better, probably.
I mean, I don't necessarily think,
but I wouldn't necessarily,
like there wouldn't be punishments for homosexuals,
like you would believe, but I think, you know,
probably snitching to some degree on homosexual behavior
isn't necessarily a bad thing.
Do you think that's bad?
Depends what you mean.
Do you think it's bad if the government knows you're gay?
What if there is no punishment?
If the government does nothing with the information, no.
Okay.
Because I don't think there's anything wrong
with being gay.
But hey, you know, at least what this means
is that Nick Fuentes can have his catboys
in your society, right?
It's a bad, is it a bad thing
if everybody in the society is gay?
Is it a bad thing if homosexuality
is on the rise in a society?
Answer that question.
Is it a bad, answer that question.
Is it a bad thing if homosexuality-
I think it can actually reach a point
where it does become bad.
There's too many people who are gay, yeah.
Okay, so then you would even justify snitching
to some degree.
No, no, because here's the thing,
I wouldn't make it legal.
If there's too many people that are gay
and you're not having enough kids,
everybody's turning gay for some reason
and there's nobody being, no kids being produced,
then-
Because there's chemicals in the water, yeah.
It's, snitching is probably justified then to-
Well, hold on, hold on, hold on, because here's the thing.
Even in a society where being gay is on the rise,
I wouldn't make it illegal to be gay.
But what if you, what if it's on the rise
so much that your people are suffering
and living in hell because of it?
How are they suffering and living in hell?
Oh, sir, like you're not gonna answer the question?
Okay, I got it.
I need to know how they're suffering
and handling in hell specifically.
Oh, did he actually leave this time?
Oh, shit.
Earlier it was just because his microphone
was getting cut off, but, well, that was fun.
So you talk to this guy a lot?
I've talked to him a couple of times.
He, he's like this very strange combination
of like, groiper and socialist
that I've never quite encountered before in my entire life.
Do you know who Big Papa Fascist Andrew Wilson is?
Yes, I kinda do, yeah.
Yeah, he got me to talk to him first,
and then it's just been this ongoing saga
of every once in a while he'll come through and talk.
But yeah, this whole conversation started out with him
complaining about getting a stalking charge
that he had to plead guilty to, and now I know.
He's stuck.
Some girl he knew in real life, I guess,
but like he denied the allegations, obviously.
But yeah, it's been,
this conversation's been going on
for the longest time between me and him,
where like, I'll say like, wow, you sound like a lefty.
Well, maybe not a lefty now.
He doesn't really have a full understanding
of what his own positions are,
except for like right now everything is bad
and it needs to be fixed.
And because it's all bad right now
and it all needs to be fixed,
we have to like fix it by tearing everything down,
which sounds a lot like a lot of the like tankies
I've talked to, where they know what their end goal is,
which is some sort of like socialist fucking utopia,
but like they don't have any plans
on how to actually get there.
What their plans are are to just like
destroy the entire system and then we'll go from there.
It's destroy first, fix everything later,
instead of just trying to fix what we have,
where we're at, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
He sounds, to use one of my own terms,
he sounds very post-fascist
in a lot of the things he's been saying.
I'm actually like really blown away
because I watched your video
that you linked to me a while back about fascism,
but you actually sound like you know
what you're talking about compared to like 90%
of everyone that I've ever talked to about fascism.
That's just an illusion, to be honest.
That's just an illusion.
I mean, you were bringing up all the like scholars and shit,
so you know more than I do.
Most of everything that I've learned about is all
just watching other people's YouTube videos.
And I guess I've read Giovanni Gentile.
Well, I listened to the audio book.
But yeah, I don't know.
I don't even have any like thoughts afterwards.
Like what do you think about that whole?
Well, firstly, I just realized
that I advertised going on your stream
as talking to a post-fascist.
So people probably think that you're one.
Oh, yes, I am the fascist that he's talking about.
All right, guys, fuck.
The thing is, I could like recognize a lot of of more
coherent points in what he was talking about,
but he couldn't you couldn't get them out, you know, like.
So there's an essay that Sargon wrote
for his website, that for Lotus Eaters.
And I think it was just, hold on, let me just I want to credit the right guy.
He has like a dozen people working for him right now.
I think it was Sargon.
No, it wasn't Sargon.
It was it was one of the people working for his site.
You know, he doesn't he has like a news outlet now, right?
Like that's his thing is doing the news. Oh, really?
Yep. Lotus Eaters dot com is his news outlet.
She does that now.
I knew that there was a podcast.
I've never like my my foray into politics
online came basically after the fall of the like YouTube
skeptics and Sargon and all of those people.
So like, I never really watched any of his stuff from before.
I was going to really fell.
He like he he got kicked off Twitter.
Everyone thinks that that's the same thing as dying, but it's not.
And then his channel, he didn't upload there very much for a while, right?
He got like he's actively blacklisted
or sorry, shadow banned on the Sargon like official channel.
So what he did was he got together some people that he knew
and he started a news outlet.
And now he does like a daily podcast over there.
He's kind of abandoned the Sargon name.
No, but someone on his site wrote an article
called The Universal Acid of Liberalism.
OK, and this this also applies to socialism, too.
I think this person used liberalism just to mean the left,
but it applies to liberalism and it applies to socialism.
And the and this is where like the gray sludge is coming from,
because there is an argument to be made that the the left
tends to universalize everything.
The liberals do this and socialists do this and progressives do this.
They all do this.
The idea is like, well, the same framework can be used anywhere
in any time and place with with any people, with any culture, with with anything.
You know, you can have a functioning liberal society anywhere
and cultural differences don't mean anything.
And that leads to a universalization
of a lot of the core tenants of society.
Now, to visualize this, the right wing people will often appeal to architecture.
Right. So British architecture looks different from German architecture,
which looks different from Chinese architecture.
And then you go to a modern city and it's all the same glass skyscraper.
And they're like, look, look at what has been lost.
Look at look at the diversity that has been lost when everything
is universalized into into a more left wing way of living.
And I think there's something to that critique that if if the entire world
was actually a socialist utopia, you probably would lose a lot of diversity.
I think like a lot of things that are particular to one location
or to one language or to one people or to one cultural practice,
you would have to lose all that thing because when things are equal,
they are the same.
And so you have to lose difference.
But difference is what makes is what makes life fun, you know?
Yeah, no. So I think there's something to this point of view.
And so when he talks about the the gray sludge, there is like
I've heard people describe Marvel movies as gray sludge
because they're kind of like a facsimile of a good movie.
Yeah, they hit all the beats, but there's no reason for the beats to even happen.
Like there's no artistry there.
So it feels like a lot of of at least
cultural leftism is just kind of like manufactured and fake.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I I don't disagree with that. I feel like.
Sorry, I don't have my ADD medicine, so I want to like try my best.
So I haven't I've been I've been without Vyvanse for way too long.
So I I feel like there's
this like general feeling
of lack of purpose that brings people to
certain to these like more extreme positions.
And this isn't a hot take. Everybody thinks this right.
But yeah, I feel like the.
The two paths you can go down, right,
like either becoming like an ultra fucking socialist
or an ultra fucking fascist is really depressing and it's extra depressing.
When. The person doesn't even have that
that full worldview because you can't even attack their worldview
because it's nonexistent.
That's what the deal is with this guy.
I can't attack his like positions on like fascism or
or socialism because he doesn't believe in either necessarily.
He just believes, well, this is more fascist than socialist.
He just believes in like by whatever means necessary. Right.
So he could he's like a very strict consequentialist. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And.
Oh, fuck me. Sorry, playing Minesweeper two.
So like, it's really hard having conversations with him about politics,
even though like it's very fun and he gets like ultra like
upsetty spaghetti about things, obviously, but it's like
I don't even know where to begin because like I've done my own research into
into fascism so that I can push back against fascists.
I used to be a socialist, so I can push back against socialist shit a lot.
But goddamn, when I can't
pinpoint exactly like how to start attacking someone's
like worldview, I don't know how we can like move forward in the conversation,
because like again, he says like Grace Ludge, right?
Like at first it was literal, like they're feeding us Grace Ludge. Right.
And then it moves to McDonald's. Yeah.
Yeah. And then it moves to like, no, I mean, metaphorical Grace Ludge.
OK, well, let's talk about the metaphorical Grace Ludge.
And there's no actual position there to attack
because he just doesn't like what's going on now.
What's going on now is the problem. Right. Yeah.
Yeah. So I think part of it, well, actually, first of all, before we
even write this down so I don't lose it, we get into that.
Did you say that you disagreed with with the universalization take that I gave?
No, I don't necessarily disagree with that.
OK. All right.
So the universalization in terms of like people being
like the the Marvel movies, like it's like the Grace Ludge, like nothing is
like we don't have like individual like areas that have their own unique culture,
like like yeah, yeah, unique cuisines, dialects, et cetera.
And the worst part about that is that that kind of leads to,
you know, more ethno state thinking,
which can obviously go down a different rabbit hole.
But you also just can't have every everything and everyone
and everywhere be the same and everything operates into the same system.
Everyone thinks the same way.
That's not going to work either. Right.
There has to be some there has to be some difference
between different places and different different people, you know.
There's there's a there's a proper there's a proper balance
to be struck here between like complete exclusion and exclusivity.
And everyone kind of siloed off into their own bunkers
where they don't interact with each other.
And also everything being mixed together into one giant pot
where nothing even stands out anymore.
There's some there's some middle ground
we can reach here between those two positions.
Yeah, I feel like there's a lot of like like nerd culture things
that I used to enjoy because there was like a certain level of exclusivity.
Like there was like its own culture.
Like I used to like when I was in high school,
Warhammer 40K and D&D are like the two things that I've seen,
like a massive shift in culture.
And I feel like they've lost something because they've tried to universalize
the experience so that everybody can enjoy it. Right.
Yeah. So like Warhammer is for everyone.
You've heard that a few times. Yeah.
And I've argued. Well, no, it's not. It's actually not.
Yeah, it really isn't like look at the fucking price point.
But like the they're like one of the jokes in like D&D circles
that you used to see were like the you know, someone would invite their girlfriend
and she wanted to be like, you know, a fucking vampire and a werewolf
and a fucking fairy and like
it like technically it's possible. Right.
And so like the people who like, I guess like what you're saying,
like the universalization of all these things, people would say,
well, it's it's technically like possible to happen in the game.
So there's nothing wrong with with that.
But it's like, OK, but it's kind of taking away some parts of the game
for like other people if like they can't if we have to like
find like all these esoteric rules to make this like very hyper specific thing happen
or in like Warhammer 40K like you like see people
like they've kind of taken the edge of the like actual like fucked up shit
that the entire setting is based off of. Right.
You kind of like push that to the background,
like they're not trying to like explicitly get rid of it,
but like kind of implicitly because like the there's like the huge push
for like female space Marines and all that stuff.
And, you know, like they,
you know, like all the Xeno like xenophobia, like literal xenophobia,
fear of like aliens and anything outside of the Imperium, like where like
it feels like they're trying to like pull back into like a.
Technically, like more
original Warhammer 40K aesthetic where they were like trading with aliens
a little bit, but then they kind of moved into like the extra grim, dark shit.
So like they're trying to like bring in like the like
maybe not all of the mutants are bad and, you know.
So I understand what you're talking about with that.
That's my my spiel on that.
80 D minded. Right. Right.
No, I get it.
There's like people there with Dark Souls, right? Mm hmm.
We got to make Dark Souls more accessible.
And it's like, well, actually, no, you don't,
because the whole point of it is to be hard and inaccessible.
And that's like if you if you make Dark Souls, but easy, what do you have?
Right. Like a pretty generic game, you know, like
inclusivity is not always a good thing.
It can often be a good thing, but it's not always a good thing.
And I think that's something that the left has to has to grapple with
because they think it's it's always good all the time to get more people
included and involved. And it's like, well, not necessarily.
Sometimes you have to gatekeep.
Sometimes gatekeeping is good, you know?
Yeah, for sure.
In terms of the gray sludge as food
conversation, that's like the bugs.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, to be fair, I've had bugs. I don't like them.
I'm not going to ever actually eat the bugs.
But like, there's this idea, especially in right wing spaces,
that things have become too easy.
You know, that that science and technological advancement
have made things too easy.
So he brought up fast food.
And the problem with fast food
is not just that you get fat and unhealthy while you eat it.
That's a pretty big problem, but it's not the only problem.
Another big problem with it is that it makes getting food too easy.
You know, people are too divorced
from the actual labor that creates the food and it makes them kind of feel
there. You know, there's like this there's this view
on the right of the liberal elite or the leftist elite, right?
The people who are
like kind of hypocritically very far left.
Therefore, they're very in favor of these of these redistribution schemes
or they want overt socialism.
But at the same time, they're also the elite that would be destroyed
by their own policies.
And the right kind of views them as this way. Well.
The right considers the reason that that that that that hypocrisy exists
to the right is because they've become so divorced
from the labor that actually keeps them around.
So you have like a modern society, you have specialization of labor.
So people, you know, I don't have to go out and grow my own food anymore.
I can do a very niche job and get very, very good at one specific thing
because somebody else's is growing more food.
Have you seen that graph where it showed the percentage of a country's workforce
in agriculture over time?
It's a very famous graph. Have you seen that?
It describes what now?
Killing percentage of people
in agriculture over time, as they can find it.
It's a very famous.
Like stark graft, is it here?
OK, here.
This is from our world and data, and I'll post this.
So check this out.
What you see. Is as.
Um. Basically, as countries modernize,
the number of people working in agriculture drops drastically
because you have fertilizer and you have you have farming equipment
and you have you have all these you have you have basically the infrastructure
to support less people growing way more food and also transporting it
around a whole bunch of factors and refrigeration and all that shit. Yeah.
Yeah. So basically what this means is you have you have an entire labor force
that isn't growing food anymore.
It's not involved in producing food in any way so they can specialize
so they can specialize in becoming whatever, you know.
And as soon as we had more advanced machines, we have more specializations.
That's why you have people being YouTubers now, the most useless job.
And yet I can make a living off of it because the essentials
in the workforce have been covered so efficiently that we can
people can just do almost whatever they want compared to 500 years ago.
You know, it's kind of it's insane how far we've come.
However, what this leads to is
a complete lack of knowledge or a lack of a lack of knowledge.
So, for example, like, have you heard this is a very common story.
You hear like the extremely intelligent university math professor
who says you don't need to hunt.
Why does anyone still hunt?
Just go buy your meat from the grocery store.
Why are we still killing animals?
It doesn't make any sense. Just get it from the store.
You hear that a lot, right? Yeah.
And it's that actually people do actually say that it's because they're so
specialized in one domain.
They have no clue where their food comes from. Right.
And so this kind of this being so divorced
from what keeps the underpinnings of what keeps society running
leads to the right wing thinks leads to a sort of liberal elite
class of people who are very domesticated.
They're very they're unable to really like do physical labor
for themselves, keep themselves alive if they had to.
And some in some sort of post-apocalyptic scenario.
But they're very specialized in one like technical skill. Right.
Yeah. And we've like that has always existed in some way, shape or form,
as long as we've had like cities and stuff.
But it's more and more pronounced.
The more industrialized we get, the more people can specialize
into like very, very hyper specific fields.
And so like the perception is that like we've become
a very weak society for sure. Yeah.
And so there's like I think it was Kierkegaard.
Kierkegaard said something like,
my job is to make everything worse for people,
which is a pretty extreme statement.
His entire like outlook on life is just like the like everything sucks.
My life sucks and I'm going to be very sad about it. Right.
Kind of. Yeah.
But but his point of view was that he believed we would reach a point
in our scientific development
that things would get too easy.
And in fact, it would be we would have a better time if things were harder.
And I think right wingers view that the modern era as being that tipping point.
And that's why a lot of them talk about fast food, because you can get people.
Who because people are, you know, they're dumb and they're weak
and they have shitty morals and they're not able to do what's right all the time.
So they're going to go get fast food whenever they're
whenever their willpower, you know, wanes.
They're going to take the path of least resistance
and they're going to literally eat slop because it's cheap and it's plentiful.
And like what kind of person is capable of not doing that?
Well, it does actually seem to be a reasonably special kind of person.
So there is almost like a a natural hierarchy
between people who have more willpower and people who have less willpower.
And a lot of a lot of the current right wing paradigm relies on this point of view
that society is has made things too easy.
And it's created a bunch of soft people.
And that kind of actually bears out in some of the data.
Yeah, it's probably not as harsh as they think, but there's something to it.
But I would also say that like a lot of people on the right, like they
this is something I said earlier, right?
Where they the right, especially like 2010 to 2019,
like their whole thing was like, I'm not going to be made a victim.
I'm not a victim of the system.
I picked myself up by the bootstraps, you know, like their entire thing
was like not being the fucking snowflake.
And I got about like four or four posts
into the Twitter files before he called me. But it.
But like my perception of the Twitter files,
and again, I haven't read very much of them at all.
I read the full first one when it was being released one sentence
at a fucking time and I didn't read any of the rest of them yet.
But like their their whole thing was like, well, now like
conservatives are seeing themselves like as the victim and like
rallying behind that.
I would say that like everybody everybody sees themselves as a victim,
but they the the people that they're saying
are like victimizing them are like very different.
And so they see themselves as being better as the other victims.
You know, does that make sense?
Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people tend to
this almost seems almost like a universal thing.
I'm not sure if it is, but it seems very common.
At least people tend to derive some sort of moral justification
from being a victim.
You know, if you if you go to like an like a very rigidly Islamic society,
you know, like I'm not talking like like your average state in the Middle East.
I mean, like ISIS.
I go to go to go to an ISIS controlled area if they still controlled locations.
Right. And you talk to them about what's going on.
They would often appeal to the fact that the West has victimized them
and therefore they are justified in, you know, implementing Sharia law.
They'll they'll have other.
They do that in China as well with the whole like opium wars and shit like that.
You know, we have been victimized.
Therefore, we can now, you know, push forward our ideas.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I think there's because people I think I think this is actually
this might even just be a a human thing, like a naturalistic thing,
because people, you know, have have compassion.
They have pity.
I think there's definitely just a sense that if you can be a victim,
that gets you political power and the left does it, the right does it.
Everyone does it, you know?
Yeah, no, I think that everybody does it.
And that's something that like
I was trying to explain to him that like before he jumped in, like when
like I'm starting to get more into like real world politics,
especially as I like get further into my degree, political science.
Right. As I heard, I heard you talk about Georgia.
Did you join?
Did you go with destiny down to that?
By the time I actually decided I was going to go, they said,
like, please, no more people. We have too many people.
So there was a splinter like DGG group that was helping in Augusta.
And so I was there. So, yeah.
I was trying to explain to him, like, if you if you like want to
like do something like you can, there are things that you can do, right?
Like stop like sitting here in like boo hooing about how like mean the world is.
Right. How bad the the society that you live in is and actually like go and try
and, you know, advocate for like your hyper specific,
you know, like whatever policy that you think is like the most important to pass.
Right. But more and more, especially as like
people get like these grand narratives around politics
and as they like see the world around them in like a very specific way,
depending on who they're watching, like
Vaush viewers are fucking like super far lefties, people who are watching infrared.
They just feel like you have to tear down the whole fucking system.
Well, maybe not Vaush viewers like Vaush is at least smart enough to say
like we can like go incrementally.
Although I don't know why I watched that.
I watched that Vaush versus Rose Wriste from a few months ago,
and he was like straight up like, nope, it's time for a revolution.
Democracy has failed boys about like shooting conservatives out of the windows.
But I don't know, like
I haven't watched him since like, fuck, beginning of 2021.
But like at least back then, he was more like incrementalist
and like violence when like.
Absolutely necessary, or like when there's going to be some sort of,
you know, takeover of the government from a socialist revolution or in self-defense.
Now, he would make the argument that the trans genocide is going on right now
is like self-defense to start like doming
all the fucking Republicans that are in your in your vicinity.
But like stop being that fucking victim
and stop crying and whining about how the entire system needs to be brought down.
Look at what the situation actually is instead of like the grand narratives
about like the fucking Jews owning the fucking like means of production
and the fucking banking system and like pushing down white people
or stop looking at the world as if like there are like three people
who are like a shadowy cabal, like meeting in their like pedophile sex
dungeons to figure out what like a horrible piece of legislation
they're going to do to ruin poor people's lives and like actually go out there
and like do something and like advocate for some sort of like policy or some shit.
Right. But they don't want to hear that.
They don't want to hear like do something that is an actual solution to a problem.
They want to tear down literally everything and.
You know, like whatever happens afterwards,
that's when we'll start dealing with it, you know?
Yeah, a lot of them are taking the anti-democracy pill just because
and I do mean this simply and only because their ideas aren't popular.
Like if any of this shit on either side was actually popular,
it would win elections and it doesn't.
It's as simple as that.
It's not a failure of democracy.
It's not the system rigged against you.
You know, it's no one is stuffing the ballot boxes.
You know, it's not like it's not like judges are are somehow biased against you.
It's that no one likes your ideas.
Yeah, exactly. That's what I told him.
Like nobody wants to live in this fucking fascist, fascist,
theocratic fucking world where like
you have no choices about like what you're able to do.
Like look at all the things that liberalization has gotten us.
Like we have like cheaper consumer goods, cheaper electronics.
You can buy cars a lot cheaper, although maybe not in the past two years
because of supply chain shit.
Right. Like cars are cheaper.
Housing is not cheaper.
That is a failure of democracy.
And I was I was like, holy shit.
Yeah, it Dev knows way more about this shit than me
because I probably wouldn't have like thought to like bring up the
the failures of democracy to like explain how our system is still working
as intended. Right.
But like the the whole like.
The whole thing that like they.
They ignore all of the good that liberalization has gotten us. Right.
And they just want to like, yeah, imagine what like a utopia
would be under their hyper specific, you know, niche political ideal is.
Right. And it's really fucking blackpilling to me because.
I feel like.
I I tried to.
If I'm being like completely honest, I think I tried to force myself
to be a socialist when I've always been a like hyper liberal. Right.
Like, I've always believed that people should have like the right to own guns.
I've always believed that people should have the right to like
open up a business if they fucking want to.
Well, you know, I but like the.
Nicer talking points of socialism, where like everyone has the
the means to like live a good and happy life, you know, the you know,
like maybe we could like take care of utilities for people and like nationalize
those like the like soft socialism things are the things that kind of won me over.
And then, you know, as I learned about actual economics,
then I moved back over to where I was in high school. Yeah. Yeah. Like.
I kind of lost where I was going with that,
but like the overarching thing is like the the the liberalization of the world,
especially in the West, has gotten so much good shit.
It's just like I wouldn't have been able to afford the fucking computer that I have
right now if it wasn't for like, you know, globalized fucking trade,
being able to, you know, like Taiwan making the fucking computer chips
and they're mining the lithium and fucking what, Bolivia or whatever the fuck.
Like if that wasn't happening, then this computer would cost like four hundred
thousand dollars, right, because they would have to like source
like the three percent of the world's
lithium out of like four countries that still do trade with us. So, yeah.
No, I know what you mean.
I mean, Lord Tennyson's pipe in the chat, he says just because goods are cheaper
doesn't mean that we are living better, more meaningful lives.
A meaningless life is an unfree one because we're trapped with our desires.
There's some truth to that, right?
Like liberalism has unleashed this incredible productive power
and socialism would just destroy it.
But the issues that we're facing now, they aren't productive in nature.
And, you know, more capitalism won't won't fix it.
Socialism won't fix it either. Socialism will make it worse.
We're facing a different problem now.
But it's a problem that I don't think people on the left have any solution for.
Because now we're talking about metaphysics, right?
We're talking about meaning.
And this is a materialist analysis can't get you to the solution of this problem.
Right. If you're just focusing on, well, oh, number goes up, paycheck goes up.
More stuff. Everyone has has has better quality of living.
Well, it's like, OK, that's good.
It's not nothing, but it doesn't bring meaning.
Yeah, it doesn't get you.
It doesn't get you like the happiness of like hanging out with your friends
and having like those experiences with them or like meeting someone
and like settling down
and having like a life with them if that's what you choose. Right.
It doesn't get you that sort of thing.
But it certainly makes a lot of those things like easier
if you're able to afford to go out with your friends.
But I think that like the biggest thing
that is like lost us meaning is like how interconnected we are like.
And that's ironic coming from someone that likes to stream
and like post YouTube videos and argue with people about politics. Right.
And I'm talking to people from Australia and fucking.
I'm talking to you over fucking discord on in Canada and fucking like, you know,
like the hyper interconnectivity of everyone kind of
expands our social circles to such a degree
that we don't have like the like more personal
relationships in our everyday lives.
I think that so many people are lacking right now.
And I've like with that guy, I've talked to him like multiple times about this.
Like, hey, like, do you have friends in real life that you talk to
that like aren't online, like telling you that you need to like
kill all the Jews or some shit? Right.
Do you have people in your everyday life that would be like
sad if you like went and shot up a school like because like
it he's kind of like alluded to shit like that before.
Like it's like this.
Like, do you have these kinds of like
real life connections that you can actually feel happy with?
And I, I never got a straight answer for him.
But I know like I look at online and all the like,
like extreme like lefty, like trans people
that I have argued with, like and lost my twitch because of.
And it's like these people don't talk to people in real fucking life.
All of their friends are on fucking Discord.
And like, it's good to have friends on Discord.
I like talking to people on Discord. It's very fun.
But like I go out and I fucking, you know, like I go to my my friend's house.
I went to his house last night.
We fucking played music and we played fucking video games
like right there next to each other.
We didn't do it over the over fucking Discord.
So we actually have that human to human connection.
You know, I go out with my friends and I like we go bar hopping occasionally.
Like we invite people over to our house to,
you know, to socialize and actually, you know.
Have these like human experiences that people
I think took for granted,
and they think that it can be like one to one replicated online.
Right. Look at all the people who are doing long distance
dating and having like e-boyfriends and e-girlfriends.
Like it's it's not the same as having someone like that's there every day
with you and like like having the physical touch and shit like that, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
I you know, I'm an I'm an atheist, but at the same time, I do think that
now that I'm a little bit older than, you know, my my edgy 16 year old phase.
Yeah, I do think that something was probably lost
when church became not so popular anymore,
because even like, OK, you don't believe in God, you believe in God.
But like it was definitely a community that was there.
You know, you could go to a church, see everyone in the community
once a week, touch base.
You don't got to hang out with them every day,
but like maybe maybe there's a guy you don't normally see all that off.
You see him at church once a week.
You can connect with your community, get a little bit of moral instruction
from from the priest, you know, spend your Sunday morning like.
I've heard this take before and I grew up.
My dad was a pastor for most of my life, and I out of everyone in my family,
I've had like the least engagement with with church stuff.
But I see like my older and my younger brother.
They both have, you know, friends that they made in church
and they had, you know, like lasting friendships with people
that they met at like summer camp at the like church events and shit. Right.
Like my my dad is like organize all these youth groups
and like the the people from those youth groups still message them on Facebook.
And, you know, whenever they come into Texas and they
they'll come and visit them.
And like there are long lasting,
you know, connections that you can make with real life fucking people.
Right. Yeah. Through church.
And like I had never got that.
So like a lot of my friends came from online.
Right. But, you know.
Well, the thing is, it doesn't have to be church, right?
You have it like a community center, if you're like some sort like
there's like Italian centers, Ukrainian centers, you know,
there's there's these places for like immigrant groups.
There's you can get it in the military.
You can join boy scouts if you're a kid.
Like there's all of these institutions that exist in our society
that seem to be crumbling with with atomization.
And a materialist analysis will not help that.
And I don't think the left has a solution for this.
But but the right the right talks about community.
It talks about community building.
You know, it talks about all the stuff, you know,
the right's very community focused, is very local focused.
And I think they probably have solutions to the crisis
of meaning that are better than leftist solutions.
Yeah, I don't know how we like get people to
form those IRL connections, because like I know that there's like
two community centers that are walking distance from me. Right.
And I there's I don't ever see anybody there
unless it's like, you know, Election Day. Right.
So I don't know how we can like actually like pull people to go there
and like get those kinds of messages out.
Like, I know that they have little like luncheons and shit
and events and stuff like that.
But I don't I don't think I know a single fucking person has ever gone to
to like a community center for
anything other than voting.
So, yeah, I know what you mean.
Same. I think it's like an old person thing.
And, you know, in twenty five years when they're all dead,
it'll probably be something that's like sorely missing from society.
Yeah, I feel like a lot of the people that I want to like talk to,
especially because it's like all of the fucking content that's online right now.
But the red pill shit that's trying to give young men some meaning in life.
I'd love to talk to either like a supporter of like the like,
you know, Andrew Tate or fucking fresh and fit or like one of the
because there's no way I'm going to get into a conversation with any of like
the medium or larger size YouTubers unless I
just go like apeshit on them on Twitter and
somehow like pull a conversation.
But like, it'd be so interesting to like talk to them about that sort of thing.
Well, to be fair, Andrew Tate and Andrew Tate and fresh and fit,
there's a pretty big gap between those two.
I know what you mean.
But like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Secondly, I saw not so erudite on fresh and fit,
and she did a pretty good job going back and forth with one of them.
So I think I know I think I know the kind of
I think I know the kind of conversation that you're looking for.
And I think she did a good job at that because she brought up
like traditional values and it kind of, you know, OK,
here's here's what I'll say about fresh and fit.
All right. They always say,
man, we are representative of what women actually think,
because we got all these women here, they're from different countries,
different classes, different education levels, different races,
all these different types of women.
So we get everyone's opinion.
And it's like, well, hold on.
You don't get opinions from women who wouldn't go on fresh and fit.
Yeah, it's a pretty big demographic.
People who wouldn't subject themselves to being on that fucking show,
you know, because Jesus Christ, like, mocked by like five like ultra
red pillars telling them that they're like roasties
who like slept with too many fucking men and shit.
You know, like, I, I wouldn't want to be a woman
and go on that fucking podcast for goddamn sure.
But but when when not so erudite walked into walked into the Wolf's Den,
you know, she did pretty well for herself because she she had the data.
She had she had her own experiences,
which are very different from everyone else's there.
She she's not a Miami girl, you know? Yeah.
So I think that was actually a very interesting conversation.
I actually all have to watch that thing because I
when they were first starting to go on to the fresh
and fit panels like Destiny and erudite and,
you know, all these things, Nico was there, too. Yes, Nico.
I cannot stand, Nico.
But my secret seems like a young lost guy who will come around eventually.
I hope so. I the only interaction I've ever had with him was bullying him
off of a panel on Destiny's stream, like one of those impromptu things
after a Mr. Girl conversation. But
yeah, like I was so like.
Uninterested in those conversations at the at the beginning,
but now it's like it's all fucking encompassing, right?
Like I can't escape it. It's everywhere.
And so now like now I'm interested because one of the one of the reasons
I started getting into like streaming on on Twitch and doing politics and stuff is
I knew a couple of people that were like relatively like normal dudes
in high school, right?
Like pretty chill dudes, nice guys, upstanding citizens.
And they like became like ultra far alt righty like neo Nazi.
I think one of them might have been at Charlottesville
or maybe he had friends at Charlottesville,
and maybe that's why he posted about it so much on Facebook. But he is.
Yeah, like they like went super, super, super far right afterwards.
And the the reason for that, as far as I can tell, based off of their posts
and the arguments I would get into with them, like in 20,
you know, 2017, 2018, 2019
before they blocked me was like they
they just had like nothing going for them, like despite everything
like being great for them and in high school and like all the life prospects
that they had, like going into
into adulthood, like all of that kind of just washed away.
Part of that is because they were like throwing their lot in with Nazis
and people knew who the fuck they were. But like,
like the the the lost young man
kind of, you know, stereotype is one of the reasons why I got into streaming.
And it's
I feel like a lot of people for I feel like part partly
because of like the coronavirus stuff in 2020 and then
21 came around and people kind of forgot about like,
you know, men's issues are like really, you know, fucked up right now. Right.
Now that it's coming back around now,
it it's piqued my interest.
And I I don't know, I
I feel like I want to have those conversations,
but they're like very difficult to
to find with the audience that I've kind of gathered
and then lost and then rebuilt after the switch from socialism to liberalism
and based trans advocate to genocide denier and all that shit. So.
Man, the trans genocide conversation is so fucking ridiculous.
I hate that one. It's insane.
But in terms of man, I do know what you mean.
Like it's not the left that caused all of these problems for men,
though they definitely caused some of them for sure.
However, the the main denial
that the problem even exists is 100 percent from the left.
And so I think there's an entire generation of young men
who are just never going to be left us because of that alone.
You know, when they were at their lowest point,
they were told by this group that all of their issues didn't exist.
And they're all just misogynists for having the issue in the first place.
And it's like, well, that you're not getting them back.
They're gone, you know?
Yeah. And I feel like
with me growing up, I never really
because I just like wasn't on the Internet until like twenty
twenty seventeen, twenty eighteen.
I didn't see any of like the like feminists,
like, you know, attacking men all the time. So I never
so I was like one of those liberals who was like, yeah,
what fucking problems do you have? Like, well,
I didn't understand that until I started,
probably until like I started streaming or watching people
that like got me into streaming. Right.
Because the the environment
that I grew up in was just like very chill.
I never like my my family have always been very, very liberal,
very, very, you know, pro LGBT
and like anti anti racist and all this shit, you know,
very not conservative in almost any way, shape or form.
So I grew up in that bubble and then like getting exposed to like.
The online sphere initially was like of a massive shock
because there are all these conversations that were being had online.
I was like, these are not real issues. Right.
And to a certain degree, I still think that like most of the things
that people talk about online are not real issues.
But there are some that either aren't an issue,
but there's a grain of truth in there or there's
there is an issue that's been like blown up by it,
like the like virulent fucking arguments
that happen on Twitter and on fucking the streams and shit
that people think that they're much more of an issue that they are.
So like, I think that there are there are issues
with men right now that need to be addressed.
Like they don't have very much meaning.
You know, women are outpacing them in like academic endeavors.
They're being out earned by women more and more and more.
And so like there's like that aspect of like trying to find a partner
that wants to be with you if they're earning,
you know, if they're earning more than you than like, are you like actually a man
or will they even date you if you if they have a bigger paycheck than you?
Because people generally want to like date up or date at their level,
not date down.
But yeah, it's just like
it was a very strange culture shock coming into the Internet
and seeing these conversations, especially like
revisiting older like destiny content or revisiting
like I've gone back and I've watched some of the old like skeptic videos
out of curiosity five years after the death of that, you know,
huge bubble online with all the Ransonas and stuff.
And it it.
It's just a very
strange thing to see, like how like I grew up
in in this area, never seeing these issues, then seeing everybody
talk about these issues like they were the biggest things in the world.
And then like now we're at this place where we're revisiting some of those issues.
And some of the like conversations about it have become this like ultra fucking
like weird MGTOW, like just fuck as many women as you as you can growing up.
And then, you know, like once you're ready to settle down, like find yourself
like a 19 year old woman who's never fucking had a relationship
in her entire life and marry her because she's pure.
And then on the on one side of the aisle
and then the other side of the aisle saying like men have no issues whatsoever.
And women are like the like most oppressed group on Earth.
And it's just very strange to see how the conversation has evolved.
You know.
Yep, that was long, so I don't know.
Sorry. Yeah, exactly.
Again, like no medicine, I hopefully inshallah tomorrow.
I do pretty much agree.
I mean, I was one of those skeptics back in like 2014.
I was I was in Gamergate.
I remember I'm old enough to remember that shit.
I mean, my first time on the Internet was like 1997.
I was a kid, but still, I'm I'm pretty old now, you know.
How old are you old enough?
Old enough. Old enough.
I was I was a 90s kid for sure.
And there are so many zoomers right now who don't remember
what it was like before 9-11, which is wild to me.
I guess this is what it's like getting older, you know?
Yeah, I was born in 95.
And like I I got just like the tail end of like the good times.
And then like everything since like 9-11 has just been like like a shit fest.
Like I feel really bad for my little brother because he was born in 99.
And so he doesn't remember before 9-11 and he missed all of it.
He missed all he missed all of the good shit.
And then like everything from then on, like
especially with my family being so politically active, like
it was like constant in the household, like arguing about this stuff
and seeing it happen on TV and all that shit. So.
So for me, the most striking thing
is how many of those old skeptic conversations
we were right about speaking as a former skeptic.
We were actually correct about a lot of them.
You know, back then, it wasn't it wasn't an alt right joke.
It was just one of our jokes was the attack helicopter gender thing.
Yeah. And then and then it became an alt right thing.
It's like, oh, my God, only only like racist Nazis make that joke.
And that and now now you have demon mama on stream
saying attack helicopter gender is legitimate. Yes.
It's like we we knew that
this philosophy was going to lead to this point eventually.
And we called it like almost a decade ago.
We knew it was going here and it went there, you know, like.
So I'm at some I've been I'm being urged by chud logic
to eventually compile all the information that I have
on why there seems to be a section of the left,
not all the left, but a section of the left that is extremely pro pedophile
and why that's the case.
Very strange. I have
and I'm going to I'm going to put that together
and put it out because there's a philosophical backing behind it.
There's a bunch of literature, a bunch of political science literature
that I can put out.
It's like, well, here's here's what this guy said.
And here's how how it influenced this guy.
And here's this guy.
And it runs directly down through the heart of postmodernism.
Yeah, because you have guys like Foucault and Derrida who are out there like
like fucking fucking boys and was in Tunisia or something.
And they're advocating for
age of consent to be revoked as part of the socialist project.
Because as it turns out, the class of adults and the class of children
also need to be equalized and have the power imbalances removed.
Like it's it's it's insane.
It's insane, right?
But there is like political science, texts and literature and essays
and books written about the stuff that I can put forward and be like, OK, well,
here's how this mindset might lead
and has led to this thinking in some people today.
And I think I can put together a pretty decent case.
So Chud, Chudlogic is like, you got to do this video at some point.
It's going to be spicy as fuck.
And I'm like, yeah, I know why you want me to do it, right?
I understand that.
Yeah, I'm I'm I'd actually be interested to see that.
I'm like 50 50 on like looking at
philosophers from like the like 1800s to the mid 20th century.
And trying to like follow like a direct line of
like secession to like see where we're at now.
Like especially like
being someone who's like interested in going into education.
I want to like like teach at the high school level.
I see all these people talking about like groomers in schools and stuff.
And do you know the Fabian Liberty guy? Yep.
Yeah, he has he seems like one of his like biggest issues is like
the the postmodernist, like socialist agenda
in in schools to groom children into being socialists.
And like you can.
Find like some parts of some philosophies
from postmodern thinkers in.
In some like initiatives like social, emotional learning,
which I need to learn more about
in these like initiatives.
But like I I don't know how much I'm sold on it,
like being like this like grand agenda that's been like spanned spanning.
And I don't think that's what you're saying.
But like there's like this like.
Thought right now, especially like James Lindsay and people like that
who are like saying like there's this grand
initiative from socialists to like make everybody into these
critical thinking
people who are.
You're talking like Biden's 1619 projects, stuff like that, right?
Yeah, like they're like, yeah, there's like critical race theory
and there's critical theory.
And like they're trying to like push this on to like young kids
to do like certain things
to like either like indoctrinate them
into gender theory or some shit like that.
And I don't I don't know how sold I am on that, like coming from
like working in elementary schools and like seeing
what is actually being taught in elementary schools.
Granted, I'm in Texas.
So like maybe that like skews my
maybe the things very like hard.
But so I don't see I think there's some of it.
Karl Marx and shit, you know.
I think there I think there's definitely some people who do that,
like there's going to be some individual teachers
who who are absolutely biased in that direction.
They absolutely want to do that sort of thing.
I don't think they constitute like a
they can actual conspiracy of an organized group
to actually do all this sort of stuff.
But I don't think they have to because they all have the
the same training, the same education.
They all kind of have the same ideas, so they do it in a decentralized way.
However, I do think something
I do think it's much more prevalent at the university level than it is at the.
Yeah, at the grade school level.
And the university level, it's all over the fucking place.
It's everywhere in the university level.
I don't think that it's common.
Like I've had out of all of my professors that I've had in Poli Sci,
I think I've had one conservative,
two centrists and all the rest of them seem to be like lefties.
So like, I definitely do agree that there's like a bias
in academia for like left leaning opinions.
But I don't think that it's
and again, this is like all anecdote.
I can't speak for every college campus or anything like I don't.
I don't feel like it's ever been to a point where people can't
think for themselves or like get low grades because they're conservative
or anything.
I but then again, I don't know what all the arguments about like academia being
skewed in one way or another are, so
I think the academia being skewed in one way or another, that's
that is an important conversation.
And yeah, I mean, even though I'm a bit older, I do remember seeing it happen
when I went when I went to university, you know,
people having the wrong opinions and getting less grades.
I did see that it was mainly in the gender studies courses.
I took, though, not in anything else.
Oh, really? Yeah, I haven't taken any of those.
So luckily,
but I think like when it comes to the whole groomer thing
is like the one that I like to talk about is the case in California
where there were two
there were two gender queer teachers at an elementary school
and they were using their authority to basically spy on students.
They would go in, they'd log in with with their administrative
and their administrator password or whatever into the schools
in the school computer system.
They would see they would like look at the key loggers of various student logins
and see what and see what these kids were talking like.
Probably grade two to grade six, you know, so reasonably young.
They would see what these kids were doing.
What they were searching on Google using the key logger.
They would pick out people who were searching about things
that might have been related to gender or trans stuff
or like like gay questioning or whatever things that could be construed in that way.
They would pick those people out, write down their names for later,
and then single them out at some point and invite them to
to a gender club.
And this club was not the school's normal, the normal pride club.
It was like their own thing that they had been running on the side.
And once in that club, these two teachers would convince these kids
that they're trans and tell them not to tell their parents, because if they
it because of the nasty Republicans in the government,
if you're if anyone learns that you're trans, you'll be taken away from your parents.
So the only person that you can tell is is us.
And like they would love bomb them.
But then they would also say, listen, it has to be a secret.
And it ended up getting to like there's this one.
There's this one little girl who they tried to convince very strongly
that she was that she was a trans man.
She was not she turned out just to be bisexual.
She found out a little bit later in life.
But eventually this all blew up and it was discovered.
And these two these two teachers are now being
dragged through the legal system as they should, because that's pretty monstrous
what they did. But here's the thing.
I can tell you that story.
And it's a it's a case of legitimate grooming
happening by by these two terrible teachers. Sure. All right.
And it had its 15 minutes of fame on lives of TikTok and all of it.
However, because that story is so sensationalist, it sticks in people's minds
and people think, oh, this is every time I see. Yeah.
Yes. Every time I see, you know, a blue haired person on Twitter
who hangs a Black Lives Matter flag in their in their
their classroom, regardless of whether or not that's appropriate.
The fact that they're doing they must also be secretly grooming kids, too.
And everyone that I see on lives of TikTok has to be secretly grooming kids.
And as soon as you see like even 20 legitimate stories of it happening,
you think it's happening everywhere.
But 20 stories in a nation of 330 million people isn't actually that many people.
You know, it's still bad,
but it's not happening at the rates that right wing people think it's happening.
One thousand percent.
That's exactly what I mean, because every single time this topic comes up,
I say, like, can you show me any example of this happening?
Like at like a district wide level where this is like some sort of policy
that they're like going forward and like, you know, having clubs
where like people come out as trans and give them hormones
or give them like the information of how to access hormones
without their parents knowledge.
Can you give me any like curriculum that's being implemented
in like either a state or a local level?
That's like like trying to like indoctrinate people into gender theory,
fucking, you know, critical theory, critical race theory shit.
Like, can you show me any of this shit?
And like, I might get like one example of like a teacher
going like a little bit too far or like doing something
that's like pretty objectively horrible, like
depends on like what the scale of it is. Right.
Or like a charter school, like an individual school
that does not like that is not beholden to like a whole school
school wide system
implementing something, but never something on like a grand scale.
And that's what I would have to see in order to be like, OK, yep,
we've gone too far. This is this is fucking crazy.
I think that individual teachers absolutely should be like
should use much greater discretion on when and where to talk about
like sexuality and shit like that, because there are like
there are some things like there are famous authors.
I don't know.
I can see his face, maybe Oscar Wilde,
who was a gay man or a bisexual man or something like that.
And that might have called you gay. Yeah.
Yeah. That might have colored some of his writing.
And maybe that's something that is relevant to bring up in a certain context.
Right. And that shouldn't be like off limits to talk about.
But like if you're like teaching fucking math, like there's no reason
to like talk about fucking like gender shit. Right.
Like even in biology, I don't think that that's necessarily
a good place to talk about it.
But if you're like taking a health class, that's probably like more appropriate
to talk about that, depending on what the age level is
and what the conversation is. Right.
It has to be like matched to like the appropriate age level
and the context of what it is, you know.
But yeah, like every time I ask for any kind of example of this
happening at mass scale, I never, ever, ever get examples of it
except for like a lives of TikTok tweet.
And that like bugs the fuck out of me.
That like we can't, you know, pass anecdote. Yeah.
Even if you assume that every single case
on lives of TikTok is exactly as she presents it,
that's still not enough to say like there's a huge problem in America.
That's still a minority of people.
You know, it's still bad, still has to be stopped.
But it's not like it's happening everywhere all the time.
And therefore, you need to pull your kids out of school immediately
or else they're going to turn gay.
Like that's that's a bit too far for me.
Yeah. What do you think about all the
the like conservative parents saying that we need to
pull all of our kids out of school and start homeschooling them?
Because it feels like if anybody is talking about
like actively politically grooming, even if we're not talking about
like sexually grooming, like politically grooming children
into some sort of ideology, it would be the people who are like, no, like the
like the the tested curriculums that are being taught in public schools
across the country.
That is that is way too far left.
We're going to teach people about like our version of history.
1776 project.
Let's fucking go at home and don't interact with anyone that disagrees with you.
To be honest, I actually don't necessarily mind the idea of 1776.
I mean, you should probably be taught the good things that America has done
in its history.
You don't need to be you don't need to be bludgeoning kids at five years old
or seven years old or something about all the negative stuff
that can wait until they have some more critical thinking skills.
You know, you should.
High school is probably where you should start talking about like
slavery in detail or like the yeah, yeah.
Native American genocide shit that happened, you know, like
but for me.
And again, like maybe I maybe I'm just old and this isn't what they taught us
and when I was in school, right, I'm 27 years old and I'm old and have arthritis.
But I don't feel like I was ever like bludgeoned
with how bad America was and like I graduated in 2014.
So like there was a lot of like the Tumblr shit going on.
Maybe it's changed a lot since then.
But yeah, it feels like people aren't being taught
just like how evil America is.
Maybe there are young people in chat that can.
Disagree with that, but it feels like there's a pretty like.
The slavery, slavery was bad
and it was bad to be a clan member, and like that's about as as like.
So I was in high school.
I was in high school in the mid 2000s.
And I remember.
I remember a teacher, it was in a civics class,
it was last year of high school for me in civics.
And a teacher says.
And she was in retrospect, she was she was very far left, even for the time.
And she said, well.
It's completely fine for black people to say
black pride, but white people can't say white pride.
And then she talked about the intersectional reason as to why
and you know, who has historically had power and all this stuff.
And I was like, well, that sounds kind of stupid, right?
And the entire class like that sounds stupid.
Shouldn't it be equal for everything?
We were all we're all like liberal normies, right?
So that that all sounds kind of stupid.
And she was like, no, that's how that's how it is.
And she was like,
she she got so much pushback from the entire class that she dropped it.
So this was mid 2000s.
So there was at least one person in my experience trying to push it
and it wasn't really sticking.
But then by the time I got to I went to university, dropped out,
went back to university on my second time through university.
It was completely it was completely
it was all intersectional and everyone was cool with it.
And if you if you gave a non intersectional take in a lot of these classes,
you would actually get punished for it by the professor. So
I have seen the progression of things and how things have changed over time.
So I do think it's probably gotten even more in
in that direction since we've both left school. Yeah.
If you were to go into into like a high school class right now,
they're probably actually here.
I I was searching this up.
I don't know if you've seen this.
You mentioned math, right?
Oh, is this going to be like the black kids can't learn unless they're dancing thing?
No, no, no. The the deconstructing racism in mathematics.
You see shit like this all the time, all the time.
And like, even if there's something of value in here,
the when something like this goes viral on Twitter, you're like,
you're like, what the what the fuck? Why is this?
You know, why is there a greater like this is like a criticism in regular math.
There is a greater focus on getting the right answer
than understanding concepts and reasoning. And it's like, well.
Talk about math here, you know?
Yeah, I do have to I could I could steel man that it's not necessarily wrong.
But fuck the framing of it, like as dismantling white supremacy
is so fucking dog shit like the the steel man of that that I would give is like
there are a lot of I was able to pass all of my math classes in high school,
but I did not understand the fucking concepts.
OK, I like memorize some of the fucking
formulas and I just,
you know, plugged and played and like prayed to get through it. But.
I feel like I would probably be like significantly better at math
and probably a smarter person overall, if I was able to understand the concepts
and the reasoning behind like why we get to this point, like I
I recently had to learn some of the oh, shit, what do they call it? The.
Oh, there's like a kind of like doing a way of doing math
that triggers the fuck out of conservatives and like older people nowadays.
It's going to kill me until I get
until someone says it, but I'm like, like seeing how like they're teaching math
now in elementary school, it's like, oh, that's how I do math in my head. Right.
And like this is like a really great way
to like teach people from a very, very young age. Right.
Well, Common Core, thank you, Sir Wolfgang based
like the Common Core thing is like actually super fucking base.
It's honestly super cool.
And the strategies that they're teaching kids using Common Core is really, really
like a great way to build those critical thinking skills at a very young age.
But like the the framing of the like picture that you sent,
like the dismantling white supremacy in math classrooms
is so unbelievably fucking cringy.
And like there's another streamer
that I've argued with in the past and that just argued with Kefle's poly people
who I've noticed this big trend with lefties where like
we can't argue like the the actual topic that we're arguing about
because I have to like move five or six layers of separation
away from that thing in order to argue about white supremacy.
And I feel like that is a dog shit way to explain the world to most people.
Right. Outside of like hyper academic circles that are trying to explain,
you know, like expansive sociological issues. Right.
So like I could I could understand what they're saying here,
but like to call it white supremacy, to get the right answer is so fucking stupid
and it makes the left look so fucking retarded.
Well, so you've seen this then, right?
Because this is kind of where that comes from.
This is from the Smithsonian in 2020.
This is a very well known thing that got pulled.
It was like a. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So white culture is individualism and having a nuclear family.
Emphasis on the scientific method.
Predecent work, work ethic, hard work is the key to success.
Work before play.
If you didn't meet your goals, you didn't work hard enough.
Like how is that whiteness?
Are you saying that nonwhite people are lazy? Like what?
Yeah. Oh, my God. Messaging.
But because it like fits into the kind of
ideals that they're trying to push, like to try like
because I feel like when I started being a leftist, the critiques
that were being levied were relatively reasonable.
Maybe there were like a couple of things that might have been a stretch,
but they were like relatively reasonable.
But like over time, since, you know, like 20, fuck 2016
when I started getting Trump got elected and everyone went insane. Yeah.
Well, yeah, I hate to say it like that, but
like there was probably a lead up, especially online,
that I wasn't aware of because I just wasn't an online person.
But like when I was like watching YouTube videos,
it feels like so many of those things were like relatively reasonable.
Like, oh, we can look at like how,
you know, Jim Crow laws could still affect people nowadays. Right.
OK, that's pretty reasonable. I can understand how that happened. Right.
But then like it kept on going forward and kept on going forward. And.
You know, I can like see the through line of how people got to the position
that we're at now with like working hard as white culture. Right.
Or like being on time is white culture, like that thing says.
But it's just just a fucking insane way
to frame all of our conversations around white supremacy.
And it's because because of that
conversation was being had in 2015, 2016, 2017. Right.
People really know these arguments in and out. Right.
And that's all they can argue, because that's what they've been hearing
for the past, you know, nearly 10 years.
And so, yeah, because that's all they've heard.
That's all they know how to argue.
And that's because it's all they know how to argue.
Every conversation has to be brought back all those layers of separation
to the original like seed that was planted in your mind.
It's depressing as a left leaning person.
So so when I mentioned earlier
that that we saw this coming like eight, 10 years ago,
this is another one of those things that we saw coming.
We like we there you can probably go find like 2014, 2015
era Sargon videos where he says one day the left will just be openly anti white
and it will be because of this reason.
And they're not there yet, but it'll be because of this reason.
And it turns out that's where we are. Right.
And I'm reminded of.
To bring back the Internet's oldest boogeyman, Anita Sarkeesian,
I'm reminded of that lecture she gave in 2015,
where she talked about like linking up her feminism with socialism
and how there has to be a true anti capitalist revolution.
And I'm like, listen, no one watched this fucking thing
because no one actually cares.
But she was saying this in 2015 and no one was listening
and people weren't really doing it,
but they were eventually going to bring it there.
And they did eventually bring it there.
And it's like I said, with the attack helicopter thing,
it went from being a joke to something somebody's
actually advocating for because it's the natural end result of their logic.
And I think that that.
Modern leftism in its current form
that we're seeing right now in the English speaking world
was always going to lead here from where it was 10 years ago.
Because it's just the natural end result of that logic, you know, if.
You have intersectionality and then you have certain privileged groups
and they're privileged because they're historically been underprivileged.
And so we want to kind of equalize the playing field.
You just take that point of view to its natural end result and you get this.
You get all the shit that no one actually wants and no one actually believes in,
except for the most the most crazy ideologues
and also those people who benefit from it.
But like, it's it's not good. It's not good where we are.
The main reason one of the main reasons
that I'm not a leftist is because of this shit, right? Yeah.
The second a second big reason is because I was told a lot
that I'm a liberal, not a leftist.
And I was like, OK, fair enough.
If being a liberal means that I'm on the right, then fine, I'm on the right.
I don't care about that.
You know, I don't give a shit about the label of left.
Yeah, I for me, like.
I feel like.
Being being brought up as like a like a hardcore Democrat, right,
like family ran for Democratic office and shit and like.
So there was always those conversations,
like the the path to like becoming a socialist,
especially as like an ultra like young person
was like pretty clear, especially
like going back to the whole like lack of purpose in young men's life, like the.
Trying to find like solutions
for the the woes of the world was probably what got me there.
But I guess I had a lot of young people.
Yeah, a lot of people are like that. Yeah.
And I feel like I I had more faith
in people to like be reasonable about a lot of things
until like really recently.
I felt like eventually like, OK, well, this is really fucking stupid.
But most people don't think that.
I would I I think I would disagree that like the left is openly anti-white.
I think that that's still like an ultra contentious
topic in leftist circles.
But like the the further left you get, the more that you do see people
like actually just like actually being racist towards white people.
It's like actually fucking insane.
The kinds of shit that people will say.
I learned some racial slurs for white people I didn't even know fucking existed
until, you know, like I started arguing with people online, you know.
So. I think I know what you mean.
Yeah, I think I know what you mean.
Shit, what were you saying?
What do you say like three sentences ago?
Because I had something I want to jump in with.
I didn't jump in.
I talked about starting off as a as a like hardcore Democrat,
the obvious path to socialism. Yeah.
Was it before or after that?
I was after that. Yeah.
Talked about how. Fuck.
There's a the left is it's a contentious topic of being anti-white.
It was before that, it was right in the middle.
Oh, you know, here, I'll just go back and listen, I guess.
OK, I'll look at chat for a second.
I'll mute for a sec.
Let's see here.
If it's a white person would be late for an appointment,
I'd be oppressing people of color because it would be so fucking stupid.
Hey, guys, if you guys if you guys haven't already subscribed, you should.
I got banned off of Twitch because of really stupid reasons.
So this is now my only streaming platform
besides like comfy dot stream or whatever the fuck.
So subscribe, we're going to be putting out more videos.
I have a. An editor and all that shit.
Let me see here.
Man, I can't I can't re find it.
My brain's not bringing it back.
Oh, damn. Thanks. Sorry.
I guess this is just gone.
I guess it's just gone. All right.
P. Oh, shit.
Man, was there anything else?
Sure. I don't have anything unless there's
something specific that you want to ask me.
I know Stardust was she really wanted us to talk, but Stardust isn't even here.
Well, the reason for that was
on election night in November,
I was just like panel hopping, just like seeing what everybody was saying.
And we were going to be on the same panel, but then she jumped onto yours.
I was like, OK, well, if he's if he has an open spot, see if he'll have me on.
And she said that you thought that I hated you.
I was like, I don't I don't know who the fuck this guy is.
That was back from when you because I think in 2020 or something,
you were more of a socialist and we had had to get back and forth on Twitter.
Yeah, I know exactly what the back and forth was because like
I didn't know who the fuck you were, but you posted about like selling your website.
I was like, I should I should buy the I should buy the
domain name and have it linked back to my Twitch channel.
So I don't think I was it to sell in 2020.
Was it not that because that's the only time I've ever
in that's the only like thing that I remember interacting with you on.
But keep in mind, I've gone through like
I go through a new Twitter account every six months or so.
I always get banned.
Well, so it
yeah, no, it was definitely it was definitely something very socialist, though.
And I was like, oh, yeah, I've probably said some really fucking retarded shit on Twitter.
And but yeah, I've moved on.
I've grown as a person, as a political thinker, you know.
So, yeah, you've cucked out to the system.
You're not a true revolutionary anymore.
Yeah. No, you see, like as you get older, you
you start getting comfortable with all the things that the system gives you.
And then that's the only reason that I've gotten to this point is because I'm
exploiting the the proletariat with all my bourgeois money
that I'm making off of my YouTube, getting me sixty dollars a month. So
fuck. Oh, man.
So have you seen that that Trotsky bit about
small businessmen, small business owners being being fascists?
I have not.
I never got like so deep into socialism that I knew like
all of the different like thinkers positions on things.
I think that my that I was like a total vosh
brained, you know, market socialist for the longest time.
I just liked things that sounded nice to like the the most amount of people.
But then I started getting like as I started getting bigger on stream,
I started getting into conversations with people that were like
more and more difficult to argue against.
And as like those arguments started, like
I started getting blown the fuck out, especially like capitalism
versus socialism debates, because I didn't know anything about capitalism.
I had to do like more research into like specifically it was economics
and philosophy that those two topics
made me like understand like, oh, I can't do this.
Socialism stuff like I can't like
I have no basis for any of the things that I'm saying.
Like, I don't believe any of these things.
I didn't realize that this is what I was like talking about, you know?
Yeah. And yeah, I don't like market socialism.
Is is that philosophy that I know a lot of socialists
want to use market socialism just to back a door in like further
more crazy variants of socialism.
But even markets like it sounds it sounds good to the normies,
but it still doesn't work.
You know, it still just falls apart.
And, you know, the idea that, OK, you have a government
and the government is going to legally mandate that all businesses be worker
co-ops is the most basic form of market socialism, right?
So that doesn't actually work, because like, how do you expand a business?
Well, you don't because all the money is going to is being cut up,
like all the profits just being being divided up and given to workers. Right.
There's no extra profit to put into expansion of the business.
You can take a loan out.
OK, well, now the bank that you've loaned the money from,
they're going to want interest on their loan.
So now you're still going to be extracting some of the profit from the workers.
But instead of giving it to an owner, you're giving it to a bank.
Well, that bank in their argument would be a locally owned
like co-op that is not based
owned by either the government or by a private firm.
It would be a co-op of people in the community
that are looking to invest in a particular item.
So interest really, it's still extractive, though.
I mean, there's still the interest and it would still be extractive.
It doesn't work. It doesn't work.
Yeah, no, it's it's really dumb.
And like the the market socialists that I've argued with
since I've like moved into liberalism,
it feels like they're just kind of recreating capitalism,
but they don't want to call it capitalism and they don't want there to be like
like an individual owning a company.
And it's just a yeah. Yeah.
So with with Trotsky, his his view was that something like
a member of the working class
who has managed to work his way up to the point that he owns his own business.
He owns a small shop or he owns some kind of some kind of small business
that he that he he owns it, but he also works in it.
So he's both an owner and a laborer.
This person will always side against a socialist revolution
and therefore always with the fascists, because all non socialists
are fascists in the end, you know how it is. But.
But basically, this the small business owner, despite,
you know, literally being a worker who owns the means of production,
will always side against a socialist revolution
because he has built the means of production with his own labor.
And so he wants to keep the power structure in place that protects it
rather than rather than being part of a revolution
that seizes the means of production from someone else.
So if you are someone who who creates your own stuff,
there's always going to be, in Trotsky's view, an anti socialist streak in you
and you're always going to be the enemy.
And if you take that point of view to its natural conclusion,
that literally means that all socialists have to be like
literally the lowest common denominator of person.
They can't be creative.
They can't be hard working. They can't be innovative.
They they just have to be the ones who sees
what greater men have built.
And it's like, well, I don't know if this is the line of logic
you want to go down. It doesn't look very good. Yeah.
Yeah. I remember on my way out of there, I
he he won't watch anything on YouTube.
My one of my old head mods.
So F to Internet gas.
But he lives in like Romania or some shit, some ex-Soviet state. And
it I was like trying so hard.
I remember like there was there was
I can remember exactly what I was.
We were playing fucking Half-Life two and we were watching
documentaries about like Soviet style, like
economics and like history.
And I was like bending over backwards.
And like when it was pointed out to me, I was bending over backwards
to try and defend what was going on in Soviet Russia.
I was like, oh, this is so fucked.
Like, why am I doing this?
I just I need to learn.
And this is like one of the big lessons
I've learned since I've started streaming, like learn to just like take an L
and like figure out like when you're wrong and just like
accept that you were wrong and then like fix your position accordingly.
Right. Yeah. It's just.
And there is there is an inverse less past that
there's an inverse lesson, though, because my audience
was way more right leaning than me.
And for example, we disagree on whether or not
the 2020 election was rigged or not. Right. Right.
They they tend to think that it was.
I don't think that it was.
However, the issue is, is that if we're going just by like
popularity and feedback, I should be taking an L from them.
But I don't. All right.
I don't I don't give them that one.
I say, even though there's not be 500 of you in my stream
chat saying that I'm wrong, I'll be like, no, I think I'm correct on this one.
So sometimes you also have to learn
when to go against the popular criticism of you and say, hold on.
I don't think that even though it's popular, I don't think it's correct.
That's that's like something something that streamers also have to learn, too.
Yeah, no, for sure. And that was
someone asked how many of my friends have I lost since,
like, stop being a socialist.
It's like I probably like 90 percent of the people that I used to talk to
or were friends with, I'm no longer have contact with
because it's either a really bad optically for them to have me on stream
and like shitpost around because I've gotten to so many arguments
with lefties online and like the the more arguments I get into
with these people, like the the meaner I get, because it just
I get frustrated and say meaner and meaner things.
But like I've probably lost like 90 percent of my professional contacts
over the course of like streaming because of like.
Just who have you lost?
Like what's that?
I like I think me and shark three or zero are still cool,
but like I don't really like talk to him very much anymore,
even though like we used to be on each other's streams,
like almost all the fucking time.
A lot of people who have like dropped off and like stop streaming.
There is this one guy named Growl God.
I used to like be in the like Vasht sphere
and Vasht had come on my stream a couple of times
and like the like all the like smaller orbiters around that,
like demon mama and doe and people like that.
Who are the fucking insaneoids?
Yeah. Who I tried to like be like ultra charitable to,
even though like their position was completely untenable.
And like the second that you go against them, like it's like
you're literally a fascist now and you need to die.
So like most of the people like surrounding Vasht
are like the people that I had professional contact with
and like friendships with and like lost almost all of that,
like possible growth from the lefty crowd there, because just
either because like I've had a public disagreement with them
or because it's just like so like in terms of like Vasht viewers
and like people in the space that at least somewhat agree with Vasht.
It's like I'm radioactive because I,
you know, argued with them too much.
And they also tried to say that I was a destiny orbiter
before like I actually ever engaged with him, literally ever.
So like like that, Vasht does that.
He does that. He's like, these are destiny style arguments.
Is he feeding you information?
Oh, God, that shit is so fucking funny.
Oh, God. Yeah.
And see, like like Rosarest is like the last person that you could do that to,
because he's still like, you know, he I'm pretty sure he is still a socialist.
Right. But he's just like a there was a sock to him.
Maybe is a sock to him. I don't know.
He's made really good arguments for like market socialism
that like if I were to get into an argument with him about market socialism,
he would probably crush me just because he knows more about the topic
of like economics than I do. But.
Vasht would be nothing like that. Oh, yeah, of course.
But yeah, I remember like I was like simultaneously
I was like in this like Venn diagram, like right in the middle
between like Vasht and destiny viewers.
But like the second that I started like arguing with people on the left
for like doing like increasingly fucking crazy things.
It was just like it was all over.
Like there was no coming back.
Like the. Yeah.
They also just lean into being an orbiter now.
Just oh, yeah, no, I definitely I have I have leaned into that shit so hard.
I used to lean into it like way harder back when I was like extra mad
at the lefties, like like dog piling me
like the the destiny and couples drama like.
Oh, my God, couples is a fucking nightmare.
Yeah, she is so happy she's gone.
I'm so happy she's dropped off hardcore, although she got a W
against the poly people person the other day with the Finster drama.
But I like the the preamble to that started
because I called out demon mama for like calling destiny like
or like saying that destiny was hate rating couples.
And I was like, wait, is there evidence of that?
And she's like, I don't need to give you evidence.
So then I like went through and like with the help of like people in my chat
and like found like all like the screen caps of like
the like when clips were made of when hate rates were happening
versus what destiny was doing simultaneously.
He was like in a in a debate with someone or like playing
not Dark Souls, the other one, the the more recent one.
Yeah. And like because I posted that, I got like
that was probably like the worst fucking hate I've gotten online.
Holy fucking shit.
And I wasn't even like home.
I was like out of state, like visiting my girlfriend's family.
And it was it was just like really fucking that.
That's why I like every single
thing to do with like destiny and couples or destiny.
And demon mama like since then has like my name has come up
because the whole like thing started with me
like going ultra hard on demon mama because she questioned me.
You know, and
if you're too radioactive for these people, I definitely am.
If if they even know who I am, I'm still like reasonably small, right?
I'm not a huge channel.
I'm not I'm not I'm not small, but I'm not huge. Right.
I know at one point, Zandra Hall was pushing very hard to debate me there,
and I eventually I eventually I'm not much of a debater. Right.
But I eventually accepted that he vanished.
I think he didn't want to actually do it.
And also, I managed to get like Sargon to debate.
I was like Sargon.
Hey, then I'll say some things about you.
Do you want to debate?
Do you want to debate?
And so I was like, I'm such an Adam, right?
No, Chud Logic was going to host it. Oh, shit.
So Chud Logic was going to was going to moderate between Zandra Hall and Sargon.
And Chud was down and Chud was trying to set it up.
And at the same time, Zandra Hall wanted to debate me.
And I was like, OK, fine.
And then he just ghosted all of us.
He just vanished.
And now he acts like it never fucking happened.
Yeah. The only time I ever interacted with Zandra Hall, he
I was talking with Zandra Hall, Shark Three of Zero and Merrick.
And Zandra Hall just like told a story about him, like coming in his own shorts
all the time as a teenager because he didn't want to like get caught masturbating.
And he just like wallowed in the cum.
And so like, that's the only interaction I've ever had with him.
So was that on stream or? Yes, it was on stream.
It was hellish, actually, like him telling the story because it was it was so
there was so much detail about how the kind of just laid on his leg.
And it was like it went on for way too long.
And I was like, you don't want to be telling the story. OK, but yeah.
Merrick is somebody else that I've been like kind of friendly with over the years,
but not really, not anymore.
That's kind of kind of ended.
I think that's what happened with me, because I like
there was like, you know, the better discourse debates that Destiny's gone on.
He like argued with the Nico House guy.
About like Google owning everything.
I don't think I know this one. No, no.
It's like an event that happens in Dallas.
And I had gone to that in me, a shark, zero shark
socialism done left in Merrick, all roomed in an Airbnb together.
So I really like and I really like Merrick. Right.
And there were like really, really great people in person.
But like the online like discourse with these people are not still
SEO is like really, really chill.
But Merrick is online is way different than Merrick IRL.
Both of their policy prescriptions seem to be fucking insane.
Like nothing about how cool they are as people, but like their ideas.
Yeah, that's for both of them.
Like they're just holy fuck.
With Merrick, the last time I talked to her, I was basically I was steel
manning Destiny's position of replatforming Nick Fuentes, saying, listen.
Regardless, the point that Destiny seemed to be making was that,
one, it had been a long time, he didn't know if Nick Fuentes was was so extreme.
He was like 18 back in the day.
Now he's like 24 people's opinions change.
That's a long time.
And in a in a especially transformative period of your life,
maybe he's not as extreme as he used to be.
And two, I think this was the better argument.
Is that. It doesn't matter if Nick Fuentes is a fascist
or some other kind of, you know, insane ideology,
because the conversations are more interesting.
Nobody is talking about this stuff, so let's talk about the actual ideas
and forget about like, OK, you're a fascist, therefore you're evil, you know?
And I think those are actually two pretty good, pretty good reasons
as to why Destiny should have kept talking to Nick Fuentes
or at least should have started talking to him again.
Like that's fine.
I don't think like.
But she was going, no, Nick Fuentes is way too smart for Destiny.
He's way too smart for you.
He's going to fucking he's going to like convert everyone's audience
and you're all too stupid to know it.
And I was like, Merrick.
Is he is he too smart for you?
And she was like, no, no, I'm the only one who could outthink him.
And I'm like, why don't you talk to him?
Then, you know, and she like she just took off after that.
She wouldn't she wouldn't reply to that, right?
Yeah, I feel like.
There were there were some like critiques, like I felt like the like getting
getting dinner and like streaming that with Fuentes was like weird.
But like, I don't think I can tell.
Yeah, I don't feel like I can tell people who they can and can't
like do content with, so like I never really.
You know, I never really like went hard
into like saying Destiny should or shouldn't be
talking to him, you know,
but I, I have a good answer for that.
I have a really good answer for that.
I don't view it as my obligation to actually make the world better.
It'd be good if I did, but I'm not required to.
If I want to chill and hang out with someone who,
you know, even though he has really strange radical politics
in a nonpolitical way, he's a nice guy.
If I want to do that, I can do that.
You know, I can fucking do that.
I am under no obligation to platform anyone
or not platform anyone based on anybody else's moral intuitions.
I don't care about any of that shit.
The whole shouldn't you use your platform to be more?
No, I shouldn't. No, absolutely not.
I completely reject that logic.
Yeah, I don't like necessarily disagree.
Vash would call that super augatory.
But the God
I feel like when it comes to Fuentes,
I lost so much respect for him, like intellectually.
Like he used to be like a really scary person
just like because it was like ideology and shit, because like it's
like I do find like the
this might be a brave take, but I find like the Nazi stuff to be really disgusting.
But like a good job.
Yeah, good job with all the Kino casino fucking like cat boy
come hunting shit that he did with the America first people.
He's just like a fucking goon.
I'm not really I don't really see him as like a
super like spooky person as much anymore, you know?
Yeah, yeah, I completely agree with you.
I completely agree with you.
And if we're talking about like actual,
you know, influential right wing figures,
I mean, Nick Fuentes is very influential, especially in the United States. Right.
But he's he's running a political movement
that will probably fizzle out as he as he gets older. Right.
It's already gone through several iterations over the course of his online career.
You know, the epochs of people's life tend to not last more than a decade.
He'll probably be doing something different in 10 years. Right.
We all probably will be.
I'd be super curious to see what like a 30 year old Nick Fuentes is doing,
like given how fucking radioactive he is. But
I know I know what you mean.
Maybe he might he might like morph into an Alex Jones Rush
Limbaugh kind of a person where he does like radio instead.
He kind of does that now.
But he also does like real life activism, you know, but he might like
he might try to try to try to parlay that into some sort of a show,
like a grander scale show.
I do think his numbers are probably kind of inflated over on cozy. Oh, 100%.
But but no, like, have you have you heard about the act
like the whole academic agent present Sunday thing?
I don't know. Oh, wait.
I vaguely know about this.
He present Sunday before he like got big into like streaming.
He like doxed in, contacted academic agents
workplace, right, and got him fired. Yes.
He was a university professor in the UK and he got him fired. Jesus.
Yeah. And now here's here's what he got him fired for.
Academic agent was like your generic anti SJW YouTuber. Yeah. All right.
And the UK is pretty extreme when it comes to stuff
like this compared to compared to North America.
So he lost his job for daring to make fun of the SJWs in 2014.
And he this guy, he's like a university professor and he's he's pretty well
educated, he's pretty well read.
He's he's very sharp.
You don't want to debate him, even though I don't think he's correct generally.
But I do respect him and I do like I have his his his latest book.
That's something I'll probably be tackling soon, maybe depending on my time. But.
Even though I don't agree with him, I respect him because he's somebody
who is well read and he's well educated and he can he can write.
He can think he can speak.
And so this guy who is probably like a very generic conservative
or he was back in the day now, he's he after after losing his job
and having to like scrabble together enough money to survive
and, you know, being being treated by the system
that he views as being a left leaning system.
He's he's like a full, hardcore neo reactionary. Right. Right.
And now he's writing now he's writing political theory for the neo
reactionary camp, you know, and it's like Jesus. All right.
I don't know what you necessarily accomplished by getting this guy canceled
other than radicalizing him.
And he's also capable of of of writing,
you know, scathing political theory for your enemies.
So you've you've made things worse President Sunday.
I feel like it's the obvious like conclusion.
If you're going to like drive people out of like the like general
like spaces where everybody talks,
then you're going to push them into like spaces
where only like certain opinions are are accepted. Right.
And even if that person is like relatively like center,
like, you know, center leaning towards their politics,
maybe they're a little bit rightly, maybe they're a little bit leftly,
but they're relatively centrist. Right.
If you if you push it to where they only ever get to interact with people
that are like super far left or super far right, then
where do you think their positions are going to end up? You know?
Yeah, it's and it's not just that.
It's also I think academic agent really took like he got down.
Like you got like trampled by the system after he got fired
and he viewed it as a left leaning system, and that was a lot of it, too.
It's like so there's there's this theory on the right.
And I think it holds some some weight.
And it's this it's basically they call it
the best way to describe it is tyranny by red tape.
So the idea is that government can become so big
and so bloated and so bureaucratic
that you never even know when you're doing something wrong.
You know, the the common stereotype is if you walk down to the store,
you can violate a dozen laws and not even know it.
You know, you hear that story a lot. Yeah, for sure. And.
And the idea basically is a government that is that expansive can therefore
choose when to enforce a law and when not to enforce a law.
So you never know if you're if you're in trouble.
You never know if you're not in trouble.
And it might just be the whims of the people involved that you are in trouble,
you know, because maybe you could jaywalk and then get hit with a fine
and then the next day do it and then knock it up to get it with a fine,
depending on who's around what if the officer there likes you, if he doesn't.
So the way that society is currently structured, according to this view,
that's pretty common on the right right now, is that it's so it's so expansive
and also there's not enough resources to implement all of it at all times.
So it becomes necessarily arbitrary.
So it's it's it's something like a narco tyranny, if that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah.
And yeah, it is kind of related to to Franz Kafka's
Kafka, Kafka esque work, you know, the idea that you have these big
impersonal bureaucracies that just kind of crush you and there's nothing
you can do about it because there's no actual person to talk to, you know,
that like you hear this a lot when you complain, if you call up a business
and you only get like a phone message and there's no actual real person
to discuss or things like get a person.
They say, well, this isn't my department.
Talk to this person.
They say this is my department. They sit you off somewhere else.
Or this is my this is just store policy.
We can't do anything about it.
Like when you've hit a stone wall where it seems like
there's no actual way that being reasonable can help you.
You know, this this this is the tyranny of red tape.
And right wing people who talk about this, they pin a lot of it on the left
because someone in the chat mentions H.R.
departments, H.R.
departments are overwhelmingly run by left leaning people.
You know, a lot a lot of these standards are
overwhelmingly implemented by left leaning people in government.
So the right views the tyranny of red tape
as being a natural byproduct of leftist policy.
Yeah, I've heard a lot of like right wing critiques of the right wing
saying that they they kind of ceded so much cultural ground
to the to the left in so many different areas, whether it's
bureaucracy or whether it's,
you know, like everyone went into like financial systems
or into oil or some shit like that on the right that they built out
all these things there.
But like when it came to like Hollywood or when it came to like online stuff
or when it came to,
like you're saying, like H.R.
like psychology or basically anything there, philosophy, academia,
because they didn't like build out anybody like going into these areas
because they weren't seen as important.
Now it's all dominated by the left and it's really hard to get a foothold
because there's so much like a social pressure and like
inter like profession pressure to be within that head space
or like political space that like people that are right wing in those areas
end up like burning out or like just,
you know, not going into it at all, you know?
Yeah. And there's actually also an inverse effect, too.
And here's a great way so I can describe it. So.
If you want to become, hold on,
maybe I can find the video so I can show you exactly what I mean, OK?
Give me just a second.
After this video, I'm probably going to have to log off, by the way.
I've been streaming for all my time.
I mean, it's it's it is it is 10 p.m. for me.
I'll have to go in a few minutes, too.
OK, so I'll give you a video,
I'll give you the explanation of the theory, and then we can we can call it.
All right. It's a minute long. So just check this out. All right.
OK, so check out what this guy is doing, right?
I think this is the correct. Yes, it is. This is the correct video.
So this is a guy who's been a professional drywaller for 30 years,
and he's specialized exclusively in how to put up drywall
and like look at how he does his work right.
He doesn't need to measure.
He just he knows exactly where to cut.
You know exactly how to cut.
You can put in nails in one hammer.
You can slice these sheets, no problem.
Like this is this is like an unparalleled level of skill.
Yeah. Right. To do the to do the job like this.
And the thing is,
is that you can't learn this type of skill by reading a book on drywall.
It doesn't matter how many books on drywall that you read,
you'll never become as skilled solely by reading books.
Reading can help, but you have to do it
to become this good at something, right?
So there's a conservative political philosopher.
There's I think it's Michael Oakshot.
I think that's his name, Michael Oakshot.
Yes, Michael Oakshot, and he had a theory
and his theory is that knowledge can be split into two different things.
So you have intellectual knowledge,
which is the rational knowledge, reasonable knowledge, minded knowledge.
This is the stuff that you can write down.
This is theory. All right.
And then you have embodied knowledge.
And that is what you learn by actively practicing and doing a thing.
And you can't express embodied knowledge through theory.
So this is and this is something that, in his opinion,
the left has completely abandoned.
Is the practice of these sorts of things and getting knowledge
through doing rather than through academic means.
Yeah. And so, you know, you have a lot of leftists who who think that studying
should be very academic and and a lot of writing, a lot of theorizing,
a lot of thinking and almost no actual practice. That's that's why.
And in fact, you can see this in some of the conversations they have.
They'll say, well, that didn't that, you know, that wasn't real socialism.
Well, why not? Well, this is what Marx actually wrote.
It's like, well, hold on.
You can't rely on the theory if the practice is different, right?
They completely abandon the practice part of the thing.
Yes. So in the chat says you can't get better motor skills by reading theory.
Exactly. It's still a form of knowledge.
It's still stored in your brain like knowledges,
but it can't be accessed through rationalistic means.
It's more intuition than reason.
And fuck, I wish I saved the clip.
There was a clip there.
I tuned into one of his streams at one point, and he said something like,
Intuitional thinking is is the the foundation of fascist thinking.
And if you and if you ever go off your intuition, ever, you're a fascist
or like or you're leading into fascist territory.
And it's like, holy fuck, dude.
That plays into the fascist talking point that like, like,
fuck, it's been so long since I've like
read Genteelay, but
they they really hate people that like learn for the sake of learning.
They want they want men of action to like go out there.
Like, of course, there's going to be some it's like anti-intellectualism,
but like in a very specific way where they talk about like, oh, well,
of course, like we need people who are like good at like trigonometry and stuff
so that so that like we can figure out how to fire shells.
But like if you never like apply that knowledge, then you're just like learning
for the sake of learning.
And this leads to like, you know, weak men and weak societies.
Right. You have to do stuff. Right.
Yeah. Which would be embodied if you like look at the 14 points
like the the cult of action for action's sake.
But like it goes like so much deeper than the four, 14 points
because they they don't mean like don't learn anything.
Lol. Don't learn how to do math.
They mean like if you do math right.
Learn how to use that knowledge for the state in some way.
You know, so. Yeah.
And the worst part about that is that is that people on the left
tend to take that position that the fascists held and say,
therefore, that means the fascists were always irrational all the time.
It's like, well, no, that's not how that works.
But you're you're not you're not listening to what they're saying.
You see, you hear people say fascism is a fundamentally irrational position.
It's like, well, no, not really.
You know, they they have they had
they were at war against reason for solely for reason's sake.
That's true. But doesn't make them irrational.
You know, and I do think that there's obviously I'm definitely a golden mean
type of person when it comes to a lot of the things that I try to say and do.
I think that there's obviously a middle ground between theorizing and acting.
Right. Like you need both of it. You need both of it.
If you if you live in a in a in a realm of pure theory,
then you do end up being one of those left leaning elites
that the right leaning people think exist. You know,
I don't I don't like a lot of a lot of right wing solutions
to problems.
There are some good ones, but I generally don't like them.
But they have some very good critiques of of liberalism
and of socialism that I think they get ignored way too much.
You know, people don't read Oakshot.
People don't read, you know, these conservative political theorists.
They just listen to like whatever Matt Gates is spouting or something, you know?
Yeah, exactly.
All righty. Well, I'm going to in stream here.
I'll talk to chat for like probably a minute or so.
But yeah, that was that was that was a lot of fun.
I think I was here for like an hour or two.
Yeah. Something about something along those lines.
Really fun conversation.
I I think we watched your video on fascism
on stream a couple of months ago when I was still on Twitch.
But I'm probably going to revisit that again,
because it's probably one of the better videos on fascism scene.
So I'm making a second one.
Oh, fucking beast.
I'm doing I'm currently working on another video and it's called
Is fascism actually capitalism in decay?
Oh, that's that's stupid.
Yeah, I can't wait for that one.
But the answer to that is like 90 percent.
No, it's not. Yeah, it is not.
Well, hey, man, it's been a fun conversation.
I'll catch you later, right?
Yep. I'll see you later. All right. Bye.
