Well, shit. I guess I better do my part. Wait, why is Bieber on here?
In early 2017, PewDiePie paid two strangers through a service called Fiverr to hold up
a sign that said death to all Jews as an obvious joke.
Here we go. Sign to behold. Death to all-
Tell us how to pronounce your given message. Sub-scra-ab-to-keen-star-star.
Guys, please, deliver. The fuck is this? I paid for this?
What? What's with the Christmas- I like the editing.
Subscribe to Keemstar. In response, the Wall Street Journal slandered
him as an anti-Semite, and spent hundreds of hours watching his backlog to try and find
other jokes that they could twist to support their position.
As a result, PewDiePie lost a deal with Disney. Later that year, PewDiePie said nigger on
a livestream, out of anger at the game he was playing.
Even after apologizing, the mainstream media again jumped down his throat. In both instances,
the media showed a distinct lack of interest in giving him the benefit of the doubt.
On The Guardian, Cheloraminon wrote,
Commonly known as PewDiePie, the vlogger called another player a fucking nigger during a live
video stream. Taking too long to realize his mistake, he qualified the racist slur with
I don't mean it in a bad way, and laughed it off. Listen to how that is written. Taking
too long to realize his mistake, that's where we're at guys. Recognizing and understanding
that you fucked up just doesn't count if you took an extra second or two too long to
do it, according to social justice sensibilities. It was literally three seconds, and that's
too long apparently. Despite the public outcry, many people are
coming to Kellberg's defense, some using the hashtag PewDiePie did nothing wrong. Dismissing
the event as a crime of gaming passion, this ignores his influence and sends a clear message
that it's okay to be racist in the gaming community. Maybe I'm in the minority opinion
on this, but I don't think PewDiePie has an imperative to consider his influence. Charles
Barkley publicly stated that he's not a role model, but a basketball player, and that there
was no moral impetus for him not to behave the way he wanted to behave.
Moreover, I know what's really meant by ignoring his influence. Whenever progressives see a
platform that somebody else built, they try to worm their way in, either by converting
the people on the platform to their politics, or smuggling a person inside in order to co-opt
it for their own use. It happened to Cracked, it happened to The Onion, it happened to every
major tech giant out there, it happened to pretty much every video game developer, both
AAA and Indie, it happened to books, comics, Hollywood TV, you name it. But because YouTube
channels are generally centered around one guy, they've proven to be exceptionally
resilient to this type of takeover. This is why there's been a flood of articles for
the past five years talking about how racist YouTubers are, when the truth is, most of
them are just inoculated against this specific type of bullshit. Casual use of racial slurs
needs to be condemned wholeheartedly every single time. There is never a good reason
to use the language displayed in this video. So by their own admission, this isn't even
about PewDiePie actually being a racist, it's about his language. As these people might
say in a different situation, it's about tone policing. Let's be honest here, if
you actually think Pewds is a racist, you're either an idiot, or you're pushing an agenda.
When people are frustrated, they say things out of that frustration. It's unreasonable
to infer people's actual beliefs from those outbursts. In fact, social justice warriors
routinely use but they were frustrated as an excuse to spew hate, like when The Guardian's
Nasreen Malik said that actually punching your political opponents was justified because
it was a form of racial catharsis.
When Richard Spencer was punched while giving an interview in the street, it was a cathartic
moment for many. A lot of us find ourselves at a loss for how to respond as frightening
and dangerous views are suddenly not only being aired, but mainstreamed. Unable to adjust,
we continue to engage with these views like they were just a new school of controversy.
The world had changed, but we hadn't caught up. That punch? It caught us up. The punch
was a calling out after a time when too many things were not called out for what they really
are. Going high might make us feel good about being the better party, but it is not a suitable
response.
Hell, when Sarah Jong spouted her own racist, vile garbage, she wasn't even doing it
out of frustration, but apparently that was okay. But as usual, it's no bad tactics,
only bad targets. Pewdiepie's jokes are to be taken as legitimate antisemitism, but
when the radicals on the left, like say in Jeremy Corbyn's Labour Party or entire wings
of Black Lives Matter and the Women's Marches legitimately hate Jews, it's just no big
deal. One set of rules for me and another for thee, after all.
My point is, the mainstream media has used every single possible opportunity, every method
of attack it could find, to try and damage Pewdiepie, and as time has gone on, SJWs have
begun to aid them in their efforts. For example, Aja Romano wastes no time writing a banal
hit piece on Vox whenever Pewdiepie sneezes. She's there every time to lick up the snot.
Romano later tweeted,
Jesus Christ, she makes it sound like she's an actual reporter photographing naked Vietnamese
kids running away from a battle or something. You shit talked a huge personality with no
evidence to back you up. What did you expect his fans to do? Here's Diana, an SJW working
for Ubisoft, requesting that the gaming industry end Pewdiepie. It doesn't matter that Pewdiepie
has one of the biggest platforms in the world, and that if gaming companies cut ties with
him, they would likely suffer financial losses. He has the wrong opinions, goddammit. And
what's worse, he doesn't have the proper social justice wrong opinion exemption clearance
like Jong and Malik and Romano do. By the way, Diana had to private her account after
making this tweet. It turns out that baselessly shitting on somebody with a massive audience
is not a smart move. A lesson that Wired also had to learn the hard way.
Oopsie doopsie, turns out it's harder to cyber smear someone when their audience dwarfs
yours. The internet was a mistake. We need to go back to the days where we could smear
somebody and they couldn't fight back outside of a court of law. With the way things are,
anyone can just point out our lies to millions of people. We're powerless.
Okay, that's obviously a joke article. It was edited from inside the printer hacking
army spreading Pewdiepie propaganda. But it's still pretty funny. And honestly, pretty true,
considering that the actual Wired article also tries to slander Pewds as a racist. But
the article's main point is to describe an event where fans of Pewdiepie hacked 80,000
printers to print off messages advertising readers to subscribe to Pewdiepie and, although
we took the long way to get here, we're finally at the question I pose at the beginning
of this video. Why subscribe to Pewdiepie? The short version of the story is, Pewdiepie
has been the top dog since 2013, but T-Series has come close multiple times to dethroning
him for the most subscribed YouTube channel. T-Series is a success story in its own right.
The owner was a poor fisherman from India who decided one day to make a channel where
he could post music. And as more and more people in India got hooked up to the internet,
T-Series began to blow up due to that alone. T-Series also gets more hits than Pewdiepie
per day by a full order of magnitude due solely to the fact that most of its content is music
and therefore will be replayed many times by its sub-base. And you know, good on T-Series
for being successful. Good on the fisherman for building his own company. But it is a
faceless company in the end, isn't it? Pewdiepie is as much the man as it is the brand. He
may have an office space, he may employ people, but you can't just replace the man behind
the brand. In my opinion, Game Grumps is a good example of what happens to a brand
when you do replace the man behind it. Grumps had soul when it was Aaron and John, and even
though it's wildly more successful now than it's ever been, Aaron and Dan have never
been able to replicate the friendly rivalry that made the channel initially go viral.
The history of Grumps is basically what happens when you let Pewdiepie transform into T-Series,
strangely enough. But YouTube has always been about these solo guys, where the name of their
person, the name of their channel, and the name of their show were always one and the
same. The Angry Video Game nerd started that trend, and was number one in his own right
during YouTube's early days. Spoonie, while he was relevant, was the same type of creator.
JonTron is another massive example. From Sargon to Oni, from Maryland to Scooby, from the
early days right up to the present day, YouTube culture has always revolved around YouTubers.
Not so much channels or brands. It's YouTubers that go viral. It's channels and brands
that get pushed by the algorithms, get shuffled around randomly on the homepage, and get undeserved
spots on the trending list. I do think Jack Black's new channel is funny, but why do
his videos consistently beat out Pewdiepie's to the official trending list, despite fewer
subs, fewer hits, fewer comments and votes, and an overall slower rate of growth? Is it
because Jack Black's a safe celebrity, and Pewdiepie's an unsafe YouTuber? Probably.
But that's why people like YouTubers. Regardless of their quality, their consistency, their
video style, their genre or their interests, regardless of anything else, their channels
are as much about them as they are about what they produce. When the channel blows up, we
can see it's because of their work. When a channel stops putting out videos, we can see
it's because they're lazy. But it's always about the person behind the channel. And sometimes
it is more than one person. Hell, my channel started with two people in 2009, and neither
of them were me. But it's still people with faces that you can point to, for better or
worse, and say that they are the channel. This can't be done with T-Series. And this
can't be done with a lot of other YouTube-approved channels. And that's why the sub-battle between
Pewdiepie and T-Series has become a battle for the soul of the internet. Pewdiepie is
the single guy that is the face of his operation. The independent fellow who isn't afraid to
give his honest opinion on any topic. He's the actual YouTuber. T-Series is the corporation
without a face. The formulaic, safe, algorithm-friendly content churned out regularly. The TV-style
channel. To be honest, a few years ago, it would have been the Fine Bros React brand,
or Smosh or something, that probably would have exemplified this role. But most importantly
of all, Pewdiepie is what YouTube started as, what YouTube has always done best, and
what YouTube's user base wants it to be. Creator-focused, independent, uncontrollable by the media,
and ultimately, honest. T-Series is what the media wants YouTube to be, what investors
want YouTube to be, and frankly, what YouTube now wants YouTube to be. Brand-focused, safe,
marketable, accountable to censors. YouTube wants to be the new cable TV. They would reorganize
everybody's feeds to be a curated selection of pre-approved channels only if it wouldn't
instantly kill their site. The immense negative reaction to YouTube Rewind is a great example
of this. What did that piece of shit have? Celebrities who have nothing to do with YouTube
or its culture. Small-time YouTube names that promote the proper politics and suck the right
dicks. Safe, pre-packaged, freeze-dried, plastic-wrapped YouTubers that were hand-picked and pushed
by YouTube because the content they shit out is utterly meaningless. And as a result, YouTube
Rewind became the most downvoted video in YouTube history. And, like the social justice
warriors from earlier, YouTube asymmetrically enforces its own rules. Mumkey Jones got banned
for old jokes, not because of the jokes themselves, but because he's too small to cause a serious
uproar. Sargon got a strike on a video from years ago because the rules have changed and
are retroactively applied, at least to some of us. But Logan Paul can show a dead body
on YouTube and nobody really cares in their offices. YouTube only gave him a tepid slap
on the wrist after the entire internet made an uproar about it because YouTube has pre-approved
Logan Paul as a safe bet, regardless of what he actually puts in his videos. But PewDiePie's
a shitlord through and through. He's not a safe bet. And in spite of that, he's still
too big for YouTube to touch, not if they want to wreck their own platform. Though frankly,
calling them a platform at this point is inaccurate. In an interview, Bill Gates compared Windows
to Facebook, refusing to call the latter a platform. That's a crock of shit. This isn't
a platform. A platform is when the economic value of everybody that uses it exceeds the
value of the company that created it. Then it's a platform. Gates correctly identified
Windows as a platform because it was a portal through which a near infinite number of actions
could be performed on a PC. Windows doesn't take a cut of the stream that you do, the
image you draw, the video you edit, the book you write, or the business you perform, just
because your PC is running Windows. But that's exactly what YouTube does. And it's even worse
for Facebook or Twitter, where it's the users that are the product. These things aren't
platforms. A platform is an avenue through which content is created, not an avenue through
which content is controlled. YouTube, as well as the rest of social media, is far more centralized
than a platform. And I think that's the ultimate problem here. Centralized control. That's
where Gamergate came from, and ComiXgate after it. That's why Trump and Brexit happened.
That's why everybody hates Facebook and Twitter and YouTube and Reddit. The internet began
as a decentralized mess. But it was free. The internet's no longer decentralized, and
we've been watching the freedom slowly disappear into the black hole of terms and conditions.
Remember when content creators had their own websites where they would embed videos and
shit? Now everything's a subreddit or a Facebook fan page. And now those communities don't
get to decide the rules for themselves appropriate to that community. Everybody follows Facebook's
rules or Reddit's rules or Twitter's or Discord's or YouTube's. And these companies have begun
to weaponize that power against their user base.
Gamergate didn't cause Trump or Brexit, as the progressives widely believe. Rather, Gamergate,
Trump and Brexit all had a common starting point that they split off from. The desire
to be free from an ever-centralizing control structure, which has become entirely detached
from the interests of common people. Whether you're talking about career politicians, YouTube's
customer service, or the attitude of snooty journos, detached really is the perfect word.
Detached from accountability, morality, and sensibility.
This is why subscribing to PewDiePie is important. Not because PewDiePie himself is solely keeping
the forces of YouTube autocracy at bay, but because the internet tilts a little bit more
away from freedom every time a social media company centralizes its power. Every time
a new bit of speech previously considered fine is censored. Every time a corporate TV
style channel is favored over a YouTuber. But this dream of centralized control, that's
the wet dream of the SJWs and the mainstream media barons. It really is a strange union.
The socialist advocates siding with the modern day robber barons against the common person.
That's why the two big stories recently, The Mega Kids and Learn to Code, both blew
up as rapidly as they did. They were both textbook examples of progressives in power
grossly abusing that power, getting caught with their pants down, and filthy unwashed
commoners on the internet having the gall to laugh at their expense. That's why every
time somebody from outside the Overton window, somebody that SJWs and the progressive media
have already tried to spin a narrative on, like Elon Musk, Ben Shapiro, Sargon, or UKIP,
mentions or is mentioned by PewDiePie, it turns into a huge crisis. Oh no, PewDiePie
is corrupting the youth, a short clip of Baked Alaska was on the channel, this is terrible,
he's humanizing Ben Shapiro. Do you people even listen to yourselves? That's why the
joke Wired article was so on point, it reveals exactly how they think. That's why social
justicey teachers are wasting valuable time in class telling their students about how
Gamergate is a hate group, how Pepe is a symbol of white supremacy, and how supporting
And by every time you retweet one of these things, or every time you promote this idea,
you are promoting ignorance, racism, genocide, antisemitism, these are all things that you
are putting forward when you are doing anything that promotes PewDiePie. So be careful about
this. If someone decided to, if something were to happen, if PewDiePie were to be sued
for this, you could be complicit. If you retweet it, they could make you pay a fine
as well, because you have officially published antisemitic things. So if you are republishing
this stuff, you could get in trouble for it. Be very aware that that is a real thing.
And that's why, despite all these efforts from the top, the regular people, the plebs,
aren't having any of it. When the people in power write articles, we buy billboards. When
the people in power demand the obedience of their students, we wear shirts at the Super
Bowl. When the people in power use their large platforms to shame their users, we use
our small platforms to voice our objection. And thankfully, YouTube is not so far gone
yet that our small platforms are doomed to be small forever. We can still grow with enough
hard work. That fact is the only appeal YouTube has left. And YouTube is desperately looking
for a way to keep its fan base while simultaneously stripping away that final perk. The chance
that a pleb might get big one day. It's Wojcicki's wet dream, but we need to ensure that it remains
impossible. And if they actually do it, we need to ensure we have another platform we
can thrive on. When I said this was a war for YouTube's soul, I meant it. This is a war
between what YouTube naturally is and what moneyed interests want YouTube to be. This
is a war between both YouTubers and viewers and YouTube itself. And it's not one that
we started. Every time YouTube tweaks the algorithm so that you're less likely to see
content that you want because they deem it to be unsafe. Every time YouTube shuffles
the front page showing you a bunch of shit you don't really care about because that's
what they want you to watch. Every time YouTube curates another part of its service, that
is YouTube going to war with its own users. This video has become a bit of a ramble, but
it's a topic that's close to my heart as a YouTuber myself. And I have a feeling that
a lot of YouTubers and probably a good chunk of viewers agree with me on this. Subscribing
to PewDiePie isn't really about subscribing to PewDiePie. It's about reaffirming the supremacy
of the individual over the corporation. Of freedom of choice over algorithmic decision
making. Of creativity and love over pre-approved safety. If that means that I get slandered
as alt-right or a Nazi or a racist or whatever, fine. Before all else comes freedom.
Thank you for watching guys. If you're here during the premiere, drop by my gaming channel
at twitch.tv slash game boomers at 7pm EST, about 3 hours and change from now. I'm going
to be attempting the path of pain in Hollow Knight, and if you're watching some time
in the future, drop by anyway. I stream 5 nights a week, I'll probably be playing
something. I'm outta here my friends. Remember, I love you.
