So whatever happened to that Grade A Under A fella?
If you piss off Grade A Under A, he's gonna do whatever he can to ruin you.
Grade like all of us is a liar.
There's a different standard for you.
It wouldn't be the first time you've lied, because basically you've lied a lot of times, mate.
And there's a different standard for Grade A Under A, and he will ruin you if he can.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and today we continue the story of Grade A Under A.
If you haven't watched part 1, I would highly recommend doing so, because many of the narratives
that we discussed today are rooted in the previous video, however to aid continuity's
sake, we join our story less than a year after Grey's channel was resuscitated through
a Reddit post.
He had turned his content into some of the most unique and marketable work on YouTube,
and was approaching the peak of his career.
He was stepping effortlessly between his drama and non-drama content, and gaining support
at an unassailable rate.
The sudden interest in an actual genre that could generate its own content whilst simultaneously
being able to comment on it definitely had its appeals, and being a person of strong,
unmitigated sentiments, Grade had found his rhythm.
His content picked up to an unbelievable pace at around mid-January of 2016, just after
the release of his second Nicole Arber video, in which he breaks down Arber's side of
her abuse story against Matthew Santoro, and exposes some rather glowing inconsistencies
within her testimony, but equally as quick as he took off, he was to encounter his fair
share of drama, the tables were about to turn.
His first warning of this should have come with a very small YouTuber by the name of
Reactor.
Reactor is a satire channel who parodied a lot of larger reaction channels.
Now Reactor had barely 30 subscribers, and therefore basically posed no threat, but he
decided that given Grade's rather outspoken position on reaction channels, he'd meddle
a little on Grade's own channel.
Now this is where we harken back to Grade's Vegan Gains video, because in the Vegan Gains
video, what Grade did was remix Vegan Gains' words and turn it into this wacky, hilarious
parody.
Grade did much of the same, but did it more convincingly because Grade doesn't show his
face, and therefore if you weren't paying attention, the difference in tone may have
gone over your head.
Grade- One of my favourite YouTube channels is Reactor, right?
Despite what they say, this guy is fucking genius.
Your videos do show your reactions, but they're fucking genius, right?
That was genius, man.
That was a really nice touch to the video.
Literally over 95% genius.
That's something to be proud of.
It's still pretty obvious, but maybe some of the younger audience failed to detect the
contrast in tone and audio quality, so Reactor uploaded this and then paid a few hundred
to have the video shown as an ad before Grade's videos, basically fooling a few naive people
into thinking that Grade had given Reactor a shoutout.
He then gave this video extra publicity, and even more ironically, by using the reddit
system to promote the documentation of his little project.
It was a pretty genius prank.
Fortunately, Grade didn't find it too funny, not just leaving multiple rather vexed comments
on Reactor's video, but then subsequently bringing it up in a future video when discussing
the situation.
Grade- I've also had some guy use my copyrighted material to put together a fake advert for
himself which deceived and fooled a bunch of people into subscribing to it.
And although this certainly didn't lead to much at the time, it should have been foreshadowing
that Grade wasn't quite the critic that he had sculpted.
That sort of attitude doesn't really wash with a channel that's a fraction of his
size, and clearly taking the piss.
And make no mistake, it was blatant bait, but so was Grade's video on Vegan Gains.
The difference with Reactor's video is if Grade takes the bait, he proves Reactor's
point.
Grade- I think I get it now, you fuck with other YouTube channels to create controversy,
and then when people start fucking with you, you cry for sympathy.
Now I don't entirely agree with the point that Grade blew up solely off drama, it's
clear he had some very interesting components to his character beyond that, but by being
angry at someone over something that many people would agree isn't a big deal, and
lambasting behaviours that he'd previously overlooked and even indulged in himself, it
showed him up as lacking some self-awareness, and self-awareness is one of the essentials
to delivering criticism.
This wasn't a big deal, but it was a warning, a warning that was not heeded, unfortunately.
Now as the year progressed we started to see more drama, and this led to various creators
weighing in specific situations.
One of the most significant movements was the larger YouTuber movement against drama,
made by people such as Markiplier, PewDiePie, and Matthew Santoro, basically criticising
the drama that had been going on within the community, because it was fairly recognisable
at that point.
Grade was a fairly staunch defender though of the drama, because it probably gave him
views, but likely because he was on good terms with two people, Leafy and Keemstar, people
who benefited off drama greatly.
Grade always had a way of turning response videos, even if they made valid points into
exposed videos of their own, and his response video to the drama was no different, as at
the end he inserted a little part exposing Matthew Santoro for allegedly plagiarising
content.
Now it wasn't relevant to the points that he was making with regards to the video, but
Grade wanted to survive, and it served as a spicy side dish, and really impacted Santoro's
ability to speak on matters again, and like the cute little double team they are, Drama
Alert reported it later on.
And now for our final story, today GradeAUnderA uploaded a video calling three YouTubers,
PewDiePie, Markiplier, and Matthew Santoro, on their drama videos, but towards the end
of the video, Matthew Santoro got it the worse, as GradeAUnderA exposed him, exposed him,
for plagiarism.
This is all important information, in a Reddit Q&A on March the 3rd, someone asked Grade for
his opinion on Keemstar, Grade replied that he liked him, and that he's genuinely been
nothing but nice to him from the start, he has no reason to hate him at all.
Grade loved drama, so it was only natural that he was going to love someone who supported
that cycle, and Keemstar probably loved him for the exact same reasons.
Grade would appear on Drama Alert and regularly interact with Papa Keem, however as the year
progressed you got the feeling that Grade involved himself with drama for the sake of
it being drama, rather than the fact that he actually felt strongly about these things,
and when there were actual reputations of his associates at stake, he had a habit of
going a bit quiet, such as the Leafy rant.
Keemstar reported on it, offered H3 and Leafy a way to hash it out, Grade didn't really
say much other than pulling the plug on a planned podcast between him, Leafy, and Sky
Williams after having a serious conversation which they would rather not talk about.
That situation was to become extremely messy in no time at all, but Leafy eventually emerged
in just about one piece, partly due to the unity inspired by the Matt Hoss situation.
But then barely two months later, the tables turned once more, when the man himself, iDubbbz,
released a fairly comprehensive content cop on Keemstar, making him practically indefensible,
and suddenly the drama came very close to home.
But there wasn't a rush of responses immediately, no, this was to come in June, with videos
from other creators like Pyrocynical also garnering impressive amounts of views.
It's one of his most viewed to this day.
The Leafy shark caught a scent of blood and decided to move in on his old pal, and going
into battle alongside him was the man himself, Grade A under A. Keemstar seemed to be the
easiest target on the platform, he was bleeding subs, and you would be very hard pressed to
find his fanbase outside of his own comment section, and there was a genuine expectation
for his child to just collapse at any moment.
However, at this moment, the moment where everything seemed the easiest, the drama would
bring them far too close to the sun.
Now, I obviously mentioned during my previous part what Grade said in his Reddit post about Keemstar.
To summarise, he has conducted some fairly questionable actions, but at the end of it
he's been nothing but supportive of him and his work, and helped expand his channel and stand up for his content.
So with the sudden tidal wave of hatred going towards Keem, with his channel haemorrhaging subscribers,
what position would Grade take?
That doesn't sound so supportive.
Now that clips from his second part, but the first part is no less brutal.
For context, with his old pal Leafy turning fairly viciously on Keem, Grade found himself
back in the crossfire, but a fairly one-sided crossfire at that, with Leafy's video allegedly
nailing Keem down for his behaviour.
The thing is that Leafy's video really pulls Grade into it and ties him in that future
position that he has to take.
This was probably done with some coordination, they're in this together, and this is important,
I want you to hold this point in your head for later.
And Killer Keemstar is pretty much the most hated man on the internet right now.
So many exposed videos have been made on this guy, right?
But they do nothing to him, he's the cockroach of YouTube, he keeps fucking surviving.
But listen, hopefully that'll end with this organised attack that's been going on over the past week or two.
Basically, the setting of Grade's two videos was that he was hoping he could be part of
this extremely organised campaign to remove Keemstar from the platform altogether.
He had noticed that there had been a run of videos made on him, and thought that he could finish him off.
A lot of his points were about Keem's behaviour, claims such as doxing, false pedophile allegations,
hypocrisy, exploitation, the victim card, racism, harassment, and domestic abuse.
Some of these were not like claims at all, and would have serious repercussions.
Grade listed them off to prove a point, that Keemstar is someone who should never be given any platform whatsoever.
As exposed videos go, it's comprehensive for sure.
Some claims were fairly well substantiated and convincing, others a bit more risky,
and certainly should have been more thoroughly researched, such as pedophile or domestic abuse allegations.
I'm not sure they would have passed in today's environment.
But who cared? People were dunking on Keemstar left, right, and centre,
and if there was a bit of collateral damage done, well, karma, right?
His child was on his way down anyway, it wasn't like he was going to come back from this.
At the end of the video, Grade endorses Keem's number one competitor, Scarce,
saying that he's been killing it recently.
This was an attempt to make Keem irrelevant, and having a news source on the website
that covered drama and didn't instigate it.
This video won over a lot of people, and it still wins over people to this day,
and I can understand why, but with all the information that I had researched with regards to this,
I couldn't help but feel a bit uncomfortable when Grade was going off about how anyone could support him,
when he'd been supporting him less than a few months before.
Now, what you could say is that he was ignorant to certain incidents,
and the unearthing of these incidents in the following months had shifted his position.
But it's hard to fully believe that perspective when certain examples arise,
such as his false pedo allegation against the YouTuber RSGloryandGold that happened in around January 2016.
Now, everyone knew about that, but Grade seems pretty harsh in how he frames it,
and even as a former friend, it's hard to process that someone would turn so brutally out of genuine sentiment,
to the point that they would knowingly run on very shaky abuse and pedophilia allegations.
It doesn't feel real, and let me make it clear, I've turned on people when I think that they haven't learned their lesson,
but many of these examples are years old, and the logic implied through much of this is that the person that Grade was supportive of
is suddenly undermined by his old behaviour, and there are definitely claims that aren't undone by age,
but they're normally the ones with the least substantiation.
I find most of Grade's claims, as someone who is a former friend of Keemstar,
to either fall into the category of things that Grade definitely knew about and probably acknowledged,
things that were so old that they could be undone by present experience,
or things that are lacking evidence or necessary context.
There are expectations to this, and Keem was deserving of a lot of criticism,
but it felt much like a bandwagon on their part, and in a way, the Keemstar drama would be the escalation of the year,
and once you reach a climax, you're only setting yourself up for disappointment.
And so that's what you saw, a gradual tail-off until September, at which point, of course,
iDubbbz dropped his content cop on Leafy, and there was once again an immediate effect.
Now, I could talk about iDubbbz's content cop forever, there's a lot to say about it, and it's probably better that I save that,
but the real telling effect of it is that it hit Grade too, even though he only made one very brief appearance in it.
Grade, he said a bunch of, uh, critical shit of Keemstar, but then on top of that, he couldn't just leave it there.
He had to say that Scarce is killing him recently.
Go subscribe to Scarce!
Don't subscribe to Scarce. I know I'm months behind on this one, but subscribe to Scarce when his content gets better.
Scarce is overweight, but more importantly than that, Scarce is boring.
Grade A and Leafy, complete fucking retards. Actual retards.
Yo, is this person fucking retarded?
Yes.
Yo, is this person fucking retarded?
Yes.
However, I think the moment that broke both Leafy and Grade's credibility was this part.
If Keemstar's a rat, then Leafy is a fucking snake. Greasy, slimy, slithery cunt.
And I say both Leafy and Grade's credibility because, as I mentioned earlier, Leafy and Grade tied themselves together in that drama,
that personal experience with Keemstar.
iDubbbz's quote calling Leafy Egg Snake is no less applicable to Grade.
Both of them purposely distanced themselves from someone who they knew much better than they let on,
and even if the criticisms were legitimate, you turn it back on them and say,
well, why did they associate themselves with him in the first place if they were aware of this?
iDubbbz, in a very short amount of time, revealed Leafy and Grade for the Fairweather friends that they were.
iDubbbz's video also came out at a time where the hype around Grade's channel was rather low.
There was a significant lack of drama occurring, and iDubbbz had the chance to really halt whatever momentum they had, and he did.
Grade lost 3,500 subscribers on the day of the video, and this wasn't going to ease up in the following weeks.
A lot of people wonder why iDubbbz's video hit Grade, and in particular Leafy, so much that it caused long-term damage.
Well, partly because their appeal was based on their credibility as creators, and iDubbbz fundamentally managed to undermine that.
Equally, iDubbbz is a person with such a clearly defined moral compass, regardless of whether you agree with him or not,
it makes it very hard to turn around to him and try and lecture him on anything.
Grade once again found himself in the crossfire, with the person he went into battle with now taking significant flak.
How could he respond?
Well, let's discuss that.
There was this expectation that given that he was called out by iDubbbz, he would respond alongside Leafy,
and with the information given today, and the way he's behaved, it really shouldn't surprise us.
With that said, even if you think your friend might have done some stupid shit, if you were genuinely invested in their future,
you'd still probably make a case that they could learn from this, and we should move forward.
But Grade chose not to. No one was entitled to a defence, and sometimes the best thing to do in these circumstances is just to say nothing at all.
But still, that's not exactly what he did.
Now, after the first day, his subscriber count didn't necessarily bleed like Leafy's, but it did stagnate,
and whether that was motivation for Grade to make a video on it or not is another question,
but regardless of the question, he did receive an answer.
So let's talk about the videos that prolonged his suffering.
The thing is, the video that he made isn't actually to do with the drama,
it's more to do with how he's felt drained, and uninspired, and something that we all feel.
However, I can understand why a lot of people interpreted this as a victim card.
If you believe Grade was rather calculated and cynical, then this would be the best way to gain sympathy from an unsuspecting audience,
without necessarily responding to claims.
As we've all seen, many people with legitimate reason thought it was in Grade's nature to not be the most honest in his videos.
With that said, it wouldn't surprise me if Grade did legitimately feel fed up of making videos.
The hype had died, the drama alongside it. It was a sad time for his content.
It was also, in a way, his own doing. He contributed to that culture, and I'm sure he was aware of that.
When you lose your excitement and your enthusiasm for making videos, you don't feel that urge to go that extra mile,
to make the video go from just good to amazing, and it ends up just being meh instead, do you know what I mean?
And because of that, the videos start to suffer.
And what struck me about this video is that on reflection, over the spell of 2016,
particularly in the three or four months in reference, the videos became significantly less comedic in their delivery.
And this is where we bring back my first part of this very lengthy saga,
where he spoke about what made his videos quite entertaining.
No longer was there that attention to detail, those comedic pauses, that feeling of build-up,
but more just a continuous flow of rants, and because of that, it kind of killed any sort of tension that may lead to laughs.
And as I mentioned, a joke is much more than just its punchline, and I feel that Grade lost that.
And although it wasn't like he didn't have good jokes, it was just that they didn't land as well.
Especially my last video, right? I wasn't happy with that video at all, but I still felt like I had to upload it.
Why did they skip Vitamins B, 8, 10, and 11?
And fog-skipping those numbers, that wouldn't even be an issue in the first place, had you not called them all Vitamin B!
Especially when there are empty slots for Vitamins F through J.
It sometimes felt like he'd lost awareness of how he had set his character up, in that semi-satirical fashion of the judgmental prick.
His more modern content seemed to lack that irony, and maybe this was due to the drama,
which led Grade to making much more serious videos that relied on conveying credibility.
Up until this situation, we constantly let comedy get in the way of actual points.
A great example would have been the PewDiePie, Markiplier, Santoro response video.
There were a ton of ad hominems there, and we almost just completely overlooked them because they were part of Grade's character,
but both of those sides were becoming dangerously integrated.
In his latest video, is Grade overreacting to drama as a joke?
Is it the same Grade who ranted about interviews as a gag,
or is it a new Grade who wants us to take his word seriously while still keeping up the same tone and demeanor?
And how can you just go from one persona like that to the other?
H3 is an example of people who can do that, or did that,
because they knew how to differentiate their style between their regular humorous content and their serious videos,
which called out YouTube and YouTubers alike.
Grade didn't do that, and maybe because he couldn't see the vast difference between his drama-related content and his more casual videos.
Maybe it didn't occur to him, but there was a difference,
and it was pulling him into a position that he couldn't afford to maintain.
Because drama doesn't last, your character does,
and if you build a persona off drama, or you let it be influenced by it,
then when the drama dies, your shortcomings will be exposed as a crater.
And that was the problem with Grade's drama videos,
it was all created on the basis of its content, and not really the person talking,
who really wasn't that reasonable as a persona.
Drama drained Grade's personality, and then when he tried to reapply it to his regular content, it didn't feel the same.
Grade's first video mainly caused a loss in subscribers because it felt like it was a very indirect way to respond to the content cop,
and I can't look into Grade's mind and see what he was thinking,
but I do see it as a bit too good to be a coincidence,
that he would release such a video in the circumstances.
However, he wasn't finished. Throughout the weeks following the content cop,
there was significant backlash from a few creators, such as Sinnoh, Quentin Reviews and Tommy C.
These creators brought a variety of different points to the table, some more valid than others,
and for the first time, Grade was staring down serious criticism, and serious allegations. How would he respond?
Listen, some of these allegations are fucking crazy, so I didn't see any reason to address them, right?
But as it turns out, some people actually believe in them!
Seriously though, YouTube's not the site that it used to be. It has gone from this, to this.
People are desperate for drama, so I need to quickly address all the allegations in this video,
before they start getting out of hand, and I'm being accused of planning 9-11, and being in the fucking Illuminati.
Right, with all the context now, of this video, you can't even begin to comprehend the irony of this.
A person who was more than happy to make weak claims against someone else,
is now outraged that other people are making weak claims against him.
Once again, some are valid, some are not.
But then he has the audacity to pull this YouTube isn't the same anymore card,
despite being a torchbearer for drama.
The video comprises of him responding to a few claims, most of them straw manned in a way that made it easier for him to respond to them,
because that's what you can do when you're the person acting as your own critic.
And yes, sometimes it can be entertaining or funny, but it should be acknowledged as a comedic measure,
not an actual argumentation strategy.
Well you know what I heard? I heard Greyde is a pedophile!
And this video is where I think the wheels really started to come off the Grey Train. Let's explain why.
I've always said, being able to respond to drama is an essential aspect of participating in drama.
Greyde's response may have worked at the time, with his fanbase, but in retrospect it does not hold up at all,
not in my opinion at least, especially with the context considered.
He said some insanely racist shit against minorities, and I'm a minority myself,
and people say it's a business decision. These are words that came from his mouth, and his mouth alone.
So if I don't stick by my racist friend and tickle his balls while he makes racist statements about a group of people that I myself belong to,
that's backstabbing, is it?
I'm sorry, as racist as what Keem said was, it bemuses me to think that Greyde had only just found this years old content out
and at that point, after everything, decided to break off a friendship of which he had described Keemstar as nothing but supportive of him,
rather than confronting Keem about his transgressions. By comparing Keem to a member of the KKK,
it just shows how redundant these arguments are, and completely dismissive of all context.
It's quite funny how some people only care about racism when they can use it to prove a point.
I mean, you could literally have a logical, fassy day out here.
He starts off with the strawman,
then he makes a false equivalence, before gaslighting his critics, implying they've been manipulated.
He then responds to the allegation that he inspired a million dollar lawsuit against Matthew Santoro,
which should be an easy thing to respond to, I mean, no one has any evidence of that.
Just say it's not true, and that didn't happen, and the burden of proof is on your critics,
but he takes it down this very bizarre route.
He's an online cartoonist who can barely draw, yet despite this, I apparently encouraged a large company
to file a million dollar lawsuit against someone.
Guys, he's an online cartoonist who can barely draw.
He has no influence, bar the 3 million subscribers of course, but don't mention them.
Like, why would you say that? I'm a guy who speaks into his microphone and lives in a one room flat.
What influence do I have, guys? Don't listen to me.
Now, I don't necessarily believe the claim, but to respond to the claim saying that you don't have influence
is a weird way to respond.
He then basically spends the next part of the video working out how to disassociate him from the narrative
that grouped him and Leafy together.
Fuck you, grade, you and Leafy-
Listen, like I said, right, I am not Leafy. I honestly cannot fucking believe that I'm having to explain this, right?
But this guy is not this guy, and I'm getting dragged into drama that has nothing to do with me because of this.
Like for example, right, during the iDubbbz and LeafyIsHair drama, despite me being neither of these two YouTubers,
some people expected me to get involved in this drama for some reason.
Essentially trying to untie the anchor from his ankle.
Despite the fact that he was boasting in his original video on Keem, this was very clearly an organised attack,
and joking about the actual vocal association in other videos.
But listen, hopefully that'll end with this organised attack that's been going on over the past week or two.
First Pyrocynical, then Leafy, and now I'm making a video on Keemstar.
Listen, I don't want to make a big deal out of this, right?
But this many YouTubers of this size making videos calling out Keemstar realistically will not happen again, right?
If you hate Keemstar, this is your one chance to get rid of him. So make it count.
You can't pretend that never happens.
What is there to say? I could go on and on about this response video, but in my opinion it is fairly terrible,
and although it still received moderate support at the time, he was digging his own grave.
With this video came another hit to subs.
The sharks were circling, he was called out publicly for some meltdowns that happened in the months prior,
some on Reddit, some on stream.
Go read that comment, go tell that fucking whore that's a mod on my fucking subreddit to link you to what I said to delete.
Go tell it to link it, it's not bad at all.
But why? Why was this happening? This person who had literally forgot his channel existed at one point,
who clearly didn't consider YouTube a big deal, was now being perceived as this megalomania, and not without evidence.
Well, I guess it's just the rabbit hole that sometimes people fall down, and in a way, we all fell down it with him,
because he was one of the original guys who went after these creators and exposed them.
Vegan Gains, Nicole Arber, even Ray William Johnson, but at the same time, they weren't the hardest people to go after,
they were targets for whom we didn't really care how they were treated, just that they were sorted out for one reason or another.
We wanted them gone, and now Grey has serious criticism facing him down, his responses just won't work,
because he's going against people who haven't established enough of a reputation to be hated.
The problem is, when we support people who argue in the way that Grey did, even to people we passionately hate,
even to people we view as terrible human beings, we risk them turning around and turning their hoards on the wrong person,
on a person who might just be a victim of mentality, with the same approach that we've endorsed.
There are plenty of positions that I hate, there are people that I dislike, but at the end of the day,
as cathartic and as tempting as it is to just go after someone's credibility, it's a risky measure long term.
You risk influencing people to adopt that philosophy of discounting someone on a trivial basis,
and even if you can wield that power properly and work out when someone should get it or when someone shouldn't,
you're working with people who themselves are not as careful. On top of this, you're promoting a market
in which it's successful to behave that way, which will create clones who are less nuanced than yourself.
Now I want to make it very clear, we are allowed to make fun of each other, we are allowed to make fun of other commentators,
even if the joke is lined in a level of cynicism, but mockery of someone's credibility is not a sufficient substitute for a point,
maybe complementary in some instances, but not as a substitute.
Grade was successful because his persona often disguised how some of his videos did tend to lack validity,
not necessarily to what he was saying, but to the discussion that was trying to be had.
Look at the Matthew Santoro video, and when he didn't have the arguments, he'd substitute them for more fallacies,
with a tone that implied authority, but never really earned it.
So, with this all in mind, Grade's sort of empire was coming to an end. Two incidents, two sub-drops,
and a third time, he would've been a fool to make the same mistake, so I guess for him it was time to move on.
And he did. But what did he move on to exactly? Well, let's find out.
So with all this behind him, Grade decided to turn back to the lighthearted genre of politics.
Yes, now remember, this is towards the back end of 2016, and that means it was at the presidential election time,
Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were battling it out for the White House.
Grade decided to cover this topic more meticulously than any of his previous situations,
releasing a total of five videos, initiating with a critique of Casey Neistat,
following interviews of both the main presidential candidates, an analysis of the American voting system,
and concluding with a review of the reaction to, spoiler alert, Donald Trump's victory.
The videos themselves were fine enough, I guess. He did go a bit more in-depth on Clinton, mind you,
though I guess it made sense, because he likes to make exposed videos, and there's more for you to actually expose with Hillary,
Donald Trump just continuously exposed himself, makes his job less fun, and he does in the end lend support to Sanders and Stein,
so he certainly wasn't necessarily being sympathetic to either of the main candidates.
Beyond that, the videos aren't particularly bad in their points, though it was certainly interesting to see someone like Grade
talking about politics, not without their jokes in the delivery of course, but the points were all fairly serious.
Now after this, he had his last really well performing video on people who hate video games,
well performing for his size, of course, I mean, a lot of people dream of his consistent view count.
After that, however, the views were fairly standard. He then returned to his more comedic style,
and actually I think he was being fairly funny again. His arguments were more based in common sense than previous,
and his tone had become a lot more uniform, just that one very angry guy, but he had some good jokes that would
play off the rage fairly well, and did have some flow.
I know I made a video a little while ago defending video games right, but despite how much I fucking love them right,
there are some things I do find kind of annoying about them. Nothing big though, just a few small complaints.
That made me want to throw my fucking controller through the TV.
Maybe the drama dragged him down, and now he's out of it, he felt a bit more liberated, but at the same time,
it also meant he lost a lot of support that came from the more drama oriented fans who'd moved on to creators
who were more associated with trending topics. By 2017, none of the new videos really cracked the ceiling of 2 million views
after a video game upload, however, on the other hand, his drama videos were unlikely to do as well as they previously did,
because the drama kinda died, and he had distanced himself from it. In fact, following the political videos,
the only time he really covered drama again was in the PewDiePie vs Wall Street Journal video, which was extremely late to the party,
later than me. In a way, he'd split his audience down the middle, and there was no longer that guaranteed interest
in what he spoke about. There were better commentary channels taking on the drama topics,
but at least he had his more casual rant topics, right?
Well, 2016 was the year of the storytime animators who really began taking on the qualms of daily life,
and other topics in a similar field, providing Grade with real competition, and squeezing his market.
People had noticed the fertile grounds and started farming, and Grade didn't really change it up,
and in a way, could he? He still did fine for himself, but I guess even when you're doing well,
it can feel like you're going nowhere, if it doesn't feel like progress.
Grade was never a celebrity, he never had droves of people following him around every time he left his house,
and that was his choice, for many reasons I think are likely sensible and justified.
But one thing that I've noticed is that when you're not public, your life seems fairly ordinary,
even with whatever success you're experiencing, you're not witnessing the real world repercussions
of the content you make because you're still behind a screen. This can often alienate you from the impact
of your content and even its success. Being a YouTuber really hasn't been much of a rush for me,
because I haven't really changed my life at all, mainly because I want to finish my education,
and so my lifestyle hasn't really altered beyond the fact that I spend most of my free time on YouTube,
driving myself insane. I have a hunch that even with his success, Grade never really experienced it
because he kept himself away from that world. I don't think that's a bad thing, but I do think it can lead
to someone taking hiatus because it doesn't give them any satisfaction in return, and after PewDiePie vs
Wall Street Journal video in March 2017, Grade did just that, he fell off the map.
Until a few months later in May 2017, when Grade uploaded another video, implying that he was coming back,
his hand coming from the grave, and announcing that there would be more YouTube videos and Twitch streams,
with the audience's heart in his hands. This led to absolutely nothing for another two months, until
when Grade announced his return in a much more elaborate video, and announcing that this would be the start of Season 2.
In his video, he announces how he plans to go back to his more grassroots comedy, as it used to be,
how he realised that pleasing the algorithms and merely appealing to trending topics just leads you to hating
your general experience as a YouTuber, and why he was not going to conform to it. He also rants about how
Jake Paul is ruining the site and driving all creativity down with it, he says he's been working on videos
since the week before his upload, so understandably many people were excited to see what he was going to bring
to his next video, if we ever received a next video, which we didn't for a long, long time.
I don't think Grade was trolling when he uploaded his return videos, it would be a pretty funny troll,
but I think it was very probable that he did have trouble being in the mood to record his content,
and finding that recipe that worked for him all the times before. Drama is a rush, when you're involved in it,
and you have the power to end careers, it's like you're Thanos with the Infinity Stones, and then it's gone,
and you can't recapture that, and sometimes when people can't do that, they just lose faith.
Normal content is a rhythm, and to find that you have to have a grip on what you're creating,
a rush will disrupt that rhythm. Grade did eventually return, at the start of this year,
we all had the sinking feeling that he wouldn't stick around, because although the hype for him was here,
it was more an anticipation about his return, rather than actually investing in his content.
His return video performed excellently, the videos following it, not so much.
Do I think Grade regrets the drama? Maybe he does, at the time I can see why it's so enticing to get involved,
but looking back on it, his content that had the most longevity are the videos that aren't on drama,
the content that is just about everyone's daily lives, because people's lives aren't going to be changing soon,
at least I don't think they are, and therefore, when you make content about that, it's always relevant,
no matter their demographic, or the time that they're watching the video.
Back when this screenshot was taken at the start of 2017, you can see that the difference between these two videos
is around 100,000 views, and yet returning to his channel, we can now see that the difference is approximately 2.1 million,
there's a reason for that, and I think I've explained it.
Grade never really abruptly lost any of his momentum, because many people adored his style,
to the point where he could probably just spend a whole video farting, and it would crack a million views,
but from his perspective, it probably drained him.
Also, the new copyright system hasn't helped his videos, with many of them being claimed retrospectively
due to his use of music in transitions.
All in all, I can see these instances being fairly demotivating for a creator who fed off excitement.
Grade is just another casualty of the drama, regardless of whether he was right or wrong,
none of the creators who were really there in the midst of that 2016 mess, are really doing it with the same passion.
H3 has taken hiatus on his channel, spoke about being drained, we all know what happened to Leafy,
and although iDubbbz has arguably become the kingmaker of commentary, he hasn't made a content cop in a while,
and he doesn't really talk about it, and there are rumours that he doesn't really enjoy its legacy.
I mean, I wouldn't either, that's a huge weight to deliver some world destroying criticism.
The only person who really came out happy was Keemstar, and that's because he's insane and lives off drama,
and creates it when there isn't any.
Grade burned everyone in his path, and then stood in the ashes and asked what happened,
and that's why I don't ever think he'll fully stick around,
because Grade is a person who became reliant on the environment to power his content from,
Reddit to Drama Alert, and now he's just another guy making videos.
Even if they pull views, he's gonna have trouble building a community because many creators don't trust him,
and he probably doesn't trust them either.
The days of old commentary are over, and Grade just doesn't belong, and that's a shame,
because his content did have value, with retrospect to my previous video.
I think it's fair to say that there are many elements that caused the rise of Grade,
but ultimately, it was the drama that caused the fall. I don't know if he'll ever get that back.
With that said, I don't think there is an animosity to reflect upon his content with.
I think he didn't always handle things with the right demeanour,
and he was definitely sucked into an addiction that ultimately left him worse for wear,
but he still had a great cultural impact on the site, and his content is still important to this day,
for many, many reasons, and you can't take that away from him.
So, as much as this is a discussion, a discourse, a critique, it's also a tribute,
because there is no one quite like Grade A Under Ray, and I don't think there ever will be.
So that was the video rounding off the two part series.
I really hope you guys enjoyed it.
Definitely some of the longer stuff again, being the fact that I had to split it into two parts.
I would love to hear any thoughts in the comments section below, really interesting discussion.
I want to give a big shoutout to my editors, who've done a fantastic job.
I'm going to leave their links in the pinned comment, please go and check them out,
they do stellar work, and I'm sure this is going to be a marvel to behold, I really hope it is at least.
I also want to give a big shoutout to my Patreons, all up on stream right now,
the shoutout to the $50 Patreons, you can't ignore them.
Evening Steel on $50, Connor on $50, alongside some Hala Baloo,
and $100 is Brandon and Ryan, big thanks to you lads, thank you so much,
you're making a great difference, I really appreciate it.
If you want to contact me, you can reach me on Twitter, at The Right Opinion,
Facebook, Discord, links too, in the pinned comment, all going to be there,
and if anyone else needs me for any other purposes, that's where you can find me.
I don't really have too much else to say, so I'll just leave it here and say thanks again for all the support,
I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching!
