Hello my friends, welcome to the Weekly Sip. Today I've got some hazelnut coffee.
I've realized I have a number of really large video projects, not like the 10 minute or less
ones that I've been doing recently, but a number of really long projects that are about half done
and that I have to get going on, like, you know, KickVic or the Balsanaro video. So this time
around I'm going to zip through the Weekly Sip as quick as I can. It'll be a smaller one,
so I can get back to work on those projects. I want to get them out sometime this week,
hopefully. Let's begin with this article on The Star. The Star is a Canadian paper. It's Canada's
duty to repatriate the brides of Daesh. Daesh is ISIS, by the way. Now those of you who watched
my video called The Brides of ISIS, this article came out literally hours later after I put that
video out, and I kind of wish I had waited on it because holy shit, this is a ridiculous article.
Jihadi brides and caliphate cubs with the men dead imprisoned on the lam. Their wives and children
are coming home to roost. No they're not. No they're not. Idiotic girls, teenagers mostly,
who pack themselves off to Syria and Northern Iraq, slipping away from families, willingly
giving up passports, sometimes taking up arms, often gleefully pumping out propaganda against
the nations of their birth, urging others to join them. Breeding, because that, it turned out,
was their primary value to ISIS. To populate the nascent state as housewives and mothers,
brood mares for the next generation of Islamist zealots. Yeah, that's why they can't come back.
They did all of those terrible things. But there's nothing left of the caliphate
except for an ideology. Well, the ideology is the most important part, isn't it? The ideology
is what will allow the caliphate to someday reappear. It's not something that's insignificant,
as you seem to say here. It's in fact the most important part. It's why the fighting can't stop.
At least three of those women, identified by name in media reports, are Canadians,
as would be their offspring regardless of the father's nationality. I'm not sure if that's the
case under Canadian law. It might be. I know that Canada definitely has birthright citizenship,
so it's definitely possible that those kids are Canadian. They are subsisting those woe-begone
dregs of the caliphate in tents without heat, with little food and scarce medical supplies.
The children are dying by the week. Many others didn't survive the exodus. They're not to blame.
When they say, uh, they're not to blame, if they're referring to the children, that's actually
true. You know, the kids are not to blame. They're not to blame for the actions of their parents.
However, if they mean the women aren't to blame, yes they are. The women aren't children. I know
they like to pair women and children a lot together, but the women aren't children.
They are adults. They have fully developed brains. They make their own choices, and they
have to deal with the consequences of their actions. Yet Ottawa has no plan to repatriate
these innocent victims, hasn't even offered counselor services to their mothers. Well,
you know what? It sucks. But one, the women aren't innocent victims. Two, even if the children are
innocent victims, their mothers aren't. And if we're keeping the kids with the mothers, then the
kids have to stay with the mothers, which is not in Canada. Like, look at this, look at this. Here's
that woman that I mentioned in the previous video, Kimberly Gwen Polman. She says, I don't have the
words for how much regret I have, and that she was thrown in jail and raped when she tried to flee
ISIS. Yet the brutal crimes of ISIS beheading journalists, mass rape of Yazidi minority women,
were well documented by the time Polman crossed the border into the Islamic State. She was already
the mother of three grown children, not a naive ISIS fangirl. I'm not interested in bloodshed,
and I don't know what to believe. These are videos on YouTube. What's real? What's not real?
You're an idiot. Like, that's it. It's true. You're not a naive ISIS fangirl. You're not some
teenager who makes a big mistake, destroys their life, and goes across the border. You're 46 and
you did this. You're an idiot. And that's it. There's nothing else to say about it.
Abdul Karim Omar, de facto foreign minister in the Kurdish-held north, said he and the Syrian
democratic forces have more than done their part. Over to you, Western nations. Noting that at least
six British jihadis are being held in prison, including two members of the notorious Beatles
gang accused of beheading Western hostages. Omar warned that the imprisoned men were likely to
escape or be set free in the anticipated combat to come. So his logic is that Western nations should
take these people back, because if they don't, the area, as he says, is not stable politically
or militarily. And during the fighting, those people will be set free and they'll run off into
the wild and then they may end up re-radicalizing or something. And that's certainly possible.
If Canada takes anybody, it should take them to put them in jail and put them in jail for the
rest of their lives. And he's right here. If there's war and attacks, those fighters and
their wives will come back to Britain and be terrorists. That's true. That's what they'll do.
We basically have two choices here and the choices suck. We can allow them back in and then
immediately throw them in prison. Or we can ignore them and then they'll come back as sleeper cells.
And that's it. Of course, there's the third option, which is completely ridiculous,
which is just allow them back in to just resettle in Canada. And it's like, okay,
yeah, just come back in. You didn't do anything wrong. It's fine. You're just a citizen. That
would be disastrous. The article goes over a lot of the stuff that I brought up in my previous
video. Let's check out the ending here. Apart from the firmly unrepentant, it's what they all claim,
the ISIS camp followers who now want to come home, but their misadventure is behind them.
Some of them readily acknowledging they should be tried and sent to prison,
although it's unclear for what offenses. Perhaps material support to a terrorist organization.
Perhaps treason. You know, I'm not somebody who likes to throw around the charge of treason
lately because it sounds like a ridiculous charge in the modern age, doesn't it? There should be no
compulsion for blind loyalty to your home country, especially in the face of your home country being
somehow corrupt or committing some kind of terrible immoral acts. You don't have to be
loyal to a place just because you were born there. And the charge of treason implies that you do.
However, this is about as black and white of a case as we could probably get, at least in
the modern world. Western countries for all of their faults are still the best places to live
for a reason. And if you actually want to qualify ISIS as an official country,
it was probably the worst country on the planet during the years that it existed.
Professing their ignorance, these women portray themselves as no more responsible for their poor
judgment than the children they've born. Yeah, that's because they recognize that that bundle
in their arms is actually innocent and they want to latch themselves to it and try to come back.
As repugnant as they may be, they can't be left to rot in war and refugee camps. Certainly their
children are victims deserving of deliverance and children shouldn't be separated from their
mothers. No, no, no, no, no. In this case, children should be separated from their mothers.
There are many cases where a mother does not deserve to have her children. Many cases. We
do this all the time as a society. We find unfit mothers and unfit fathers and we take their kids
from them. And if we are allowing these jihadi children back into Canada, and I think we should,
their mothers can't come with them. And that's that. That's that. They can't come.
If they come to Canada, they go to prison. That's how it has to be. However, I'm sure there's at
least a few SJWs out there who would say that I'm being too logical and not emotional enough.
So let's cover that article now. The magical thinking of guys who love logic.
Why so many men online love to use logic in scare quotes to win an argument and then disappear
before they can find out they're wrong. The thing about logic, it's not necessarily infallible.
Logic can change just the way that science can change. You discover new facts and then
your opinion changes. That makes sense. But at the very least, if you're being logical,
I think it's safe to say that you're using some kind of tool set in a pursuit of an objective
truth, which is certainly something that you can't say for people who use emotion as their guide
post. Ian Danskin, who makes videos under the moniker Innuendo Studios, has made a name for
himself on the internet for his YouTube series on the techniques and beliefs of the alt-right.
His most recent video, The Card Says Moops, is worth watching in full, but there was one
particular line in it that struck me. Danskin points out that even when their beliefs skew
towards the bizarre and conspiratorial, people on the online right often identify as rationalists.
Well, first of all, I mean, there's a few problems here. One, logic and reason are the same thing.
They're actually opposing values, believe it or not. Logic is meant to be significantly more
objective than reason. Reasoning is often subjective, and it's meant to be subjective.
It's meant to be like your own personal logic, in a sense. Logic is about tangible proof,
while reasoning is the capacity to make sense of stimulus. They're not the same thing. And bringing
up the term rationalists invokes the art of reasoning more than it does logic. This will
be unsurprising to those who often engage with the wider online right, whether it is with someone who
identifies as alt-right, libertarian, conservative, as a fan of the intellectual dark web, or even
moderate or centrist. So hear me out here. Is this how the left is identifying this now,
the far left? The online right is somebody who's alt-right, libertarian, conservative,
in the intellectual dark web, moderate or centrist. That's the right now, is everything
that's not left. People talk about the overtime window. People talk about how centrist figures,
like Sargon or even Dankula seems a little bit centrist. They're getting labeled as alt-right
or far-right or right-adjacent or whatever the fuck. I've been labeled as alt-right,
even though I'm definitely a center-lefty. There's been this conspiracy that the far left views
anything that is not the far left as the right, and I guess this paragraph confirms it. Although
their beliefs may not be identical, there are common distinct patterns in the way they speak
or type that one can't help but notice. So it's not even about the substance of their arguments,
it's about how they present themselves. That's what makes you alt-right now. You can believe
the exact same thing that somebody on the far left believes, but if you don't march in lockstep with
them, you're part of the right. Specifically, these guys, and they are usually guys, love
using terms like logic. They will tell you over and over how they love to use logic,
and how the people they follow online also use logic. They are also massive fans of
declaring that they have facts, that their analysis is unbiased, that they use reason
and logic and not emotions to make decisions. Well, is that the case? I mean, there are
definitely people out there who say, I'm using logic, and they're obviously not using logic, or
I'm reasonable, and they're obviously not being reasonable. Like, that happens. It happens
everywhere. But these people that you're talking about, are they actually logical?
Do they actually have the facts? I mean, doesn't that matter more than how they're coming across
to you personally? These words are usually used interchangeably and without regard to their proper
usage, squished together in a vague play-doh ball of smug superiority, to be thrown wherever
possible at their emotional and irrational enemies. Feminists, Marxists, liberals, SJWs,
and definitely the feminist Marxist liberal SJW. Well, let's be honest here. A liberal can't be a
Marxist, and a Marxist can't be a liberal. In fact, liberals and Marxists hate each other.
You could call these men's ways of viewing the world in simple me-smart-you-dumb dichotomies
Manchian, or even Derridean, if you really want to upset them by referencing a philosopher that
they've heard is very bad. Well, I've actually read Derrida. I've had the unfortunate time of
reading Derrida, and he is really bad. But you can definitely be a rational feminist.
You can definitely be a rational Marxist, or a rational SJW, or obviously a rational liberal.
That's why I said earlier that reasoning is subjective. Because smart people, if they start
from a really shitty starting point, they can reason themselves into all sorts of terrible
situations. There are honestly a lot of smart feminists and smart SJWs out there who actually
believe that what they think is the objective truth because they started from a poisoned well.
A good illustration of this phenomenon is an increasingly disturbing trend.
Women whose once-promising romantic relationships implode after their boyfriends become redpilled.
For the benefit of the blissfully uninitiated, to be redpilled means to internalize a set of
misogynistic far-right beliefs popular with certain corners of the internet, the product
of a noxious blend of junk science, conspiracy theory, and a pathological fear of social progress.
You know, maybe. I've seen MGTOW communities, and honestly they can get pretty shitty sometime.
I've seen redpilled communities, they get pretty shitty pretty fucking fast. But honestly,
there is still, like, little bits of value to be gleaned by sifting through all of their bullshit.
And in my opinion there's not much of it, but that doesn't mean that it's not there. However,
I know what this author is really talking about, because you scroll back up here and they mention
all of these things, the wider online right, alt-right, libertarian, conservative, intellectual
dark web, moderate, centrist, okay? What this person is doing is talking about what it means
to be redpilled and talking about these misogynistic far-right beliefs and then saying
that all of these groups here, even the moderates and centrists, believe in this. This is how they're
taking a fringe of people and then painting everyone that doesn't agree with them with the
brush of that fringe's ideology. And that's just not how it works. For example, a lot of centrists,
moderates, and even basic bitch conservatives don't have a pathological fear of social progress,
rather they simply disagree with you on the definition of social progress.
In regards to those little nuggets, those little bits of truth that exist within the MGTOW
community or the red pill community, amongst all the other bullshit that those idiots spew out,
in regards to those little bits of true fact, actual fact, I can definitely see their women
folk, as this article puts it, simply disagreeing with those facts or even becoming offended that
the guy's talking about them. Because this article is really implying that the women in these
situations were all just completely infallible. And that's just not the case in any serious
relationship, you know? There's give and take on both sides. And ideally that give and take
should be 50-50, but there are going to be times when one partner is just objectively right,
the other partner is just objectively wrong, and you have to work through that. And yeah,
every once in a while, every once in a blue moon, that objective correctness might come
from a community that you don't personally like. Sorry, but you may have to deal with that.
For men, especially insecure and socially dislocated men,
the idea of rationality can be kind of a comfort blanket. You know, I've heard this logic used
before. I think both the author of this article and I can agree that socially dislocated or
emotionally insecure men probably unjustly suffer sometimes, and they're probably prejudiced against
sometimes. And making fun of them for having a comfort blanket is a bit ridiculous, especially
because another oppressed group, like say women or some kind of racial minority, those subcultures
also have their comfort blankets. And when you make fun of those subcultures' comfort blankets,
it is a grave social sin, isn't it? Raised from birth with the stereotype that they are more
analytically intelligent, in contrast to women who are emotionally intelligent, you know, I wasn't
raised with that stereotype. And nonetheless, I do think that the data probably partially shows that.
And with pop culture that venerates logical characters, and then she talks about Leonard
Nimoy who played Spock, it's no wonder that many young men see logic as a sort of personality
trait to achieve. Well, that's not why they do it. Spock being popular in the original Star Trek
is not why young men want to be logical. In fact, there are hundreds of more popular and
more contemporary characters in pop culture that men want to emulate, and their primary value
isn't logic. It might be strength, it might be stoicism, it might be honor or duty. Sometimes
it's definitely things like logic or rationality or intelligence. But these are all almost
universally positive ideals. It's not unreasonable for men to want to emulate them. And you know what?
It's not unreasonable for women to want to do it either. And then this person argues that being
logical automatically imbues all one's opinions with correctness. No, it doesn't. In fact, there
are multiple episodes of the original Star Trek series where Spock's logic was wrong.
And that's the point. When you apply it and you apply it incorrectly, or sometimes you're dealing
with a different situation where logic does not apply, it's not going to work out for you.
Another common characteristic of these logicer-than-thou movements is a narrow focus
on the type of skill that can be classified as intelligence. Affinity for things like social
interaction, languages, or the arts, or at least certain types of art, often don't get a look in.
Everything must be reductible to numbers, hence the typical logic lover's obsession with IQ.
Well, first of all, everything's reductible to numbers because everything has to be measured.
If you're going to be doing any kind of scientific analysis, you have to measure it. You have to have
a way to see that very clearly one quantity is bigger or smaller than another quantity.
If you can't do that, then you can't analyze anything. And the typical logic lover has an
obsession with IQ because IQ is probably the single most rock-solid bit of psychological
research done basically since psychology was invented. IQ is a huge variable regarding
lifetime success. And these things that this person's mentioning, like affinity for things
like the social interaction, languages, the arts, et cetera, that's not measured by IQ.
That's a different kind of measurement. If you know anything about even... I took first-year
psychology when I was in university, and I did learn about the big five, which are the big five
personality traits, and things like social interaction, languages, and the arts, they have
their own measurements within the big five. And one of the big five, conscientiousness,
which basically means work ethic, honestly, when you really boil it down, conscientiousness along
with IQ, you put those two together, you have something like, what is it, 80% of a person's
likelihood to succeed at anything in their lives? So no, it really seems like the person who's
writing this article, one, is coming at it from a point of ignorance, and two, in their ignorance,
doesn't know what they're talking about. Repeat after me, calling something logic doesn't make
it so. That's true. Calling someone rational doesn't make it so. That's also true.
Opinions from YouTube men are not facts. True enough. Just like opinions from YouTube women
aren't facts. Getting mad about philosophers you haven't read isn't reason. How about getting mad
about philosophers you have read? Because I have read a lot of social justice bullshit in my time.
Insulting your girlfriend because she questions your sudden political shift isn't logic. No,
absolutely not. However, I do talk to my girlfriend regularly about politics,
and sometimes we do disagree on things. And even at the end of the conversation, if we disagree,
I think we're both able to at least articulate our points. If it turns into insults, you've done
something wrong, both of you. Maybe you shouldn't be together. For a group of people who claim to
hate the supposed redefinition of words when it comes to gender and race, it's not supposed.
It's not. I watched the Sargon vs Destiny debate last night, where it was Destiny trying to say
that trans women were real women, and should be included in the definition of women.
When, in actuality, I think that, like very clearly from a biological sense, trans women
aren't women. Anyone who's arguing that is an idiot. However, if you meet a trans woman,
you should probably socially treat them like one, because it'd be polite. And even then,
that politeness shouldn't be government enforced, you should always have the option of
being an asshole and then being socially ostracized for being an asshole. But yeah,
it's not a supposed redefinition, they're doing that shit. They're trying to do that shit.
For a group of people who are very mad about the postmodern tendency to say
nothing means anything, or at least this is an aspect of postmodernism they seem to have
gleaned from their favorite subreddits, I gleaned it from my Derrida writings.
I read them, man. I read them way back in the day when I went to university. I remember how
bullshit it was then, and I still think it's bullshit now. Nothing means anything, and
everything is a power struggle. That's the two most important parts of postmodernism.
The new young reactionaries are remarkably devil may care about certain words,
when they seem to lend credibility and strength to their opinions.
The basic bitch conservatives. Most people who are center right. The intellectual dark web.
None of those people are part of what you're talking about, and yet you are slandering them
like they are part of what you're talking about. And that is what this whole article is.
That is what the magical thinking of guys who love logic is.
Here's a video I was sent, it's from BBC Sesh, whatever the fuck that is.
It's a video on thin privilege, oh god.
I'm gonna assume that the subtitles are there solely because you can't hear over the fucking
music. Happens all the time. They call it manspreading in fact.
Well, I'm a short fat otaku, so I never go outside.
Holy shit, maybe you should be- that's a giant fucking donut.
Maybe this is why you don't have thin privilege.
You know, that's only partially true. You can look at a thin person and say,
you know, that person might be healthy, or they might not be healthy, because you can't tell
other problems that might be arising that have symptoms that aren't related to their size.
However, you look at a fat person and say, that person's unhealthy. You can just know that,
because they have a problem, and that problem is directly related to their large size.
You cannot be fat and be healthy. It doesn't happen. You can definitely be thin and be
unhealthy, but you can't be fat and healthy. It's impossible.
Hey, everyone gets shit on the internet. That's just how it is.
Just try putting yourself in someone else's shoes and just look at it from their point of view,
how it could affect them or how it could make them feel. Not having to go at thin people at all,
but just simply acknowledging there is the privilege that society has unfortunately put on
people who are thinner. Just to combat it, just acknowledge it, be accepting of anybody of any
size, and don't fall into what society and the media are trying to tell us that are right or
wrong. There are bigger people in the world. There are smaller people in the world
celebrating everybody's differences. Everybody being kind to one another, regardless of your size.
Yeah, if you want thin privilege, you can go out and get it. You can go out and earn it.
It might be hard. No one's going to say it's easy. You can do it. First of all,
privilege is kind of a strange theory in itself because it's not quite the way that SJWs say it
is. However, even within that idea, thin privilege and fat oppression is completely different from
something like racial privilege. Unless you're going to go and do a Michael Jackson sort of
situation, if you're black, you can't become white. Unless for some reason you're going to
be a Rachel Dolezal or a Talcum X. If you're white, you can't become black.
It's something that you're born with. It's something that you will have for the rest of
your life. And now we can discuss whether that should be adequately called privilege and
oppression. We can discuss what the effects of it are, but no one can argue that you are born
with your race. You are born with your physical sex. There are certain immutable characteristics
about you. Being thin and fat is not one of those immutable characteristics.
And I know a lot of SJWs like to say that privilege can never be earned. It can only
be granted by society. And if that's the case, then thin privilege doesn't exist because you
can earn it. You can take a fat person, they can go work out at the gym for a year and stay on a
diet and they will look fucking amazing. One year can do it. Six months can do it if you really
stick to it. I mean, that's the reason why I'm so fat after like seven years of attempts.
So no, even by their own definition, thin privilege isn't a thing and fat oppression
also isn't a thing. Let's end off with something goofy here on comicbook.com.
Pokemon Sword and Shield introduces the perfect starter for Pokemon for millennials.
Now the eighth generation of Pokemon games, Sword and Shield, was released on Nintendo Direct a
couple days ago. I've always been a pretty big Pokemon fan back from when I was a kid,
so I'm pretty hyped about it. Apparently the game this time is set in the UK,
so there's been a lot of meme images going around of the main characters in the game acting like
rowdy Scottish people, which is pretty fucking hilarious. But this article has to do with one
of the three starter Pokemon in the game this time around, the Water-type Sobble. While all three new
starter Pokemon were well-received, it seems that the millennial generation that grew up with
Pokemon has adopted Sobble as its new mascot. Sobble is a Water-type Pokemon that is described
as a somewhat timid Water Lizard Pokemon that shoots out attacks as it hides itself in the
water. Many Pokemon fans, especially those who grapple with anxiety or are introverts,
instantly relate to this precious Water-type Pokemon. Judging from Sobble's shocked and wary
looks, we imagine the Pokemon probably works 60 hours a week to pay for its overwhelming student
debt and rising rent rates. As a Water-type Pokemon, Sobble is also probably perpetually
concerned about climate change and other problems that it will have to deal with that were caused by
the previous generations of Pokemon. Sobble is tired of being blamed for the deaths of things
like country clubs, terrible chain restaurants, and styrofoam, none of which are really worth
the money needed to prop up the trappings of the baby boomer generations of Pokemon.
Plus, since Galar is an analogue to the British Isles, Sobble is also probably stunned about the
self-destructive Gale Exit movement that seems determined to cripple the country and make its
life even more miserable. The world's problems probably weigh heavily on Sobble, and it probably
resents Scorbunny for posting travel pictures on Instagram and Grookey for acting like it's still
in college and showing up to work hungover on a Wednesday after a long night at the pub with its
rugby mates. It wishes it could enjoy itself like other starter Pokemon, but it neither has the
time, money, nor energy to overcome the existential dread that keeps it up at night. It's a fucking
Pokemon. Look at these fucking soft boys. Sobble is the manifestation of my millennial anxiety.
Sobble really hit the millennial zennial anxiety zeitgeist and the results are good.
Sobble sounds like you're sobbing while trying to cobble a life together and that's why he's the
perfect representation of millennial dread and anxiety. He's just as worried about his future as
all of us. Come here sad little tadpole, I choose you. Sobble has severe anxiety and had to drop out
of college but still has a ton of student loans and worries people will judge him for it. So quite
literally this article was written by these tweets it sounds like. They just took other people's
tweets and formed them into an article. Anyway this is fucking stupid and it only serves to
re-cement my belief that millennials are a softened generation of people. Anyway I'm done
here guys. As it turns out even though I wanted this to be a shorter one it was still quite long
so here we are. I'll see you guys on Twitch tonight twitch.tv slash game boomers. I'm gonna
be playing Tales of Vesperia the new HD re-release of the game. I hope to see you there. Drop by,
say hi. Have a good day my friends. I love you.
