Welcome to SJ Weekly, guys.
I'm sick again.
This is the third time since June I've gotten sick.
I have a feeling that maybe my roommate is a disease
vector into the house because he's sick every week.
Today, I'm having a cough drop.
Listen to this.
Fuck yeah.
It's a recolor.
Let's get into it.
A teacher gave my son a detention
for saying he'd vote UKIP.
OK.
Nick Ferrari was shocked when this caller
said his teenage son was given a detention at school
after telling a teacher he'd vote for UKIP.
Is there a video here?
Let's play the video.
All is in Loughton.
Paul, what happened to your son?
He got into trouble, is that right?
Good morning.
Yeah, there was a few of them.
It was during the last general election,
and I was having a debate in his class about who you'd vote for.
And one boy said he'd vote for UKIP,
and the teacher said that all UKIP voters are racist.
So my boy, Dennis, said, well, I'll vote for UKIP,
and I'm not racist.
They're about controlling it, whatever.
And he was given detention, the three boys that said it.
And when he came home and told me, I didn't believe him.
I said, let me ring the school.
And the head of the year said, went and talked about it
to the teacher, came back, and he couldn't apologize enough.
He said it's, you know, she got angry because they said
vote for UKIP.
A teacher gave you?
How old is your boy?
He was 15 at the time.
Oh, my god.
So they're on the verge of becoming young men.
They're a couple of years off from voting.
They're having a conversation about the general election.
One boy says I'd vote UKIP.
Your son, your teacher goes nuts and says they're racist.
Your son, and they get detentions.
They got detentions.
They didn't have to have detentions.
The head of the year really apologized,
said the teacher, if she's going to have a debate,
she's got to be able to take over people's opinions.
So when you challenge the school,
the school took detentions away and apologized.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, completely.
He really apologized the head of the year.
You can't have a conversation about a general election
then when somebody wants to vote for one of the main parties.
Well, one of the parties is, right, you've got a detention.
That's absurd.
Well, I couldn't believe it.
At the time, I thought there's no way
he's got a detention for that.
But I said I'll ring the school and find out.
Go on, then, Dad, ring him.
Go on, Dad, ring him.
Ring him, it's true, Dad.
Nice story, Paul.
But did the teacher say she?
Did you say it was a she, the teacher?
It was a she, the teacher, yeah, yeah.
It was his form teacher, yeah.
I think she had to apologize to the boys and.
Right, good.
Well, I'm glad the school took the appropriate action.
I'm not saying, by the way, that you should all vote UK.
Say whatever you like, as long as it's not
a banned organization.
Paul, thank you.
Fascinating story.
We.
Holy shit.
OK, well, there we go.
Wow.
I can't fucking believe it.
I mean, it's the UK.
I guess I can believe that.
Let's see what the article says.
One boy said he'd vote for UKIP, and the teacher
said that all UKIP voters are racist.
Imagine actually thinking that.
Imagine actually believing that wanting immigration control
or wanting to leave the EU is racist.
What kind of mental pretzel do you
have to bend yourself into to get into that type of headspace?
It follows reports that a teenager quit her college
course because her tutor warned her she was too right wing
over her support for Tommy Robinson.
Alyssa Cook-Gray, 17, claims a teacher told her,
get out, we don't want people with your views
during a political debate.
Well, guess what, I have that article right here.
Teacher quits college course on first day,
or sorry, teenager quits college course on first day
after being given final warning for declaring her support
for Tommy Robinson.
So not only are you too right wing for this grade school
here, you're too right wing for a college course,
apparently, if you just believe in center right positions that
aren't actually all that unreasonable.
Teenager Alyssa Cook-Gray says she
was given a final warning by her college
because she told classmates her favorite person was
Tommy Robinson.
The 17-year-old was attending the first day
of her art and employability course at Total People
when a political debate erupted among students.
Alyssa says her classmates were openly expressing their support
for labor leader Jeremy Corbyn when
she told them she identified more with right wing ideologies.
When asked who she admired, Alyssa responded
she liked right wing activist Tommy Robinson, who
is best known for forming the English Defense League
and as a vocal opponent of Islam and its followers.
I don't know if this article is presenting this
as if it's a critique of him, because that's actually not
necessarily a bad thing, if you know anything about Islam.
She now feels terrified to return to her course,
has taken the decision it wasn't for her,
quitting after so over an hour of lessons.
Was she kicked out, although she was given, she was kicked out.
Alyssa said, I was given a final warning
for being too right wing.
It was the first day we were all having a conversation where
Jeremy Corbyn came up.
I asked people not to get in it because it was
filled with a room of lefties.
I said my opinion and the teacher said, get out.
We don't want people with your views.
I was given a final warning for being too right wing.
The class then started asking everyone
who their favorite person was, and I said Tommy Robinson.
I like what he's doing for our country,
and I follow all the stories.
I think he's a savior.
Stoke on Trent Live approached Total People for comment,
but the organization is yet to respond to our requests.
However, a spokesperson for Total People
told the Mirror Online, we are an inclusive organization.
We are values led, and we ask that all learners
are collaborative, respect each other's views,
and work towards common goals.
We have successfully worked with learners over a 20 year
period from many different backgrounds, religions,
and diverse cultures, but apparently not
diverse political opinions.
And it would also seem like people are becoming too right
wing for money because there's this tweet
from the alternate social media platform Gab.
They say, next it will be banks cutting us off and others.
You think we're joking.
We predicted payment processors would.
We predicted hosting providers would.
We proved DNS providers do.
This whole thing started with something
that I mentioned in my anti-social media video
with Cloudflare kicking off the Daily Stormer arbitrarily
for no reason.
They just did it.
And then that started the cascade,
which culminated recently in Alex Jones being completely
blown off the internet in its entirety.
What they're referring to specifically is this.
Stripe freezes Gab's account for not safe for work content,
shining a light on a problematic policy.
Social network Gab, a haven for toxic alt-right personalities
banned from more mainstream platforms,
has had its Stripe account frozen due to adult content
on the platform.
But even if you cheer Gab's problem, Stripe is no hero.
Well, here's the problem.
Doesn't Stripe provide credit card processing services
for Patreon?
And there's a lot of porn on Patreon.
Doesn't Stripe provide credit card processing services
for many places that have not safe for work content?
Why are they singling out Gab?
I don't think the problem here is not safe for work content.
I think the problem here is free speech content,
because Gab doesn't censor, period.
Stripe, according to Gab, told the social network
that it must modify its terms of service
to indicate that adult or illegal content cannot be
streamed through Gab TV or otherwise distributed
through the Gab service, and to put in place reasonable
controls to ensure that no adult or illegal content is being
streamed through Gab TV or otherwise available on the Gab
service.
Gab claims that the service doesn't
allow illegal content on its site
and that all adult content is marked not safe for work.
We've had this content in a not safe for work setting
for two years now with no issues from them until now,
Gab wrote in a tweet on Wednesday.
It's no surprise to anyone that when the big social media
platform started banning political speech they didn't
like, and then those people that were banned
decided to take their ball and go home and basically build
their own sites, that the SJWs were going
to come after them financially.
And this part's actually quite interesting.
The spokesperson added, it's interesting
how we've never had any issues with either of these payment
processors over two years now, but all of a sudden when
gab.com is the only platform on the internet
to host Alex Jones and Infowars, we become the target.
Yeah, that is interesting, isn't it?
I wonder if Gab could get in contact with Pornhub
or some other kind of large porn site
and figure out how they handle their money,
like what payment processor they use.
It might be, it just might be the case
that alternative social media networks
are going to start after using porn services to stay alive,
because Silicon Valley absolutely
does not want them to thrive.
And speaking of SJW brainlets, I just
had to take a look at this article from Kotaku,
how the NPC meme, which paints people
as agency-free and incapable of critical thought,
tries to dehumanize SJWs.
And that's a, this is an excellent picture
they've decided to use.
Those of you who don't know, the NPC meme basically
means that, you know how you have that voice in your head
that tells you what to do when you're not speaking,
like you kind of think to yourself
in words in some language.
You have an imagination, you have the ability
to reasonably predict things before you do them.
The NPC meme implies that some people out there
don't have that, and they're just
like walking machines with no thought behind them.
And Aiden Powleton actually did a pretty good video on this.
Well, Kotaku, well, now that it's become a meme,
Kotaku is taking offense to it, because apparently SJWs
are considered NPCs now.
OK, let's read this.
From time to time, and especially
if you're a fan of science fiction,
you may have had the thought that nobody around you
is actually real.
That sentiment has taken root in anti-progressive parts
of the internet as a dehumanizing meme,
and it borrows some familiar gaming terminology.
Of course it does.
It's all gamers.
We did it all.
About a month ago, a meme along those lines
took root on 4chan and among anti-progressive online
communities.
It's called the NPC meme, and it goes like this.
Out there in the world, there are literal NPCs,
the term for non-playable characters in video games,
who have no internality whatsoever.
There are some giveaways, of course.
They spit out canned lines, like, good weather today, huh?
And flocked normie trends, are UGG boots still a thing?
And for the most part, share the same uncritical world view.
The classic melancholy meme, Wojak, a sad man cruelly drawn
in Microsoft Paint, has now received the NPC treatment
with NPC Wojak.
I didn't know this guy was called Wojak.
I just heard it was Feels Guy.
Part crackpot social theory and part elementary school insult,
the NPC meme originated from a deeply comical medley
of bogus physics and stupid religion found on 4chan.
Originally posted in 2016, it resurfaced last month.
I have a theory that there are only
a fixed quantity of souls on planet Earth
that cycle continuously through reincarnation.
However, since the human growth rate is so severe,
the soulless extra walking flesh piles around us
are NPCs, or the ultimate normal fags,
who autonomously follow group think and social trends
in order to appear convincingly human.
God.
Listen, I have a feeling that the only reason
that you find this insulting and dehumanizing
is because you probably have some of the traits
that they're describing.
I mean, there are a few normie things that I like, all right?
There are many non-normie things that I like,
but there's definitely some normie things that I like too.
And I don't feel insulted or dehumanized by the NPC meme.
I don't feel insulted or dehumanized
when someone calls me a fucking 32-year-old boomer, you know?
Essentially, some large portion of society, normies,
pop culture fanatics, and Trump haters,
who speak in cliches, are in fact NPCs
with no internality, agency,
or capacity for critical thought.
I mean, there seems to be some,
that does seem to be how you guys act, isn't it?
I mean, there are many good reasons to hate Trump.
There are many, many, many good reasons to hate Trump.
However, whenever I come across a bonafide Trump hater,
they never actually present one of them.
They just call him a racist,
like that's supposed to be something.
How to tell when someone is an NPC,
wrote anti-SJW alt-right journalist,
Ian Miles-Chiang on Twitter.
Update, Chiang returned a request for comment
to note that he does not consider himself to be alt-right.
Do you want to know why?
Because the alt-right are white identitarians,
and Ian Miles-Chiang is Asian.
You fucking morons.
Okay, this is how I know you're an NPC,
because you think an Asian man can be alt-right.
Yeah, this entire article is basically her shrieking
how she's not an NPC,
while simultaneously describing
all of the NPC characteristics as being part of herself,
and saying that that's completely fine.
It's, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry that you're not even the hero of your own story.
Cecilia De Anastasio.
Additionally, I know the content has again been sparse, guys.
I'm very sorry about that.
You will hear from me very soon, though,
outside of SJ Weeklys.
I love you guys.
Thank you for continuing to support me.
I'll see you soon.
