Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and today's topic is something that kinda jumped out on me. In
what way exactly? Well, it was a fine Saturday morning, I was relaxing, putting my feet up,
regretting my existence, like every other Saturday morning goes. And then, in a moment
of spontaneity, I decided to check my Twitter feed. Spontaneity was rewarded because I saw
no one else but the man himself, Keemstar, sourcing it up with a cheeky little feud with
Marina Joyce of all human beings. Suddenly I had to check my calendar, and make sure
that we weren't back in 2016, because for any of you who have been blessed with not
knowing who Marina Joyce is, she is a beauty slash lifestyle vlogger who became monstrously
famous for a very brief moment a couple years back. If you blinked, you might have missed
it, but if you had your eyes open, you might have been blinded.
At the time of the drama, Marina had been doing YouTube for a few years, her channel
was performing okay, but it was nothing particularly special. She had been doing pretty much the
same content since the inception of her channel, mainly her unfiltered personality, trying
to connect with her audiences, some games, some tutorials, and the sort of content that
would attract fans of a quite innocent demographic. She was very happy, a quirky character who
was definitely not afraid of delivering wholesome messages through the platform, which you know,
sometimes we definitely need more of.
However, all that was to change at the end of July 2016, a few days after she posted
a video known as Date Outfit Ideas, a video that has now accumulated over 43 million views.
Yes, that's more than any episode from the Shane Dawson documentary series, though of
course the video has been out longer, so there's plenty of time for good old Shane
here to overtake her. But still, let me indicate how much of a movement this was in the moment.
In one day, she received 35 million views on her channel, that's what we're talking
about here, that can never be ignored.
What was the source of this movement? Well, one we've encountered in the past, one a
mystery. The question of the moment being, what is going on with Marina Joyce? Because
in this particular video, Date Outfit Ideas, Marina is seen as being a tad zoned out.
And this is for a brief moment, what threw the internet into a frenzy? A delirium, my
friends. And the commentators dashed for their microphones as the journalists reached for
their keyboards to document the newest, weirdest internet sensation. People were asking questions,
conspiracy theories were created, was she kidnapped? Was she mentally ill? Was it all
for attention? Even the police were sent to her house to ascertain her wellbeing, although
people were still somewhat suspicious. After all, a lot of her audience knew what she was
normally like, knew her old videos, and her energetic personality, a personality that
had been swapped out for a rather unnerving individual.
However, as mentioned, this was a brief trend, and with Marina withholding the explanation
providing there was of course one, meant that many people quickly lost interest, which is
what leads us to November 2018, when Marina decides to release a video where she talks
to haters, in a rather formless video which jumps from one point about the other, and
talks about philosophies that are rather confusing, um, she doesn't like horror movies,
being one of them, which, you know, fair enough. She goes out of the way to express how it's
necessary not to reveal the nature of her condition. A debatable, but respectable stance.
Another theme that prevailed throughout the video was how she planned to stay out of drama.
Marina- Drama is not my cup of tea. Drinking tea.
So Marina, being the very anti-drama person, decided that she would maintain this philosophy
by immediately having drama with the most dramatic person in the history of the dramatic
world, good old daddy Keem here. You see, after this situation was brought back into
light, Keemstar boldly claimed that the reason all this occurred in the first place was because
of drugs, not any specific drugs, and honestly, if this claim was true, it might have been
multiple drugs, for all we know. Now when the initial situation arose, she was very
quiet on the topic, she dismissed the theories, didn't really comment on it, and maybe that
was for the best, maybe it wasn't, we'll debate that in a bit, but this time round
it was different. When Keemstar made these claims, this time round, Marina responded
differently, this time outwardly denying that they even had a shred of truth, which ironically
caused the truth to be allegedly revealed. Enter stage left, Drew as sharing, a youtuber
weed enthusiastic who smokes weed, yeah he smokes weed, and probably some other drugs
too. Anyhow, he made a video on the topic in response to this little exchange, where
he, as a self acclaimed friend of Marina Joyce, supposedly confirms Keemstar's claims that
it was indeed drugs that were the cause of the extremely surreal moments witnessed in
Joyce's videos. Marina then responded again in another video, prolonging this conflict,
telling us the real truth, truth after truth after truth, and also promoting Buddhism,
which is good, I think, and yet there was a sentiment of apathy. Sure, there were some
people who were vaguely interested, but barely a fraction of the millions of people who clicked
on Marina Joyce's channel on that fateful July day trying to work out what was going
on in her mind. So, I guess I want this video to be an in-depth retrospective of how the
situation was set up, how it went down, and how much can be said about the culture, because
I do believe there is a level of exceptionalism with regards to what happened, and I think
that it's time we investigated the extremely messy situation that is Marina Joyce, and
see if we can find any affirmative answers to the numerous questions that will inevitably
yield. Are you ready? Well, you don't have a say in this either way, it's my channel
you bellends, let's dive into Marina Joyce.
I think it's important to discuss the culture that Marina Joyce rose from, because generally
there's this impression that Marina Joyce was just this nobody before the whole controversy,
and although she was by no means anyone particularly famous, she had a decent subscriber base,
and at the time, although her channel wasn't experiencing its most fruitful period, she
was on the grind, and as creators, we all have good and bad months, so she wasn't wholly
irrelevant, but she was experiencing a bit of a dry spell.
However, I think we have to go back in time, to completely understand the context behind
this. YouTube has come a long way in the space of a decade or so, we have moved from this
small platform where people upload their little camcorder projects where they would go around
and do what humans enjoy doing, to this world where the content created has impressive production
value and many viewers couldn't imagine themselves watching anything less.
It's weird to think that there was a time when many of us settled for that, and that
was the era that Marina Joyce arose from.
Now back in the day, a load of people sitting in their rooms rambling about 10 things that
guys say in romantic relationships intertwined with some odd skit was appealing to a lot
of people.
Admittedly, I honestly can't ever see myself revisiting such content, and I can't really
recall ever watching it in the first place.
And honestly, I don't think many modern audiences can now either, but people still
did, and I think that was mainly due to the realism of it all.
I don't think that back then children were more easily satisfied necessarily, I just
think that everything is relative, and we were enamoured by the new developments on
the internet, it all felt like a step forward for us plebeians.
At that point you might ask, well why didn't people just switch on the TV to see something
that was better made, after all, YouTube feels like it went down that route of recent for
that exact reason.
You know, increasing those production values to compete with the TV, but returning to my
previous point, I think that YouTube would always have something that TV will never have,
unless they set up a cable channel for the commentary community of course, and in my
opinion that's just the earnest involvement of audiences.
You always feel like you're part of something a bit more significant than just observing
the old television.
The reason that I think these bedroom style vlogs were appreciated above anything else
is because the style was undeniably unique, and people valued that over any nice, sharp
production.
This is the sort of environment that Marina thrived in, she came across as a very stereotypical
teenage girl, the sort of person who was on one hand very lively and happy towards her
audience, bursting into moments of spontaneity that would reflect a quirky personality.
So, you know, just making this quick vlog, that, whatever, um, yeah, going to Marble Arch, woo, meetups, woo!
Content that, although not laugh out loud funny, would endear a particular demographic,
she'd talk about anything she cared about, and on top of that, there were videos that
gave her a bit more depth than the average bedroom blogger.
She was prepared to battle narratives, I mean, Nice Guys Don't Finish Last is the original
incel rebuttal as far as I'm concerned.
Nice Guys Do Not Finish Last, to be honest, including myself, I'm pretty sure a girl will
prefer to have a guy that treats her right, and if they don't, then you are looking at the wrong girl.
Marina Joyce destroys Nice Guy narrative with facts and logic.
Anyhow, I think it was this nature to tackle some of the more sensitive topics, I mean,
topics that were considered sensitive then at least, which definitely helped her maintain
the fanbase, but they weren't the main reason she blew up.
No, ever since YouTube's deactivation of the statistics tab, one of the worst things
those bastards did, we've been using the way Bat Machine on The Right Opinion to find
out exactly what was popping at the time, and actually it was her beauty videos that
appeared to gain the most traction, initially it was her eyelash tutorial video, after all,
one thing identifiable with her old videos were her eyelashes.
However whereas some channels may capitalise on this, she appeared to choose to consolidate
her position with videos that were more focused around herself, which has advantages and disadvantages.
On one hand you're missing out on an opportunity to make more videos like those and gain a
load of subscribers, but on the other hand you're organically creating a connection
with the audience, an audience who are more likely to stick around with you in the hard times.
This is important to remember for later, Marina definitely had a core dedicated fanbase, even
though she wasn't incredibly different from a lot of her competitors at the time, she
But the times they were a changing, you see bringing back the earlier point, although
there was definitely an appeal within her personality, production values all around
the platform were improving, however in the past, whereas having a nice attractive style
was seen as a sacrifice of the genuine down to earth character, people were expanding
in ways that they could essentially settle on both.
As technology became more mainstream, no longer did having a good impressive camera compromise
the boy or girl next door nature, these things were becoming normalised.
Creators needed to evolve, Marina on the other hand, who created a weird dynamic, despite
her tutorial videos being the most successful, she mostly focused on herself as a person,
almost overwhelmingly actually.
This tells me that I don't really think Marina was looking for relevance at this stage
in her career, but that was a lot of the YouTube mentality back then, many people just saw
the platform as an outlet for themselves, that was perfectly natural.
A lot of people might be mistaken to think that all of Marina's videos blew up because
of what happened in 2016, however it's clear that some of Marina's videos just had a habit
of deciding they were going to do the numbers, and this is essentially what created an audience
for her.
It was much more the challenges and the topics, and her personality, although fairly innocent,
didn't really keep a huge subscriber base coming back, not that she appeared to care
all that much, she was happy doing something that she was doing, with at least a somewhat
committed fanbase.
As said, the landscape of YouTube and content creation was changing very rapidly, we were
slowly raising the bar of the acceptable standard for many production values.
One thing that I found very interesting is that although Marina seemed to improve her
style in some ways, she carried through a lot of the quirky energy that she had always
portrayed to her audience.
I watched the Draw My Life video, and it was very endearing in documenting the struggles
that she faced, however I noticed that it used the exact same music as the music in
the fateful video that caused this phenomenon, despite having over 3 years between them.
Hi, my name's Marina, and I'm 16.
I was a little girl with long blonde hair and blue eyes, and I was always extremely
short.
My hair reached my bum.
That was fun.
Hey guys, so today I'm advertising Style U, and I'm advertising their clothes, so this
is me just advertising their clothes, and yeah, I love you guys so much.
It seems that Marina wasn't really changing that much as a creator, and normally this
wouldn't be a problem, but equally it meant that as a character, she began to stand out
even more and more in a changing landscape that had its presentation a lot more organised,
and to the point.
The sort of overly energetic, chaotic people were being replaced by people who were charismatic
in their own rights, but certainly not to that level.
Her character was always somewhat unique, her character always had its quirks, and with
this it made it even more distinct.
Not in a bad way or anything, but you'll see exactly why this matters with what we're
discussing next.
Now I personally think that Drew may well be possibly being very honest in his video,
and we might discuss his position a bit more towards the end, however I do not want to
premise his video as truth, as it's an extremely sensitive topic, and Marina has her own side
that she has presented indirectly in rebuttal, which we will also discuss later as well.
We don't need it to evaluate a lot of the culture surrounding the whole incident, people
didn't know then and yet we still witnessed a huge frenzy in theories and thoughts, whatever
happened happened, we can look at that.
In the previous part we discussed a lot of various theories and concepts that on their
own aren't particularly important, but as a combination created a situation like no
other, and the job of this is to visit it and apply everything we know thus far, and
put the pieces of the puzzle together before analysing it further.
Marina Joyce is a spiritual person, Marina Joyce is a person who is quite out there,
you can tell this from her videos, you can tell this from her tweets, I think that's
really important to note.
I had a dream that God said he liked my skirt so I wore it today.
These things don't just help build a persona, but they can really create a snowball effect
when a particular situation goes down.
One of the very identifiable elements of the Marina situation was that as a person, despite
aging significantly since her first video, her mental outlook was still one of purity,
one of innocence, and it takes a lot of energy to keep up that persona.
For many people, her mood is not a default, I know it's certainly not for me because
I'm a miserable bastard, but it's not hard to be that, not from my perspective at
least.
So when I look at someone like Marina, I think to myself, how much effort goes into being
that happy?
Well obviously, maybe it's not effort for her, maybe she just thinks like that, but
because it's so out of the ordinary, from my perspective, it becomes identifiable when
that mood has shifted, because it takes a positive effort to create that, and that's
what happened with Marina Joyce.
She carved out a distinctive character that perceptibly took effort, that when she started
behaving in a way that was not typically associated with her image, it became very clear.
Now the video that vaulted her into stardom was Date Outfit Ideas, however going back
you can see that it was evident throughout the videos before.
Many people pointed out that it seems she just had these moments where it looks like
she had some sort of Vietnam flashback, the very jolting transition from her modelling
to the point where she'd have a horrified look on her face.
And if you know her older videos, and her original videos, you can tell that her behaviour
throughout the whole situation isn't a momentary thing.
Those particular instances may accentuate that, but equally by watching her videos prior
to all this transpiring, you can tell that all these videos are off in their delivery.
She always had a bit of a muted approach to delivering sentences and so on, but the way
she talks is extremely stilted and disconnected in these particular videos, and it's extremely
noticeable.
Plenty of people have had spells like that in their content that have been overlooked,
even people who have been happy themselves, we all have rough times.
Why would this cause so much chaos, when really it's just a person acting out of the ordinary?
Well it starts with a fanbase, Marina Joyce by 2016 had a channel that wasn't really
growing, was moving at a fairly stately pace, but she still had a continuous dedicated audience
who knew her personality well, that's important, as mentioned while standing out amongst the
culture she was also familiar with her own viewers, and this creates a juxtaposition
that will pinpoint any shifts in her behaviour.
Marina's persona is consistently happy, and her fans know that.
Of course she'll deal with more serious topics, but I watched a lot of old Marina
Joyce videos and every single one of them felt like they had a tone, with very little
fluctuation in mood, and ones that did felt natural.
I would liken the instant of Marina Joyce to the idea of climate and weather, whereas
weather might simply describe the sort of state of an environment at a specific time
or place, climate represents a greater trend, a long term outlook, which is why we care
about climate change rather than weather change.
As mentioned earlier, the video that caused all the distress was not one, was not the
first one where she was acting strangely, in fact she was clearly acting strangely in
multiple videos prior.
Difference is that this video was probably the one that dictated the trend, the one that
told us that this is going in a direction, and one that we probably don't want it to
go in.
I don't know exactly how it started, I don't know exactly when it began, but it was almost
certainly amplified by fans who knew that something wasn't quite right, it was not
the Marina Joyce that they knew.
Equally what was mildly concerning was the actual conflict of the messages that Marina
sent off, I've recorded videos when I've been happy, I've recorded videos when I've
been in very dark places, the one thing that I will never try to do is miss sell my mood.
Marina seemed like she was trying to recapture that positive vibe that all her viewers were
familiar with, but it just wasn't clicking.
Also keep note of the fact that she would regularly use the same music from a few years
back and would hold on to these traditions in her production, and with this, it felt
unnerving in the context with her out of place behaviour, it's like she didn't even know
she was behaving strangely, it became very weird.
Even the date outfit video when she decided to do that twirl, it's almost as if when she
turned away from the camera, she switched off, and then when she'd finished turning,
she'd got to switch back on.
Any fan of Marina's would know that the whole video, even when she was smiling, felt
uncomfortable and forced, yet it was these moments that helped add another layer that
concerned the casual viewer as well, whereas fans would notice the long term changes, casuals
would notice the volatile short term ticks, from the first days of her channel, this tone
had created a character, and suddenly it was being torn down, and you had a backlog
of content to compare it to.
With that backlog came a person who made us feel involved, a person whose life we saw
in close quarters, as mentioned earlier, unlike TV drama, people felt like they were part
of this person's life much more, that intimate relationship finally mobilised a group of
people who felt like they had influence, and they did.
This was a swell of attention that felt galvanised, but that's still not the whole story, because
as intriguing a character study as this is, it needed one more component to create the
full on hysteria that we witnessed over those few days, and the final spicy saucy ingredient
were the conspiracy theories, and not just any old conspiracy theories, because as plausible
as the ideas such as drugs, attention, or even a mental disorder were, plausibility
doesn't mean fun, and as mentioned before, people love chaos and mystery, and this was
epitomised by the kidnapping theory.
The kidnapping theory really did deserve some credit for keeping this in the public
mind.
Marina Joyce is an established creator, she's behaving extremely strangely, and she appears
to lapse into moments of terror and anguish, and some of these YouTubers come round asking
if she's been kidnapped with very interesting evidence.
In a recent Q&A video she made, someone asks her a question which prompts her to jump multiple
times.
And as she does this, a sound of what sounds like a chain is heard.
Those are some pretty light chains, mate.
Though some of the video was a bit more plausible, that bit is very questionable.
It's a strange theory, the thought that a kidnapper would allow their freshly abducted
victims to broadcast on YouTube is absolutely absurd, but at the same time, people love
the fun that the mystery can provoke, and with the hashtag SaveMarinaJoyce movement,
this all went viral.
Really it was the dark edge this situation had above all, the bruises, the fear.
It was scary, but it was stimulating for people.
Suddenly you have this unique amalgamation of so many different factors, with so much
history creating this movement that fired everyone up, thinking about how Marina Joyce
needs to be saved, the danger that she was in.
Who will rescue Marina Joyce?
Well who did?
You see, earlier on I said that Marina Joyce had a tendency to avoid capitalising on her
successful content, and although this is more notoriety than success, the views were still
excellent.
However, she once again evaded any comment on what was going on specifically.
Now Marina has admitted herself that regardless of the truth, she was not in a good place
in that moment, however at the time she was rather dismissive of the claims being put
forward towards her by many content creators.
Therefore regardless of what it is, that's why I don't think she did this for attention,
she clearly doesn't view YouTube on such a basis, she never intended to be that infamous,
and when it happened she almost let it die herself.
Of course she went on some interviews which provided her with extra publicity, but even
then they were mostly done with the purpose of playing down a lot of the theories put
forward against her.
I'm not taking drugs, I would never do that, and mainly because of my viewers, and I really
care about my viewers, so that's the reason why I wouldn't take drugs.
And like, that I go to drug free events, like I go to raves, but like the raves that I'm
going through are the drug free raves, they're not tolerated, like the places that I go to
aren't places where you can do those sort of things.
So I think people get confused by what I'm doing in my life, where by not knowing me
as well as they should, but yeah, I don't take drugs because I think that it's really
unhealthy for you, and I understand like, just like, I know what happens to those kind
of people, and it's just very dangerous for you, it can give you mental health issues
and stuff like that, it's not good for you, so I just don't recommend it to anybody, and
I just wouldn't do that myself.
Have you ever done anything like that?
Not the most persuasive explanation, but still, it seems that she wasn't interested
in milking this instant for what it was, she was a committed YouTuber, as a creator, with
a small but resolute core fanbase, she wanted to stick to what she knew, if she'd gone
down the route of talking about the real reason why she was doing all the things she was doing,
she may have caught the attention of the recent million or so new fans, but she may have done
that at the sacrifice of her committed fans, who would then be faced with a different perception
of a person who they had formerly had such a clear image of, this consistent character,
that even after the interviews, even after the admission that she wasn't exactly doing
so well, that was still maintained, or attempted to be maintained through the persona, and
so it's clear that although at the time she wasn't being completely honest, and
people may have been frustrated at the fact that she wasn't giving clear explanations,
maybe it was for the best, considering the context of it all, a small proportion of the
people who subscribed to her during the peak of the drama, did actually stick around and
provide her with additional traffic, but typically that considered over questioning her attitude,
which in my opinion, came through as her trying to rekindle that old spirit that she had before
the incident, and honestly, I think people were looking too much at that with a critical
eye, she was always a bit saccharine, she was always a bit over the top, she's just
trying to get that again, the whole incident said a lot about how mystery drives the culture
of concern, once people kinda felt like there was nothing left to see, they just kinda moved
on, I doubt many of the people who partook in the Saving Marina Joyce hashtag even gave
her channel a second look, which is probably why she's lumbering around now with a load
of dead subscribers, however, although the nihilist approach is easy and obvious in this
circumstance, and there is a cynical narrative that can be created, I think that the Saving
Marina Joyce hashtag was actually a positive movement for once, and I think that came down
to the presentation, typically movement sensationalising someone's suffering often amplifies the struggle
that they may be encountering, exposing them to a media onslaught when really what they
need is some therapy, it's not particularly helpful, and so on the surface I'd be poised
to criticise this movement as another media treatment of someone that's clearly beyond
our understanding, however, the framing of Saving Marina Joyce actually put a pretty
positive spin on it, on one hand it did amplify what she was encountering to the outside world,
but whereas sometimes a creator faces the brunt of all this, the tone of concern was
one that almost pushed a sentiment of worry onto Marina, that made her feel responsible
for all these people caring, and actually gave her the motivation to change, because
people wanted to see her well, and not like this.
When we experience hard times, I think that one of the driving elements that may cause
us to do things that are irresponsible is the idea that no one cares about the consequences
of what we do to ourselves, I've done stupid things for that reason, the thought that no
one cares about you, I mean, the thought that no one cares about you, I mean why should
you look after yourself? The power of the Saving Marina Joyce movement was that it wasn't
driven by vitriol, nor by anger, but actual care, the idea that there were people who
cared about Marina Joyce and her wellbeing, and suddenly she felt the necessity to actually
improve, and I feel that's sometimes what lacks in a lot of internet movements, actual
care for what is right, and remembering that at the other side, there are human beings
as well, Saving Marina Joyce actually encompassed some of the best of internet movements, and
the thought that you can actually pull someone back from the edge, is kinda heartwarming,
and Marina even acknowledges that herself.
Marina Joyce- But honestly, even though people seemed to make it out like they cared, I never
really got the full support that I deserved from those people, I didn't get proper help
from anyone, Saving Marina Joyce made me realise that I needed to change some things in my
life to make my life a lot happier, safer, and healthier, because I was in danger in
a lot of different ways, and that was the truth, so it's kinda not a joke when you say
help me, because I was actually in danger, and I actually went through a lot of physical
pain as well, as well as emotional pain.
Jack- Who knows what might have happened if people didn't intervene, and so when this
latest drama went down, it kinda put a sour taste in my mouth, why couldn't we have a
nice peaceful resolution, with the idea that there is some kind of positive closure, why
was it necessary to have this twitter flame war, and then the video where Marina attacks
Keemstar for 12 minutes with her boyfriend, which you know, people can say what they want,
but it was a bit of an aimless rant, if you wanna expose someone, you need to have a bit
more structure, it felt antithetical to everything that Marina had been promoting in her previous
content, and ironically it felt like for the first time she was willingly breaking out
of her normal positive persona.
Keem- What is up Drama Alert nation, I'm your host, Killer Keemstar.
Marina- SHUT UP!
Jack- The thing about Keem's comments is that he was theorising, that's what Keem does,
you can only really lie when you know the truth, even if he was right, even if he was
wrong, he wasn't wilfully lying, he's provided what he thinks happened, now you can say that's
distasteful given the context of the situation, and I might even be inclined to agree with
you, but when you leave the explanation very open ended, that's what's going to happen,
people are going to make up theories and ideas of what's occurred to try and rationalise
the situation, and that's what motivated this situation in the first place, for better
and for worse, no one is entitled to an explanation, but if you don't give them one, they're gonna
take guesses.
It's fair to say that Marina did remove this video subsequently, saying that she would
not stoop down to Keem's level, whatever the reason, it was probably for the best.
When Drew's video came out, I was also left feeling rather conflicted, on one hand, it
did somewhat bring closure to a lot of the questions surrounding her life and provided
an explanation, however given the fact that the premise that Marina was calling Keemstar
a liar on was inherently faulty, it meant that that premise really needed correction
rather than the actual situation, and it's not like she hadn't dismissed the claims made
in other videos in the past, not specifically like with Keemstar, but still none the less.
Marina has been evasive on it from the start, and to be honest I don't entirely blame her,
and so in this instance I still feel that maybe it was Marina's story to tell, though
obviously it's relieving that there's a bit of clarity.
Now of course she has released videos talking about her truth, the newest one that I'm going
to have to include in post-editing as she decided to respond to allegations again, emphasising
her use of medication, but she was equally aversive in the video, and given the amount
of contradicting accounts it's hard to believe that a high dose of medication is the complete
explanation, especially given some of the more audacious incidents, however that's
her explanation, take it or leave it.
However I would encourage Marina to leave it behind, let it go, don't let it be everything
that defines you, making numerous videos on how you don't want to talk about it seems
rather contradictory.
And to be honest, we probably won't ever hear Marina's full story, because the only
person who knows the full truth is Marina herself, and if you don't want to talk about
your experiences, then you don't have to, but what we do know is that Marina's story
is embedded in a culture, one that was born out of the bedroom era and yet evolved into
something so much weirder, where many people moved forward in their style catering to their
ever changing audiences, Marina provided a capsule of the content that she originated
from, maintaining the upbeat music and the saccharine tone, to the point where, when
that evaporated, it was such a ground shaking departure that it began a movement that no
one could have ever anticipated the size of.
Equally, there are many positives to take away from it, and although the recent conflict
has maybe put an atmosphere of cynicism over the situation, one in which parties involved
should know better, I hope that maybe we can look on the bright side of it and say, I guess
everyone was alright in the end.
Because isn't that what matters?
No.
What matters is where the hell that Peruvian temple is.
I donated good money for that you piece of-
So there is the video my friends.
I would love to hear your thoughts in the comments below.
What do you think of the Marina Joy situation, if you remember it?
Well hopefully I've jogged your memory at least.
I'd also like to give a big shout out to the editors, they do a fantastic job.
These videos would not be here without them, and the progress that they have helped me
make is incredible.
So please, I'm gonna leave their links in the description below, if you have the time
go and check them out, send them some love, they really do deserve it.
Also I want to give a big thanks to my Patreons, the generosity is really appreciated, I've
got a few of them on screen right now, they have done a fantastic service, much appreciated,
I love you guys, you really do mean a lot.
And the one individual Patreon I have to give credit to is Ryan, who is still donating $100
a month, and I do not know why anyone would do that, but thank you man, it really does
mean a lot.
I love you.
No homo, unless you want it to be homo, but then, you know, it's up to you, whatever.
Anyhow, I don't really think there's too much else to say, thanks again for the support,
it means a lot, I love you guys, and hopefully by the time this gets out, we'll be having
a good time on the channel.
Until then however, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
I'll see you guys in the next one.
Bye!
