Hey everybody, sorry for the absence.
I was sick for a bit longer and then my girlfriend got sick, so I've been gone for a while doing
stuff.
At the same time, I've also been working on a very large video about Justin Trudeau.
The third big Trudeau video I've done on this channel, because those of you who don't know,
there's a Canadian election coming up next week.
But it's high time I actually get something out, even if it's something small, isn't it?
A week ago, this happened here in Canada.
Book burning at Ontario Francophone schools as a gesture of reconciliation is denounced.
More than 4700 books were removed from the library shelves at 30 schools, and they have
since been destroyed or in the process of being recycled.
The Flame Purification Ceremony, I guess that's what they're calling a book burning now, is
a flame purification ceremony, was held in 2019.
Some 30 books were burned for educational purposes, and the ashes were used as fertilizer
to plant a tree.
We bury the ashes of racism, discrimination, and stereotypes in the hope that we will grow
up in an inclusive country where all can live in prosperity and security.
This sounds pretty bad, doesn't it?
Burning books because the political winds have changed, because it's 2021, or I guess
2019 in this example, but you know what I mean.
The Ontario Ministry of Education and the school board carried out a burning of children's
books such as Asterix, Tintin, Disney, some novels, biographies, or encyclopedias, accused
of being Eurocentric and giving a bad image of Indians.
Well, to be honest, that's actually a pretty good image, all things considered.
She's young and attractive and vibrant, and he's a fat dumb oaf, or maybe they're going
for the objectification angle.
Of course, it turned out that the people that they did this with, the aboriginal credentials
of the person they partnered with on the book burning project, are now in question.
I guess this is her, Susie Keys.
She's about as aboriginal as Elizabeth Warren.
It turns out it wasn't just the books that got burned.
The school board has acknowledged they were not aware of the aboriginal credentials of
a person they partnered with on the project are in question.
The person whose verification is under scrutiny is Barrie Area resident Susie Keys, an outspoken
First Nations advocate who has appeared on stage and in photographs with Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau.
She has now resigned from her indigenous leadership role within the Liberal Party.
Her indigenous status is now being questioned.
An October 1st, 2017 news release stated, the Indigenous People's Commission of the
Liberal Party of Canada is pleased to announce the appointment of Susie Keys to the position
of IPC co-chair.
Susie is an urban indigenous woman of Abenaki and Montanegs, and in a French interview she
said, my mother's family is from several communities.
On my grandfather's side, it's the Malecite from St. Mary's, New Brunswick, and there
are also the Laporte who are Innu, and my grandmother was Abenaki from Odenak.
But it turns out that Susie Keys does not actually have legal Indian status under the
Indian Act.
We were assured that Susie Keys was of aboriginal descent.
We had asked her directly, she confirmed that she was, and we took her at her word.
It turned out that Radio Canada decided to look into the records of those various bands
and couldn't find her family as being a part of any of them.
That doesn't necessarily mean that she's not native.
Maybe there's some old family folklore, you go back a few generations, you can find a
native person.
But it means that she doesn't have legal status.
To be honest, that's kind of where I am.
There is some family folklore about my great-great-grandmother being native.
And last I checked, the records show that to be true.
But also, I don't care.
I'm not juggling it around trying to get a job somewhere or something.
But we're talking about book burning, as funny as this is.
And book burning, as you know, is unfortunately not uncommon.
This week, dumpsters were filled with books that should have left decades ago and replaced
with engaging, relevant, culturally diverse literature.
This individual, of course, is in the New Jersey public school system.
This is insidious because her language talks about replacing old books with engaging, relevant,
and culturally diverse literature.
The point being that she views these as values and that these books she's getting rid of
don't have those values.
But then what do you want to do if you want to read books that don't have those values?
What if you don't share her values?
Or what if you do share her values but you want to hear somebody else's opinion?
This is the difference between offering an alternate point of view and censoring the
ones you don't like.
If you put your contradictory ideas out there, other people can examine yours and examine
other people's and figure out what they want from themselves.
But if you must replace those old ideas, then you are specifically trying to force a monopoly.
It's fine for you to not like Andy Ngo.
It's fine for you not to want to read his unmasked book.
But should somebody be cancelled for praising it?
Probably not.
Jordan Peterson's new book is being published by Penguin Random House, and the younger staff
working for that company are confronting management at a tearful town hall wanting it cancelled.
Several employees cried at the meeting discussing how Peterson's views have negatively impacted
their lives.
Peterson told me he's an icon of hate speech and transphobia, and the fact that he's an
icon of white supremacy, I'm not proud to work for a company that publishes him.
The book itself is actually quite tame, Jordan Peterson has never been a Nazi, and every
single person online who thinks so is absolutely fucking stupid.
There is no excuse for a grown-ass person to break down and cry because a book is being
published.
There was a big hullabaloo back in March about Dr. Seuss getting cancelled, remember that?
Those really old Dr. Seuss books that had jokes about race that aren't really in line
with today's progressive narrative but were completely fine for the time?
To the point that the cancelled books that actually held a book burning for them?
And for those people who still had copies of the books, eBay will not let you sell them
on its site?
Even though of course you can still go on eBay or Amazon for that matter and buy Mein
Kampf.
Forgetting of course that Dr. Seuss himself was not only a children's book author but
was also a political cartoonist, a progressive one at that.
And we cannot talk about modern book burning without talking about JK Rowling.
I know I'm getting on in years at this point but I wonder if some of you are old enough
to remember back in the late 90s and early 2000s when it was the religious right that
would take the Harry Potter books and burn them?
Because they were products of Satan, they talked about black magic and witchcraft and
they were turning people away from Christ.
The most well-documented example came out of the book A Universal History of the Destruction
of Books where on page 228 there is a passage dedicated to Harry Potter.
The crusade against Harry Potter deserves a chapter of its own but let us content ourselves
with just one example among many of the extremes of emotion aroused by the series.
On Sunday, December 30th, 2001, in Alamogordo, New Mexico, a religious community burned hundreds
of copies of JK Rowling's Harry Potter books.
Jack Brock, the leader of the Christ Community Church, explained that his intention was to
point out that Harry Potter was not appropriate for youngsters because it inspired them to
study witchcraft and magic.
The books are an abomination to God and to me and they are likely to destroy the lives
of many young people.
Of course, Brock and his flock admitted they never actually read a single Harry Potter
book but they did decide to toss a few Stephen King novels in the fire for good measure.
And I recall back in the day making fun of these people for being so stupid as to march
down the same path as the Nazis and burn books they didn't like.
But ever since 2017, well, the opposite has been happening.
JK Rowling, I just burned all my Harry Potter books after being a fan for 17 years.
The Philosopher's Stone was one of the first books I ever read.
I'm upset it has to be this way.
You embarrassed me, disgusted me, and I will never read your work again.
This is from a leftist.
The political winds have changed.
JK Rowling, back in 2001, was considered a radical feminist, certainly somebody on the
left.
And let's be honest here, she still is.
Leftists might not like TERFs, but TERFs are still a product of the left.
The right wing does not have any kind of philosophical basis from which feminism can
spring out of.
But as the left goes further and further left, and old leftist ideas get cast out, the same
progressives that loved Harry Potter 20 years ago and made it a cultural phenomenon, they're
now burning their books, with in fact one of the most famous TikToks of it happening
saying you have to stop using the death of the author as an excuse to have your cake
and eat it too.
This generally reflects the broader leftist trend in the past 20-30 years of becoming
more authoritarian.
The death of the author is a leftist idea.
It's basically the practice of divorcing the author from their work, so that you may be
able to analyze it without the specter of the author hanging over your head, so that
their intentions and their experiences and their politics don't influence your interpretation
of the work.
For a long time in the literary space, it was basically a way for people on the left
to say, this piece of literature lines up with what we're saying, so we should adopt
it, even if the author didn't actually go that way.
But the death of the author is also a great way to avoid this kind of censorship.
And so now that the left is on the cultural upswing again, they are abandoning the idea
because abandoning it allows them to burn books and censor people.
In 2019, feminists burned books about changing sexual orientation.
This is a classic now.
Back in 2014, feminists were burning the war against boys.
Chinese library officials are burning books that diverge from Communist Party ideology,
following in the footsteps of previous socialist regimes.
In Raskolnikov's letter to Stalin, he describes the widespread Soviet practice of burning
decadent Western books.
And the most famous book burners of them all, the Nazis, had a long list of books that needed
to be burned.
Works of traitors, immigrants, and authors from foreign countries who believe they can
attack and denigrate the new Germany.
The literature of Marxism, communism, and Bolshevism.
Pacifist literature.
Literature with liberal, democratic tendencies and attitudes.
All historic writings whose purpose it is to denigrate the origin, the spirit, and the
culture of the German Volk.
Books that advocate art which is decadent, bloodless, or purely constructivist.
Writings on sexuality and sexual education which serve the egocentric pleasure of the
individual.
Literature by Jewish authors, regardless of the field.
Popular entertainment literature that depicts life and life's goals in a superficial, unrealistic,
and sickly sweet manner, based on a bourgeois or upper class view of life.
Pornography and explicit literature.
All books degrading German purity.
By the way, those of you who still don't believe that Nazism is an anti-Marxist or post-Marxist
socialism, notice that not all socialist writers were banned, just the Marxists, the Communists,
and the Bolsheviks.
Notice that all the liberal writers were banned.
Notice that rather than appealing to tradition, writers that denigrated the new Germany were
banned.
And that writing based on a bourgeois view was banned.
It is a different socialism, but it is still socialism in the end.
And the books that the Soviets burned, and that the Chinese are burning today, are burned
for a very similar list of reasons.
All these guys, the religious people in America burning Harry Potter, the feminists burning
literature that goes against their ideas.
This is not necessarily a left or right thing, although there do seem to be more examples
in the left that doesn't discount the right.
The Taliban can be described certainly as a right-wing institution.
It's very religious and traditional, and they've also burned books.
The common thread here is authoritarianism.
It's the rejection of democracy, of the open society.
What binds all these groups together is their anti-liberalism.
There is not a single example here of a liberal burning books.
Cats do it.
Kings do it.
Emperors do it.
Fuhrers do it.
And Marshals do it.
Even trad-caths do it.
It's funny to see that video from Academic Agents' recent event where they go on about
burning books.
Oh wait, I can't even show you, they fucking took it down.
Oh, it's down to fix the face blurring.
The point is, there is no oppressive, totalitarian, and morally reprehensible movement that has
not at one point or another directed its hatred and barbarism against books.
And despite the wide array of differences of all of these groups, their justification
is always the same.
The books they're burning are incorrect.
And there's something about the burning of books specifically.
Shredding them or soaking them or smashing them or any other method of destroying them
just doesn't compare.
Neither does just banning or censoring them, like not being able to sell them or having
them confiscated when they're caught on you.
Shredding is a different level.
A book is like a little encapsulation of human wisdom.
It's a window into a certain part of history.
So to burn any kind of book, especially one that represents culture or belief or history
or politics, it feels like a direct attack on man's faculty of reason.
I think Heinrich Hein said it best when he, oh, this is Kraut, this is where Kraut got
his avatar from, alright.
Heinrich Hein said it best when he said, wherever they burn books, in the end, they will also
burn human beings.
And every single group that I have talked about today has either already done that or
is certainly capable of doing it if they ever gain power.
The book burning in Canada is just another data point in a very long tradition of people
finally going mask off, finally showing themselves to be the authoritarians they are.
It would seem to me that any single person that burns a book on some level must be anti-human
flourishing.
And if that's a bit too heavy for you, I'm going to direct you over to V's channel, where
he talked about the same story, but with a lot more humor.
I'll see you next time, guys.
I love you.
The Blame of Purification Ceremony, as reported by the Gospel of Radio-Canada, let us pray.
In the year of the Lord 2019, by the councils called the Erie-Kathulaki province, which
oversees elementary and secondary schools in southwestern Ontario.
