Monday, the 7th of May, 2018, 10.09 AM EST.
The sun shining, the flowers blooming, the day advancing.
However, not everything shone, not everything bloomed, and not everything advanced.
In fact, for the world surrounding Zoe Berger, the forecast was quite adverse.
In a series of revealing tweets, she let the world know of her condition, her circumstances,
and her state, figuratively and literally.
The tweets indicated that the once-renowned sexual provocateur had taken a sharp nosedive
into oblivion.
A sad story.
But how did she meet this fate, and more importantly, why?
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of Atwat with
too much free time.
And today, I take a look at Zoe Berger.
Zoe Berger is or was a Twitch and YouTube streamer.
On the surface, that sounds fairly unexceptional, but Zoe had a twist, and a few twerks too.
She originally started involving herself in social media around the year of 2013, while
she was attending university.
That's relatable.
At least, I assume it was around then, as that was when her Twitter account was created,
and activity initiated.
But it wasn't until 2016, where she became particularly notorious amongst anyone within
the commentary sphere, for being extremely provocative with her content.
But there was a lot more going on beyond the surface.
As a Twitch streamer, she was banned four times, however, finding her feet on YouTube,
she hit one million in no time at all.
That is pretty incredible.
I remember when I first came across her, and I was almost stunned at the speed of such
growth.
Even with the reputation garnered being carried over from Twitch, it seems she was destined
to smash the platform.
After all, there's always going to be a demographic for her sort of content, right?
Zoe Berger, the face of YouTube.
Didn't quite happen, did it though?
In fact, as quickly as the success came, it just halted, and as of right now, she is on
the same subscriber count that she was on in December 2016.
Given her ascension was only in the space of a few months before then, the sudden cessation
was almost unbelievable.
Now, it's not exceptional for someone to fall as quickly as they rise, and there are
many scenarios in which this has occurred, but for something as consistently, well, dick-hardening
for many young whippersnappers, a stagnation seems at least slightly more difficult than
she made it out to be.
Plenty of other provocative females on the platform have been known to flaunt their physicality,
and they can hold onto their ground.
On top of that, it wasn't like she hadn't tried to branch beyond shaking her ass.
In fact, she had also attempted to start up her own little brand known as Lux.
It's clear that she invested a lot in this, and we'll investigate that more in a bit.
However, when the first generation of this little squadron exited at the end of 2017,
Zoe greeted 2018 with open arms, and vowed to give the next set of recruits all new and
exciting opportunities.
Mansion Shoot's production filming Zoe had a vision.
However, on the 8th of April, that came to an end with Lux devolving, and just over a
month later came the tweet in question, followed by numerous more tweets that represented a
unique turn in character from the once rather explicit streamer.
Where there is a rise, and there is a fall, there is an explanation.
For both.
I thought I'd conduct my own little inquiry into little details that led to the ascent
and subsequent descent for one of the most shameless characters on the platform.
Without further ado, let's get right into it.
If you use Twitch, you'll know that they run a pretty tight shift for a lot of their content,
particularly for that which may include provocation.
Provocative is one way of describing Zoe Burger's content, and one word that I'm probably going
to be using a lot today, so when she was kicked off inevitably, it was not a surprise, not
even to Zoe.
However, she did not seem too bothered.
After all, she found YouTube and an environment that perfectly fostered her meteoric rise
to stardom, or whatever you wanna fucking call it.
It seems unlikely that Zoe was the first Twitch streamer to ever be sexually provocative.
I'm sure there were plenty before, and there were plenty since.
However, she was definitely one of the first to be able to gain significant traction from
it, and unlike her contemporaries, there was no ambiguity about it.
She knew what she was doing when she was shaking that ass, and pulling the views.
I wanted to get a snapshot of her old Twitch, however for some reason the Wayback Machine
carried on telling me that all the screenshots for her channel had been shipped to another
castle which is fantastic.
Either way, I was not impressed.
I also wanted to be able to piece together a slightly more detailed timeline, but unfortunately
she sometimes just appeared to forget to fill in the text boxes, so her follower count was
often a mystery.
However, with a bit more digging, I did manage to find an old image taken before she went
viral in March 2016, showing that she had a decent amount of traction.
In fact, briefly after one of the occasions she was banned and had her account returned,
she reported receiving a shoutout from RiceGum of all people.
Isn't that curious?
So this inevitably gave her some groundswell, and eventually when she was kicked off Twitch
the fourth time, she moved to YouTube, with a significant amount of momentum she managed
to kickstart the channel.
You have a collection of highly active subs at that point, that looks great to a lot of
algorithmic mechanisms, so she gained and gained and gained, and it effectively snowballed.
But what did that snowball like?
B O O D Y
2016 was a strange year.
Gaming channels were in a tight spot, they hadn't effectively died like they had sometimes,
such as the pre-Fortnite drought, however there was a sentiment of stagnation, and they
needed a hero, someone to give it a new lease of life.
Zoey Burger.
Zoey Burger appealed to the fact that there is a significant demographic within the gaming
industry that are hormonal virgins, who jumped to the chance to watch someone juggle such
personality with gameplay.
Her thumbnails hit the sweet spot, and a lot of people justifiably asked why on earth she
was gaining any attention at all.
Why were people donating to see someone shake their ass when they could watch someone shake
their ass for free anywhere else?
That's an interesting question.
I think the idea of specific donations within the streams themselves almost gave the donor
a perverted sense of power, the fact that they had control, they were making her shake
her ass, the virtual representation of going to a strip club for them and throwing money
at the hookers, having someone shake their ass for them.
It was a nice little scheme that set her apart and knew how to appeal to certain psychological
switches in the mind.
Now of course this brought into question many moral challenges, with many content creators
attempting to have her channel terminated, but the lines were so blurred that it was
simply impossible to remove her from the platform, it also didn't help that a lot of people
were just attempting to eject her because she was busting that booty.
And if you've seen the latest music video for Tiger for example, and multiple other
artists within the music industry, you'll understand that if YouTube were to ban Zoe
Burger, there'd be even larger policy inconsistencies than the ones they have already.
The only deeper question is should she be shaking her ass for donations from kids who
probably aren't completely mature?
The problem is, although it's inevitable that it's happened, it's hard to establish
the age of such donors, so the best YouTube could do was age restrict the videos, which
in all fairness they did sometimes.
However every kid knows how to bypass that, they're not dumb twats, it's an onerous
complication to say the least, and riding on the wave, Burger knew exactly how to take
advantage of that, she'd get the clicks, she'd get the dicks.
However when your content is growing fast through the methods of provocation, it gains
the attention of something equally ravenous, drama, and damn was it spicy.
You see there were many commentators who took protest to the fact that her content was on
YouTube, and that it was being promoted too, so they made videos on it.
Now I must stress, not everyone you make a video on will gain from it, if you can deliver
criticism in a damning fashion, then you can stifle someone's growth.
In this instance many commentators were hoping to bring YouTube's awareness to the situation,
and effectively have her removed, however in this instance the drama was a perfect storm
to propel her.
The criticism that many of these commentators dished out was levied from a point of view
concerned with moral conduct.
Now sometimes moral conduct can be fairly black and white, but the moral issue here
came with indulgence, so many people responded, well Zoe's having a good time, the viewers
are having a good time too, who's losing?
And some of these commentators have significant overlap into the sort of demographic who enjoyed
Zoe's content, so no one felt particularly guilty supporting her.
She wasn't explicitly abusing anyone, she wasn't touching kids to our knowledge, and
the anonymity of the donors allowed people to fill in the gaps with their most ideal
scenario to morally justify the system that they were participating in.
It was a smart business model that worked perfectly for her.
And then there was the drama with RiceGum.
This was one of the few RiceGum videos that I've ever watched, fun fact, and his acting
is terrible.
I mean you can tell he's not being legitimate, and it's very very transparent, and because
once again the whole tone of the video was mild and light hearted, it just bolstered
Zoe even more, and that's what it was meant to do, it was a good scheme by two people
in the same network.
And through this Zoe essentially managed to smoothly transition her content from Twitch
to YouTube, maximising her success.
She would also regularly make video responses and call out people herself.
A lot of her arguments fell rather flat to be honest, but one thing that never got old
was the fact that she could do what she wants, and if YouTube had a problem they could get
rid of her themselves, which was always fairly indestructible.
She gradually escalated her escapades, eventually offering news for 1 million subscribers, a
goal she reached incredibly quickly.
Zoe Burger was YouTube's next star, she had amassed such a huge amount of followers in
no time at all, the Empire had been constructed.
But what she had constructed was a house of cards, and a gust of wind was just around
the corner.
How can something be constructed so emphatically yet have so many holes in?
Zoe Burger's glass house was just a stone's throwaway for many people ready to take her
down, yet the real assailant was herself.
What do I mean?
Well we've got time to break it down, so why don't we?
Now novelty isn't always a bad thing, however there are two key clinchers with it, two that
Zoe herself could not hold onto.
Firstly novelty banks on the fact that no one is doing it, and for certain talents that
is fine, there are some very niche persuasions that would take excessive amounts of effort
to reach any sort of distinguished level of skill at all.
With all due respect to her craft, Zoe Burger's brand of shaking her ass in front of the camera
was not anything exceptional, the only noteworthy element was that she was the first to mix
all of these elements together, but once people know the recipe, they're gonna get cooking.
And as PewDiePie's recent content on various Twitch streamers has showed, there's always
an audience, and whereas Zoe was banned from the platform, many of these new females very
carefully walk the line between what is acceptable, and what is not.
So by even being allowed on Twitch, this new set of creators had an advantage, and so when
more creators came along, and the competition intensified, it no longer became a case of
who did it first, it became a case of who was doing it best.
The second problem with novelty is that it can't just be a gimmick, which is what a lot
of Zoe Burger's sexual content was, it was a gimmick, she was known as a person who twerked
on Call of Duty streams for money, that was the hook.
In one of her earlier videos she says that she's aware she doesn't have the most personality,
and yes, she doesn't.
And that's a problem, brief, spur of the moment trends and titles can give you a significant
following, but that following won't stick around if you don't have anything to bring
them back for.
Unfortunately there was nothing that many people who watched Zoe Burger would come back
to enjoy, and as the competition rose, and people found other streamers, the motivation
to return to her content was less and less, and although it didn't have to be that way,
she didn't really help herself in any situation either, and probably accelerated her downfall.
You see, I've never enjoyed the you're just giving them attention argument, because even
if it does bring someone some increase in attention over the short term, it can have
significant effects in detracting from them long term, and Zoe Burger is a perfect example
of this.
She isn't very good at arguing.
At first it was alright, she was arguing against people who she could definitely frame as quite
imposing, and she was this defender of being able to do what she wants, that was fine.
But then you had other people, such as Pyrocynical, whose videos weren't just aimless rants,
they were more nuanced takes on what she might be doing wrong.
Although her response may have quickly gained attention because she's responding to Pyrocynical,
Pyrocynical's response video has three times the views that his original one does.
And even when your whole business model is based around twerking, a bit of integrity
is still important, and once the drama faded there just wasn't interest, she had been shown
to be a hypocrite one too many times, and she couldn't just fall back onto the same
excuses that she had before, because not everyone is going to argue whether she should or should
not be on the internet, there are going to be people who take more moderate positions.
The only reason that she released the response to Pyrocynical was because it would get viewed,
and saying that she doesn't make the type of video multiple times doesn't change the
fact that she made the video and fucked up because her line of argument was just weak.
However this wasn't the end of the drama, you see we just mentioned gimmicks, and obviously
when your channel is partly composed of a gimmick that has an expiry date, you gradually
escalate and escalate and escalate the antics to maintain viewership, it's like a roller
coaster, you extend the incline a bit further but only heighten the inevitable drop.
This was represented by a situation regarding nudes, the nude offering was that escalation
for Zoe Burger, she was going to give all the viewers nudes at 1 million subscribers,
and she hit 1 million, and obviously in an attempt to avoid channel termination, didn't
really show any nudes at all, and all the horny young lads who were subscribed to her
for it experienced great disappointment. This was Zoe Burger's most prominent stunt, but
at the same time it represented the beginning of the drop for that roller coaster ride,
and as the subs bled and she was hit with another copyright strike, which I must clarify
was for an unrelated video, she lashed out at everyone under the sun, from SS Sniper
Wolf, to FaZe Clan, to Daddy Ricegum, quite clearly trying to start anything, but that
ship had sailed, and Zoe was still at the port.
Can you maintain a consistent state of drama? Yes, I do believe you can, but it has to be
constantly adapting and evolving to the necessary circumstances, a lot of Zoe's drama was
oh my god, she shakes her ass for money. It's quite two dimensional, and eventually it's
a debate that you realise both sides are not going to compromise on, people become bored
and move on, you can just hope YouTube is on your side, right?
2017. It wasn't the best time to be any sort of R-rated YouTuber, I've mentioned
him before but NerdCity made a great video documenting his findings on a study conducted
by researcher CeeLo. The results showed that if your video was rated M for Mature, it was
likely to significantly affect the views and promotion that it receives, this was not
a friendly algorithm to someone like Zoe Burger. Now gameplay channels were already being marked
with an M, and on top of that, her other offerings to these videos were pretty mature, much of
her work was age restricted, and if your videos are age restricted, you know that it dies
a horrible death on the algorithm, and let's face it, YouTube wouldn't want someone like
Zoe Burger to be one of their most sizeable channels.
And in all fairness, she did try other content where she still behaved seductively, but with
a slightly more marketable vibe. However, this essentially put her in a paradox because
the original appeal was how downright shameless she was, and at this point, her switching
content to stuff marginally more dignified was like attempting to polish a prostitute,
she either could do the more crude content and risk being punished by YouTube, or do
more sophisticated works and undermine her whole appeal in the first place.
2017 was not a good year to be anything on YouTube, especially Zoe Burger, and in her
defence, she did anticipate that. However, with that said, although her channel wasn't
on the hot streak that her original content was, there were still the odd couple of videos
that seemed to do well, and although it was definitely quite turbulent, it wasn't fully
dead. So what killed it? What was the nail in the Zoe Burger coffin? Let's talk about
Lux.
Lux was Zoe's gaming initiative that would branch beyond her, it was her all female
gaming team, and it was going to reach a new demographic. Now on paper, this is not
a disastrous idea, having a few extra people does create a new dynamic, and although it
can sometimes water down individual personalities, I don't think personality was ever Zoe's
strong point, and therefore multiplying the number of on-screen asses wasn't exactly
an awful idea. This was something that Zoe clearly felt passionate about, and she was
promoting it tirelessly. Many of her videos have gone just from her to this new acquired
squad, the views weren't exceptional, but they were consistent, what she needed to keep
going. However, many of the problems that plagued Zoe Burger on her own remained prominent
on Lux, they still didn't have a huge grip on the personality, there was nothing exceptional
about their gameplay, unfortunately they're just not the most skilled people. As the videos
decreased in number, the views did too, and then on the 21st of December, two of the founding
members announced their departure from the group. The door was closing on Zoe, she had
exhausted multiple options at this point, the lone streams weren't doing the numbers,
the Lux streams didn't quite carry the burden necessary, so what could she do? On the same
night that the girls tweeted out about their exit, Zoe put out a video, in which she explained
that she had great plans for Lux and that it wasn't over, she was going to be putting
110% into it, everything, balls to the wall. And that's what we needed, in a way, we needed
a balls to the wall Zoe Burger, but it's not quite what we got. On the 2nd of February
2018, Zoe released her trailer for the new Lux, this one was more glamorous, higher production
value, and all-round more polished. The first episode was dropped on their own dedicated
channel and, shit, it was a huge bomb, and it was even worse considering the visible
investment being made in it, and it's time to explain everything that went tragically
wrong with this. Firstly, they should not have put it on a separate channel, that was
a terrible idea, it may have been an attempt to give it its own unique branding, but it
just opened it up for a new torrent, away from the protection of her retained fanbase.
Any seasoned YouTuber will tell you that as soon as you have a like-dislike ratio lower
than 50% then YouTube pulled the video from recommended altogether, so given the fact
that these were pretty much blitzed by dislikes, it killed any prospect that it had of growth.
The content itself, although not entirely incompetent, was just rather boring, it was
plagued by the problem that all Zoe's content was plagued by, a lack of personality. Increasing
the number of people also didn't help, given the chemistry was just rather stilted, I accept
that they hadn't known each other for long when they filmed, but you have to take that
naivety and turn it into something riveting, and there was nothing cinematic about it,
they spent around a third of the episode in a fucking limo. Only a selection of compelling
events can occur within the confinement of a limo, I was more interested in how it obtained
that huge dent, and why they used an instrumental that sounded like a bargain-barrel version
of an old Dennis Edwards song.
In case anyone wonders how I know these things, it's because I breathe music. But anyway,
back to the point, it was clearly trying to be higher in its production value than
it actually was, and because of this it did not gain an identity, it didn't manage to
take a direction, and therefore it could not keep viewers engaged, and that's not even
the most gaping issue, and I can't believe I'm saying that. But the most considerable
reason why this failed, is because it was the most visible example of how Zoe Burger
lost sight of what made her popular in the first place. As I said earlier, she acknowledged
that she wasn't a tour de force in personality, so the idea of basing something around their
personality is insane, it's career suicide. Unfortunately, a lot of people are not interested
in the plight of booty streamers, and I'm really sorry to say this because we all have
our own struggles and inner demons, and we shouldn't necessarily hide them from the
world, but Zoe could not sell that to an audience, and after a lot of the initial drama undermined
her credibility, she was never going to present her character as compelling or even refined
or legitimate. People followed Zoe for her buttocks, and I'm sorry, and although it's
shallow, it's a culture that I would not agree with, but in effect that's the way it is,
and Zoe was aware of that, and embraced it, she loved it for a moment, she made her bed,
and she lay in it. After three episodes with diminishing returns, the second Lux group
disbanded. It is fair to say that it was Zoe's worst mistake, and unfortunately it led us
here today, it was a foolishly ambitious move, and I know that risk taking is sometimes a
necessity to gain success, however she should've realised that the odds were stacked against
her in this instance, so why on earth would she chase something so destined to fail? Well
to be honest from what I've watched, it was her trying to get back in touch with the authentic
element, who she really was, even though it became grossly warped, and it takes me to
my final point.
One of the constituents that I found myself observing fairly frequently when watching
her content was how forced a lot of it was, the twerking was like a routine, personality
was non-existent, nothing felt genuine, in her drama video she'd contradict herself
innumerable amounts of times, the emotion seemed contrived, and it led me to the conclusion
that she was either desperately lacking in self awareness, or she was running on one
concept which she only knew how to handle by stretching it out further and further,
and as she felt herself getting sucked into this hole, she just attempted to tighten her
grip on the few handles that she had hold of, and that all imploded. But unfortunately
you cannot do that forever, sometimes as creators and we're desperate, we find something
that works, but then to maintain it we do it more, and more, and more, and more, and
we keep hoping that we find gold and recapture the original magic that bolted us into stardom.
However, time transpires and people lose their interest because you built your kingdom on
rickety foundations, that's what Zoe Burger stood on, a lie, a lie that this is what she
wanted, a lie that this is what she needed, and with all the drama and with all the bullshit
she dug herself a deeper and deeper hole. She tried to retain what made her famous,
she tried to galvanise her career through Lux, and then she tried to touch on something
more bona fide, and everything just led to a dead end because the original concept that
she constructed herself on was not sustainable, unfortunately in the YouTube game you either
die a hero or you live long enough to see yourself become irrelevant.
And that's the problem with Zoe, it's the end for her, and this takes us to the Twitter
post, and the ones after, that showed what we should have seen, it was a desperate act
that went on for much longer than it should have. Zoe unfortunately caught herself in
something that many investors would call the sunk cost fallacy, the idea that we stay invested
in something based on our previous investments in the hope that it gets better, but it doesn't,
but we keep doing it and doing it until we have nothing left, and we're moving back to
our parent state. These things won't alleviate themselves unless we find a way to branch
it out, but Zoe had worn out a lot of the appeal that many people had found in her to
begin with, it was all opportunistic ass shaking, and as my previous segments have documented,
that's not enough in the modern environment when you're competing with people who have
advantages against you in all departments, and unfortunately although I think Zoe was
willing to change, she went into various different industries that she had equally insufficient
skill sets to succeed in, she turned down this bizarre road, and that's what confused
me the most, it was like throwing the anchor out, on a sinking ship, even as the water
reached your waistline, it was a delusion. In one video that is distinctly more realistic
than others, she laments all these decisions that she's made, and for the first time, it
was kinda sad, it didn't feel like she was just crying to try and emotionally appeal
to the twitch gods to let her back in, it felt like she realised where she stood, and
it left her empty. When we act to maintain an image, it takes its toll, especially in
cases like Zoe Burgers, where there was clearly a subconscious yearning for a return to something
more genuine, something more innocent, and looking back on her legacy as the twitch streamer
who exploited a little more than cleavage for views, yeah, I'd be pretty disappointed
too. She thought Lux could provide that sort of fresh start, but all it did was create
business relationships with people who she considered friends before, which subsequently
broke down the genuine elements of her life that she valued. Above all, what I've observed
is that Zoe's just too impulsive with how she acts, as she says in this video, she really
tries to save money but often that doesn't happen, she has a vision and chases it, and
it doesn't work out, and that's how this whole thing started, Lux was not a realistic passion
and it was not going to launch her, she was someone twerking on camera for the dollar,
and that is fine, but she never thought about how that might change, she never thought about
how to adapt to altering environments, even when she consciously acknowledged her own
flaws she acted like a person in denial, hoping that the audience would somehow take
to her. She thought that she could transition and escape the stigma, while forgetting that
it was simultaneously the stigma that made her popular in the first place, by deserting
that audience to pursue something idealistic, when she returned the audience wasn't there
either, she basically dug her own grave. Zoe, you're never going to have that respect from
a majority of people, I'm sorry, but that is how you popularise yourself, unfortunately
Twerking is not a personality trait, it's a gimmick, and if you have nothing else to
supplement that, it will become tiresome very quickly, your rise was too fast to be true,
your fall too fateful to be false, and this is where I'd like to leave a message to you,
the audience.
If you want a career that will be known fondly, supported through times when you trend and
times when you don't, if you want to pursue other careers and still want that core fanbase
who may not have great interest in it, it's about respect. Zoe's whole gimmick was self-objectification,
a concept inherently antithetical to the notion of respect, and whenever she tried
to go deeper she came across as lousily shallow or easily debunked, this prevented her from
being able to develop a character, as she was trying to base her developments off a
character that even she didn't believe in, and that's such an important point, if you
want to develop yourself, I think that's great, but it has to come from a genuine place, and
everything about Zoe's persona was synthetic, if you want to try and develop something fake,
all you do is expose how fake it truly is, people came for brainless content, you try
and give it a brain and you'll just end up with some fucked Frankenstein's monster of
a persona that doesn't compel anyone, because it doesn't make sense, and when you expand
as much effort as Zoe did trying to make sense of it, it will inevitably fail, and that is
sad.
I don't think there's anything wrong with exaggerated and elaborated personas, everyone's
persona is slightly different from their personality, but keep them based in reality, base them
in some form of respect, any form of respect, and you will vastly increase your chances
of longevity on this platform, there are often faster and easier ways to success, but it's
only a matter of time before they become highly precarious, Zoe Burger is a prime example
of that, she was only interesting when she was being something that she wasn't, a gimmick
that was exposed when she tried to return to her roots, and has led us to this sorry
situation.
I hope she finds herself, but I do not think it will be on this platform, I think it's
time for her to give it a break, and move on.
What do you think of Zoe Burger?
I'd love to hear your diagnosis, let me know, in the comments below I'd also like to give
a humongous thanks to the editors who have done another great job on this, I'm going
to leave their links down below and you should definitely check them out if you have the
chance and send them some love, without that talent this channel would not be here today
so I really can't thank them enough.
I also get asked a lot what sort of content I enjoy, and I'll often retweet it on my
Twitter which is at the right opinion, however I also have a group of creators who I really
think have great potential, known as the NCO, and we tweet out their content on the at NCO
underscore tweets, I'll leave that link in the description below and pinned comment too.
You can reach me on Facebook and Discord, though I don't promote content beyond my own
on there.
Anyhow I'd like to thank everyone for the support of recent, it's been very impressive
and it means a lot, and I look forward to chatting with all of you in the future.
Until then however, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you, in the next one.
