Remember this, remember that moment in April of 2020 when the oil market made headlines,
when the value of West Texas intermediate futures plummeted 300%, when the cost of a
barrel hit $0, then went below zero, then closed the day at negative $37.62?
Maybe you don't—it was a never-before-seen moment nestled between countless never-before-seen
moments—but this moment created this one—oil futures trading at the highest levels in a
decade, gas prices at an all-time high.
The worst day in the oil market's history is responsible for ushering in a new era of
record industry profits.
In the wake of a singular crash, and looking down the barrel of the industry's most existential
threat to date, oil and gas has found a new way to extract more money than ever from the
earth.
The era of scarcity is here, and oil's old ways are over.
Three decades ago, Azerbaijan found itself in front of opportunity.
With the end of August 1991 came the start of the independent Republic of Azerbaijan
as the Soviet Union shed yet another one of its states, and the Iron Curtain rose to reveal
a massive reservoir of oil.
Laying beneath the Caspian was one of the biggest opportunities ever presented to the
Western oil and gas industry.
For decades up until that point, the USSR had been the world's largest oil producer,
but of increasing ire to the private Western producers was OPEC—a cartel of major Middle
Eastern, African, and South American oil-producing countries.
Collectively, market power swayed increasingly away from Washington, but the Caspian had
the potential to put power of the world's most valuable commodity back into what was
considered more trusted hands.
But simultaneously, if managed poorly, it had the same potential to cement the power
of OPEC or the new Russian state.
So, the starter pistol had sounded, and the scramble of the century began.
Azerbaijan has a history as an oil economy—in fact, in the earliest days of the industry,
the country's exports accounted for more than half of the world's supply, but a lack
of focus and investment by their Soviet rulers had transformed the former power player into
a dilapidated, insignificant producer.
To change that, the nation would need investment—and a lot of it.
Baku Street soon hosted a rotating cast of oil executives and diplomats, all there to
court the government into signing a contract with them, rather than their competitor.
A conclusion came in 1994, when ten companies gathered together to sign what was described
as the contract of the century—they would jointly invest, develop, and operate one of
the most valuable oil fields the world had ever produced.
The supply was set, so now all they needed was a way to sell it.
Despite its name and stature, the Caspian Sea is not truly a sea.
It's an endorheic basin, meaning water flows in, but only evaporates out.
Therefore, crucially, unlike its neighbor the Black Sea, the Caspian has no connection
to the ocean.
Simply loading crude into a tanker and sending it to market was impossible—the consortium
needed another route to market.
For the longest time, Azerbaijan exported oil by loading into rail cars routed west
to the Black Sea, where it would be transferred to tanker ships, but both rail and tanker
took substantial cuts out of the profit.
While rails provide an excellent stopgap during pipeline construction or production
booms, travel along already established infrastructure, and can flexibly ship oil to where the market's
the hottest, they don't come cheap.
Using present-day rates from the US, rail transport adds between $5 and $10 a barrel
in cost, making it two to three times more expensive than by pipeline.
Trains were more accident-prone too, and considering that the outbound oil from the Caspian had
a predetermined origin and destination, the only benefit the consortium gained by transporting
oil from the Caspian to the Black Sea via rail was that it didn't have to front the
cost of building a pipeline.
Like the railways, shipping oil out of the Black Sea on tankers proved workable but inefficient.
While connected to the Mediterranean and the world beyond, navigating the 12th treacherously
tight and winding turns of the Bosporus Strait, linking the Black Sea to the wider world through
the very heart of Istanbul, was less than ideal.
The strait proved too narrow for the increasingly common very large crude carriers capable of
shipping 2 million barrels, while the ever-present risk of a single miscalculation closing the
strait for months and stopping Azerbaijani oil in its tracks loomed over the precarious
operation.
That left one good option—pipeline—the safest, most efficient method of shipping
crude oil.
With minimal operating costs and maintenance requirements, shipping a barrel by pipeline
in the US today only adds about $3 to $5 in cost, varying slightly based on quality of
product and distance traveled.
But while pipelines are incredibly cost-effective once in use, to the extent that the US and
Canada are crossed by 100,000 miles or 160,000 kilometers of them, getting such systems online
represents a major upfront investment.
In a 2016 study, economists estimated that building a modest regional pipeline, 12 inches
or 30 centimeters wide and approximately 200 miles or 320 kilometers in length across mostly
flat land would cost a staggering $1.5 million per mile or $960,000 per kilometer.
Connecting the Caspian Sea to the outside world via pipeline would be anything but a
modest endeavor.
The simplest project, for instance, would have been to reverse an existing pipeline
previously used to supply Azerbaijan to route oil northward into Russia's extensive network,
but the US vehemently opposed this.
That would give Russia even greater influence over Azerbaijan's economy.
Another option, routing through Iran, was briefly floated, but this was quickly shot
down due to geopolitical factors as well.
Therefore, that left the western option, which, too, was undesirable.
Georgia was a geopolitically unstable country composed almost exclusively of rough mountainous
terrain, so building a pipeline through it would be risky and expensive.
But it was also the only option left, so construction started on one of the costliest pipelines
in history.
Then, as it became clear that the Bosporus Strait wasn't viable long-term, they started
building another.
To provide a stable route to market, to get that crucial Mediterranean Sea access, the
consortium would have to build one of the longest oil pipelines in the world over some
of the harshest terrain ever spanned by a pipeline.
The 41-inch, 104-centimeter pipe would have to cross three countries, the towering peaks
of the Caucasus, 1,500 streams and rivers, and 3,000 roads, railways, and utility lines.
Therefore, it came with a stratospheric price tag—inflation-adjusted $5.5 billion—but
the consortium was willing to write this check as it was what was necessary to capture the
massive profit potential of Caspian oil.
But for every 1990s Caspian sea boom, there's a 2021 Permian Basin bust.
For reliant nation-states, this volatility is dangerous.
Volatility though, has been largely countered by cooperation.
Beginning at a Baghdad conference in 1960 attended by officials from Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela, major Middle Eastern, African, and South American oil producers
have sought to limit overproduction and price fluctuation by controlling global supply.
Made up of these 13 countries today, OPEC sets oil production quotas to maintain the
organization's position of power and, to the extent they can, set a barrel's price.
The organization does this by relying on each member state's ability to ramp or cut crude
production and the organization's sheer scale—that its members produce 40% of the
world's supply and account for nearly 80% of the world's proven reserves.
While Western producers rely on private companies to navigate the massive booms and busts of
the free market with comparatively limited state influence, OPEC functions as an international
cartel whose structure and geological advantages have proved difficult to circumvent, undermine,
or unseat.
In this context, OPEC introduces a crucial component of oil economics—that the price
per barrel is not exactly dependent on the cost of producing that barrel.
Take 2016, for example.
In a year when West Texas intermediate crude prices plummeted below $40, a mark so low
that OPEC broke convention by welcoming Russia into OPEC+, and vowing to make explicit production
cuts, producing a barrel in OPEC's three largest producers—Saudi Arabia, Iran, and
Iraq—cost at most, in the case of Iraq, a paltry $10.57.
In the US, the average price of production was over $20 while in the UK, $44.
At base, oil prices are simply a natural function of supply and demand, but thanks to a tangled
web of nation-states, cartels, technical and geological constraints, investor confidence,
geopolitical rivalries, and political negotiations, the supply side is anything but natural.
Furthering the convolution as to what actually influences what you pay at the pump, and why
it skyrocketed in 2022, is the fact that cars don't run on crude oil, they run on gasoline.
Turning oil into gas requires a whole list of additional steps, and each step, in turn,
accrues additional costs.
Let's say some thousands of barrels have navigated the pumping, pricing, and shipping
process and have made their way from Kuwait to Valero's marine terminal here at the
Port of Los Angeles's berth 164.
From there, it's transported here, to Valero's Wilmington Refinery.
After spending some time in storage, the oil is sent through distilling towers, where it's
heated until boiling, then, depending on its boiling point, divided off.
The crude which boiled off at the lowest temperature, after treatment, will become propane, while
the oil with the highest boiling point will end up as asphalt.
While the exact traits of the oil, and the exact configuration of the refinery leads
to discrepancies from plant to plant, on average, each barrel of oil produces about 19 gallons
or 72 liters of car-grade gasoline.
In other words, about 45% of the crude sent through Valero's Wilmington Towers will
become gas.
Refining oil into gas isn't cheap—in fact, 18% of gas' price emanates from this step
alone.
After Valero's distilling towers separate the gasoline, it is then treated and blended
with additional ingredients like butane and ethanol, depending on the season and state
environmental regulations, before being transported by rail, pipeline, and trucks to gas stations.
Considering Southern California's rampant demand, there's a good chance that the gasoline
process just up from the Port of Los Angeles goes on to get consumed within a 100 mile
radius.
Nationally, this step, distribution and marketing, accounts for another 12% of gas' price at
the pump, and as any Californian will tell you, nearby refinement doesn't come with
any sort of local discount.
In fact, the state of California is home to the most expensive gas in the US.
While favorable geography explains its critical ports, it's also geography that explains
why its tankers, and practically only tankers, are supplying the state in the first place.
Separated for many American suppliers by the towering Rockies and Sierras, California is
effectively an energy island.
With rail shipping from areas as far away as the Bakken prohibitively expensive, and
pipeline projects both impractical and highly unpopular, California is nearly entirely reliant
on importing oil by ship.
But California's isolation isn't strictly geographical.
The state's gas is more expensive than even Hawaii's because the gas itself is physically
different, as California's uniquely strict environmental laws require additives like
methyl turt butyl ether or ethanol mixed in to ensure a cleaner burn.
Additionally, state fees for greenhouse gas initiatives and a higher state tax push California
gas prices higher than national averages.
And whether in California or not, taxes on gasoline contributed another major influence
on price, making up, on national average, 11% of consumer gas prices.
But as eye-popping as the state's prices may be, they represent a proportional climb
relative to the eye-popping California prices of yesteryear.
That's because while there are situational factors from state to state or country to
country that influence prices, those are often used as strawmen to point fingers at state
or national politicians.
These factors hardly change in the short-term, so it truly informs the swings, what makes
up 59% of the price of the pump is the price of the underlying commodity—the price of
oil itself.
This is a graph of 24 years of the world's total liquid fuels production, while this
represents 24 years of the world's total liquid fuels consumption.
By and large, the two lines match up quite closely—the world makes about as much fuel
as it consumes at any given moment—however, it's the minor mismatches that matter here.
Back in 07', a number of supply shocks occurred all at once—Venezuela cut off
sales to ExxonMobil, Scottish oil workers went on strike, Iraqi pipelines were destroyed
by saboteurs, Nigerian production was hampered by strikes and militant attacks—slowly and
unintentionally, the supply line slipped beneath the demand line.
Prices skyrocketed.
While only some of the spike can be attributed directly to supply, and not to ensuing speculation
and other market-based factors, the period demonstrated the sheer power of the law of
supply and demand in oil and gas.
Due to the inflexibility of consumption, with most unable to dramatically change their use
of fossil fuels in the short-term, small changes in supply lead to huge changes in price.
For cartels such as OPEC, with its unique ability to turn off the taps, this was hugely
valuable knowledge.
2008's rally was soon reversed by 2008's financial crisis, but prices steadily crept
up to a comfortably high level for oil companies as the world economy heated up in the early
2010s.
In North America, however, innovators were brewing up one of the most dramatic revolutions
in the oil industry's history.
Shale is a dense rock.
Unlike the sand or limestone that typically hosts the oil that ends up at the pump, this
rock just isn't permeable enough for its hydrocarbons to flow out freely.
This fact long informed the mindset of oil and gas executives, who considered the countless
unexploited reservoirs of oil embedded within shale inaccessible—at least while turning
a profit.
But then came fracking.
By injecting a fluid at high pressures and boreholes dug deep through the ground, one
could create fissures in the rock out of which oil and natural gas flow freely.
Ignoring the countless externalities, this brought the cost of producing shale oil to
a competitive level, and thus began the Shale Revolution.
Two of the world's most significant shale deposits sit in the US—West Texas's Permian
Basin and Montana and North Dakota's Bakken Formation.
Conveniently, unlike with much of the rest of the world, oil and gas deposits beneath
the ground in the US are generally the property of the owner of said land, making the process
of requiring rights to drill far less centralized and state-controlled than with the rest of
the world.
Therefore, in the early 2010s, as fracking propagated, each of these areas experienced
a boom of gold rush proportions.
What was the quiet, 14,000-person agricultural community of Williston, North Dakota, doubled
in population across just four years.
Oil workers flew in from around the country to claim six-figure starting salaries, but
they had to deal with rent prices higher than those in Manhattan or San Francisco—$2,000
a month for a one-bedroom and far more for a nice one.
Everyone, from waiters to bartenders to cashiers to land-owning farmers, was making incredible
amounts of money as the industry refused to stop growing.
While the break-even price for shale oil was far higher than that of more traditional production
methods, the upfront investment was relatively low—it was far cheaper to construct a fracking
rig than an offshore oil rig, for example, so the boom was shepherded in not by Shell
or Chevron, but by small, independent operators.
These independent operators were too small to individually influence oil prices, but
in net, they flooded the market with supply.
Indicative of a boom time, operators were operating regardless of profitability—they
were willing to lose in the short-term to secure market share in the long-term because
they believed in the long-term potential.
But that long-term hardly shaped up as expected.
This supply glut was the major factor behind 2015's crash, and prices hardly recovered.
OPEC and Western supermajors had simply lost control of the market.
Oil was abundant, and, no matter how much they cut production, buyers found supply elsewhere.
Observers everywhere started to question whether this was the end of OPEC.
The cartel is only as good as the faith of its members in its effectiveness, and across
much of the 2010s, it was hardly looking effective.
But then came the before and after moment.
Then came negative oil prices.
Out of the most dramatic crash the industry had ever seen emerged an opportunity.
Operators everywhere cut back, including the independent American shale companies.
After slashing production faster and more deeply than ever before, OPEC brought back
supply slowly—crucially slower than demand—and therefore the industry entered the longest
sustained period of supply and demand mismatch since 2008.
Indigitivly, prices climbed at a far faster pace than demand's recovery, and OPEC once
again held control of the market—they once again became the entity that the world pointed
to as the culprit behind the prices at the pump.
But while broadly accurate, that would be an oversimplification.
Western producers, too, have been tepid in building production back up, and it shows
in the numbers.
US shale oil producers' reinvestment rate—as in, the share of cash flow going back into
the business rather than out to investors—is at an all-time low.
Whereas last time oil prices sat at a comparable level, the reinvestment rate was quite literally
off the charts, today, less than half of their money is being put back into the business.
This investment is typically what would go into developing new rigs, but today, it's
just getting paid out as profit.
Companies have the ability to produce more—the US Bureau of Land Management has exactly 9,000
approved but unused drilling permits on record—but companies just don't have the appetite to
drill.
Industry-wide, it's the same situation—Exxon Mobile, Shell, Chevron, and BP's capital
expenditures are each at or near all-time lows.
Simply put, oil companies are not investing in the future anymore—they're investing
in now.
This is not a misinformed strategy.
Out of the S&P 500 Index's 11 distinct sectors, the energy sector—made up almost exclusively
of oil and gas companies—has been by far the lowest performer since 2007.
The sector only gained 41.7% in value across that era, which means it was actually flat
with inflation.
The oil and gas industry simply is not a good investment anymore, and so it's no surprise
that it's not getting investment from outside or in.
While it's up to debate whether we've reached peak oil, it'd be much easier to
argue that we've reached peak oil investment.
Because of the temporary, finite nature of any oil supply, a relatively high level of
investment is needed just to keep production capacity stable.
When the world looked like this, when climbing oil demand was all we knew, the logic behind
investing $5.5 billion in a single pipeline was sound.
Now, with the world looking like this, with the future of demand looking less confident
than ever, even investing a couple tens of millions in a single fracking rig is risky.
Oil going negative appeared to spur a fundamental mindset change among oil executives and investors.
After having spent the past decades watching both the power of scarcity and the ruin of
abundance, supplies become the enemy.
Oil's under more pressure than ever to deliver profits now, because confidence in the future
has been lost.
ExxonMobil, Shell, Chevron, and BP each successfully posted record profits in 2021, and this can
continue.
The end of oil is near.
The momentum is already too strong—renewables are taking over—but the orchestra can keep
playing as the ship goes down.
In an era where there is no future industry growth to capture, scarcity is the name of
the game.
If oil companies keep supply tight, they'll keep prices high and capture consistent profits
even as they add to the incentives of renewables.
This appears to be the dominant strategy.
The alternative would be to keep prices low to slow down the switch, but considering the
driving force behind the transition is the prevention of the destruction of the planet,
rather than the search for a more cost-effective source of energy, the profit-focused approach
appears the most intuitive.
Astonishingly, this means that the oil industry is seeding the market—they've lost, they're
shepherding in renewables, but they're not going down without a fight.
Moving to a carbonless world will take time, and the oil industry can shrink faster than
renewables can grow.
Therefore, short of a fundamental strategy shift by one of the world's largest industries,
the era of high fuel prices is here to stay.
For those unable or unwilling to transition early, the wait will cost them.
For those who held onto ownership in the sector, they're starting to experience one last
great rally—because the oil industry's party at the end of the world just started.
As you may or may not have noticed, this video is really, secretly, a persuasive essay.
In fact, pretty much every video of mine is a persuasive essay.
No matter if I'm arguing that cyberwarfare is already a major threat, or that Russian
military logistics failed in Ukraine, or that the fine art market is a scam, I'm almost
always arguing something, and I'd also argue that a big reason behind the success of this
channel is my ability to do that effectively.
There are a lot of techniques that are objectively useful in trying to persuade someone of a
point, so I've gathered everything I've learned both by studying persuasive theory
in college and doing this for the past six years, and made a class about the theories
and techniques of persuasion.
And not only did I make a class, I made an online classes platform.
Myself, my co-founders, and the incredible management, production, and engineering teams
behind Nebula have been working for much of the past year to bring you the platform's
biggest expansion to date—Nebula Classes.
We know that many of you want to learn more, and in more detail, from the educational creators
you already watch, so this is the platform for that.
In addition to mine, there are already other courses by Volksgeist, Amy Nolte, LowSpecGamer,
Georgia Dow, Thomas Frank, and others, and there will be new ones every single week.
Each is fantastically produced, with creators having flown out to a dedicated studio to
assure consistent quality.
Classes is available for just $10 a month or $100 a year, and that includes the over
10,000 videos and originals created by the curated list of 150 Nebula creators already.
However, for the tens of thousands of Wendover viewers that have already signed up for Nebula,
including through CuriosityStream, it's just $5 a month or $50 a year to upgrade.
Click the button on screen or head to the link in the description to sign up, and you'll
be supporting Wendover and loads of other independent creators while you're at it.
