Hello there tick-tock cucks. Are you ready? Why did I set the video like that? Are you ready to go? Let's go
I'll member starting off strong more shoplifting footage
Yeah, and they're look at them just giant bags are just stealing everything off the shelves
Y'all ghetto is fuck that's funny
Dude this has to stop like
It's it's insane. You know that they're not just taking all that because they need it and they're poor
They're reselling that online, you know, that's what's going on here Wow. Okay. Listen every week
I do one of these episodes of Tech Talk Tuesday. I get maybe three to four clips of people just
Looting the shit out of a place
I think I'm gonna stop reacting to those clips one because my response is almost always the same every single time and two
Because at some point I'm gonna have like an hour's worth of these clips
and I'm gonna stitch them all together and make them the background to my inevitable book review of
In defense of looting by Vicki Osterweil
she's some far-left radical activist who wrote political theory about why stealing from others is good and
We got a look at that book at some point, dude
So I'm just gonna you know, I'm gonna do I'm gonna keep saving up these clips
I'm not gonna do them anymore. And this is something really crazy going on
I'll set him aside and then once I have enough to do a full book review, I'll use them
This one doesn't have audio. But uh, what's going on here? Oh
How do you want to bring the couch up to the 18th floor guys, I gotta play that again, hold on
How do I bring the couch up to the 18th floor guys? Just uh, just put on a platform to stand there. It's okay
I'm sure two guys holding on to it. That'll be fine
right
the amount of shit that you see third worlders get up to where they just don't give a fuck about safety regulations and they're just like
Hanging off of a thing or they're like riding a machine. It's it's insane sometimes
Okay, okay this guy's apparently a celebrity
I don't know who he is, but he's just in public live streaming on I think it's on Facebook and
He's he live streams a random family in this restaurant and he calls the white baby a monkey like listen. Listen. Listen again
Like this guy's a fucking racist do whoever he is
Like what an asshole firstly why are you doing this to a random kid in public?
Just a way they fuck you same thing
Like what what a scum fuck dude
Like
Look at this guy's lazy eye. He's got no fucking place to be thrown around comments about genetics like what the fuck dude
This is exactly the same type of racist rhetoric that you'd hear from like white supremacists back in the day comparing black people to monkeys
It's the same shit. It's the exact same shit. These people are fucking disgusting
Okay, when my students realize that as an LGBTQIA plus your sexuality becomes part of your culture
That isn't true for straight people. Oh my fucking god, dude. What like imagine this is your teacher
Jesus Christ
Man, okay most kids to be honest
I know that I know right wingers are like worried about this and with good reason
But most kids don't give a fuck most kids. They want to they want to skip school. They want to stock off
They want to play video games when I get with their friends, right?
There was definitely a moral regime in place when I went to school and I was a young kid
It wasn't the same moral regime as this one. It was very like anti-drug stuff
It was the 90s right when I was young so lots of like, you know, don't do drugs kids
That was kind of the moral regime in school and man you had teachers heavily pushing stuff truly ideologically believing it you had
presentations you had videos like trying to teach kids about
What the right thing is and most kids did not give a fuck back then we were doodling we were like quietly talking we
Ignored all of that sort of indoctrination stuff and you know what the same thing is happening right now
You have a bunch of people who look like this dyed-haired Millennials wearing tons of rainbow shit pushing
LGBTQIA plus nonsense in schools and most kids don't give a fuck most kids have never given a fuck
Maybe the internet is the ultimate inoculation for this sort of thing
You know, it was for me the best way to get you know
A view of the wider world outside of schools indoctrination was going online
At least when I was younger because when I was younger, it wasn't all social media
It was like it was forms and it was IRC chats and stuff, right? So it was more decentralized
I you know, I don't know. I don't know. I do have faith that the kids will be alright though in the end
They're gonna look back on people like this and just consider them that weird fucking teacher
Okay, my school looks threatened to explain me for my cat collar even though I'm half cat I meowed
Uncontrollably for the rest of the day. Wait, is that her meowing and my claws can't hold on. Hold on
Okay, hold on wait, despite the music. I gotta see if there's actual meows don't copyright strike me YouTube
Okay, hold on this can't be fucking real guys this has to be I don't believe it
This has to be someone who's trolling this has to be someone who knows it like we're doing animal kin
You know trans species bullshit right now on Twitter on social media. They gotta be true
I can't believe this is a real person. This has to be a troll. I don't I refuse I refuse to believe it
There's no fucking way. There's no fucking way. Well, hey, at least she's already a crazy cat lady, but I'm bum
Okay, what's going on here? It's like they're a crowd or something. He throws a ball. Oh
I
Like how that guy was soy facing so hard you didn't even care his girl got hit
It's great that like we kind of live in an era now where two people can record at the same event on their phones
And then meet up online later, like that was kind of unthinkable back in the day
But now it happens, you know kind of regularly career conference for females and tech was taken over by meal attendees
Filmed at the grace hold on the world's large. It's just dudes
Technologists show men standing in line to meet with recruiters. It's just regular news for women in tech
Not anymore one of those few limited resources that
Isn't for you. It's for us
How dare you assume their gender being non-binary just to get in but it's interesting that
Large majority of the people that actually end on binary option name tags with he him and have no searchable history of
Identifying as non-binary. Oh
Workers defended the men for trying to capitalize on job opportunities not meant for them thing that the entire concept was
There is no need for a conference just for women because if it was the opposite for men they would be sexist true
That's because you're a woman doesn't give you the right to talk to a big firm
Recruiter true guys work just as hard and they don't get that chance. That's how it is
Listen, listen, you want your female only spaces? Well, if you're gonna adhere to the idea that men can simply
Identify as women this what's gonna happen people. I was saying this shit a few years ago
He had people on the left telling me I was ridiculous. I was transphobic. It was never gonna we're fucking here
Of course, we're fucking here because of course this would happen get a random guy nothing feminine about him at all
He signs up as a he they non-binary or some shit. He walks right in takes advantage
Of course, who wouldn't your ideology has made this bed and now you have to lie in it
There's only a screenshot for this one
Unfortunately guys because I think the original was taken down before I could really get to it
But I do have the screenshot pulled off of the discord DM of the the poor sap who sent it to me
it is one of those he they non-binary who's saying when my students finally asked me if I'm
Star heart rainbow flag heart star
Hold on. I mean this this person is probably some sort of non-binary or some sort of gay or something, right?
Obviously, however, why do you care if your students ask you that like why are you so happy about it?
It's like oh my god. I finally get to talk about my sexuality with the kids that I'm teaching
Why would you want to do that? It's time to stop asking every Palestinian person if they condemn Hamas
I have been asked this question hundreds of times. Are you Palestinian? Where's your job instinct is to say, of course
I don't support Hamas, but the answer isn't that simple. Yes, it is. The question is unbelievably insulting
No
It's not who I respected and who I thought respected me have asked if I support the rape and murder of
Civilians as if the race or religion of a victim would make me feel differently over the last week
I've been asked if I condemn Hamas Isis
Jihadis beheading children raping women and just general slaughter and here's the kicker
It doesn't matter how I respond because there will always be something else to add. Oh, wait a minute. Oh
I gotta pause this. Oh
Doesn't actually matter what you respond cuz they'll just keep throwing on more. Oh
So you're now being treated like, you know random normal people who don't believe in the progressive agenda pick your movement
You know a gamer gate right gamer gets an obvious one that I know, you know, do you support the harassment of women?
Well, no, I just want like other things right and there's like no use way. That's how it always was right
You know constant disavowal constant disavowal. Let's say that you're pro Ukraine for example, right?
There's a lot of like leftist dissidents who will say do you support those Nazis that are that are in Ukraine is like well
No, obviously not like you know what I mean?
Basically that this is purity testing has now come back around to bite some of these people because expressing grief for an ethnic cleansing
isn't an endorsement of terrorism and being
Exasperated at ignorance and racism and a systemic attack against your entire people isn't
Support for Hamas and if you still think otherwise ask yourself why but fair warning. I don't think you'll like the answer
Well, here's the answer
You are a privileged person living in the West
You're clearly not in Gaza or anything because they would have killed you for dressing like a Western slut
And you also don't seem to really be accepting that it's Palestinians who have been rejecting every single two-state solution
That's been offered to them all the way back since the beginning if the Palestinian side of this conflict had the exact same
Capabilities as the Israeli side. I guarantee you they would be killing all the Jews right now
That's the answer and I don't think that she's gonna like that man. My thoughts are kind of all over the place in this one
I really got to do that Israeli Palestine video someday
I got a I got a you know, hunker down and figure it out one day one day
Oh
My god
Something light-hearted to end it off on thanks everyone as always you can send me your tick-tock send it to me on Twitter
You can send it to me on discord, whatever you like. Just toss them over and I'll watch them eventually
You know, they are kind of backed up right now
You guys have been sending a lot. So I really appreciate I'll get to them all eventually. I'm sure thanks very much guys
All right
So I know I announced yesterday on the weekly sip that D&D was going to be rescheduled to today
But last minute reg show up and it's like yeah, I can't do it. Sorry
So I think we're rescheduling the reschedule to Friday
It was supposed to be Thursday, then it was supposed to be today and now it's gonna be Friday
Oh, well, but that means that I can stream tonight. So make sure you drop by the channel
They'll probably be finishing up Liza P tonight with Dave. I will see you there. Have a good one guys. I love you
