Hey this is Dev or I guess you probably know me as the asshole roommate on SFO.
Capcom just released their trailer maybe about a week ago or something for Resident Evil
6 and it showed this snowy landscape in a laboratory and they put out a series of map
coordinates.
When you put them in it sends you to Canada and everyone is like oh man Resident Evil
6 is going to take place in snow we're going to have snow zombies and shit.
If you actually put the coordinates into Google Maps you get Thunder Bay Ontario Canada.
I'm actually here in Thunder Bay because I mean I decided to go back to school here.
CL and I are here because she goes to school here too during the school year so yeah that
means I'm going to be off the show for the next four months but oh well you won't miss
me anyway.
But she actually has yet to come to be online and she didn't want to come outside and actually
do it because she never leaves her house.
Next we have a warning T-Virus sign T-Virus mother fucker wow!
This is pretty much the exact spot like if you look on the Google Maps there's a trail
on university campus there's like a nature trail and then it's off in the bush a bit
the actual spot so we put it on the nature trail as close as we could get but yeah warning
T-Virus this is where Resident Evil 6 is going to be happening oh shit!
This is actually one of the big reasons us being at school and us doing this that you
actually haven't seen a new episode in about a month there will be a new one in a couple
days I think I am a hobo.
WOW!
It will be our genosoma and then we're going to have some Halloween stuff coming up so
make sure to have some fun don't go down to my garage you want to come on camera you actually
want to have a part in this at all like seriously are you good with not being on camera I'm
just going behind the camera I guess we're going to have Jen if you remember her from
the NHK episode she's going to do a website for us so we'll have that there's a biker
so we'll have that you want to see the biker there's the biker see ya so yeah we'll have
a website up soon where you can see probably all this shit and a lot more so make sure
just to keep watching us dudes got anything to add Jose?
Jose yeah that was gay!
