This video was made possible by Away.
Get your Away suitcase for $20 off at the link in the description.
In the final days of December, 2013, in the small village of Meliandou, Guinea, a young,
18-month-old boy named Emile died.
Only four days before, this child had been completely healthy, acting normally, playing
regularly in the bat-infested backyard of his rural home.
But then he developed flu-like symptoms which spiraled and spiraled until he passed.
Unfortunately, such an occurrence is not uncommon for the young children of Guinea—a country
not known for the quality of its healthcare—but then, just a few days later, his sister died
too.
Then his mother, then his grandmother, then a family friend—each of which had attended
to the boy in his final days.
This was not normal.
But nobody was exactly sure what had happened to these people.
Their symptoms resembled that of a number of illnesses common to the area such as malaria
and typhoid fever, but in the end, the doctor settled on cholera given this infection's
profile and propensity in Guinea, but then, the cholera spread.
Now, cholera is contagious so the idea of it spreading is not surprising, but a far
higher proportion of patients than predicted died.
Medical staff were starting to get concerned that this might not be just another of the
area's all-too-common cholera outbreaks and so they passed word on to Médecins Sans
Frontières, anglicized as Doctors Without Borders, who were, by chance, already on the
ground in Guinea treating a malaria outbreak.
The organization liaised with the infectious disease experts at their head office in Geneva,
who presented an unsettling hypothesis.
They weren't sure, but they agreed that it might not be cholera and that it might
be Ebola.
The outbreak quite closely followed the profile of this virus but, Ebola had never really
been an issue in West Africa.
For the most part, it had only ever been seen in Central Africa—what is now North and
South Sudan, Uganda, the DRC, the Congo, and Gabon.
These current cases were well over a thousand miles from the closest previous outbreak,
so the idea of the virus simply randomly popping up in the middle of the Ghanaian forest was
unlikely but nonetheless terrifying, so they needed to be sure.
Therefore, Médecins Sans Frontières gathered samples, packed them in three layers of protective
packaging, loaded them on a plane chartered from Guécadou, flew them to the capital,
then transferred them onto the overnight Air France flight to Paris where they were analyzed
in a specialized lab.
Unfortunately, the worst of their worst fears were confirmed.
Not only was this Ebola, but it was the Zaire strain—the most deadly of Ebola species.
That confirmation was publicly announced by the World Health Organization on March 23rd,
2014—nearly three months after the young boy for Meliandou died.
While the WHO was concerned, the rest of the world was not.
The rest of the world didn't even realize what was going on or its devastating potential.
The New York Times, for example, took four whole days after the announcement to publish
their first article about the virus—an 146-word write-up mostly focusing on the government's
ban on bat soup in order to curb the spread.
This would be the first of thousands of articles they would write over the next few years about
this virus.
This was the start of the worst Ebola epidemic in history.
Now that the virus was identified, the goal shifted to stopping it.
The organization most in charge of coordinating the international response to epidemics is
the World Health Organization.
The members of this United Nations agency include a majority of the world's countries
and so, when there's a public health emergency, it falls on them to respond.
Once word reached the WHO, their first step was to activate their Global Outbreak Alert
and Response Network.
This includes, essentially, fast response medical teams for epidemics, the first of
which, in this case, arrived on March 28th—just five days after the initial alert.
Their first goal was to find the links between the patients—to draw a map of who infected
who in order to try and just quarantine everyone exposed and stop the virus before it could
even gain its legs.
This was not particularly difficult in this case as the cases in Meliandou attracted attention
early on, but the news was also not particularly good.
You see, when the first victim, the young Emil, was sick, his mom and sister took him
to stay across the village at his grandmother's house.
When that grandmother later became sick, she went to visit a friend—a nurse in the nearby
larger town of Gwekadu—in order to get some help.
Weeks later, that nurse too developed symptoms and sought help from a friend of his—a doctor
in the even larger town of Masenta.
When that doctor too fell ill, he set off to seek help in the country's capital, but
died along the way and so his body was then sent to the even larger city of Kisudugu
where the funeral was held.
Now, while Ebola does not spread through the air, it does through contact with the bodily
fluids of an infected patient, whether dead or alive, so hospitals and burial facilities
are where most transmissions occur—especially if proper quarantine procedures are not followed.
Considering that, at this point, nobody knew it was Ebola, nobody was following these procedures
in Meliandu, Gwekadu, Masenta, or Kisudugu, so with each infected patient that went to
these cities, more and more people were infected, with themselves infected more, and so on and
so forth.
By the time medical institutions knew this was Ebola, three months after the first case,
it was too late to trace all the transmissions—the spread was beyond control.
Therefore, focus shifted to isolating and treating the infected.
The WHO, MSF, and other international organizations shipped in staff by the plane load.
Not much longer than a week after detection, there were more than a hundred foreign medical
staff in the country.
The other important goal was to ship in as much protective gear as possible.
Doctors, nurses, and other medical staff are at the most risk for transmission from Ebola
patients and therefore, in order to not become patients themselves, they needed to wear,
as they became known, Ebola suits, of which thousands were shipped in within weeks.
The country's Ministry of Health quickly set up a system where, if anyone suspected
anyone of having Ebola, they could call a hotline, 115, for a doctor to come out on
a motorcycle and investigate.
If this doctor believed the patient could indeed have the virus, they would call out
a team from MSF which, in full biohazard suits, would transport the patient to an isolation
ward at a hospital in Conakry, the capital.
The system was quickly overwhelmed with up to 300 calls a day, but it seemed to actually
work.
By the beginning of May, less than two months after the initial alert, this hospital in
Conakry where the patients were isolated, reached its first week without a new Ebola
patient.
Then, it reached its second… and its third.
As three weeks is the incubation period for Ebola, the period it takes for symptoms to
arise in virus carriers, it meant that, as long as nobody in the hospital was infected,
the spread would be over.
With that, preparations began for the retreat of the NGOs in Guinea.
It was crisis averted, job well done, mission accomplished.
Until May 27th.
That's when a new patient came in, and then more came—dozens more from all around the
country.
It turned out that the Ebola had not, in fact, been stopped, but rather, many of the patients
in the rural isolated regions of the country had simply become distrustful of medical professionals.
Many had seen foreign medical staff in their towns before they had seen Ebola victims and
therefore, many came to the conclusion that it was these staff who were spreading the
virus rather than preventing its spread.
Therefore, when people in these villages became sick, they simply didn't report it to the
country's medical system which made the problem worse as unprotected, untrained townspeople
cared for the infected.
While the May of 2014 saw just 74 official cases, fewer than each of the previous two
months, June saw 290.
By June, with the resurgence in cases, the world was now paying attention to Guinea.
Close by, the borders between Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone were quickly closed down
but it was too little, too late.
The virus had spread.
That June also marked the first month that both Liberia and Sierra Leone recorded significant
numbers of cases.
Further afield, the rest of the world wanted to be sure that the virus would be contained
to just these three countries.
Given that infected individuals can carry the virus with no symptoms for up to 21 days,
travel was a major concern.
Most airlines suspended their flights—Emirate stopped flying to Guinea, Delta stopped flying
to Liberia, and the situation was most pronounced in Sierra Leone where all airlines except
for Brussels Airlines stopped flying to the country's airports.
This lack of flights to the region made things difficult in terms of getting supplies and
workers into the region.
In fact, Brussels Airlines is largely credited with playing a crucial role in the fight against
the epidemic for having not cancelled their flights.
The airline received praise from everyone up to the Obama administration.
They flew to Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone for the entirety of the crisis—carefully
crafting schedules so that their staff would never have to spend an overnight in the Ebola-stricken
nations.
Passengers departing on these flights were all carefully screened to be sure they were
not exhibiting symptoms as Belgium and the rest of the world certainly did not want the
virus spreading to their countries and, for the most part, this worked.
While a few isolated cases did appear in various countries worldwide, mostly from health workers
returning home, the epidemic was mostly contained to Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.
Since the virus' containment was successful, the next step was eradication.
Once an individual contracts Ebola, there was not a whole lot that could be done medically
to stop the virus.
Treatment essentially involves assuring that an individual has the fluids and oxygen necessary
for their body to stage the fight.
Therefore, the steps necessary to reach complete eradication of Ebola in West Africa were simple,
but the implementation was tough.
Since Ebola is not contagious until symptoms arise, the key was to just isolate the infected
as soon as symptoms arose.
The issue, though, was that all three of these countries did not have the infrastructure
necessary to treat the thousands of cases that came in each month.
Not only that, but in many cases, non-Abola medical facilities actually closed down in
fear of the virus spreading to their staff meaning that, for unrelated health issues,
people were not getting the treatment they needed.
All of the international organizations working in the region scrambled to set up enough Ebola
treatment centers.
These didn't need to be fancy.
At the minimum, they could just be tense, but they were crucial to make sure that the
infected patients were not being turned away from treatment and sent back to their communities.
These organizations confronting the virus each had their own solution on how to stop
the epidemic and this, of course, led to disputes.
For example, the WHO held the position that the best way to rehydrate Ebola patients,
a crucial step given their diarrhea and vomiting, was to administer fluids by IV.
This, theoretically, is true.
It is more effective to rehydrate a patient by IV, but MSF, meanwhile, took a more pragmatic
view saying that, in the conditions, the most effective route was to have patients drink
rehydration solution.
You see, medical staff, confined to thick protective clothing, could only work for about
an hour at a time in the West African heat.
Therefore, there was almost always a shortage of medically qualified staff and, according
to the MSF's stance, there just weren't enough resources to set up and monitor all
the patient's IVs so, in the end, they were actually getting less fluids overall.
All the different organizations working in the region took their own stance on this debate
as nobody could reach a conclusion on theory versus pragmatism and, given the variety of
external variables, retrospective studies today cannot even confidently conclude who
was right.
By October, 2014, bed capacity exceeded demand and so, for the most part, there was no longer
an issue of turning patients away.
The other main concern, in terms of containing the virus, was the proper handling of the
deceased as, even after death, the virus can spread.
Cremation would have been by far the safest option but, in the cultures of most of the
affected places, this method of handling the dead is quite taboo.
America briefly required the cremation of victims much to the disdain of its citizens
but elsewhere, specialized teams assured the safe burial of the infected—a practice going
against the culture of extensive ceremonial burials in the region.
But at this point, in October, 2014, nobody really knew whether they were at the beginning,
middle, or end of the epidemic.
Nobody could be really sure how effective the efforts had been.
An estimate made by the American CDC at this point estimated the worst case scenario as
1.4 million infected by January, 2015.
October, 2014, with 6,987 cases of Ebola, was by far the worst month of the epidemic.
Mercifully though, the worst case scenario did not come true.
Month by month, cases dropped as patient isolation, community engagement, and safe burial proved
effective.
On May 9, 2015, barely a year after the epidemic started its exponential growth, the World
Health Organization published its momentous message—the Ebola outbreak in Liberia is
over.
More than a month had passed since the last confirmed case meaning further transmission
was improbable.
That same message came soon after for Guinea and Sierra Leone and, by the new year, 2016,
Ebola was, aside from a few small future flare-ups, eradicated in West Africa.
Quite soon after, the statistics came in—28,652 infected and 11,325 dead in what was the worst
Ebola outbreak in history.
Unfortunately though, history is now repeating itself.
On July 17, 2019, the Director General of the World Health Organization announced that
he had declared the ongoing Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo a
public health emergency of international concern—the same, highest level of WHO emergency declared
for the West African epidemic five years ago.
About two years ago, I ran the first away sponsorship on this channel.
I already liked their suitcase when I first got it, but since then, I've travelled with
mine to five continents, a total of well over 100,000 miles, and I can now confidently
say that I love it.
All of their suitcases include tons of features like a TSA approved lock, removable laundry
bag, built-in compression system, super smooth 300 degree spinner wheels, and their carry-on
bags even include an ejectable battery to charge your devices.
Even as I write this video, I'm currently travelling around Europe with their checked
bag—the newest one of mine—while that carry-on away bag I have is back at home,
still in great shape after hundreds of thousands of miles of travel.
If you need a suitcase, away bags are just an incredible value for the quality they are
and, since they have lifetime warranties, they will be the last suitcases you ever buy.
The decision is made easier for you by two facts—that they have an 100-day unconditional
trial period and that, by going to awaytravel.com slash wendover20 and using the code wendover20,
you will get $20 off your first order.
