Oh god, you guys, I know this is a preemption to a regularly scheduled topic, but I've been
trolling Twitter all day.
Look at these masterpieces.
Only one of them kind of took off, but they're all my babies and I love them dearly.
Yeah, when I get a new Twitter account, I'll let you know.
Speaking of babies though, we're here to talk about abortion.
Now I did an abortion video like five years ago, where I tried to, as neutrally as possible,
examine the arguments of both sides.
I think I did an okay job of it all things considered, and even though it's old, I still
think you should go back and watch it.
I got a couple of things wrong, most notably that repeated abortions don't cause medical
problems.
They do, though the number has to be quite high.
Also, I predicted COVID back in February of 2018.
Do bodily autonomy rights not also include the right to not get a vaccination?
Is a vaccination needle not also a foreign object?
It seems to be a huge contradiction to me that people who champion bodily autonomy so
much would also force people to get vaccinations if given the chance.
Just call me Dev Stradamus.
But the reason that we're talking about this again is because Roe v. Wade just got hit
with a huge blow.
Supreme Court has voted to overturn abortion rights.
Draft opinion shows.
We hold that Roe and Casey must be overruled, Justice Alito writes, in an initial majority
draft circulated inside the court.
This is a draft, meaning that Roe v. Wade hasn't been overturned yet, but it's probably
coming down the pipe.
The draft opinion is a full-throated, unflinching reputation of the 1973 decision, which guaranteed
federal constitutional protections of abortion rights, and a subsequent 1992 decision, Planned
Parenthood v. Casey, that largely maintained those rights.
Roe was egregiously wrong from the start, Alito writes, we hold that Roe and Casey must
be overruled.
The document is labeled the opinion of the court.
It is time to heed the Constitution and return the issue of abortion to the people's elected
representatives.
Everybody who's watched me for a while knows that I'm pro-choice, but even I can't
argue with this logic.
Roe v. Wade is known for being notoriously bad.
It, out of nowhere, tied state regulation of abortion to the three trimesters of pregnancy,
where, during the first trimester, governments could not prohibit abortions at all, during
the second trimester, governments could require reasonable health regulations, and during
the third trimester, abortions could be prohibited entirely so long as the laws contained exemptions
for cases where they were necessary to save the life or health of the mother.
The point of the Supreme Court is to judge whether or not the law being contested violates
the Constitution, not to spin up new rules whole cloth.
Nothing in the Constitution talks about trimesters or abortion, nor any previous ruling.
The proper way to implement abortion rights was always through writing new legislation,
not relying on a court case resting on shaky ground for 50 years.
And you know what?
The salt online is pretty incredible.
The GOP hates women and is sentencing an entire generation to death.
It seems like it's doing the opposite of that, buddy.
It seems like an entirely new generation of kids are going to be born.
An extremist Supreme Court is poised to overturn Roe v. Wade and impose its far-right, unpopular
views on the entire country.
It's time for the millions who support the Constitution and abortion rights to stand
up and make their voices heard.
We're not going back.
So what do you want to do about it, Pocahontas?
Are you going to riot in the Capitol building?
One of the most disgraceful decisions in the history of the United States.
Rather than conserving Roe v. Wade, the use of conserve there is lifting a lot of weight,
which has been reaffirmed repeatedly for decades.
These reactionaries disguised as conservatives have chosen to radically dismantle a core
constitutional right.
What do you think conservatives are?
Do you think they share your values?
Do you not understand that they have their own vision of the future?
And do you actually think that a core constitutional right is a rickety court precedent not even
found in the Constitution?
Fuck every single one of these liberals who are blaming Jill Stein and third-party voters
instead of their useless corporate party who could have codified abortion rights into law.
Instead of using it as a cudgel to fundraise in every election.
I'm not even going to comment on this one.
I'm just going to stop recording for 15 minutes and masturbate to the sound of commie tears.
Fuck Christians and their never-ending imperialistic, nationalistic, fascist patriarchy that puts
people's lives at risk and doesn't give a shit about anyone or the science says the
science.
Shame on all who hold the cross.
Two thousand years of genocide continues tonight.
Fuck you.
Hey, uh, Rabbi, is this why people are chanting abortion is a mitzvah at the Supreme Court
right now?
Yes, there is a lot of stuff to point fun at online right now.
That could be a whole video on its own, just having a laugh.
But people are actually protesting at the Supreme Court right now with barricades preset
up for the event.
My Spidey sense is tingling.
Has there ever been a court draft leaked quite like this?
The draft was apparently written in February, so why leak it now?
I have a feeling this was leaked by some left-leaning, low-level staffer in order to galvanize the
midterm vote, because 2022 is legitimately looking like a red wave.
The Dems needed something to get their base riled up, and a leak like this would absolutely
do the trick.
The issue ultimately is, though, the naked hypocrisy of the whole thing.
And no, I don't mean Joe Biden spending most of his career being against abortion
before inexplicably shifting in his old age.
That's clearly just moving with the political winds of his party.
In 1992, Bill Clinton coined the phrase safe, legal, and rare.
That was to be the compromise between conservatives and progressives on the legality of abortion.
Clinton spent his political career in the 80s as being anti-abortion on a personal level,
but he also recognized that he wasn't everyone, and there was a segment of the population
voting for him that wanted abortion.
And that phrase worked wonders.
Safety is something that both sides can get behind.
The danger of back-alley abortions would be remedied by the care and protection of a legitimate
clinic or doctor's office.
Legal was for the progressives.
That safety could not be left to the vagueness of human emotion.
It must be codified.
And rare was for the conservatives.
The people who found abortion to be morally reprehensible would at least be comforted by
the fact that it would only happen when necessary.
There would always be hardliners on the right who want no abortion whatsoever.
And if you believe abortion to constitute death, fair enough.
But no matter what topic it is, the political game never gives you an option that leads
to no deaths.
The best you can aim for is a minimum.
There would also always be equivalent hardliners on the left who would want no restrictions
on abortion at all.
And while the right's hardliners remained shut out from the conversation, largely ignored
by the mainstream right, mainly due to their political violence, the left's hardliners
became the mainstream left.
That's why the compromise of safe, legal and rare became the grotesque shout your abortion.
And why people began to celebrate their ever increasing number of abortions, despite it
being cringey and embarrassing and kind of gross.
But safe, legal and rare was the compromise.
And when the left violated the rare part of that compromise, they should not have been
surprised when the right began to violate the legal part of it.
When you ask the question, is it good to ban abortion?
The conservative will say, yes, of course, life begins its conception.
And by some metrics, it very clearly does.
Meanwhile, the progressive will say, no, of course, women have the right to bodily autonomy.
And if you believe in natural rights, then yeah, women clearly do.
What can the liberal who is caught in the middle say to this?
The liberals compromise was safe, legal and rare.
The progressives have violated it by pushing to end the rare part and the conservatives
are now counter violating it in turn by pushing to end the legal part.
Your average person, your normie, your unaligned, disengaged, nominally liberal type generally
views abortion as a necessary evil.
They don't want it abolished, but they don't want it normalized.
And with the progressive commitment to its rarity off the table, it seems like their
only option to ensure that abortion is a rare event is to make it illegal.
The progressives have left them no other choice.
And yes, most people do view abortions as a necessary evil.
Here's a report from the University of Chicago titled Trends in Public Attitudes Towards
Abortion, containing data from 1972 to 2012.
Here's the information we can glean from it.
The progressive view that the abortion argument is simply pro-life men oppressing pro-choice
women who have no place to be making these decisions is just false.
While men are more likely to self-ID as pro-life and women as pro-choice, they actually answer
all of the upcoming questions almost exactly the same, with on average only a 5% difference
between the two.
In general, men and women seem to hold the same views on topics related to abortion.
71.5% of men and 69.4% of women said that abortion should be legal if there is a strong
possibility of a serious fetal defect.
83.1% of men and 43.3% of women say that abortion should be legal for married women who don't
want more children.
83.5% of men and 82.6% of women say that abortion should be legal if a woman's life is in danger
by the pregnancy.
40.4% of men and 40.9% of women say that abortion should be legal if a woman can't afford to
have a kid right now.
54.9% and 55.3% respectively say that it should be illegal in that circumstance.
If the pregnancy is a result of rape, 71.1% of men and 72.8% of women say that abortion
should be legal.
Only 39% of both men and women said that abortion should be legally allowed in cases where the
woman is unmarried.
52.6% of men and 56.8% of women said that it should be illegal.
40% of men and 43.2% of women said that abortion should be legal for any reason.
57.9% of men and 54.2% of women said that it should be illegal for any reason.
This data basically shows that large majorities of Americans believe that abortion should
be legal in instances of rape, incest, and the life of the mother, which is the most
popular Republican sloganeering on the topic, but also along with fetal defects, something
that Republicans tend to ignore.
It is a not small minority, but still a minority of both women and men hovering around 40%
that believes abortion should simply be on demand with no restrictions.
Of course, this data only goes up to 2012.
It's entirely possible for attitudes to have changed drastically over the past 10 years,
even though those attitudes remained solidly consistent from 1972 to 2012.
There's more generalized data available on Pew Research that does go all the way up
to 2021.
It doesn't break it down by specific questions, like should abortion be legal in the case
of rape or whatever like in the previous set, but it does record the general question, should
abortion be legal under all circumstances, legal with restrictions, or illegal under
all circumstances for both men and women.
And the data is both identical to the previous paper and just as unchanging over time.
For men, it generally ranges from 50 to 60% believing that abortion should be legal with
restrictions, 20 to 30% believing that abortion should be blanket legal, and 15 to 20% believing
that abortion should be blanket illegal.
And the numbers are pretty much the exact same for women.
As per the data, unrestricted abortion access is simply not as popular as radical leftists
believe that it is.
However, one of the only leftists that I still follow, Merrick, put forward on Twitter an
argument based not in the popularity of democracy and electoralism, but in the much more firm,
libertarian style language of rights.
It's my right to do with my body what I choose.
My life and my health come before the potential life of fetus has and always will.
I and every other already living woman matter more and our body autonomy must be protected.
Now listen, Merrick, it's 2022.
Men can get pregnant too.
But let's be serious here.
You know what?
I actually agree with the sentiment.
The problem is, Merrick, the left has already abandoned the sentiment and your bringing
it up right now feels hollow to me.
Is this you, Merrick?
He's also pro-cop, anti-vaccine mandate and strongly against the legalization of and making
sex work safer.
What happened to people's right to do with their body what they choose?
To be pro-choice means that you should be left alone to choose whether or not you get
an abortion or a vaccine or a food you eat or whether or not you transition or what drugs
you take or who you have sex with.
Either it's society's place to regulate what goes on inside of your body or it isn't, period.
And because I'm personally pro-choice, I say it isn't.
The state should have no opinion on whether or not you get an abortion, just like it should
have no opinion whether or not you get a vaccine.
I can already hear the leftist reply ring in my ears.
But spreading disease is not the same as having kids.
Yeah, that doesn't fly.
When you say spreading a disease, you're appealing to the greater good, the social concern.
You are saying the collective's interest trumped the rights of the individual to control what
goes on in their body.
If that's the case, if you don't value bodily autonomy as its own inviolable right, then
you don't actually have any abortion rights as long as the collective deems it necessary
to trump them.
If COVID was an extreme enough situation to push for the violation of people's bodily
integrity for the greater good, then all it takes is a sufficiently extreme enough
situation to violate your right not to have kids, and poof, your abortion rights disappear.
That is the difference between your average leftoid like Merrick and me.
She appears to value bodily autonomy only when it's in her political interests.
For her, it's not a virtue in and of itself.
It is a downstream effect from what she actually wants, and it can be discarded for political
expediency.
I value bodily autonomy a priori, and I think any restrictions on it have to be a whole
lot more serious than anything COVID related.
But this is where we are.
The entire left abandoned my body, my choice during the huge vaccine push.
I saw many a leftist advocating for not taking the vax to be illegal, so to watch them fall
back on it now is just hypocritical.
But being hypocritical is consistent for the left.
They have a history of violating rights for political expediency.
Socialists do it for the right to property.
Progs do it for the right to guns.
Both do it for speech.
Violating bodily autonomy is just ticking off another box.
There's no principal position for the left here.
They're just screeching about how they want what they want, with no foundation to stand
on, no virtues to appeal to, just naked opportunism and gnashing of teeth now that they've failed.
I sometimes feel like the only pro-choice person with a brain.
The reason that the right rebels against Roe v. Wade is because it wasn't voted on.
If abortion legislation was put forward and if the Republicans lost the vote, it might
be bitter, but I don't think it would be this bitter.
But Roe v. Wade isn't legislation.
It's a poorly crafted, unjustifiable court decision that was bound to eventually fail.
If you are a leftoid listening to this, consider the situation from the rightoid point of view.
He lives in a red state.
He's anti-abortion.
All the people he knows are anti-abortion.
He believes that it's murder.
He believes that his government sponsors murder.
His state legislature opposes it, but they can't do anything.
His vote to stop it is useless because it was never actually voted on.
It was simply imposed by the federal government, halfway across the continent, which he believes
to be corrupt at best and illegitimate at worst.
Of course, such a person would obviously rebel against Roe v. Wade in any way he can.
He feels like, against the will of everybody he knows in his local government, that they
are all a party to state-sanctioned genocide, enforced upon them at gunpoint by a bunch
of coastal elites who don't know or care about or anything related to his life.
And the leftists, instead of, say, talking to these people, understanding them, convincing
them, converting them, these pro-choice people who should have been positive advocates for
their position, who should have stuck by that bodily autonomy principle, instead, they shriek
at the top of their lungs, shout your abortion, shout your abortion, subvert the system, smash
the patriarchy, be as publicly immoral as possible.
Did that convince the rightoids?
Well, maybe only that they were correct to call you demons, along with driving away anybody
who might have been on the fence, too.
If you want people to join your cause, and you should, you need to extend a hand to them.
You are asking them to move to your position, but that means that the burden is on you to
ease them into it.
You have to give them a lifeline that, in their own time, they can use to pull themselves
into your camp.
If all you do is screech and shout about how they're bigots for not immediately thinking
like you, becoming a copy of you, they're just not going to join you.
But that is the bed that the left has made.
The left wanted it all, and they openly violated all of their stated principles to get it.
Bodily autonomy used to be a concrete stance, something that you could really plant a flag
on.
It was my body, my choice, not my body, my choice.
Terms and conditions apply.
And unfortunately, when the left violated that principle during COVID, they lost the
support of anybody who considered hypocrisy to be disgusting, and that is the majority
of people.
The end result will be that, in their pursuit of everything, the left is quite likely to
get nothing at all.
