Hello, what's up?
Hey, how's it going?
I'm going to sound a little bit strange.
I'm in a different location right now.
How do I sound?
You sound good.
OK, that's good.
That's good.
Have you been?
I've been fine.
How have you been?
I'm pretty good.
I took a week off from YouTubing.
Nice.
Actually, over the course of the week,
I uploaded a series that it was me, Arch, Kibbs, Lilith,
and Taftach.
Taftach bowed out like 3 quarters of the way
through because she couldn't do it anymore.
But we watched Lord of the Rings, The Rings of Power,
season one, and like, Rift on it because it's not a very good
show.
But I released that.
Yeah, it's pretty bad.
But I released it over the course of my week off.
It was a pretty good week off.
Yeah.
That's cool.
Someone says I'm more muffled than normal.
Yes, I mean, this is a lot.
I got to just hold on.
Jesus.
Hold on.
I'm in a different location.
All my stuff's strange.
But yeah, so what's the TLDR and what you're doing right now?
I've only seen like a little bit of the stream.
What's going on here?
I'm reviewing my torture from the past two days, essentially.
The first piece of torture was the panel
that turned into a 3v1, and nobody else could get in.
And the second torture is the two hours of hate.
That actually ended up being more like two hours
of mild criticism.
Oh my gosh, thank you for the $10, Elle.
Oh, is that Elle from Death Note even?
It kind of looks like the, yeah.
Yeah, that's him.
Elle from Death Note.
Jesus.
So I guess my first question is, why
are you doing this to yourself?
Self torturing again.
You seem to do this regularly.
I think it's good for me to review things.
Like that panel where it turned into everybody versus me,
I thought I did worse on than I actually
did when I actually reviewed it.
I was like, oh, this wasn't bad at all.
And it made me feel a little bit better as well.
And then it's just good to go over things
and kind of see where you could put other things, how you
can improve stuff like that.
Oh, fair enough.
Fair enough.
It just also sounds like you're torturing yourself,
which probably isn't that good.
But I mean, hey, if you're.
Alt-right punching bag art.
Yeah, yeah, apparently I'm an alt-right punching bag,
apparently.
So that's another thing.
Yeah, I don't think I am, but.
Someone in your chat says, has Brove responded to Sunday yet?
Do you mean me?
I guess he means you, yeah.
I don't think you'd need to.
No, no.
You should just clown on him.
What I would do is just clown on him.
He's my favorite lolcow right now.
He seems to be kind of insane.
Just a little bit.
Yeah.
And he seems like, oh, man, I don't necessarily
know how similar they are.
But he seems to have a similar obsessive pattern
like Mr. Girl does, where he'll be
hyper-fixated for a little bit and then move on, you know?
You know, he used to be a huge Sargon fan, apparently.
That's actually really funny.
OK, so this is, I don't know about this current video
that you're about to watch, but the previous one
was all about the platforming drama, right?
So what's the TLDR on the Stardust platforming drama?
That I should care about the harm
that I put out more than I should
care about whatever benefits I think
I'm getting from my interaction.
At least that's what other people think.
I personally, like what you said about different frameworks
that we're operating in really resonated with me.
Last time we talked, I think, I don't know how long ago it was
when you said that to me.
But that really resonated with me.
And also, I think, I can't lie and say that I, you know,
like I know, TedLogic can do this.
He can just gig a chat, be like, I don't give a fuck,
and it'll be fine, right?
I can't really lie about it.
I think it would be dishonest for me
to say I don't care about harm that I can inflict at all.
Clearly, I care about some type of harm.
But as it is right now, any type of harm
that I could, that is possible for me platforming people
is outweighed by how much I love what I'm doing
and what benefits I think I'm getting from it.
And it just outweighs it every time for me.
There may be some harm there, but the harm
is just not enough for me to not do what I'm doing.
Just to be clear, what you're talking about
is when you'll talk to like Richard Spencer or somebody
else who's on the dissident right or something.
And you're platforming them.
And they're saying, these people, MindWaves
and whoever else it was in that previous video,
they're telling you that you're talking to Richard Spencer
or whoever.
You're allowing them to expose their ideas to your audience.
And so that's going to cause more harm than good
down the road.
Even if you were to accept that as true,
what is actually your take on that?
The idea that, oh, you talking to Richard Spencer
and let's say that you do exceptionally poorly
in a debate with him or something.
And so what ends up happening is your audience
is converted into neo-Nazis, right?
Yeah, or some people in the audience are, yeah.
Yeah, that's their view, right?
And what's your counterargument to that?
My counterargument is that I get better, right?
And I just do better next time.
My counterargument is that if they were that easily converted
then they weren't really mine to begin with.
Yeah, yeah.
See, I genuinely don't agree with the platforming arguments
and I'm a lot more like chud logic on this
where it's like, I don't care.
I'm here to have fun.
I'm here to do whatever I want.
I'm here to make some money in some senses.
So it's like, I don't care.
At the same time, like I don't even think chud logic
would say that I'm here to make money
by causing harm to other people by his own standard
of whatever harm happens to be.
I don't even think chud would say that, you know?
I think people genuinely don't think that they're,
that even if they are causing harm,
they don't think they are generally, you know?
Like if you were to talk to some like oil baron
who's destroying, you know, just destroying a forest
or destroying something to get oil and then sell it,
he's gonna say that, well, there's benefits
to getting the oil and selling it too.
And there are benefits to getting the oil and selling it.
He's just gonna have a different moral calculus, right?
And you can go back and forth on whether or not
like he's correct or actually, at some point you can't
because like, morality is one of those tough,
one of those really tough things to talk about
because at the end of the day,
everybody seems to be correct from their own point of view,
if you know what I mean.
Yeah.
Like, Sargon and I have had a bunch of morality arguments
over the past couple of years in private, in private.
And a lot of it was like just reading up
on like certain philosophy and certain ideas
and what morality is and how it should be structured.
And it's just that you realize that like,
you drill down to a point where you understand
that everything is just, it's all just how you feel
about it and there's no real moral calculus at all,
which is kind of like a black pill,
but it seems to be true.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I mean, if it's true that these things have a risk,
so does everything else.
Like everything else has a risk.
And at the end of the day, is that risk worth it for you?
And I'm gonna answer like, with what I'm doing, yes.
And it's worth it because not just because of the benefits
I get from it, but because I genuinely enjoy.
And there are very few, I love making content,
but there is very little content that I enjoy as much
as like sitting down with people
who I'm not supposed to sit down with,
and having a conversation with them.
To be fair, I'm the same way, yeah, that's, yeah.
It's very, there's so, I love it so much.
And it's like, people are asking me to care so much
about this potential for harm,
that I stopped doing something that I like deeply love
or that I start doing it less, you know?
And I don't think that's fair though.
No, I know exactly what you mean.
Someone in the chat said,
what does this high school take?
So here's, it's not quite a high school take.
It's like, you know, when you're young,
most young people, we're talking like under 10 years old,
like really young, they tend to operate under
like some kind of deontological frame, right?
If they're religious, if they're raised by religious family
or just, you know, rules-based ethics,
you follow what your teacher says, follow what your parents
say, whatever, right?
And then like, generally, as you start thinking
about these systems a bit more,
as you hit like your teen years and your twenties,
that's when you start getting like consequentialists, right?
And God, I'm reminded of like,
Xanderhal talking to Lauren Souther.
Did you watch that?
It was like a year ago or six months ago, whatever it was?
Yeah, yeah.
And Xanderhal tried to hit her with like,
are you a consequentialist?
Like just asking that question openly several times.
And Xanderhal doesn't seem to understand,
not to just throw shade on him.
He's not here, but I also don't care.
But like, he seems to be at that like early twenties.
I think he's in his early twenties.
So he's at that early twenties stage where it seems like
ruthlessly going after ends in defiance
of rules-based morality or in defiance of tradition
or in defiance of whatever seems to be the best thing to do
because what you want is to improve the world.
So, you know, fair enough.
But he just doesn't understand that like,
and what a lot of people I've noticed on the left,
what they don't understand is basically that
in order for any sort of consequentialist
or any sort of utilitarian ethics to work,
you already have to have defined what the good is first
in order to like be able to point out a good end,
if you know what I mean.
So it's like, well, I think I might've,
I don't know if I made this comparison with you
or with somebody else, but I was saying like,
you could have a consequentialist ISIS fighter
who believes that it's a good end
to throw a gay person off of a rooftop
and to him, that's a good end.
And so he can actually give you a list of good ends
that comes out of having one less gay person in the world.
And then it's just like, well,
how did he get using the same framework,
a completely different end than you or I would get to?
And it's because, well,
any sort of moral calculus is based on a foundation
of what is basically just your moral intuitions,
just your feelings, right?
So like, you and I will say,
well, we shouldn't kill gay people.
And that guy might say, well, we should kill gay people.
And then the only real difference between us
is that we feel one way and he feels a different way.
And at that point, it's hard to reconcile
different morality, you know what I mean?
It's, there's like a,
you're just not going to communicate
with the other person, I guess, yeah, so.
Yeah, and I think the last time we talked,
you were playing, I think, Dark Tide,
and I was trying to cheer you up about something or other.
And I basically said that a lot of people
who are like extremely progressive,
or they are, or they're like socialist or something,
some kind of revolutionary socialist,
they tend to view every single action
through a moral framework that's like,
well, how can I advance my political cause?
And so if you're not advancing a political cause
when you're doing, taking any sort of step anywhere,
especially in public, then you're doing something bad, right?
So if you're-
Yeah, how can I make the world more left
is I remember what you said specifically about it, yeah.
Yes, but here's the thing.
If you don't value making the world more left,
or at least you don't value it as much as they do,
well, then you're operating
from a different moral framework, right?
Yeah, and I don't value it as much as they do.
I don't value, I value this meaningful conversation
with somebody more than I value,
worrying about some harm that I'm inflicting
into the world through it.
I don't know.
And yeah, I don't know if that makes sense, but-
No, it does, it does.
And that's probably what I would tell people like mine way,
which is just like, listen, you have a moral framework
such that you view things this way,
but I don't share that framework.
And to me, the greater good is having these conversations
compared to the possibility,
the admittedly very small possibility that somebody on,
you know, considering your audience, considering you,
considering the relative size of your stream
that you're going to like cause the Third Reich
is next to 0%.
So like, it's not much of a big deal, you know?
There's no actual harm being done here.
And that's the case with almost all platforming arguments.
You know, until you get to like destiny or bigger,
or like a million subs on YouTube,
like a Sargon or something,
until you get to like these really big names and larger,
the platforming argument like makes no fucking sense.
Like, you know, how much Nazism are you actually spreading
on like a 20 view Twitch panel stream?
Like fucking none, you know what I mean?
It's ridiculous.
There's also one other thing I've been thinking about.
I was thinking of, it kind of came into mind
as I was watching you talk about this.
The third main moral framework is virtue ethics.
And you're familiar with virtue ethics, right?
Not really a whole lot.
I'm not really familiar with ethics as a whole.
Okay, okay.
So yeah, so the TLDR is that consequentialism
is goodness is good ends.
The deontological is goodness is good rules.
And then virtue ethics is goodness is good habits.
And the idea of virtue ethics is basically that
things that are good are things that cultivate
good moral character in how you behave, right?
In the kind of the quality of person that you are.
And so I know Sargon is on a big virtue ethics art
right now, destiny started up in a virtue ethics art
like last year.
I think destiny started by reading CS Lewis.
But there's a famous quote,
I don't think it's a CS Lewis quote,
but there's a famous quote that says that
it's something that man is both the marble and the sculptor.
And the idea is that every action that you take
also acts on you and you change as a result of it, right?
And I think everyone has the experience
of being like a bit trepidatious about doing a new thing.
But then as soon as you do it,
you realize, oh, I can do it.
And then you do it regularly.
Smokers, for example, drug users, people who drink alcohol,
but also more positive behaviors as well.
And you're scared about breaking out of your shell,
you break out of your shell, oh, it's actually not so bad.
What's happening psychologically is like
new pathways are being formed in your brain
that makes it easier to do those actions
a second, third, fourth, fifth time.
And so what ends up happening is that
good ethical behavior is whatever builds
virtuous habits in your person.
And that can be related to good rules
and it can be related to good ends,
but it's also related to good habits.
And the reason I'm bringing this up,
the reason I'm bringing this up
is because even though a lot of left-leaning people
are like strict consequentialists,
the entire argument regarding platforming
is a virtue ethics argument.
And a lot of lefties tend to reject virtue ethics
because to them it's all about getting the goal,
getting the result.
You know, it's all about chasing after
what makes the world a better place
in a very like ruthless manner.
And you know, the most extreme leftists in history
always ended up committing like these huge political purges
because they were after the goal,
regardless of what kind of monster it turned them into.
I think that's, you know, there's a common critique
of the authoritarian left on the right.
And it's that they always believe
that it's one more purge until utopia.
But the platforming conversation,
the platforming argument is like,
it's a virtue ethics argument because the implication
is that your audience will turn into Nazis
through exposure to these new ideas.
But if your audience were actually strict consequentialists
then it wouldn't matter how much exposure
to these ideas they get
because they're always going to go for the results.
And if they're good results, they're good results, right?
So it's funny to see,
like I don't think these people have fully thought
through their ideas because it's funny to see them,
like it's funny to see them use logic
that they would never use in any other situation.
That is a really interesting point.
Is there a way that you can, well, I mean, I guess,
it's super interesting that it's like
a virtue ethics argument, the platforming argument.
I feel like it's a mix of consequentialist and virtue,
isn't it?
Well, here's the thing, at the extremes,
all three of the ethical systems blend into one,
which is why talking about them is kind of meaningless.
You know what I mean?
Like, I mean, if you talk about deontological ethics,
the common critique that pretty much everyone knows
is like, well, what if you have a bad rule?
It's like, well, good equals good rules.
Well, if you have a bad rule, should you follow it?
And like, well, if you live in a system of honor
or like a caste system or something
and you have to kill somebody who's innocent otherwise,
I was like, should you follow that?
Well, the answer seems to be no, right?
You push deontological ethics to their limit,
they seem to break pretty easily
when it comes to committing immoral actions.
But at the same time, consequentialist ethics
has a very similar problem.
And I've heard it said, I've heard it said a few times,
like in a pure consequentialist world,
no one would ever go to a hospital, right?
And the reason you wouldn't go to a hospital
is because like just per the strict moral calculus,
you can go into a hospital for like a cold
and then in the hospital are like 10 patients
who could all use your organs.
And the moral calculus is, well, guess what?
They'll just kill you, take your organs,
save these 10 lives, one life versus 10, right?
The moral calculus weighs out that that's a moral action
in a purely consequentialist sense.
And so it's like, well, fuck,
what kind of world do you build
when you have that kind of society?
Well, it'd be a terrible one, right?
So, and then you get to basically you reach a point
where you realize that the limits of each ethical system
are shored up by the other two ethical systems, you know?
Yeah, yeah, I can see that now, yeah.
And I did a video, a video like a year and a half ago
or something and the TLDR of it
was that consent is a deontological concept
because consent is a set of rules.
It's rules-based ethics, right?
Like if, you know, you can use sexual consent,
you can use consent to working in a job
or consent to whatever, right?
Anything in life, right?
And basically, if you're consenting
to whatever it is you're consenting to,
you're laying out a set of rules and you're saying,
okay, well, I'm going to do X, Y, Z
and you're going to do for me, A, B, C
and we're not going to violate these rules
because you don't want to violate the consent
of your partner when you're having sex with them
or violate your employer-employee relationship,
whatever it happens to be, the contract, whatever it is.
So consent is a concept
that comes out of deontological ethics
and I've seen people, again, on the left
like hate deontology so much.
And there's this view on the right as like,
well, how come there are so many leftist sex pests?
How many?
Like, how come?
Why, why?
And I don't know if there actually are that many or not,
but there are at least a few like high profile public ones.
And it's like, well, why are there?
And it seems to be the case is that if you have no sense
of deontological ethics in your ethical system,
then there's no reason to ever respect consent
because consent doesn't exist in consequentialism, right?
Like in a purely consequentialist sense, you know,
how much money could I be offered
to rape my girlfriend, right?
Well, you can just keep jacking that number up
until it hits a point where I should just do it
because I can get more good out of it
from having that much money to do more good
in the world with than not, right?
So in order to object to that scenario,
you have to go outside of consequentialism.
It's, this isn't exactly
like a super entertaining conversation.
Sorry, chat.
It's helpful.
It's helpful.
Chat, shut up.
Okay, seriously, this is helpful.
Sorry guys, sorry.
No, I think it is very helpful.
So that is something that's interesting.
And I think maybe I need to brush up
on what you're talking about,
these different like ethical frameworks and stuff
or whatever they're called.
The best thing you can do,
the best thing you can do for like almost any of this
is just Wikipedia it, you know?
Like I do a fair amount of reading
because I like to read.
And like for some like political topics,
especially if you're talking about fascism
because it's such an old idea
and it's like, it was around for like 30 years
and it vanished.
So like for that you have to read.
But for a lot of these other topics
that are still like talked about today,
Wikipedia articles are very accurate.
You know what I mean?
Okay, yeah, I'll take a look at that.
Yeah, I will.
Thank you for that.
I think that will actually help my argument.
If I dive into those different ethics things more,
I will definitely be able to argue better.
So for example, like you could,
when someone like Mindwave says like,
well, don't you think you have a responsibility
to platform whatever, right?
You could do the chud logic root of I don't care giga chad.
But you could also say,
listen, I think the greater good
is exposing these ideas and hopefully debunking them.
But even if I can't debunk them,
the greater good is in having the conversation
because free speech itself is a virtue.
Free speech itself is a virtue.
And enforcing those virtues,
especially in a climate
where they're not really being upheld anymore,
at least not right now,
that's a greater good than any harm
that could come of these ideas spreading.
And then you could also say that,
well, the greater good is also
that you hone your own skills.
And you say, well, you know,
even if one of my audience turns into a neo-Nazi
because I lost a debate against Richard Spencer,
well, I'm now a better debater for it.
And that seems to be like a worthy trade off
because now I'm better, you know?
And oftentimes, like a lot of these,
they're frankly just kind of like these bullying arguments.
They seem to be easily brushed away
by appeals to self-improvement in my experience.
Interesting.
That is really helpful.
Somebody in your chat says,
force mind waves to prove that it's bad.
I mean, mind waves can pretty easily prove
it's a hypothetical bad, right?
Like the logic tree is there.
Oh, you refused?
Really?
It's easy to prove.
I mean, but it's easy to prove,
but it's also easy to debunk, right?
Yeah.
So like he could say something like,
listen, you know,
Stardust platforms Richard Spencer,
Richard Spencer converts one of Stardust audience.
The world is now made incrementally worse
because there's one more Nazi in the world.
Like there's the logic, right?
And then you could say, well,
even if that's the case,
there's so many other benefits to it.
And no, no offense,
but you're not like a 10,000 viewer streamer or something.
So there's, so the drawbacks aren't really there.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, they were, yeah.
Anyway, I figured I'd just come on
and talk to you for a little bit
because every time I've tuned in to your stream
like the past few,
it seems like you're going through
some sort of struggle session.
Some sort of self-flagellation, yeah.
And the last time I talked to you,
when you were playing Darktide,
you also seemed down and I'm like, Jesus,
this is like the Stardust depression arc.
I think I've been a little bit more unsure of myself
recently in the past few months,
but I think I'm coming out of it.
I think we all get into funks for a little bit.
Oh yeah, me too, me too.
Yeah, I know I used to be much more confident
as a person several months ago.
And then I don't know,
the past couple of months have been
kind of like a Stardust no confidence arc.
And I think I'm coming out of it now, so yeah.
Is that because of mind waves or something else?
I think it's just compounding things.
I've just had like a whole bunch of things going on,
so yeah.
Okay, all right.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I've had like IRL things
like unrelated to anything I do online,
also screw up what I'm trying to do.
It happens all the time, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, I think you just have something
that kind of shakes you
and kind of shakes your reality for a little bit.
And then you think, can I trust my reality
the way that I thought I could?
And you're unsure of it for a really long time.
And then you realize that,
well, that was kind of like a freak accident.
So I have to like trust myself
or I won't be able to do anything again, so yeah.
Yeah, and a lot of that is just gonna be practice too,
you know?
Yeah, yeah.
Someone in your chances at this point,
I'm sure only mind waves cares about it.
At this point, the only appropriate action
is to bully him.
Well, maybe not bully him, maybe just ignore him.
Because I think I heard through the grapevine
he wrote a manifesto about you, is that true?
Yeah, yeah, he did.
I asked him for timestamps on like specific things
within this interview that I did that he didn't like.
And he said he put them,
but I've looked at like several sections
of this platforming manifesto or whatever.
And I don't see it.
I think he said that it's in a link in here somewhere,
but I'll have to look through the links and stuff and see.
So, yeah.
So it's not as well made as like a destiny manifesto
where like everything's sourced, nothing like that?
No, he sources me a bunch.
So he sources, yeah.
He just makes it all about me,
which is like, yeah, really targeted.
So, and then he's just been in,
he's been kind of dishonest about me, I feel,
and mischaracterizing me a whole lot, I feel.
Were you guys friends before this?
We were friendly, I think, we were friendly.
It always sucks when that sort of thing happens
and it's over, eh?
Yeah, yeah.
Because you had a drama with Mr. Girl, didn't you?
I only barely knew about this.
Were you guys friends before that too?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, geez.
Man.
It is what it is.
Yeah, it always sucks
and that's what I think happens, right?
Like here, let me tell you a story
and it'll be a short story.
Let me tell you a story
and see if it sounds familiar to you, okay?
So I started doing a podcast with a friend of mine in 2017.
All right.
We had a good time, you know, we had a good time.
But by the time like 2021 rolled around,
he had been like hyper radicalized by COVID.
He's in the UK and British lockdowns
and restrictions were significantly more strict
than in America or Canada.
And he was also like,
he had built up this persona of himself.
Well, it wasn't a persona, it was real, it was real.
He wasn't faking it.
He had like an engineering job
and he would like, he'd be flown out by companies
that he would work with to go to like,
to go to the States, go to Turkey,
go to like various places just to do work, right?
And he had a lot of money, he had a lot of travel time.
And he kind of built up this image of himself
where he would be the guy that would like fly
into some foreign place for a job.
He'd have some fun there on the side.
If he had internet friends there,
he'd be the guy that would go and visit
and be like, hey, I'm here.
And then they'd go to the bar,
then he'd like throw some money around.
He'd be the center of attention.
And then he would fly off.
That was kind of the life he had built for himself.
And then he was grounded and lost his job
and lost everything during COVID lockdowns.
He kept his house
because he inherited his house from his dad.
And then he spent like a year and a half
locked down in this house with no job,
a pile of cocaine, two trans girlfriends,
one of whom was an actual neo-Nazi
and the other one who was an anarcho-capitalist.
And so he's got these two GIFs
doing lines of Coke off his dick.
And they're like reading him all of this crazy,
this crazy political theory.
And this guy radicalizes like fucking crazy.
And as he radicalizes, I don't.
Sargon does, but not nearly as much
and not for the same reasons.
Arch doesn't, V doesn't, Kibbe doesn't.
None of us in our circle radicalize at all, really.
And he gets to the point where he's so fucking lost
and he's so fed up with all of us
that he leaks all of our DMs.
And it was a huge drama on our side of the internet.
And so we all cut him out.
We kicked him out of our private circle.
I stopped the podcast with him.
It was a big fucking blowout.
But like I've heard that story repeated so many times.
Like I think Destiny had a podcast with someone
like five years ago that blew up
because like he got backstabbed.
Destiny got backstabbed by Mr. Girl,
like backstabbed by Vaush and Hassan.
Like Sargon has been backstabbed by people several times.
Like it just seems to be a thing in these online spaces
where there are just some people
who for whatever reason can't handle it.
And then they, like it gets into,
it turns into like high school drama.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I think so.
And it doesn't matter like,
it doesn't matter what political side we're talking about
or what groups, what, it doesn't matter any of it
because they all seem to happen like roughly the same way.
You know?
Yeah.
So fuck, you know, I know the feeling
of like thinking that you're friends with someone
and then like watching it all just blow up
because they put the knife right in your back.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah.
It's never a good feeling.
But also like making a misjudgment yourself, right?
Making a misjudgment on somebody's intentions
or whether they're capable of treating you a certain way.
It also changes like your sureness in the future on things.
Yeah, yeah, that's for sure.
Like I spent like a year giving him
the benefit of the doubt.
And he just didn't go anywhere, you know?
And Sargon's been backstabbed enough
that like he really doesn't want to like,
he has like his business going, he has his employees,
he has his friends, and I'm just like,
hey, Sargon, you should talk and also aerate sometime
because she's actually really cool even though you guys
would obviously disagree on a lot of things.
Like she's good faith and she's intelligent
and you guys have a good conversation.
I've been like, sorry, you should talk to Taftach
because Taftach is like a right winger
and she's read neoreactionary literature
which you've been reading
and like you guys have a decent conversation.
And like Sargon's been very like cautious
about talking to new people because he's had so many people
just knife him in the back, you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Someone in the chat says, who cares about Sargon?
Sargon's made his comeback, man.
Like for real.
Yeah, it seems like he's doing well.
Yeah, he doesn't use the Sargon channel anymore
but he opened up a news outlet called the Lotus Eaters
and his couple of channels are doing really well.
He has some associated YouTube channels
are doing very well, but like his website is booming.
He's got like a dozen employees
and they're all like making,
they're all writing articles, they're all doing research.
Like, no, Sargon's doing very well.
He just doesn't call himself Sargon anymore.
Yeah, damn.
Yeah, I know.
It was so weird to have him covering stuff
that I was involved in.
I was like, bro, what the fuck?
But yeah.
What was that?
What did he cover?
It was the Ana stuff.
Oh yeah.
He had no idea what was going on.
He was like calling me like a leftist
who's incapable of seeing their own flaws.
And I was like, damn bro,
like you got all that from Ana crying about me.
Like, yeah.
I didn't see, I think I've heard,
like I heard that the take on the Ana stuff
that he gave on the Lotus Eaters podcast was not great
but also because he doesn't follow the drama, right?
Yeah.
He doesn't follow any of that drama.
And I'm like, dude, what the fuck are you doing?
He just used it to like virtue signal essentially,
in my opinion.
See, even though Sargon's my friend,
I still like disagree with a lot of the stuff
that they put out over in the Lotus Eaters.
I only really agree with it about half the time, you know?
Like a lot of times I'm like, no, Sargon.
But here's the thing, we're still friends, right?
Like I've had very, very spirited debates with him
in private over whatever, like many topics, right?
But we're still friends at the end of the day
because there's this understanding that like,
even though we're having this fight,
there's still the meta ethic of the friendship
that remains intact and you don't attack that.
You can have the debate,
but you don't attack the friendship, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And it seems like a lot of people just don't do that.
They just don't.
They think that having a disagreement means
that you're not friends anymore.
It's like, what the fuck?
Yeah, I mean-
We're not 16 anymore, guys, like come on.
I don't necessarily think that,
but I think when somebody is like talking down to you
on a regular basis and like talking over you
and like mischaracterizing you in really public places,
I think that really does degrade a friendship, so.
Yeah, yeah, it does.
Especially if it's not like a joke, right?
Yeah.
Like I will publicly degrade Kibs every chance I get,
but we both know we're joking, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
That always sucks.
Yeah, that's okay then.
And you know what, like if the stuff with Mr. Girl
and then with Mind Waves has contributed in large part
to your recent malaise, I wouldn't be surprised
because to be honest, I took like, after my backstab,
I took like a month off.
I was like, I'm getting the fuck offline for a while.
Like, I'm just getting out of here, man.
I'm just piecing.
I'm doing some IRL stuff and I needed it to be honest.
I needed it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, well, we'll see.
I mean, you know, there's multiple compounding factors
and stuff, but I think I had majority of my dip
like the past couple of months
and I think I'm coming out of it now.
So I'm really happy about that.
That's good.
That's good.
Yeah, coming out of it.
Everyone comes out of it eventually, you know?
Yeah, yeah, I think so.
Well, thank you for speaking with me.
Is there anything else that you wanted to talk about or?
Nothing I can think of off the top of my head.
Okay.
I've been here for like half an hour, 45 minutes.
Then watching me sell flag light as usual, so yeah.
That's long enough for me to turn into a clip
on my channel, ha ha ha ha ha.
Nice.
Listen, everyone who's watching this on my channel,
you know, in the next couple of days, whenever it goes out,
make sure to go sub to Stardust, okay?
Yeah, thank you.
Yeah.
Anyway, thanks for talking.
I'll see you later, okay?
Yeah, see you later.
Thanks for talking.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah, no problem.
Bye.
