Hollywood's awards shows always suck. That's it. That's the end of the video.
Alright, I guess I can talk about it for a little bit. Ricky Gervais hosted the Golden Globes
a couple of days ago, and it was absolutely hilarious. I'll play you a few choice bits
of the speech right now, even though it's probably going to get copyright struck on YouTube. But you
know what, this video will be up on my Bitchute channel, and I am the kind of guy that just
doesn't care if somebody wants to falsely copyright claim a video of mine on YouTube.
I'll work through the appeals process and get it back. Or I'll put it on a
side channel or something, I don't care. Anyway, check this out.
We were going to do an in memoriam this year, but when I saw the list of people that had died,
it wasn't diverse enough. It just, no. It was mostly white people. And I thought, nah,
not on my watch. Maybe next year. Let's see what happens. Spoiler alert,
season two is on the way. So in the end, he obviously didn't kill himself. Just like Jeffrey
Epstein. Shut up. I know he's your friend, but I don't care. Apple roared into the TV game with
a morning show, a superb drama. Yeah. A superb drama about the importance of dignity and doing
the right thing made by a company that runs sweatshops in China. So, well, you say you woke,
but the companies you work for, I mean, unbelievable. Apple, Amazon, Disney. If ISIS
started a streaming service, you'd call your agent, wouldn't you? So if you do win an award tonight,
don't use it as a platform to make a political speech. You're in no position to lecture the
public about anything. You know nothing about the real world. Most of you spent less time in
school than Greta Thunberg. So if you win, come up, accept your little award, thank your agent
and your God. Probably the best reactions of that whole thing were Tom Hanks and the CEO of Apple.
But Ricky Gervais spent his time at that podium basically speaking truth to power.
And considering that the act of speaking truth to power is something that the progressives like to
lean on quite a bit, you think they'd be happy that he did this. However, considering that it's
their power he's speaking to, or more specifically, the power of the virtue signaling hyper left
Hollywood elites, they're actually all quite angry about it. Just how big a jerk was Ricky Gervais
at the Golden Globes? Oh no, are you going to be okay? It feels like Lilith is like creeping into
every single one of my videos nowadays, man. Ricky Gervais' Golden Globes jokes ranked in order of
dickishness from the righteously provocative to just plain mean, as if the people he was
talking to aren't both constantly righteously provocative and just plain mean. Politics
reigned at the Golden Globes. Too bad Ricky Gervais didn't notice. No, the whole point is
that he noticed. He noticed and he wanted you self-righteous moral grandstanders to shut the
fuck up. This one's from the LA Times, by the way, and it's actually kind of interesting, so let's
dig into it a little bit. Forget the escapist magic of Hollywood, nihilism was the name of the game
when host Ricky Gervais opened the Golden Globes on Sunday night with a gloom and doom monologue
so cynical it made the effervescent Tom Hanks scowl. You know, and I'm gonna have to do a
major video on this at some point because it covers New Guy, the New Guy meme, and it covers
this, but doom and gloom is the only thing that the radical left is selling right now. You know,
you've heard it all before, right? Climate change, the US is a tyranny run by Donald Trump, endless
wars in the Middle East, everything that we do is terrible, and in fact they even go so far as
to contradict themselves to keep the doom and gloom machine running. You know, they want American
troops out of the Middle East, fair enough. Well until they don't, which was the topic of my last
video, they see everything through a lens of doom and gloom. So even when the things that they
campaigned for, say six months ago, actually start to happen, they start complaining about it.
Meryl Streep shook her head, Eddie Murphy refused to smile, Quentin Tarantino looked more disturbed
than usual. Eddie Murphy? Even he's not cracking a smile, this must have been serious. Of course,
to be fair, Eddie Murphy's not that funny himself nowadays, is he? Eddie Murphy says his past jokes
about gay people make him cringe, saying he was a kid and the jokes were made in the context of
the time. Oh, what context was that, Eddie? The context in which you could make a boatload of
money? See this? This is the face of a man who morally grandstands, but not only does he do
that, he's the kind of guy that pulls the ladder back up after he's already gotten rich off of this
sort of stuff. Yeah, okay, okay, back in the 80s, indulge in all the edgy humor you want, but now,
no, sir, it's 30, 40 years in the future, now you have to shut the fuck up, now that stuff's
no longer allowed. It's really kind of disgusting to watch all these people just pat each other on
the back and talk about how moral and how virtuous they are, when they're completely willing to
chastise new people coming up the ranks for doing the exact same stuff they got famous for,
especially when, like Ricky Gervais said, they have no idea what the real world's like.
The Golden Globes' mood was already sober thanks to an impeachment,
threat of war with Iran and Australian bushfires. The last thing anyone needed was Ricky Gervais
there telling them they sucked. Well, they do suck, and you know what? They're big boys and
girls, they can take it, and none of those people there have to worry about an impeachment or a war
with Iran or the Australian bushfires because they are the mega rich. You know, when all those
bougie champagne socialists talk about eating the rich, these are the people they're talking about.
Hey moviebob, how have you been? The fake, self-flagellating, let's have Gervais roast
people lol thing has turned into the grossest faux-popula spectacle outside the Razzies,
and the Razzies are shit. Posh Brit reheating leftover 4chan dunks on marginalized people
whose wealth is supposed to make it okay. You literally just referred to millionaires
and billionaires of the Hollywood elite as marginalized. Are you fucking insane, dude?
Seriously, are you? Who? Oh, moviebob, listen, they're never going to like you,
and you are never going to be one of them. Give it up.
Hey moviebob, remember when the exact same thing happened only that it was flipped on the
political axis? You know, when Stephen Colbert waltzed into the president's dinner and did a
comedy thing where he told the president to his face what he thought of him?
I stand by this man. I stand by this man because he stands for things. Not only for things,
he stands on things. Things like aircraft carriers and rubble and recently flooded city squares.
And that sends a strong message that no matter what happens to America, she will always rebound
with the most powerfully staged photo ops in the world.
And you know what? That was speaking truth to power, wasn't it? The president was really
pissed off about that. You know, that shit LA Times article even said that Gervais should have
read the room to avoid offending his audience. Well, Stephen Colbert didn't read the room then,
did he? When he shat Oliver Bush and all the White House press correspondents that followed him
around. Oh, but that's alright with you, isn't it, moviebob? This isn't Colbert or Naomi Wolf
at the White House correspondents dinner trashing Bush and the spineless journos.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no. This is completely different. There is no way these situations
are comparable. That was speaking truth to power. This is a phony gloss of class resentment.
I'm going to have to start a video series where I literally just read moviebob's Twitter feed
because every single thing that he says is some of the most ridiculous things I have ever heard.
It's kind of crazy how consistently wild he is. Something else that we missed, though,
regarding the Golden Globes was this little exchange coming out of Joaquin Phoenix
regarding the Joker movie. Check this out.
Is it really that necessary to be such a dick?
Well, considering that the journalistic class was just begging and praying and hoping for some kind
of a violent event to happen at a Joker screening the entire time in order to scapegoat the movie
and Phoenix himself and incels and validate their inane conspiracy theory, I am completely
okay with this guy treating journalists like shit. Here I'll just read the take from one of my
friends because it honestly sums up how I feel as well. Imagine being sympathetic to those vultures
because he politely told them to fuck off and move on. Journalists can suck a fart out of my
asshole, to be honest, lads. Alright, thanks Jess. But you know what? I'm just done with this stuff.
We all know that the Golden Globes, the Oscars, every other award show, for the most part,
they're all rigged. It's just people who are giving themselves pats in the back and then
they get their little award and they go up there and they give a speech, basically virtue signaling
to the entire crowd about how woke they are and therefore how hireable they have to be in
Hollywood because Hollywood's ridiculously left wing. And then it's real. I no longer have any
faith that these award shows are places where quality is bubbling to the surface. And there's
been this divide for a while now between the critics and the actual public. I think one of my
next videos coming up will be a video on the fall of Rotten Tomatoes because frankly Rotten Tomatoes
was once amazing and it now sucks. But in general though, there's this idea among like the Twitterati
left where when the average person doesn't like a Ghostbusters 2016 or a Star Wars The Last Jedi,
you know, it's because it's too political. And what too political they think means is that it
includes politics that they don't like, you know, like LGBTQ representation or feminism or socialism
or something along those lines. But what it actually means is that we don't want a movie to
preach to us. There are many bits of political cinema that I enjoy. You know, I am happy with
the political Star Trek. They did it. It's called Deep Space Nine. But you know what? That show
didn't preach to me that much. It had a few preachy episodes, but for the most part the good episodes
were the ones that were political because they actually presented a moral dilemma
where there wasn't a very clear, you know, this side politics good, that side politics bad. But
it was actually, oh, there's multiple views here. They all have a point and we have to choose an
imperfect solution. That is what good political drama is. Not preaching. And keep in mind,
these same people who complain that we think things are too political when that's not actually
what they mean, but let's just take it on its face value. They think that. Well, you know what?
They're the same people that turn around and screech that video games are too violent or
they're not inclusive enough or they're too misogynistic. So it's actually not that media is
not political enough or too political. It's just not woke enough. And if media can't be
twisted and turned into a propagandizing mouthpiece for their politics, well, then they
consider it oppressive. You know, this is definitely unrelated, but I think it's a good
place to talk about it because all these people share the same. You can't be neutral on a moving
train philosophy. I think that term was popularly used by Ania Sarkeesian, though I'm not sure if
you actually coined it or not. It basically means that you're for our politics or you're against
them. If you're neutral to them or you represent some third way, you might as well just be against
them. It's either it's for or against, which is why the saying is you can't stand still on a
moving train. Sorry, because you're always moving in one direction or another, which is why, you
know, communists and the Antifa types view all anyone who's not them as fascists. So anyway,
I was talking with this call me on Twitter and I got a few I got a few choice takes out of her.
For example, even though she said initially that she was completely peaceful over the course of
our conversation, I got her to admit that she would attack people trying to defend their private
property and that she would consider such an attack a defensive action because the very act of
owning private property, you know, beyond your house, because they have this this stupid
distinction between private and personal property. The very act of owning property is an affront
against the collective. I got her to insult working class people that don't want a socialist
revolution. And I think most importantly to this discussion, I got her to admit that not only does
she desire to propagandize the population to be pro socialist, but that she believes anyone with
a large platform has a moral obligation to do so. Anyone who is simply neutral on the topic,
let alone talking about an alternative political position is a counter revolutionary element,
counter revolutionary elements that need to be killed, by the way, because she views
individualism as an individualist hell. Her words, not mine. Now this seems unrelated,
and maybe it kind of is on some level, but people like this, these no names on Twitter,
they are the ground troops, the shock forces for the Hollywood elite. As strange as it sounds,
you know, when some woke schooled actress gets her award at the Golden Globes and then gives
some speech about orange man bad or Iran or global warming or whatever the fuck it is,
that person is relying on and is reinforced by a thousand Yas queen sleighs from the Twitter
plebs. Like all the champagne socialists I've been dealing with the past couple of days.
Basically, if Hollywood were gathering a spirit bomb, these people would be who they're taking
the soul power from. And when Ricky Gervais beats them to the punch and basically tells them all to
shut up, it's hilariously funny. But then when they don't, and by the way, they didn't, every
single person who got an award gave some inane speech anyway, it just makes them sound hollow.
It makes it sound like the words falling out of their mouth. They don't even believe anymore
because they've already been told off before they even had the chance to say them. It's kind of
incredible. Anyway, no, fuck Hollywood, dude. I'm not even going to necessarily agree with
Ricky Gervais on this one because he said fuck Hollywood because fuck movies. Everyone's going
to Netflix and streaming. I mean, yeah, kinda, but Netflix is going down the shitter too.
For me, it's more like, fuck Hollywood, watch YouTubers. I know I'm biased, but I watch so
much more YouTube than I do anything coming out of Hollywood. And yeah, YouTube's shit right now,
but you know what I mean? You and me, we can do better than these people. Maybe not in terms of
special effects, maybe not even in terms of writing though. I'm pretty sure I could outright
most of the writers in Hollywood at this point, if you don't mind me tooting my own horn a little
bit. But in terms of having a soul, yeah, we got these people beat.
