Normally, when I talk about a topic that involves video games, or internet culture, or sometimes
YouTuber drama, I'll make it into an indefensible video.
You know, with that cool opening that everyone seems to like that goes doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo,
you know that one?
Where everyone in the comments says, OMG, Dev brought it back, whenever I make a new
video in that series?
Well, the Yong-Yei story does fit that bill.
It's about video games, and internet culture, and YouTuber drama, but I don't actually
think there's enough meat on this bone for a deep dive.
There might not even be enough here for a full ten minutes, but I'll give it a try.
Plus, the indefensible intro is, uh, constantly copyright struck, so hey, support the channel!
Yong-Yei is a YouTuber who got his start back in January of 2012.
Looking at his backlog, he did all sorts of things to try and get ahead in the YouTuber
game back then.
Let's plays, unboxings, reporting on gaming news.
He eventually settled into making short videos, generally only a few minutes long, talking
about minute updates a few select games were receiving, what the next Fallout 4 patch looked
like, what new character was recently announced for Smash Bros on Wii U, that sort of thing.
Gaming news is what he eventually settled into, talking about trade shows or award shows,
talking about upcoming games, interviews with journalists or people in the industry.
I never really watched him, but from what I checked out for this video, it was all good
stuff.
High quality for that era of YouTube still holds up today, and is probably why he has
over a million subs now.
I'll also just quickly say, whenever I do a video like this, looking into a YouTuber's
past always feels like unearthing a time capsule, you know?
For example, one of the oldest videos still surviving on the channel is his Let's Play
of the Mass Effect 3 demo, from before Mass Effect 3 was released.
That game is considered retro nowadays, but at the time the video was released, it was
cutting edge, and the video is full of decade old comments of people clamoring about the
game.
Also, seeing young Yong-Yei, Yong-Yei I guess, do old style YouTube skits was just surreal
to me.
In modern times, Yong-Yei's channel has more or less stuck to the gaming news thing,
though generally not as granular as discussing patch notes or updates for specific games.
That YouTube trend was done best by TotalBiscuit, and it basically died with him.
There still exist channels who do update videos or meta conversations about specific games,
like Warcraft channels, or Hollow Knight channels, or Zelda channels, or Overwatch channels.
But the reason that there are channels dedicated to specific game franchises, is because we've
basically figured out at this point in the YouTube game, that interest in the minutiae
of a specific patch for a specific game is a niche market, not something that really
sits well on a general gaming news channel.
But with this general gaming news thing, Yong-Yei's done pretty well for himself.
And because this is a YouTuber we're talking about here, it was inevitable that he would
eventually put his foot in his mouth, and then shoot it.
RGG Studio announced that Yong-Yei was cast as the English voice actor of Kiryu from the
Yakuza series of games.
Here's Yong-Yei's own announcement.
4 years ago I moved to LA with dreams of one day playing a AAA game protagonist, but
I never imagined I'd land such a legendary role.
It's the greatest honor of my life to announce I'm the English voice of the Dragon of Dojima,
Kazuma Kiryu, in Yakuza Gaiden and 8.
Now I'm only lukewarm on Yakuza, Yong-Yei likes them more than me, but I do understand
that Kiryu is the heart and soul of the series.
He's a beloved character in a beloved series that has spawned its share of high quality
memes.
But right from the get-go there's a few red flags here.
Firstly, that whole 4 years ago I moved to LA thing, I've said it a few times on this
channel and I'll say it again.
If your favorite YouTuber or streamer decides the next big step in their career is to fly
out to LA and start making connections in the influencer space, pack it up.
It's time to find a new favorite because they're done son.
They might keep making money and growing, but the quality of their content is going
to rapidly decline as they start bending to the will of the connections they've made
and begin injecting the political views of the environment that they're in.
LA is a cesspool of insufferably smug progressive elitism, and from what I've heard from long
time viewers, Yong-Yei was no exception to the rule, he slid down this slope just like
everyone else.
Secondly, there's the quality of his voice.
Yong-Yei did a line reading at Anime Expo 2023, here's the clip
The fan backlash to this centered on how Yong-Yei's Kiryu voice sounds too much
like his own.
And considering that in the game that Yong-Yei is playing Kiryu, he's middle aged at this
point, yeah I agree, he's too young sounding to be the voice of a gray haired retired Kiryu.
Yong-Yei's response to this was to post the official clip of the line from the video
game on his twitter, as a way of saying no it's good guys, just listen to how it sounds
about the echoes of the panel.
But that received so much backlash he deleted the tweet.
Here's the deleted video.
Yeah this still ain't great.
Somebody made a fan edit on YouTube, splicing in the Anime Expo audio overtop the in-game
cutscene.
Hey, at least it's not as bad as the actual golem game buddy.
Yong-Yei's reply to the viral clip was to complain that it was misinformation, that
it was poorly recorded audio from an off the cuff panel and the script was unlocalized
and it was all superimposed into the Japanese trailer.
Many people even think it's official because of the video, but they hadn't even recorded
that scene yet.
You know, I thought that previous deleted clip was the official recording, but maybe
he just did it off the cuff for comparison sake.
Everyone had their doubts about this, but the game was still months off, maybe it wouldn't
be so bad.
And then when the game's demo dropped, everyone's doubts were confirmed.
This clip went viral with the attached tweet.
I just heard actual English Kiryu voice and uh, Yong-Yei as a casting choice fucking sucked,
I'm so sorry.
Here's Yong-Yei's official clip, tagged with did a side by side with the Japanese
for those wanting to hear the difference.
This is some of the first stuff we recorded a year ago.
The performance got more refined as we went further along.
I'm excited for y'all to experience the full games.
This just isn't working man.
No offense to Yong-Yei himself, this isn't a personal attack on the man, but he was not
the right choice for this character.
There's a couple of things at play here.
Firstly is that the previous English voice actor for Kiryu, Daryl Kurilo, seems to be
a complete cuck.
His reaction to Yong-Yei swiping his job out from under him is, I am very happy and honored
to have played a wonderfully written and iconic character as Kiryu.
I am just as happy to discover that the role will be portrayed by a dedicated actor who
more closely matches Kiryu's culture.
I approve.
I gotta do a deep dive into this topic at some point, but there is this weird woke racial
segregationist movement happening in voice acting right now, where progressives in that
space are demanding that characters of a specific race can only be voice acted by actors who
share that race, so that they can embody the racial experiences or some other racist KKK
ass nonsense.
Secondly, is the more general rule of, don't hire YouTubers to be in your fucking video
games, it never ends well.
I know, I get it, you want to connect with the kids and get some of their money by attaching
that brand to your product, but it almost always makes it shittier.
You can count the number of career transitions into more traditional entertainment YouTubers
have made that have been successful and non-cringe on like, one hand.
We all know it's true.
You're sitting there, playing a video game or watching a show, and then suddenly you
hear Egoraptor's voice or Markiplier's or something, and you just want to shut it
off.
And it's not even necessarily because they're bad voice actors, though they usually are,
it's that even if they're good, they're still bringing with them that LA funk.
That progressive elitist clique that you and I will never be a part of.
Full of people who look down on us and hate the fact that they still need us to buy their
slop.
Anyway, after the repeated negative feedback, Yongye began to mass block people on Twitter
and hide replies.
I understand, man, you're not going to accept any criticism, you're going to stay the
course and drive this fucking thing right into the ground.
But you've got to understand, nobody, and I mean nobody, wants to hear your auto-tuned
voice sing these songs.
It got so bad that Yongye began to block his supporters who weren't perfectly marching
in lockstep with him.
Like for Tanga here, who said that Yongye was a bad Kiryu, but he shouldn't be cancel
cultured by people bringing up unrelated slur usage from years ago as an avenue of attack.
And he got his ass blocked for that.
Yongye is going full scorched earth, man.
This is all very hypocritical.
Because while he is blocking people who are just haters, who are saying stuff like you
suck or whatever, he's also blocking people who are making the reasonable obvious criticism
that Yongye is just not a good fit for the character of Kiryu.
A criticism that Yongye himself made against Chris Pratt voicing Mario in the Mario Brothers
movie.
Now the one thing that everyone's talking about is of course Mario's voice.
This is the main character, this is an iconic character, there's a very specific voice
and type of performance that we associate with Mario's character.
And this trailer finally gave us a glimpse of what Mario will sound like who is played
by Chris Pratt.
And I'll be honest, when I first watched this trailer, I was kind of disappointed.
I was a little taken aback by how much Mario just sounds like Chris Pratt doing like a
bit of a Brooklyn accent.
This still shot right here is a pretty appropriate representation of my reaction, that first
knee jerk impression.
This article dropped on The Gamer, Kazuma Kiryu's English voice was always going to
be impossible, making the point that Kiryu's voice and character and the story of the games
is quintessentially Japanese, translating them into English has never really worked,
and that it's not actually a problem with Yongye, whoever they chose was basically doomed
to failure from the get-go.
There's probably something to this view, I don't know anybody who plays Yakuza with
any language other than the Japanese, it certainly feels more authentic.
But before Yongye took over, the English dub of Yakuza was only considered superfluous
by the fans, not a direct sabotaging of the game.
It's true that no English voice actor can ever truly be Kiryu, but there are absolutely
people who come way closer than Yongye, and his inclusion really just feels like capitalizing
on YouTuber clout.
Moreover, Yongye actually has a history of doing this sort of thing whenever controversy
rears its ugly head.
He has a history of deleting videos and deleting comments, in order to try and control public
opinion of him.
A lot of these other stories never went viral, and they're lost to time because he was
just so good at scrubbing the online narrative, but you can still find crumbs here and there.
This isn't how you do it, man.
I mean, who am I to say that, I guess?
I've got 140,000 subs and he's got over a million.
But if you want to remain a good person, this isn't how you do it.
I've had takes that people didn't like, I've put out videos that people hated, I've
received more than my fair share of flak on the internet, I've had my mentions full
of thousands of replies, people telling me to kill myself or delete my channel, or insulting
my weight or insulting my girlfriend or whatever else, multiple times now, and I've never
gone on a mass-block delete spree.
I've never taken down videos or tweets for that.
You just carry on and hope people will come around, and if they don't, you try again
next time.
I think this is an Egoraptor-style story.
Despite all of Yangye's YouTube success, he always wanted to be an actor or a voice
actor, and he viewed YouTube as secondary, as the job he settled on doing rather than
the job he wanted.
And now that his YouTube channel is moving him into actor spaces, that's become his
personality.
That's why he says, I earned Kiryu, that's why his Twitter name is now the English voice
of Kiryu, and why he's posting videos on his channel saying, Kiryu auditions for Mario,
or Kiryu's voice actor reacts to trailers, or I met Kiryu, which is just his fans meeting
him.
Kiryu is Yangye's crown jewel, it doesn't matter how much he ruins the character and
destroys the franchise, it's a stepping stone in his career, and that's what he
cares about.
He can now put on his resume that he was the lead role in the multi-million-copy-selling
Yakuza series.
This isn't going to stop by the way, Yangye just announced that he's going to be voicing
a character in the Persona 3 remake, and he's probably going to rape that project
into the ground too.
Shitty nepotistic LA YouTubers are going to keep providing dogshit voice performances
in these games, as long as they're profitable.
Stay informed and vote with your wallet, guys.
