Alright my friends, the Project Melody video is recorded and mostly edited, however the
reason it's not coming out today is because basically I commissioned some art for it and
the artwork is not ready yet, so I guess we'll do the weekly coronavirus update instead.
Here's how things are looking, 75,752 cases, again, most of them are in China, only triple
digits, others, whatever others is, probably take those ships that are anchored off the
coast of Japan or whatever, and 104 in South Korea.
Most other places don't have that many cases in fact.
Canada is still at 8, UK is still at 9, the US is at 15.
Most places are probably not going to experience such a widespread outbreak as China has.
However, keep in mind, we still know that this virus can survive for several weeks outside
of the body, and we also know that it incubates for several weeks inside the body before you
actually start showing symptoms, and during that entire time you are infectious.
So who knows how far this thing's going to go?
Also maybe you'll notice here in the corner that there's this weird graph regarding the
actual explosion of cases and how it spikes up here.
What's going on is that China's basically been routinely and repeatedly fucking with
how they report their cases, the methodology that they use to say that this is a case or
this isn't a case, and they're doing this to try and basically put the best possible
light on it because it's becoming very clear that China's been absolutely terrible this
whole time, and they don't really want that to get out, and so they're just trying to
put the best possible spin on the whole situation.
Unfortunately for them, it hasn't actually made the situation any better.
I'm sure at this point you guys have noticed that underneath every YouTube video about
the coronavirus there's a YouTube-sponsored link leading you to the website of the World
Health Organization.
I'm also sure you've noticed that if you search on Twitter or Google or something, it'll also
either send you to the WHO's website or it'll send you to your local health website.
If you're in the UK, it'll send you to the NHS.
If you're in Canada, it'll send you to the Ministry of Health.
Obviously social media is really clamping down on this topic in a way that they didn't
with Ebola or bird flu or swine flu or SARS or anything like that.
They really want to make sure that only authoritative sources appear at the top of the search.
And here is what that heralded WHO has to say for themselves.
There's no other way to put it, man.
Like what are we supposed to admire?
We're supposed to admire of doctors who warn the citizens and the world of the peril and
they get censored or quietly poisoned or they get infected themselves and they're just
left to die.
Should we applaud the censorship of journalists or the welding of people's doors shut or the
turning off of elevators in these apartment blocks or any of the other scummy things that
China has done?
The WHO is a fucking joke at this point, dude.
Also thanks to some independent journalists over there, we do have at least trickles of
news.
This is really a bombshell.
Naval University of Engineering in Wuhan, one of the five comprehensive military universities
of the PLA, issued a lockdown notice on January 2nd, 18 days before the government admitted
there was an epidemic.
There's also rumors that if you're part of the military or you're part of the Communist
Party and you get infected, your chance of surviving the infection is much higher, as
is your quality of care.
Who's surprised?
They definitely knew beforehand and they definitely did their own prep before letting everyone
else know, just so that they could ensure that the power structure of China remains
intact.
William Yang also has a running thread on Twitter talking about latest cases and latest
news.
Singapore had nine new cases on Friday, adding the total case to 67.
So they do have native transmission over there, as in not people from China, but going from
person to person.
Japan added two more cases, one is a 16-year-old man who had cold symptoms since February 3rd
and it turned into pneumonia.
The other patient is in his 50s and receiving treatment.
Beijing announced a 14-day self-quarantine or concentrated quarantine on anyone returning
to Beijing.
Those refusing to comply with the quarantine will face legal consequences.
Of course China, of course.
Since returning to work this week, four companies in China have reported group infection cases,
one in Chongqing, one in Shuzhou, one in Hunan, and one in Shaanxi.
Southern India reported a suspected case, causing 3,218 people being quarantined and
the local government is monitoring another 3,252 people, 34 were quarantined in hospitals.
The local government has set off a major epidemic coping mechanism.
So it does seem like slowly more and more people are losing their heads over this thing.
I don't think it can be contained anymore, I think it's now just out there and we're
just going to have to deal with it on a case-by-case basis.
There is no more quarantine for this, I don't think.
And for all those people out there who just love Trump, keep in mind that he's still Trump
and he still makes all the same mistakes, gaffes, and blunders that he usually makes.
Trump defends China's alleged cover-up because you don't want the world to go crazy.
And he also claimed, without evidence, that the disease will go away by April.
Yeah, Trump.
You know, I can say with a straight face that this is one of those times where I actually
disagree with Trump.
I think this is probably not the right take to have here, dude.
I think they want to put their best face on it, so you know what I mean, if somebody,
if you're running it, you probably wouldn't want to run it into the world and go crazy
and start saying whatever it is because you don't want to create a panic.
Yeah, but I mean, we've seen the alternative, though, Trump.
We've seen what China's been doing and it's not better.
It's certainly worse.
And yeah, he says the virus will likely go away by April and that Beijing has handled
the epidemic very professionally.
Yeah, this is one time where I have to say no, Trump.
No.
Hey, you guys want to see how retarded Vox is?
I do.
The coronavirus exposes the history of racism and cleanliness.
While the epidemic may be new, xenophobia has been intertwined with public health discourse
for a very long time.
Yeah, see, I understand what they're going for.
They're going to talk about, like, what was it called?
Mad cow disease.
Right.
Where recently, within the past 20 or 30 years, we had mad cow disease because farmers were
feeding cow parts to other cows.
And basically the point of this article is to, I'm not going to go over it because it's
literally just Vox stupidity, but the point of this article is to talk about how dirty
Western culture has also been in its past and therefore we shouldn't be calling Chinese
culture dirty because that's racism and it's xenophobia.
And it's like, well, you know, it was Western culture that developed germ theory and most
medical advances.
The dirtiness of our past that was in the past.
Meanwhile, traditional Chinese culture is quite dirty right now.
It's not consistent to compare our past with somebody else's present.
In any case, this was Vox's take on February 7th, February 14th, one week later, why the
coronavirus outbreak might be much bigger than we know.
Oh, Vox, are you suddenly bigoted now?
Are you suddenly being xenophobic and sinophobic against those Chinese people?
Here's probably the most important bit of news though.
South China university of technology biologist has exposed that the coronavirus might have
originated from an animal research lab 280 meters away from the epicenter of the outbreak.
The scientists were reportedly bitten by bats used for a test.
The possible origins of the coronavirus.
Two descriptions of the virus published on nature this week indicated that the genome
sequences from patients were 96% or 89% identical to the bat coronavirus originally found in
the lab.
It was critical to study where the pathogen came from and how it passed on to humans.
The market was suspected to be the origin of the epidemic and was shut down according
to the rule of quarantine.
The bats carrying the virus were originally found in Yunnan or Zhejiang province, both
of which were more than 900 kilometers away from the seafood market.
Bats are normally found to live in caves and trees, but the seafood market is a densely
populated district of Wuhan.
The probability was very low that bats could fly to the market.
According to municipal reports and the testimonies of 31 residents and 28 visitors, the bat was
never a food source in the city and no bat was traded in the market.
In summary, somebody was entangled with the evolution of the coronavirus.
In addition to the origins of natural recombination intermediate host, the killer coronavirus
probably originated from a laboratory in Wuhan.
Safety levels may need to be reinforced in high risk biohazardous laboratories.
NO SHIT DUDE.
In one of the studies, 155 bats were captured in Hubei province and another 450 bats were
captured in Zhejiang province.
The expert in collection was broadcasted for collecting viruses on nationwide newspapers
and websites in 2017 and 2019.
He described that he was once attacked by bats and the blood of a bat shot on his skin.
He knew the extreme danger of infection so he quarantined himself for 14 days.
In another incident, he quarantined himself again because bats peed on him.
He was once thrilled for capturing a bat carrying a live tick.
And of course, here's the map, there's the Wuhan Center for Disease Control and Prevention,
and there's the Hunanan Seafood Market.
They are 277 meters or 911 feet away from each other.
I guarantee you what happened is that somebody was studying bats in there, something transmitted
from a bat to a human while these scientists were working, then they decided to go and
have lunch at the seafood market.
I'm pretty sure that's what happened guys.
But as the months go on, we continue to discover more and more about what this virus may potentially
do.
This is not completely confirmed yet but these are the initial reports.
Various research published by Chinese scientists say coronavirus might render certain male
patients infertile.
So if you get it, you recover from it, you might not be having kids.
Doctor in Hubei, China warns Wuhan novel coronavirus causes sudden heart attack during second infection.
As the antibodies against the virus do not work during the second infection, the infection
can cause heart failure and further sudden death.
This might actually explain why despite the reported symptoms that we keep hearing about,
there have been those dramatic videos of people in China who just like dropped dead because
they might have had the coronavirus before and they have like maybe a little flu or something
they just stayed in bed for a few days thought it was fine and they catch it again and they
fucking die.
And despite this being, you know, China, Chinese scientists are finally speaking out in mass
saying that it probably came from the government bioweapons research facility in Wuhan and
that it's probably a lot more dangerous than everyone has been saying so far.
Meanwhile scientists are disappearing.
There was a renowned law professor who spoke out against the president, Xi Jinping.
He disappeared.
Journalists are disappearing.
China is just trying to make this go away.
So where does that leave us?
Is this truly the end of days or something?
No, I still don't think so.
These are initial reports, not necessarily confirmed by multiple sources yet.
And even if they are confirmed, that makes this a very deadly virus that we have to watch
out for.
But I don't think it means the end of human civilization.
It might mean the end of China, but certainly not the rest of us.
But as shipping from China starts to close down and travel is being blocked by more and
more nations, even the Russians have decided to block travel to China today, in fact.
I'll leave you with the same advice that I've left you in the previous videos.
Don't panic.
Stock up on some food just in case there's local shortages.
Keep some dried beans and dried rice, maybe some canned food hanging around your house.
Enough to last for a few weeks in case there's a local shortage because that is what's likely
to hurt you at this point, not the virus.
Let's say you live in a medium sized city and there's one case of coronavirus in your
city and the guy goes to the hospital.
He's quarantined.
He's treated properly and there is no outbreak.
During that time, people will be panicking.
There will be riots at grocery stores.
The shelves might be empty.
There might be no shipping for a couple of weeks even.
Your best bet is to have some food in storage so that you could basically ride it out if
you had to.
I've got like a 10 pound sack of rice and then maybe five pounds of red kidney beans
or so.
That stuff will just stay on the shelf and it's good for the next couple of years, that
kind of stuff.
So even if there is no problem, we just have some food saved up.
It's not a big deal.
The sub-ree starts getting hit with the coronavirus and suddenly all the grocery stores have no
food in them because everyone's grabbing stuff.
You don't want to be out there in that mob.
So yeah, keep your cool, don't lose your head over it, stock up on some basic supplies
and you know, we're all probably going to make it.
Don't worry about it.
I love you.
Good luck.
