a man of many talents. Hello ladies and gentlemen, welcome to The Right Opinion,
the home of a twat with too much free time, and today we talk about Kendrick Lamar. I know,
music. For anyone who's been around long enough on this channel, they will be aware that I have
a deep love for music. I have a massive catalogue of tunes, and I pretty much listen to every song
on New Music Friday. I have an extremely deep interest for it. However, that may be news to
anyone who is relatively recent to my channel, and I have a little PSA for you. Expect a few
videos about music interspersed, because there are few things that I'm more passionate for than
my music ventures. So as you may have guessed by the title, this video is about Kendrick. Now,
as an avid listener of music, you'll be unsurprised to know that I did listen to Damn,
and was thoroughly impressed by his dexterous lyricism and narrative as always. Personal
favourite song is Duckworth, and that's because I enjoy a good story and I love the intermixed funk
samples. Though obviously there are a number of good songs that deserve recognition, I'm not going
to run through the honourable mentions though right now. However, Kendrick's songs also gain
a lot of reputation for being quite political, the sort of social commentary that is quite hard
to come by in a lot of modern rap music. And to be honest, you don't always expect it, some songs are
just stupid party jams, but it's always refreshing when one does come along. Now, I have to admit,
due to my fairly frantic upload schedule, I haven't had the chance to listen to the political
subtext of his latest album, so I've found someone who has, and that is Vanilla Rice. And Vanilla
Rice is going to explain in depth a lot of the undertones in his latest album. Take it away,
my friends. Hello, so I've been asked to do a little piece on Kendrick Lamar. See,
he released his new album, and it's pretty good. I really thoroughly enjoyed it. I've listened to
it countless times, but however he's fallen under some criticism, especially from people on the
right, people on the right that liked Kendrick's music. It's no wonder the KKK died out. All the
white racists just sat back and laughed as they watched hip-hop music decimate black music.
Kendrick Lamar, he released his album, and he states a lot of things in it.
Fox News, he quotes their little thing, their little piece they did on him,
where they state basically... Police brutality with that line in the song,
quote, and we hate the po-po, want to kill us in the street, fo-show. KG. Oh, please.
What? Ugh, I don't like it.
Yeah, thinking that the message behind that song is, you know, we hate the police,
they all want to kill us, and we want to kill them, fight the corrupt government,
when if you actually listen to the song, that's not what it's about. Kendrick Lamar stated these
are some answers to, you know, questions he's been given, questions he's wanting to ask people.
That's why the song names are, you know, like, labeled, like, love, lost human emotions,
and these are how, this is how Kendrick Lamar feels on those subjects. Now, Kendrick Lamar,
on Triple X, which is, I love this song, it's brilliant, he's presented with a question,
one of his home dogs, one of his homies, in the hood. Unfortunately, his fictional son is killed,
and they go and ask Kendrick, what do I do? And then Kendrick, you know, he's got a loose filter
on him, and he says, you know, so now you know that this album, this is just how Kendrick feels.
And of course, the right flake give Kendrick a flag, because he states how he feels about
Donald Trump. Now, I think, as previously mentioned, you can't really expect Kendrick Lamar
to love Donald Trump. It's like Paul Joseph Watson, oh, Kendrick Lamar, he doesn't like
Donald Trump, oh, he's just anti for left, he's anti for left, oh, he's a leftist liberal libtard.
But then you remember that, of course, he's gonna see Donald Trump in that light, because
he's grown up in the inner cities, and he's had a very tough life. Again, if you like Donald Trump,
and you can't listen to Kendrick Lamar because he doesn't like Donald Trump, then, yeah, just
end yourself, I don't know, stab yourself with a, with a, with a dreadlock, I don't know. Anyway,
that's been my thing, thank you for having me on this video, I hope I added something,
can't even remember what I said. Anyway, look at that, it's ended, he punches the camera.
Thank you Vanilla Rice for helping me out with that one, very much appreciated. His
channel will be linked in the description below. Now with politics comes critics,
as shown by one of the audio clips right at the start in Blood. Fox News reacted rather badly to
the song Alright, and in one of his preview songs for the album The Heart Part 4, he was also
denounced by many right-wing commentators for labelling Donald Trump a chump, with many believing
he was just another establishment mouthpiece. Rap music seems particularly hostile to those of the
Trump persuasion, with Eminem and Snoop Dogg also taking shots in the last few months or so,
some more verbal, others more physical. And to respond to that, what I would say is,
why wouldn't it be hostile? Rap music culture is generally built around the struggles of inner
city working class people, some of those least likely to vote for someone like Trump. I have
regularly attacked critics of Trump for being out as touch socialites, but it doesn't mean everyone
who attacks Trump is that. It's not like Kendrick is absolving the communities that he represents
of any criticism, in fact in the song The Black and the Berry, my favourite song of his, his
narrative shifts to expose the hypocrisy of many of the communities that he is actually from. That
doesn't make him an extremist Trump supporter though, but yet we always seem to work with
extremes. Most people seem to think you're either communist or fascist, when the truth is,
you can exist without being either. Now I'm aware that Kendrick's comments of Trump being a chump
aren't particularly constructive or useful, but nonetheless he's allowed to vent, people aren't
entitled to an explanation, and he didn't preach it like he was trying to convert anyone. It
doesn't annoy me at all, probably because I believe the insults come from a genuine place,
and it wasn't so arrogant. If you want things that do piss me off, it's complacency and this
false feeling of righteousness. A really good example of this was Josh Whedon's tweets mocking
Paul Ryan upon his meeting of teenage cancer survivors. In contrast, Kendrick's music never
has that feeling of righteousness, he runs a narrative and allows you to draw your own
conclusion. Although the narrative may present its own opinions, it's always an open-ended matter,
which is why his criticism always comes across as a lot less hostile, and also you get the feeling
that he speaks from experience, and speaks from the heart, which makes a lot of his narrative a
lot more reasonable. I don't believe rap music belongs to the political elite, it's a very
strong weapon against political correctness, you could just look at Eminem for that, and it's also
a way of giving the voiceless a voice, despite its misuse sometimes, which I acknowledge.
Kendrick Lamar is many things, but I don't think his take on politics is one that negatively
affects the current state of affairs. He's not a social justice warrior or Hollywood elitist,
he's someone who's gone through genuine struggle, and that reflects in his music,
and his music isn't entirely political, but it's dynamically in touch with the
issues that many people face, and that's what matters to me. I'm the right opinion, and damn.
