Joe Rogan says he's voting for Bernie.
Who are you going to vote for in the primary?
I think I'll probably vote for Bernie.
Him as a human being, when I was hanging out with him, I believe in him.
I like him.
I like him a lot.
What Bernie stands for is a guy who, well look, you could dig up dirt on every single
human being that's ever existed if you catch them in their worst moment and you magnify
those moments and you cut out everything else and you only display those worst moments.
That said, you can't find very many with Bernie.
He's been insanely consistent his entire life.
He's basically been saying the same thing, been for the same thing his whole life.
And that in and of itself is a very powerful structure to operate from.
Hey, Nathan Bernhard, haven't you been saying that Joe Rogan is far right or alt-right or
whatever for a long time now?
For five days straight, Joe Rogan's sympathetic interview with far-right propagandist Ben
Shapiro has been the most listened to podcast in the world.
Rogan is a far-right apologist.
Aside from Joe Rogan expressing mild skepticism over Andy Noe's brain hemorrhage, the interview
was them ranting about how Antifa are the real fascists, not Nazis.
Joe unfortunately agrees with these far-right grifters on most issues.
Joe Rogan appeared on Infowars yesterday to claim he's not a gateway to the far right.
Previously, Rogan platformed race scientist Stefan Molyneux, Islamophobic fearmonger Ben
Shapiro, and cult leader Jordan Peterson.
Joe has sadly become a springboard for far-right influencers.
Joe Rogan hosted far-right fearmonger Ben Shapiro on his podcast yesterday.
Ben constantly whined about being labeled alt-right and Joe never pushed back.
Last week, Rogan appeared on Infowars.
It's a shame Joe bends over backwards to normalize these far-right maniacs.
It just keeps going, guys, it just keeps going, like, holy shit, hey, hey, Nathan, how the
fuck can you rationalize Joe Rogan, the far-right alt-right whatever, voting for Bernie Sanders?
Maybe it's that you're an idiot.
However, as you probably saw at the start of the video, Joe Rogan's endorsement was
repackaged into an official campaign ad by the Bernie Sanders campaign.
And people are not happy about it.
Joe Rogan is a gateway to the alt-right, which is why this move will be damaging to Bernie.
Now Bernie's movement will suffer an influx of Nazis who want healthcare,
those Nazis and their healthcare, making its spaces unsafe for marginalized members.
Rogan knows exactly what he's doing, kneecapping incipient socialism.
It's more that what you call Nazis, one, aren't actually Nazis, but two, are voters,
voters whom you will need the vote of if you actually want to win in 2020, you moron.
If Bernie doesn't renounce Rogan's endorsement, he'll no longer be my number two.
He won't even be in my top five.
Signal boosting the endorsement of a man who is openly transphobic, misogynist,
and a Nazi apologist is unacceptable.
This is the hill I will die on.
Yeah, it is the hill you will die on.
With the attitude you have regarding politics,
none of the people you support will ever get into office.
However, more importantly, Joe Rogan isn't transphobic, or a misogynist, or a Nazi apologist.
He is willing to discuss things openly rather than simply accept
your side's propaganda on the face of it, which is why you don't like him.
If you guys came out and said being trans means accepting position A, B, C, and D,
and someone decided not to outright reject those positions, but simply
debate their merits, you would call that transphobia.
And I don't mean an obvious position like trans people should be allowed to be alive,
or something like that.
I mean something that actually has a discussion in it.
Like, should trans people be allowed to compete in professional sports,
specifically competing against people who were born that gender rather than transitioned?
There's a legitimate conversation to be had there,
but you think having the conversation means that you're transphobic,
which is again, why you are wrong.
Here's Peter, I married a blow-up doll coffin.
Legitimizing Joe Rogan is not something that has been done by leftists on Twitter
in the last 48 hours.
It happened years ago.
He has 11 million listeners.
That ship has sailed.
It's time to try to persuade those people of something.
You know, on the one hand, I do love the idea
that we could lay all of this at the feet of Fear Factor, or something.
On the other, though, Peter Coffin's actually right.
Joe Rogan has 11 million listeners.
If you want to get them on side, you have to treat them seriously,
and not just simply call them racists or whatever.
Bernie Sanders must reconsider Joe Rogan's endorsement, says LGBTQ group.
Human Rights Campaign says podcast host Rogan has attacked countless marginalized groups
at every opportunity.
And of course, put in the least flattering picture of Bernie you can get.
Yeah, no.
A purity spiral is the opposite of what you want to have when you're trying to win an election.
You have to have a broad tent that covers a lot of people with a lot of different views.
That's how you win.
And in fact, that is exactly what Bernie's campaign said, to their credit.
The goal of our campaign is to build a multiracial, multigenerational movement
that is large enough to defeat Donald Trump and the powerful special interest
whose greed and corruption is the root cause of the outrageous inequality in America.
Sharing a big tent requires including those who do not share every one of our beliefs,
while always making clear that we will never compromise our values.
The truth is that by standing together in solidarity,
we share the values of love and respect
that will move us in the direction of a more humane, more equal world.
Now you can object to a lot of the rhetoric used in that passage.
There's certainly some problems with it.
But the point is, we will not reject Joe Rogan's endorsement,
simply because a far left vocal fringe doesn't like it.
And that is the right thing to do in this situation.
This is a pathetic response and I'm done.
It is clear the Bernie Sanders campaign does not care about holding transphobia accountable.
Among the many other awful things Joe Rogan has perpetuated on his program,
I am a human being and a trans person.
I am not another belief.
The problem, and this is I think a problem with a lot of trans activists,
is that they equate their humanity with their activism.
So for example, if you reject some of their political opinions,
they take it as if it is a dangerous direct assault on their very life.
It's not, obviously, but that's how they get away with rhetoric like this.
Oh, and also, you work for the Hillary Clinton campaign.
You're just fucking angry that you lost in 2016
because Hillary decided to fight against the activist wing of her own party.
Feel free to stay mad about it.
But there are idiots out there who actually think this is about gender somehow.
Hillary must be quiet.
Joe Rogan must be boosted.
It's like a seminar on the role of gender in US politics.
Well, firstly, Hillary's not even in the fucking campaign.
And that might be a good thing for Democrats, because if she entered, she'd lose again.
But secondly, it's not about their gender at all.
In fact, it's the opposite of that.
Joe Rogan is considered evil because he's a man who has made some problematic jokes,
and maybe he smoked weed with Elon Musk on air,
and maybe he's debated distasteful ideas rather than simply running away from them scared.
Hillary, the literal fucking neoliberal warmonger,
who went on a radio show where they used to quiz mentally disabled people back in the 90s
on how to spell simple words they didn't understand.
She's good because she is a woman.
This is why identity politics will always lead you to ruin,
in politics, in business, in science.
Doesn't matter.
Only 53% of Bernie Sanders voters will definitely support the 2020 Democratic nomination.
Infinite.
Yikes.
No, no, no, no, no.
This is not the time to moralize.
This is not the time to browbeat people into going your way
because you can't shame somebody into voting for your candidate.
This is the time to reconcile and make deals with people, all right?
You will lose with this attitude.
If your response to the people who say Bernie or Bust
is to call them racists or sexist or bigots or whatever, you will lose them.
If your response is to cut a deal with them,
maybe include some of their policies on your platform,
and maybe make Bernie like the Secretary of State or something, you could figure it out,
then maybe you get more of them on board.
But this, this is how you lose.
Joe Rogan back in 2012, call me romantic,
but I love when gay guys on a date are comfortable enough to kiss in public.
In the Democratic Party, we do not fetishize LGBTQ plus folks.
When they show affection in a public place, it is not for your pleasure.
Bernie Sanders, delete this tweet and renounce Joe Rogan's endorsement.
Can you, can you imagine like Joe Rogan just furiously masturbating
over like a gay public displays of affection fetish?
This is, this is the most reaching I have ever seen anyone do in quite some time.
Here's something to think about though.
If Joe Rogan actually is this, this, this gateway to the alt-right,
if he, you know, he platforms the far right and therefore
legitimizes them and all this other bullshit,
then what does it say about him when he has Bernie Sanders on his, his podcast for an hour?
And what does it say about him when he endorses Bernie Sanders after that podcast?
Does that make him a, a gateway towards Bernie?
Does that mean that he is a pipeline to, to the alt-left?
In fact, people are saying the opposite.
People are saying that they don't want Joe Rogan's audience to enter the far left.
They don't want Joe Rogan's audience to, to be a part of Bernie's campaign.
So if you don't want people radicalized towards the right,
and you don't want people radicalized towards the left,
and we already know that you have no love for the centrists,
what do you want to do with all of those people that don't politically agree with you?
If you don't want to convert them, if you don't want to leave them alone,
and if you don't want them to, to radicalize to be your enemy,
what do you want to do with them?
I don't know.
Maybe everyone in the far left is actually a legit tanky
that just wants to put all of them in gulags or something.
Maybe they actually want to see their, their political opposition dead.
Like, I don't know, possibly like what else is left?
Let's say Joe Rogan's audience is actually alt-right.
And let's say some of those alt-right people have been convinced by Joe Rogan's podcast
and endorsement of Bernie to maybe swing a bit more left in their politics
and, and, and vote for Bernie this time around.
Is that not a victory?
How could you justify screaming that your marginalized communities are now unsafe
as more people who used to be alt-right join your marginalized communities
because they now agree with your politics?
Is it because you believe that there's something innate in those people
that just makes them incompatible with, with your movement?
Or, I mean, maybe you just want to have an eternal enemy that you can always fight.
Maybe instead of actually growing your political movement,
maybe instead of actually growing the left as a whole,
you just want your exclusive club.
Have you guys even realized that if Bernie were to get everything he wanted,
all of those gamergate dude bros that you hate would also get universal healthcare,
because that's the point of universal healthcare.
And just in case you had any doubts that this is at least partially about Hillary,
here is HRC president Alfonso David basically calling for Joe Rogan to, to be cancel cultured.
I mean, good luck with that.
His, his YouTube channel is certainly larger than anything
that the mainstream media puts out anymore.
And really, I think that's what this is all about.
It doesn't matter whether or not you agree with Bernie Sanders' platform.
What matters is that he's getting the endorsement not of news organizations,
but of content creators.
He's strangely enough streaming on Twitch.
He's talking to Joe Rogan.
He's going on other podcasts.
And he's, he's actually engaging with, with these alternative methods of communication.
And the media doesn't like that he's sidestepping them for new tech.
The honest truth is YouTubers are kingmakers in a way that the media used to be 30 years ago.
And now they're not.
Nobody cares about what CNN has to say anymore.
CNN is a dying brand.
And at this point, we've kind of moved away from Joe Rogan and Bernie Sanders.
And that's because the truth of the matter is around 30 years ago,
the news media held dominion over whatever information that you,
that you received regarding any affair that was happening like outside of your town.
You basically had to watch their 15-second sound bites and listen to their very meaningless
interviews giving a very basic overview of the situation.
But nowadays, people are going to Joe Rogan instead.
They're going to other podcasters.
They're listening to things either, either like on their phones.
It's like a podcast, or they're listening to the YouTube video.
They don't even watch Joe Rogan.
They just put them on in the background, and they listen while they're doing the dishes,
or they're working out, or they're playing video games, or something.
They're basically listening to these two-hour, these three-hour conversations,
where they actually take a deep dive into a topic with a guest.
And not just give a 15-second sound bite, but really discuss something in depth.
And because of the internet, people are becoming educated in ways that
were never possible 20, 30 years ago.
And it's not just Joe Rogan, and it's not just podcasting.
For example, academia is shifting away from the university as well.
There's no reason to pay thousands of dollars to attend one of Jordan Peterson's classes
over the course of a semester when you can just go and watch all the lectures on YouTube.
They're all there.
You'll get 90% of the same content.
So things like news and politics and academics have all been, for most of human history,
within a very tight, confined structure.
And the internet has basically set them free.
And so people are now accessing crazy amounts of information, and crazy amounts of knowledge,
and getting educated in ways that have never been possible before.
And the people who used to be the old gatekeepers of those things, they don't like it.
Now there's obviously the problem of accreditation.
What happens if you decide to take all of your classes online and just watch the lectures on
YouTube?
Like, how does somebody know that you actually learned all that stuff?
That's why you have to get a degree or a diploma, because those things are basically proof that
you learned what you say you learned.
And currently, that doesn't exist online, so who knows?
Even in terms of news, how do you know that the YouTubers you watch are factually accurate?
You know, I tend to watch Sargon and Styx and Chew on Head, or even people I disagree with,
like ContraPoints.
I regularly watch people that I disagree with so that I'm not stuck in an echo chamber.
I can actually synthesize the truth out of all of these various different sources.
But not everyone has time for that.
Not everyone has the inclination for that.
Some people just really want to be in an echo chamber where they're only told things that
they actually agree with.
How do you solve those problems online?
I'm not sure.
But the old solution was simply the authority of the source.
So when CNN said, you can trust us, we're giving you the news, you know, 30 years ago,
that did fly for better or worse.
And the reason it doesn't now is because journalists have proven themselves to no longer
be worthy of the public's trust.
And so that trust is now shifting away from them to content creators.
So the news establishment is losing its mind that some kid with a webcam has just as much
reach as they do.
And meanwhile, larger sources like Sargon or Styx, they have significantly more reach
than CNN or MSNBC.
With, by the way, a lot less overhead.
This also explains why the news establishment is being in lockstep with the political establishment.
It no longer matters if Bernie Sanders gets 30 seconds on CNN and manages to pull some
kind of corporate endorsement or some kind of news endorsement or whatever.
You can hop on Joe Rogan for an hour, talk about his platform in depth and then get an
endorsement because of it.
And here's the thing.
I'm reasonably certain that Joe Rogan's endorsement wasn't paid for by Bernie Sanders.
That makes it his actual opinion.
And if it's his actual opinion, it has a lot more weight than some kind of backroom deal.
Basically, even though there's problems with authenticity and accreditation and what the
news media rightfully does sometimes call fake news, despite all of those problems,
things are generally getting better for your average person who wants to learn about stuff.
And a side effect of it getting better is that the old gatekeepers can no longer gatekeep,
which is why they are losing their minds.
So when Joe Rogan endorses Bernie Sanders, regardless of how you feel about Bernie Sanders
politics, it's generally a good thing because it's not a political move.
It is the truth as Joe Rogan sees it.
And if there's one thing that the establishment absolutely cannot tolerate, it's the truth.
