No announcements. No, nothing to talk about.
Let's get right to the TikToks.
Thanks for everyone who sent these to me, by the way.
I... I kind of appreciate it.
Well, good morning, guys.
Good morning.
So we are day two post-op.
My surgeon came in earlier this morning, and he...
Oh, is this like a trans man?
I haven't seen a picture of it yet, but I'm like...
Like female to male?
No, I haven't even seen it yet.
Well, he pulled out his phone, showed me a picture of what my
new vagina looked like.
What?
Directly after surgery.
And I gotta say, I...
New vagina?
It's beautiful.
It looks real.
It looks like I was alone when it seemed to belong with it, but...
He's amazing.
His work is absolutely amazing.
I want you guys to know that I'm doing great.
I'm a little uncomfortable, but...
Uh-huh.
I'm feeling kind of uncomfortable too, buddy.
That was...
That was a roller coaster.
Okay.
So when...
Oh, my God.
When the TikTok started, I thought that we were looking at a trans man.
So a female to male person, right?
So someone who was born female and then gets a sex change to have, like,
a Franken-dick put in in order to be more masculine.
Because, you know, the facial hair, the face structure, the voice,
it all screamed masculine to me.
So I thought this was a female to male.
But no, this is a guy, like, a biological male who had a vagina put in,
but he didn't even transition.
Like, he's not, like, appearing as a woman.
He's not, like, pulling a Blair White or something where he actually, like, passes.
It's just a guy with a vagina.
People are getting alternate genitals put in now without even attempting to pass.
Like, this isn't a trans woman.
This is a man with a vagina.
Okay.
Oh, police on your action.
Wait, lady.
Well, you didn't put your car, like, what the-
Damn!
What the fuck?
You didn't put your car in park?
Girl, I thought you had a partner.
Get on your knees.
Stay on your knees.
Say I need me to get up and get on your knees.
Damn, I wish you would hit my car.
Oh my god.
What a shit show.
I know for a fact there's been some decent, like, female police officers.
But all the new female police officers that are coming up
that keep going viral, they're all, like, one, really bad at being cops.
And two, they're all kind of overweight.
Like, what the fuck?
You think there'd be a mandatory physical you have to pass to be a cop
because you have to, like, chase down suspects sometimes.
Like, there's no way this chick is catching anyone in a chase.
This one doesn't have sound and it was named
whitewoman.mov when the person sent it to me.
Let's see what this is.
Walk out naked in front of your boyfriend challenge.
All right.
I don't have a boyfriend so I did it for my family.
No!
No, don't do it.
Oh, it's...
The dog pill returns.
You know what?
Okay, so the dog pill video, it was banned off of the main channel by YouTube.
It was banned off of the demonetized channel by YouTube.
It's only on Bitchute.
But you know what?
I've been saving up sources and links and, like, resources for
Dog Pill 2 coming soon to an SFO near you.
Whoa!
People stealing merch during an active shooting?
Wow, holy shit.
Yep, they're just...
They're just looting the place dry, man.
They're stealing everything.
Damn, dude.
People just don't give a shit anymore.
That's all it is, man.
That's all it is.
People just don't give a shit anymore.
I haven't...
I've spoken a lot about, you know, low and high trust societies on this channel.
You guys know what's going on at this point, but there's just like...
Yeah, there's just no sense of decency now.
The psychological idea here is that if you actually believe the world's going to end
soon, there is no future.
Like, everything is just unstable and falling apart.
Why wouldn't you just get while the getting's good?
Why wouldn't you just pursue the short-term immediate benefit?
That makes sense if you believe that there's no point in saving up for a rainy day.
But the natural side effect of that is this sort of lawlessness, right?
Part of having a high trust society is having confidence in the system.
Because if people did, they wouldn't be acting like this.
Oh, it's a robbery.
No one's doing shit.
Well, he got one phone out of it.
He got one phone out of it.
Yeah, no one gives a fuck, dude.
Yep, just walk right out.
I feel like I might have reacted to this one in a previous TikTok Tuesday.
Or maybe it was just on Twitter or something, I don't know.
Man, how jaded do you have to be?
You just don't care when someone bursts into screaming, giving you all the money.
And also, how pathetic do you have to be, as a robber,
that you just, like, sigh and give up and walk away?
He did get one phone out of it.
He grabbed that one woman's phone out of her hand.
She probably should have just, like, put it away and been like,
I don't have anything, sorry.
What's going on here is that people know he doesn't have a gun underneath that purse.
And people also know he's not gonna shoot them even if he did.
What a pathetic state of affairs.
Hold on, hold on, the music, the music.
I gotta meet the music, okay.
I gotta meet the music so I don't get copyright.
What the fuck am I looking at?
It looks like an animatronic.
That face, dude.
It looked like, man, I don't know, like, a Star Trek alien makeup or something.
I don't know, man.
Oh, Jesus, that scared me a little bit.
Vibrator on the drawing mat.
Oh, God, what is this?
Oh, God, living with women.
Now, listen, hold on, like, if you're in, like, a relationship
and it's like a guy and a girl and they live together,
that can, you know, generally be okay as long as your relationship is decent,
your partner is decent.
But, like, a bunch of guys living together, like, during college or after college,
they can be a little bit messy.
But listen, for those of you guys who don't know,
a bunch of girls living together, like, during or shortly after college,
they can be fucking foul.
Like, they can be disgusting.
This is, like, this is kind of related to the whole, like,
girls' private washrooms are actually just as disgusting, if not more so,
than boys' private washrooms.
Same kind of idea.
Imagine what kind of a person you have to be to, like,
wash your vibrator and then dry it in the drawing rack in the kitchen.
Like, what the fuck?
What?
Oh, I know you want me.
No!
No, I don't.
Yeah, I am.
Come and get me.
She has a front butt.
Guys, like, I should probably start screening these before I start doing them on the show.
What the fuck are you guys sending me?
Like, it's not even something I can really comment on.
It's just, like, here.
Here's 10 seconds of freakishness so that Dev and all the viewers will have nightmares tonight.
Thanks.
You guys are the best fans.
Holy shit!
Like, she's really cute, but-
What the fuck?
Jesus.
Hold on, hold on.
I got stunned.
I gotta watch that final bit again.
Hold on.
There is no price limit.
Whatever I pick out.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Let me recompose myself.
I'm about to go, like, full misogynist mode.
Okay, so, straight up, that first girl is cute.
9 out of 10 level.
But I don't care.
I don't care how cute you are.
That screaming $500,000, use all your savings.
She instantly went from, like, 9 out of 10 looks to 0 out of 10 personality.
Fuck this bitch.
And then that chick at the end, who is not nearly as cute as her friend,
that jaw of hers slides into frame and is like, there's actually no price limit.
Whatever I pick out, you buy.
Fuck these women, dude.
You know that song?
If you want to be happy for the rest of your life.
Yes, choose the ugly girl.
Because at least they won't give you headaches like this.
Their youth and their beauty will eventually fade.
But a good personality will last.
Doesn't matter if she's a 9 out of 10.
Doesn't matter if she's a 10 out of 10.
She ain't worth this.
Period.
Cheese.
You make an entire mac and cheese, baby.
They don't finish it.
I always ended up throwing it away.
But let me show you something that will absolutely change your life.
Do not throw away the leftover mac and cheese.
What you're going to do is take any containers you guys have,
put them in the containers, cover them with some saran wrap.
You invented leftovers, lady.
I know leftover mac and cheese might sound gross.
I promise you, it is not.
You're going to take them and put them in the freezer.
Oh my God.
Now, honestly, the first time I did this hack, I'm like,
Oh, it's a hack now?
It's a hack to fucking save your goddamn food?
Now have serving size cups fit in any microwavable safe dish.
Yeah.
It pops out really easy.
You heat it up.
Especially if it's a plastic container you put it in.
Put in the microwave for 30 second intervals.
Oh my God.
Then you add a splash of water just so it can retain that moisture.
And you've got mac and cheese.
Three easy, ready to go lunches for my toddler that I know she won't refuse.
What kind of life does this person fucking come from?
They don't know what leftovers are.
Like I'm genuinely stunned at this.
I actually knew someone like this.
I had a roommate back in college.
Basically the house that I lived in in college was kind of a revolving door.
Like a bunch of people coming in and out.
You know how it is sometimes.
And one girl showed up for one semester and she never saved any leftovers.
She would just throw it out.
She'd make a whole pot of spaghetti.
She'd have like one bowl for dinner.
And then she just dump it.
I'm like, what the fuck?
You don't put it in the fridge?
She's like, I don't like leftovers.
She's like, well, why do you cook that much then?
It was astonishing to me.
Like I can only assume that she came from a life so pampered that she didn't have to
worry about a grocery budget.
All right, my friends, that's the end of TikTok Tuesday.
Another week crossed off.
Thanks very much to everyone who's been giving me these things.
By the way, if you want to send them to me, send them to me on Twitter,
send them to me on Discord.
The two best places to do it.
Some people have been asking me, Dev, how do I send these TikToks to you?
That's where you do it, man.
DM me on Discord.
Post them at me on Twitter.
I'll make sure to see them.
In any case, have a good rest of your day, my friends.
Oh, drop by the stream tonight, OK?
Come by and say hi.
Have a good one.
I love you.
