Welcome to Trailer Talk and we watch movies and we're actually about to go in and see
Star Trek Into Darkness and this time I won't be going on at length because unlike Lord
of the Rings I am not really a Star Trek fanboy.
I like the shows.
I'm a Star Trek fanboy.
More than me.
Definitely more than me.
But yeah, watched a few of the series, if I could go back and watch Next Generation
I probably will.
It's on Netflix.
But anyways, the original series, never watched that much but it seeped our culture so god
damn much that this is, it is a cultural phenomenon.
How much have you heard of the movie?
Not much other than...
You've been avoiding all the spoilers?
I've been avoiding everything about it.
This is probably going up tomorrow but we're watching it on Tuesday and it came out last
Friday.
Yeah.
Cheap night.
Yeah, it's cheap on Tuesday so we're going on Tuesday night.
No service heading.
But like, I have looked up some stuff and I mean, for the longest time, up to a year
before this fucking thing was being hyped, everyone's like no no, Benedict Cumberbatch
is not Khan.
He's not Khan.
They have a new villain, they're not doing Wrath of Khan again, he's fucking Khan.
And I'm not saying I read a spoiler, I'm saying he's fucking Khan.
They are going to be that stupid and make him Khan.
I think.
Um, I could have sworn that he was supposed to be like a...
I thought you said something like from an original series episode.
An original series episode.
It was like a psychic guy and yeah yeah.
I heard that too but I really think they're gonna...
You know what?
You know what?
He can't be any worse than Eric Bana was.
I'm sorry but I like Eric Bana.
He's pretty decent in some movies but as, I don't even remember the fucking character's
name.
Nero.
Nero, right.
He was Nero.
As Nero.
I didn't really find him very believable and I really, I didn't find him very likable.
I mean.
He wasn't supposed to be likable.
He was supposed to be just massive.
I know, I know, he's like, but there's usually some kind of redeeming trait in a villain,
especially now they're making him more complex.
When The Dark Knight came out, it started this sort of trend in movies marketed towards
our generation, our demographic, where the villain had to be somebody who was hardcore,
he was a one man army, and he would destabilize social order.
That had to be a thing.
The Joker did it.
Yeah.
They tried to...
An agent of chaos basically.
They tried to recreate it with Bane.
They tried to do it in Iron Man 3 with the Mandarin.
And that fucking sucked.
I haven't seen it yet.
The only Star Trek character that has that agent of chaos flavor to him is Khan.
This trailer, all the trailers, which were really good trailers by the way, they are
all very much a destabilizing social order type of movie.
So it's going to be fucking Khan.
All right.
Well.
We're going to figure this, Dev, you're going on it like, we're going to actually go watch
the movie.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We're going to actually go watch the movie.
We're going to come back later and we're going to actually discuss whether or not the shit
actually went down or not.
And hopefully I'll be putting Dev in his place because he seems to have this complete mindset
it's going to be a piece of shit.
And I think it's going to be great.
I do think it's going to be great.
But really, I'm going in and this time he's the hardcore, I'm the casual, I'm going in
thinking, okay, I'm going to go in for a great popcorn flick.
I'm not going to eat popcorn, but it's going to be a popcorn type flick.
It's just going to be guns and action and punching and fucking green aliens and whatever
you can say about Star Trek the original series.
It's going to be good.
That's my prediction.
You heard Dev, he thinks it's going to be a piece of shit or trite.
I think it's going to be a very poor man's dark knight set in the Star Trek universe.
Alright, you have our predictions.
And we'll see you after the movie.
Oh, guess what?
I guarantee you, Cumberbatch is con.
Cumberbatch was con.
Cumberbatch was con.
Looks like I was wrong, guys.
Yeah, everything I said in the start, line for line, the fucking chaos thing, the con
thing, it was, I was right, was I not?
It's true.
It's true.
He called it number two.
I was just kind of hoping they wouldn't be exploiting that.
But I don't know, I thought overall it was a great movie.
Yeah, that John Harrison name that con used as a pseudonym, that was the name of the psychic
guy from the fucking original series.
Alright, well, we got to throw back.
Those assholes could have actually made a good half decent, not original, but at least
original in the sense that you're not going to use the obvious villain.
But no, it's fucking con.
It's just fucking con.
Yeah.
And then they fucking, they pull scenes from Wrath of Khan word for word.
And they just flip things around.
I don't remember that much.
I mean, we were talking about the whole thing after the movie and I was like, you know what,
man, I don't really remember what the whole thing with con was other than he was like...
Did you watch Wrath of Khan?
Yes, I did.
Yeah?
It's been four years or something, or four or five years now.
So I don't remember it overly well.
All I remembered was con was like a genetically superior being and he was really pissed at
the Federation, or not the Federation, the Starfleet.
And you know, he was in exile.
Yeah, in the original, he was a addict in the 1990s, his rulers, his leadership just
basically failed and like him and his genetic superiors had to run away and they got frozen
in space.
Yeah, they're war criminals apparently.
Yeah.
And then basically what happened was that Kirk finds him 300 years later, they kind
of fight it out for a while in the Enterprise and then con's like...
Re-adactment.
Oh no, I'm gonna be frozen again.
Con is like, I'm gonna fucking go to this new planet and settle it because you know,
here's a good challenge for you guys.
Kirk's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, you go off and you do that.
So he goes there and then between the course of the original series and then the Wrath
of Khan movie, something gets fucked up on the planet and it turns into a giant Tatooine
and then basically, con's like, fuck this shit, Kirk fucked me over, I want my revenge
and the entire Wrath of Khan movie is revenge.
But in this one, they started this new movie series with the intention that you wouldn't
have to actually be a Star Trek fan.
That's true.
And they don't explain who Khan is, they don't explain where he comes from, they don't explain
what his deal is, they don't even give him a motivation.
They...
Well no, that's not true.
He's just there to be a weaselly shit.
That is not entirely true.
Now he does admit that he's got, okay, spoiler alert here, there are...
Spoiler alert, it's Khan.
Yeah, no, no, no, there are these proton...
Photon?
Photon.
Photon torpedoes.
Photon torpedoes.
Yeah, I know, proton, photon, whatever, it's all sci-fi to me.
Just kidding, I love Star Wars.
Anyways.
There's all these torpedoes and in terms of...
I'm a big fan of Babylon 5 myself.
Oh my god, I love Babylon 5.
Shut up.
Okay, anyways.
They have these torpedoes, it turns out that, plot twist, that actually contains the other
72 members of his crew and that this admiral is actually, well, yeah, he's being used.
He is a war criminal, he doesn't have a vendetta against Kirk, not yet.
This could be definitely used more.
Yeah, because Khan's arrived, see, he gets...
He gets cryogenically frozen in the end.
Yeah, at the end he gets frozen.
So there you go, he's in stasis.
He could text someone, someone could bring him back, somehow or another.
They could just keep the Khan story going.
But they could.
Okay, here's what I don't like, is that, yeah, okay, they could have had the John Harrison
or was it Morrison, whatever, they could have had an actual good storyline and they go,
nope, I'm Khan, actually, yoop-a-doop.
Okay, that sucks, but fine, Khan's on the scene.
Woo-hoo.
Khan to the rescue.
What I don't like is how, you know, they did the Spock sacrifices himself to save the ship
thing.
Oh, they flip-flopped that.
But they did it with Kirk sacrificing himself to save the ship, and then down to the fucking
exact same lines from that scene.
It wasn't.
It was pretty fucking close.
It was close?
It changed like three words.
It was close.
I got choked up, I gotta say.
I did not, I was just thinking, they're fucking...
You don't choke up at anything.
I was looking at this thing and I was like, they're just stealing it from that thing.
Did you get choked up by the original scene?
Yes, because that was fucking original.
Well, yeah, it's a reboot.
That's the thing.
Here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
And then, of course, they had to add in the Khan scream at the end.
That actually, I...
That was fucking hilariously stupid.
I loved it.
Hearing Spock scream Khan.
I did think it was hilarious, but I thought it was actually, at least, it was lovely.
But that is such a point of contention, just because Spock, even in the conversation between
young Spock and old Spock, because old Spock shows up again.
I said, okay, there's a couple of niggles in this movie.
That's one of them.
Old Spock.
It made sense in the first one for old Spock to show up because they're doing the time
reboot thing and he's like, I'm actually the Spock from the future and now the timeline's
different.
He shouldn't have been in this one.
No.
No.
Overused.
Spock calls up old Spock and he's like, hey, how do we beat Khan in the last movie?
And Spock's like, well...
I really shouldn't tell you.
But I'm going to tell you how we did it.
I'm going to tell you anyways.
And then Spock's like, okay, thanks, and then just goes and fucking puts in this planted
emotion that fucking destroys Khan.
Even the conversation, though, between them, it really showed the difference between old
Spock and the new Spock.
The new Spock is considerably more humanized already than old Spock, the original Spock.
I never found Spock or the Vulcan race in general to be non-human.
I just found them to be the better parts of our nature.
I found them to be our rational sides.
Spoken like a true autistic.
No, no, I'm serious.
There is something to be said about human intellect and its virtues and having a race
in science fiction that represents that.
I don't see them as mindless robots as Kirk and everyone else calls them.
I just think...
No.
No, no.
Even Spock calls them on it, though.
He says you're being defensive because you know I'm right.
That's the way it goes.
That's how the reactive human nature is, a human emotion.
You call me out on something, I'm going to come back at you.
It's not going to necessarily be logical, but it's going to be geared towards making
you feel bad about yourself.
But then again, Spock doesn't feel bad about himself.
Not really, no.
He feels bad about the things that have happened.
I'm just reminded of this fucking porn I watched.
It was a Star Trek porn.
And it was like, I think it was Jenna Hayes actually, she was like, she was sucking off
this Spock stand in.
She's like, I am this space babe who has like an extremely, I've been genetically modified
I have an extremely high libido and I'm going to suck off this Vulcan.
And she's like giving this most voracious blowjob and Spock's just standing there, he's
like, he like raises the eyebrows, he's like, fascinating.
See, that's what I'm looking for.
I'm sorry, don't get me wrong, I love the series so far, the actors, I think they've
been well picked, despite what Dev's dad thinks about Chris Pine, I still think he's pretty
solid.
Yeah, my dad doesn't like Chris Pine, but...
He can be a little, if you can pardon the pun, wooden at times.
He has a fatter neck.
He beefed up for this role and his neck got wider as a result, compared to the first Star
Trek.
Wow, that's been four years.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah, so, a lot of changes.
But no, all the acting choices were fine.
Acting choices were fine, I thought the script...
Except, except for fucking Khan, again.
Of course.
Okay, okay.
Khan, he was played by a Spanish actor with dark skin, and he was supposed to be...
Ricardo Montalban.
And he was supposed to be an heir.
From Fancy Island.
Ah, fucking lights, hold on.
You have to close the door and reopen it.
I understand your pain, Brad.
Khan's character was supposed to be an Arab, and the actor was dark skinned, and he had
a Spanish accent, and everything was good.
Yeah, it was...
But...
Well, Moors, yeah.
But...
This guy's white.
Oh, and not just, like, kinda white, like super white, like British white, like pasty
white.
And he has a British accent.
Like, Khan is supposed to be an Arab.
Benedict Cumberbatch.
How can you get more, the only British, more British name I ever saw, other than that,
was Alastair T.S. Summerley.
What's that from?
He was one of the, like, vice, I think he was like vice dean of University of Guelph
or something, when my sister graduated.
That is the most English name I've ever seen.
Yeah, Cumberbatch fucking enters the movie in this helicopter shooting up a conference
room, just fucking sipping tea in a monocle.
Like he...
Not really.
He's a good actor, but he's miscast.
He's not Khan.
He didn't look like Khan, he didn't act like Khan, he didn't speak like Khan, he didn't
do anything that Khan would have done.
He's not Khan.
Yeah, musically speaking, excellent.
I was, like, the first movie, and most of this movie, used that same kind of musical
riff with...
You know what I'm talking about.
Yeah, it's a score.
Yeah, but it was all kind of classically...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you don't need to hum it.
But I like how they actually included some kind of choir for the Klingon scenes.
Yeah.
The Klingons, they did really well.
The Klingons were fucking badass.
These were the first...
Except when they got killed.
They were the...
The Birds of Prey looked amazing, the Klingon, the actual makeup for the Klingons and the
way they were characterized looked amazing.
These were the best Klingons we have seen in Star Trek.
And they're all black.
They're supposed to be.
Are they?
Yeah.
Klingons are...
I thought that was kind of like a...
Well, I know in the original series they are.
That's true.
Klingons are all light, like pan-skinned and really dark.
All of them?
Yeah, all of them.
Fuck.
I thought there was a couple...
In the original series there, there were Klingons without the head ridges and they were a little
bit lighter.
And that was actually explained in an episode of, I think, Enterprise, where they go back...
Are they all binos?
No, no.
There's a fucking disease that is made out of human DNA that infects the Klingons and
changes them to have a partially human genome so they don't have the ridges anymore.
It was basically just them trying to explain why the makeup back in the 60s sucked.
The music was great.
Klingons were great.
The CG work in these kind of movies is always going to be fucking spectacular.
Fucking fantastic.
Yeah, it is a spectacle of a movie and it's a great ride, but the minute you actually
step out of the theater and start thinking about what the fuck went on, it all just fucking
falls apart.
Don't approach this as a hardcore Star Trek fan.
Approach it as an average theatergoer.
Try to keep that mindset.
Take your brain, take your frontal lobe and just kind of just throw it in the garbage
for a couple of hours.
The last thing to mention would be the ending.
Let me set this up for you, alright?
Khan has failed, alright?
His name is Khan.
And his ship crashes into London and by the way...
It's not London, San Francisco.
It's London.
No.
It's supposed to be San Francisco.
In the original series, the headquarters of Starfleet was San Francisco.
In this movie, it's London.
They just fucked it up, but...
But it said San Francisco.
It said London.
What?
It said London on the fucking screen and it even says there was an attack in London yesterday.
It's all London.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
The initial attack.
Crashes into the city.
Okay, fine.
This...
And things explode.
Starfleet.
And tons of people die, shit's going down and then Cumberbatch gets away by putting
on a trench coat.
This is the only time he actually wears the trench coat that he fucking had in the trailer.
Trench coat mafia.
And in the fucking... the posters and everything.
He puts it on in the last five minutes of the movie and he runs through the city and
Spock chases after him.
And they do this hop between flying cars and beat the shit out of each other.
It's like Star Wars in the prequels.
Yeah, yeah.
And in episode two.
Chasing in episode two.
Yeah.
Oh, God.
But here's the problem.
Spock beats the shit out of Khan.
They say, wait, you can't kill him because we got to use his blood to save Kirk's life.
And then it just cuts forward.
And then it just cuts to Kirk waking up, healed.
Khan is already apprehended.
Two weeks later.
And frozen.
And they just say, oh, here's the end of the movie.
Yeah.
They just fucking ran away.
They had no idea where to end it.
They took at least a 10, 15 minute scene completely out.
Because they didn't want to explain how apparently either they get off this transport ship or
somehow Chekov just finds them and, you know, Chekov, oh yeah, Scotty, Scotty resigns.
I didn't think that was a problem, actually.
That was a good enough question.
Actually, no, that was probably the best plot twist of the entire fucking movie.
Scotty resigning?
Scotty resigning and then going on some kind of secret agent mission.
Yeah, he has like his own adventure off of a hundred ships.
Oh, it was hilarious.
Simon Pegg is, he is astoundingly good at comedy.
I love that guy.
He's just a funny little ginger man.
Yeah, he's cool.
Yeah.
But no, yeah, that's basically the whole thing is like, it's a great ride, but it tries too
hard to be the Dark Knight set in Star Wars or Star Trek.
No, you're Zorro.
Just as I said it was going to be, that's how it was.
I could tell by the trailer, it was just trying to have that social disorder thing.
And it fucking, this light, Dave, Dave, leave it to me, leave it to me.
This lady's giving me like the weirdest look.
And now that we're opening and closing the door, okay, we're making out.
But no, it just, it was an okay movie.
If you're a Star Trek fan, you probably won't like it.
And if you think about it at all, after you leave the theater, you're not going to like
it.
That's basically what I think about it.
And like I said before, I would recommend approaching it like an average theatergoer,
treat it like a popcorn flick.
It's got the elements.
It's happening every once every minute now.
There's something fucked up.
Give it a watch.
I honestly recommend it as a popcorn movie.
I think you should wait for rental, wait for torrental.
Yeah, torrental.
Really?
Because like...
I wouldn't see this in theaters.
I would.
I don't know if I'd see it again, but seeing it once was good.
Yeah?
Yeah, it definitely was.
Well, there goes the lights on us.
Alright, we're going to go into commercial now and we're going to be back with a little
bit of trailer talk.
Okay, so, trailer talk for Star Trek.
Oops.
Four trailers.
Number one, Ender's Game.
Looks fucking amazing.
I'm a big fan of the book.
You read it?
I've read it.
I've only read it once, but I was really blown away.
I've read it.
It was good.
It was really fantastic.
I think it's going to be handling well.
If you know anything about it...
I don't recognize any of the child actors, but I do recognize the adult ones.
Yeah, it's Harrison Ford.
And Ben Kingsley.
And Ben Kingsley and that chick from Walking Dead that you're talking about.
I don't really know her.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The girl who plays Michonne from Walking Dead.
Alright.
Anyways, if you know anything about the novel, the set looks really great.
The War Room, where they do all their little strategies...
Probably leans some more.
Yeah, the War Room, where they practice all their battles and everything, looks fantastic.
Like everything, the premise, the special effects, it all looks really enticing.
I'm really jacked for it.
That's one of the movies, that's probably one of my top three for the rest of the year,
really.
Really?
Yeah.
A Man of Steel is on there, hopefully?
Um...
I guess.
I guess.
It's a Man of Steel, Ender's Game, and what else?
Oh, the Hobbit.
No, you saw it.
No, the next one.
It's coming out already?
It's coming out in December.
Oh.
We'll have to see that.
Durr.
So the next one was the internship, and it looks like...
It looks like the...
Basically, it's the same guys that are in Wedding Crashers, of course, Vince Vaughn,
Owen Wilson.
I honestly put down...
I was writing my notes down for this.
Before the trailer.
I put Wedding Crashers 2, because these two guys apparently become redundant, and I swear
to God, it's like the same guys.
I look over at you and I'm like, is this the Wedding Crashers 2?
And you're already typing it in.
Yeah, I know.
It's like, same wavelength, of course, same actors.
Two guys, they're discovered to be redundant, they're told that everyone's working, anyone
that's anything is working in software, in IT and whatever, so they apply to Google,
they're supposed to be interns, and since they're all fucking so old...
Honestly?
Competition.
It's like...
It doesn't look good.
No, it looks terrible.
It doesn't look enticing.
No, it doesn't.
It's really stupid.
Even Wedding Crashers, I thought, looked pretty stupid.
It was good.
It was funny.
Here's the thing, they're both good actors, but you see one movie of theirs, and you've
seen every movie of theirs.
You've seen all of them.
Yeah.
I don't need to see this.
I saw Wedding Crashers, I don't need to see the internship.
That's true.
Wow.
A little Vince Vaughn's really good in Swingers.
Yeah.
I know.
The next Anchorman 2, the continuing...
The legend continues.
The legend continues.
Not as funny as the trailer for the original Anchorman, which was fucking hysterical.
I practically pissed myself.
I practically pissed myself laughing, because they just set it up so well.
Nobody knew it was coming, and then Will Ferrell...
This is back in 2005, right?
Will Ferrell was a lot less exposed, he was still exposed, but...
Probably get in.
Yeah, you're falling out.
He wasn't saturating movies the way that he did later on.
He's starting to come back, he's starting to grow back on me a bit.
I am looking forward to it.
I mean, I have seen Anchorman a bunch of times, I've seen Wake Up Ron Burgundy, which is like
the same movie.
I didn't like Anchorman, but I know people who do, and I know they're gonna like it,
so.
And last one...
World War Z.
The unfilmable movie.
World War Z.
You knew that, right?
Everyone thought that no one...
Yeah, it looks ridiculous, because there's so many zombies.
They're making ladders of themselves.
I've never read the book, I've heard really good things.
I've heard really good things about it.
I'm going to read it.
I'm going to read it.
You've read so many fucking books, you nerd.
You haven't read World War Z?
It is like the quintessential zombie book.
World War Z began our current trend in zombies.
I'm not as into zombies as you and Al are, though.
World War Z is the reason why The Walking Dead is around, or why Left 4 Dead became
a thing.
Resident Evil?
No, no.
Resident Evil was before.
Oh, okay.
Well, Resident Evil was what got me into, basically got me into zombie stuff at all.
Really?
Yeah.
But, yeah.
It looks pretty solid.
Brad Pitt.
I mean, he's generally a pretty reliable actor, and the sheer scope and magnitude of the movie
just, it does look really enticing, so I will be going on my way to read the book.
I will read it.
You can read it before or after you see it?
Before.
Before.
I've never read the books before.
Then I like to see what kind of stuff they take and leave out, whatever.
All the little asides to people that are fans and all that kind of thing.
Yeah, like they do with Game of Thrones.
They do it with Harry Potter.
They do it with Lord of the Rings.
They do it with all the...
Yeah.
There's always stuff that has to be let out.
So you want to see.
I'll always read the book before, just so I get those little tidbits of joy, of joyous
information for us fans.
Before we take off, what movie will we show next on Trailer Talk?
You want to go see Man of Steel or something?
Probably.
Yeah, next.
Okay.
Superman!
The most boring character in DC Universe.
Comic books, basically.
He's so bland.
He is the lamest superhero.
I really hope they can pull this out of their ass, like I'm really jacked.
You played Injustice, right?
No, I haven't played it yet.
In Superman, in that game, in the one dimension, he's fucking evil.
In the other dimension, he's just a lame ass.
All I can remember is something from Justice League Unlimited, where a bionic Superman
gets his head punched off, and all he goes is, thanks, and I know we're going to leave
you.
Thanks for watching Trailer Talk.
See you again.
Yeah, we'll see you for Man of Steel.
Actually, this doesn't look that bad.
Except for that.
Damn it!
