No, the world isn't literally shrinking, but for humans, it kind of is.
Up until 500 years ago, nobody had ever even circumnavigated the globe, but nowadays anyone
can do this in a couple days just by paying a couple thousand dollars.
Therefore, in the perspective of today's humans, the world is much smaller than it
used to be.
In the time that it took for the first circumnavigation of the world, today's humans could fly to
Mars and back twice.
Think about this, to today's human, the moon seems significantly closer than America
seemed to Europeans in the 16th century when the first voyages departed.
It only takes humans three days to go to the moon, versus over two months for the colonists
to go to America.
Up until 1693, nobody had ever been able to circumnavigate the globe as a tourist, as
in paying for their own transit on public transport.
Gemelli Carrere was the first person to do this feat and it took him five years.
David Springbet has the current record for this accomplishment with his journey from
Los Angeles to London to Bahrain to Singapore to Bangkok to Manila to Tokyo to Honolulu
then back to Los Angeles in 44 hours and 6 minutes.
In 1800, you couldn't even get from New York to DC in those 44 hours.
Between the years of 1857 and 1930, the time it took to cross the United States went from
about three or four weeks to one day.
Not only has the time of travel plummeted, but the accessibility has too.
46% of Americans will travel outside of the US in their lifetime.
Adjusted for inflation, the average cost of domestic air travel in the US has dropped
by more than 50% in just the last 30 years.
50 years ago, only 20% of Americans had ever flown on an airplane, but today only 20% haven't.
In some ways, this may be saddening.
There's less to explore.
There are pretty much no places left on earth that are inaccessible to the average human
being.
One can travel to every continent, every ocean, every country with relative ease.
However, this does mean that practically anyone with a thirst of adventure can visit every
continent, ocean, or country.
In the coming years, we will have even more to explore as we look up to the stars and
leave earth.
We can already buy our tickets to go to outer space, and although it might not be feasible
for the everyday human to buy their ticket now, just look how fast the price of air travel
plummeted.
By the end of our lifetimes, going to the moon might just be as easy as flying to Europe.
