Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and, oh boy, have we got a lot to unbox today.
In case anyone isn't aware, I'm a man of music, I have reviewed music on this channel,
I've covered various controversies with regards to music, I've talked about provocative
content and it creates probably some of my most polarising content.
I'm also a trained singer-songwriter and I guarantee you when I get the chance The
Right Opinion is dropping a fucking fire album that blows all of these hoes out of
the water.
But that's besides the point, I've realised that now I'm doing longer content that it's
not going to be so easy to just chuck out my opinions on music, and often given the
length of the song, it's hard to talk in the mini-documentary styles that I do, but
that won't stop me from trying, and every now and then an absolute sitter comes in and
I have to take a swing.
Enter stage left Nicole Arbour, the comedian slash YouTube personality, has caused a fair
bit of commotion throughout her career.
Famously in 2015 she decided to release a video known as Dear Fat People, in which she
criticised obese individuals for their excessive weight and told them to lose it in quite a
crude manner.
A lot of people took offence to the blunt way that she attacked others, and yes it is
rather provocative, and revisiting it in preparation for this video, in all honesty, the only thing
I actually found offensive was how unfunny it was.
Now I accept comedy as subjective, but it was all this distraction comedy with no real
punchline to me.
But yeah, that regardless I can understand why people were annoyed by it, and in true
controversial fashion she released a part too, I assume because she had so much more
to develop from the first one, but it had been a couple years and she had ducked down
to the public eye, I certainly wasn't thinking about her.
As a stage right, Donald Glover aka Childish Gambino, the jack of all trades, has been
praised for his work all over the spectrum of media from script writing to music production,
I have to give him props for that, I respect that grind, but realising that he had yet
to make a vociferous political statement, he decided that why not infuse that with his
natural talents, and brought us This is America.
The meticulously crafted creation impressed me on both a technical level and an interpretive
level.
As someone who really does enjoy artistry, I cannot express how much I appreciate the
detail of the subtext and imagery, too many artists just don't appreciate how much more
potent it can make your content.
I think that part of the appeal is the multitude of interpretations, and I'm glad that people
are discussing it, and hopefully it will inspire more profound conversation.
But nothing is sacred, and Nicole Arbour saw a chance to give it her own spin, well not
necessarily her own personal spin, but a women's spin, one from women's rights and highlighting
their maltreatment in modern American society.
How brave.
Now if you aren't familiar with me and the title of this video, you will be bracing
to what is an inevitable amount of criticism that is about to be thrown her way.
My opinion is that this is bad, very bad, I'd heard she'd responded to some of the
criticism, and when I read it she really did make a compelling case for her content.
And then I went and watched it again and reminded myself that actually it was pretty bad, and
it did deserve this video.
Due to the backlash she has subsequently disabled ratings and comments, but it wasn't well
received to say the least at first, with many people claiming she had completely butchered
what the original stood for.
How many have criticised her as making a cynical cash-in, riding on the coattails of something
so much better.
But I'm going to go into this video with an optimistic outlook of her character, the
right opinion is a pure heart, he believes in benefit of the doubt.
What a merciful soul I am.
I think the fact that she's white doesn't really undermine the message necessarily,
the validity of the statements about general issues are not dependent on who is saying
it, only statements about personal experience might be able to be judged on such a merit.
Though I have to say, I do find it quite weird out of everyone to make such a unique
commentary on the female American experience, it was a Canadian.
And let me make this clear, I think anyone can talk about politics from foreign countries,
I talk about American politics all the time, but this is so identifiably quintessentially
American, it seems exceptionally strange for her to come and speak about it herself.
However, as we will soon find out, Arbors version isn't really that American.
You are obviously going to be compared on many levels to the original, especially if
you try and draw parallels, which is what Nicole Arber attempts to do, so you better
make sure yours at least bangs, right?
Right.
I know a lot of people have memed it and laughed at it, and I've done that as well, a majority
of people do agree that it's pretty bad, but no one's tied down the little details that
in my opinion make it much more egregious than the mediocre offerings often presented
to us within musical wokeness.
I hope that today's video will not just provide a comprehensive criticism of the individual
question but also give some valuable lessons that everyone can take something away from
in critical thinking.
So today I'm going to be explaining my problems with Nicole Arber's musical magnum opus that
is known as This is America Women's Edit, and boy are you in for a treat.
Without further ado, let's get to it.
Let's discuss the premise, now when your video is titled This is America, what is the first
thing that comes to mind?
That this is America.
This video is going to be documenting the struggles that will make someone think of
that message.
Now in this instance, with regards to the original title, Childish Gambino made it quite
clear that there was a level of exclusivity to his statements.
With all these various coinciding messages, it created an image of something very specific
to America, maybe even being able to specify it to a specific indictment of media-driven
fantasy within America, and their relationship with the deeply impoverished reality of many
of its citizens, a juxtaposition whose magnitude is arguably very unique to the US.
But anyone who does copy the message has to at least use that template.
What do we get with Nicole Arber?
Well a string of messages that don't really come together at all, especially with regards
to America.
Let's try to break this down, now it's important to note that Nicole Arber clarifies the target
of the video as North America, to try and sidestep the inevitable criticism that she's
not from the states, and we'll address this response later.
So where can we start?
A high majority of the problems listed off by Nicole Arber are America, but there are
also a multitude of other countries across the world, so immediately the statement, this
is America, does not hold the same weight.
Let's break down some of the original messages, and have a gander.
She wrote a little Instagram post where she listed off all the topics that she was trying
to touch on.
I wanted to knock two on the head fairly immediately, the shaming of breastfeeding, I assume she
means public breastfeeding, and the gender pay gap.
Okay let's say these are problems, are they really America?
The stigma around breastfeeding exists throughout the world, and the gender pay gap is a very
complex question, and people haven't solved it not because they're not aware of it, but
because people don't agree on how to solve it, or even whether it needs to be solved
or not.
Bruce Hornsby did a song in 1987 called The Way It Is, smash hit, incredible piano work,
but it was also a statement about civil rights, and in it he makes the statement that although
civil rights laws have been established, some people will be racist and prejudice nonetheless,
because the law doesn't change in their minds, and that it is something that we should challenge
without a doubt, but it's a slow process, but the reason we haven't circumvented it
isn't because we don't know it exists, we completely get it.
With issues like this, if discrimination exists, the fact that both the rights of breastfeeding
and equal pay are protected by legislation makes the problem more difficult than just
noticing it.
You can't actively discriminate on the basis of gender, and you're allowed to publicly
breastfeed apart from in Idaho, so if you want to make a point about Idaho, then go
for it.
But for some reason, I don't think this is an open attack on Idaho.
Legislation isn't the problem necessarily, it's a mentality, it's the fact that some
people are still judgemental.
Now if you want to argue with them, then more power to you, but observing that it exists
is not an argument in itself, it'd be like me saying racism exists.
Okay, where's my fucking Nobel Peace Prize?
We've passed that stage Nicole, people have already developed their arguments on these
topics, you're decades behind.
And besides that, as I said, this is not just America, this is a multitude of cultures including
America, and yes, I know she included a specific case about cheerleaders, but that's almost
a red herring in a way, it's providing a specific example and therefore concluding
that the problem itself must be specific, which isn't the case, the problem will yield
many specific examples all over the world, but that does not undermine its generality.
Let's talk about sexual assault and harassment, two other topics that she touches on.
It would be crass to lump them in with the other two topics I just mentioned because
although they're also legislated against, they're a different type of issue, a much
more serious one.
Sexual harassment and assault are definitely women's issues, and we should definitely
be working to stem those issues, but once again, it's not necessarily a cultural phenomenon
and reports have been on the decline.
Criminal activity will always exist, it's just unfortunately given the matrices of power
passed on successive societies, the crimes are slanted against women in those subjects,
just like a majority of other crimes are slanted against men.
We shouldn't accept it by any means, but it's not stimulated solely in America.
Now at this point, some may argue that this is a point against a lot of childish Gambino's
points, and although not entirely incorrect, Gambino appears to be outlining an environment
that has cultivated the current predicament, and each individual general problem crafts
an individual image that is fairly specific to America, with its hysterical media almost
acting as a source of supernormal stimuli, detracting from the disturbing truth.
It is central to every problem that Gambino crafts, creating an image that although affecting
a general population, is very specific in its framework.
Arber seems to assort a load of problems, but none of them seem to go together to create
anything particularly coherent other than a collection of observations linked by the
fact that they're primarily women's issues.
And that's in part why message-wise, it fails so badly, not because she's necessarily white,
that's a lazy cop-out and it's allowed her to actually defend it.
It fails as an interpretation because it tries to parallel the message and fails.
Let me expand.
Why does West Side Story as an interpretation of Romeo and Juliet work?
Because it touches on the key elemental plot points that Romeo and Juliet set up and therefore
made it identifiable with the source material.
If it hadn't, it wouldn't have been an interpretation, it would have just been its own piece.
And that wouldn't have necessarily been a bad thing, but the worst possible combination
is when you so blatantly try to mirror the original by ripping the beat, the key hooks
and the phrases to the point of mimicry and yet in everything you change, you fail.
That's what Nicole Arber's done in the most atrocious, borderline insulting way possible.
That's not saying that you can't integrate source material into crafting a different
message.
Plenty of artists have done that.
Stan and Eminem sampling Dido's Thank You is an excellent example, but that worked because
it was totally consistent.
In this instance, the context provided with the original just shows up Arber's cover in
an even more embarrassing way.
When Charles Gambino crafts this greater message about social media, it is essential
to the song, to the point where if you removed it, the other messages from the song wouldn't
make sense.
Arber, yeah, she does mention social media, in her own words, social media on modern relationships
and self.
Now, if we are to try and unpack that vagueness in comparison, we can assume that with the
subtle symbolism, wink fucking wink, in the video that she is referring to the culture
of vanity and self-consciousness that seems more prevalent with females on social media,
perpetuated through unrealistic beauty standards.
With regards to social media on relationships, there isn't much to see in the video, although
I assume the handing out of hearts following the wedding is how relationships have evolved
from families to women seeking confirmation through guys and their social media hearts
rather than actual love.
You know the sort of thing that Hollywood thought it was trendy to point out in like
2010?
If I removed these two messages, nothing would change about the video.
They're not integral.
This is some of the most derivative, box-ticking activism in the face of one of the most multifaceted
artistic statements in a while, and its vapid, surface-level approach to the messages is
so transparent.
So, so transparent.
And now I wanted to talk about two other topics, which is apparently the labels and the pressures.
And yes, you know what?
It is a shame that society is judgmental sometimes, but it's so common you've probably done it
a fair few times yourself.
You ever look at a fat person and think, boy, why didn't they just lose some weight?
There's nothing stopping them.
Oh, wait, yes you did, and made a two-part series on it.
Why do we do that?
It's called heuristics.
We create certain stereotypes of characteristics that make it easier for us to judge people.
They're flawed mechanisms, but a lot of people use them nonetheless.
This was also addressed in a song called Follow Your Arrow by Kacey Musgraves a few years
ago.
An infinitely better song, which is much nicer on the ears as well, and it deals with the
issues of a judgmental society in a more compact, listenable, and nuanced way.
The issue is, as Musgraves points out, that most of us are going to be regularly exposed
to heuristics and stereotypes of what people think we're like, and yet in the chorus
she declares that you might as well just do whatever the fuck you want and do your best
to work with it, because people are always going to judge.
Now there are definitely gender-based judgments, but whether they're really slanted one way
that much is questionable.
Equality in this instance is a nice idea, but the only real equality you'll get between
demographics is when those within the demographics are equally as judgmental.
You'll never really eradicate it, but if you want to try, you should probably start to
practice what you preach.
You've already noticed that throughout this section I've chucked in various references
to other, and in my opinion, better music and art.
That's because there is nothing inspired here.
It's rehashed old content that would have been dated in its message a decade ago.
There are numerous artists who've dealt with this in a much more mature way and don't have
to fuck up another song in the process, and in doing so completely skewed its own message
because it failed to understand how connected the messages of the original were.
She couldn't even interpret it to make it culturally specific about the United States
of America.
Now if I was in this video rapping, we'll say North America, but none of this is remotely
unique from any South American country either.
You think they don't have literally every problem you've listed here in South America?
And if you tried this dirty to create an all-American image, a lot of Gambino's messages standalone
do not amount to specific scenarios, but the way he created a subtext that molded them
together makes the final image a lot more identifiable with the thesis statement.
That is not present in Arbor's version, and there is a lot to be said in its musical failures,
which is where we are fucking going next.
As I pointed out earlier, Arbor's song fails as an interpretation because she takes so
many of the devices used in the original but also tries to substitute elements that created
this incoherent mess.
But let's try to break down the specifics that aid the creation of such a failure, and
on a technical level where the flaws really come to showing why Nicole should maybe have
given this endeavor a break.
Let's compare the interpretation with the original.
One of the largest flaws in Nicole's version is that she relies on text over subtext.
A lot of what Childish Gambino's work focused on was that a very high majority of the lyrics
would not be out of place on any brag rap song, and therefore by contrasting them with
the grim reality of the connotations, it allows the message to be conveyed quite smartly.
Nicole rips many lines from Gambino's original, and therefore you'd need it to be consistent
with the balance of text to subtext.
However, a lot of the changes she makes tend to push towards surface-level text.
A really simple example of how it doesn't work is the switching of slipping for climbing
in the chorus.
In Gambino's song the line, Don't Catch You Slipping Now has an urgency of how an
individual may want to watch themselves.
One wrong move could cause dangerous repercussions, but the delivery almost revels in it.
Many rappers enjoy invoking the idea of fear over their enemies.
ABBA users don't catch you climbing up, as a statement about women's lack of social
mobility, but the issue there is that there is no subtext, people don't glorify the
glass ceiling.
Okay, so she changes it a bit, not a huge problem until you try to mimic the subtext.
In the original Gambino uses multiple lines with a lot of subtext, one example I could
extract is The Police Be Tripping Now, which to me is used to demonstrate how rappers often
mock the problems that don't affect them anymore, despite them purportedly remaining
prevalent within their former societies.
Nicole ABBA switches this and says The Boys Be Tripping Now.
Now firstly, in this moment it's already hard to identify subtext because many of the
issues she identifies in her Instagram don't necessarily go away with success, but it also
creates a very confusing contextual narrative.
Whereas Childish Gambino's rap portrays an unsettlingly ignorant caricature, Nicole
ABBA's characters regularly switches back and forth between Childish Gambino-esque mimicry
and just another activist pointing out these problems within society, at one point she
literally responds to her own observation going, what the fuck?
Creating this completely inconsistent narrative which is impossible to follow, it's really
fucking sloppy on a technical level, which even if what she was trying to say was new
or provocative, she'd have lost it in the delivery because she tried to nab certain
themes and abandon others, not realising that they were all complimentary to each other,
and as soon as you desert that, you end up with this.
What else can be said about this then?
Well, ABBA doesn't necessarily quite nail the delivery either.
In Gambino's the rapper recites his verses coldly with a very deadpan delivery which
often played contrast to his very flamboyant choreography, ABBA on the other hand is vocally
all over the place and I am aware that she is known for her exuberant performances but
by having such a hammy vocal delivery, it undermines whatever message was attempting
to be made.
She claims that the tone is tongue in cheek on her Instagram and maybe that would explain
the vocals but the issue is that it doesn't match anything else that she is trying to
do, changing your voice does not enhance the song, in fact the art of tongue in cheek content
often requires some maintenance of the tone of the original, while creating surreal different
scenarios for that grounded tone to remain, rather than vice versa, and it certainly doesn't
work over something as dark as this.
Her singing vocals slapped all over the musical interludes are not done very well either,
Gambino's have clearly been very carefully placed with regards to the instrumentation,
the opening set of vocals are particularly well mixed, with the lyrics just creeping
through but drowned out in a sinister mix, it really creates this haunting atmosphere,
in ABBA's it just sounds like she's had a few too many vodkas before the studio session.
The instrumental has also been awkwardly changed, for some reason the dentist drill
synth is slathered on the top of the mix and it sounds extremely irritating, and for some
reason they've moved the propulsive bass line to the back of the mix, it honestly seems
like the producer hated this song as much as I do because anyone making those production
decisions did not do them out of love for this concoction, and yet all of these hail
in comparison to the last minute and a half of this song which is just awful, firstly
she says this, which is just diabolical, considering the context of the song and on
a technical level alone, she then proceeds to make a clumsily delivered line about the
Taliban before taking a moment to actually explain the reference, which is not something
you as an artist should ever do in the song unless it's to purposefully convey awkwardness,
which it doesn't, it just seems like she's worried that people may think it's a bad
line, which it is.
Then she does a tap dance, which I assume is her tongue in cheek interpretation of that
quirky childish Gambino moment, before following this with an outro reflecting Gambino's
video, the video finishes with the quote, if I were a guy, you wouldn't be asking
yourself, I wonder who wrote that, but I think we can say with a decent amount of confidence
that Nicole Arbour definitely wrote that, because heaven knows who else would consciously
attach their name to such a messy statement.
I'm being harsh, but this all comes across to me as incredibly lazy, hamfisted, and lacking
any sort of real investment from its performer.
Although I do concur with a lot of the original source material, I don't agree with every
single measure that I have derived from it, and I wouldn't expect to, but I do have
a hell of a lot of respect with how it works as an artistic statement, Arbour has no grip
of that.
Her content doesn't work as satire because the messages hold no weight and the humour
is dead, it doesn't work as a social statement because there is nothing more than observations
of problems that don't even tie into the supposed overarching narrative, it doesn't
work as a musical piece because the music isn't original and nowhere near as well
mixed as the original, and when you have so many other musicians making better crafted
social statements, why would you ever choose someone who basically uses a quote good cause
as a shield to make this?
And unfortunately, that's what a lot of people do, a lot of people think that marching
under a banner of righteousness will somehow alleviate criticism, but it should not, and
it won't round here, and I'm kind of relieved that of all people Nicole Arbour did it because
she's not very pally with anyone, but I still worry how many people criticise her
of this move on the basis of the very superficial factors, as if anyone else making the points
here would somehow improve the video, no, it is bad regardless, and it is time we put
it to bed.
In the Instagram response, Arbour says a fair few things that I would like to challenge,
I've already addressed her first few paragraphs fairly comprehensively, I don't think there's
any issue presenting your own take on This is America, but you have to nail down key
narrative anchors, and that's where I feel Arbour falls flat on her face in this instance,
she tries to make her post a message of positivity and empathy and kindness and talk about how
she believes the best thing to happen is to be able to record their own version of the
video and talk about their own personal experience, and I think that underlines how badly she's
missed the message of Gambino's video, the original touches on themes that although may
be affecting certain demographics more than others, is not a personal experience, it's
a greater cultural statement, you don't need This is America to talk about your own
personal experiences in America, there's always a musical platform to do that, so if
you do understand the core message of This is America, you should also understand that
it's not personal and doesn't need loads of people trying to make their own personalised
versions of it, because otherwise you're changing the context to the point where the
only things you're attaining are the title and the beats, the only way to remake new
interpretations of this would be to make it for different countries, and even then, you're
rocking a tightrope trying to avoid scrambling multiple coincided messages, the very carefully
weaved.
If you're going to change the message so much, then there's no point in using the
source as the foundation.
As I mentioned earlier, she drops in this notion of North America as some sort of deflection,
Arber is implying that this isn't about the US but more a collective problem in both the
US and Canada?
Firstly, if that's the case, you shouldn't have titled your video exactly the same as
the original, because everyone's going into it expecting reference to the United States
of America.
I get that you're equivocating it to the continent, but it's a pretty misleading equivocation
with the context provided.
Secondly, including Canada seems literally just a way to dodge the you're not American
criticism, it doesn't enhance the points, nor does it make it more unique when you include
Canada, and therefore the point is just lost in a seemingly rhetorical distraction device.
I'm all for empathy, I'm sure others will tell you Nicole that there is no gentleman
more empathetic than yours truly, but peace, love and positivity will not make a bad song
And this is often a problem with Nicole, she seems to make these arguments in the worst
way possible.
I've rewatched some of Nicole's more controversial videos, and although the core messages may
not be corrupted, they're delivered in such an assertive way that they undermine any notion
of empathy that she might want to get across, they're so directed that they make the subject
of the video defensive over their identity rather than attempting to listen to what she's
trying to say.
I have no doubt that people just saw some of her dear people videos and immediately
disliked because of the attitude that such a title radiates.
The controversy drowns out whatever message you claim to be promoting, rendering the message
itself pointless.
And even then, at least you could argue that those videos offered some sort of substantial
narrative.
This video just coasts off controversy over a message that is barely there, and certainly
nothing remotely thought provoking.
There are thousands of better ways you can raise awareness to your issues, and I do not
believe you're ignorant to them.
And therefore my verdict on your response is bullshit.
I don't care if you're offensive, controversial, so on.
Comedy is that sometimes, and I don't think we should ever sacrifice that, but if you
want to make decent social commentary within that comedy, in my opinion, you're not doing
it right.
This latest venture of This Is America is barely identifiable as comedy, I think most
people are still not 100% sure of what it's meant to be, and so in the end it just ends
up like a mess, and all it becomes identifiable for is its controversial premise which is
inevitably picked up by semi-famous commentators to explain why this song doesn't sound nice.
Which is fine, they can do that, but there's so many more layers of bad to this that it
had to be laid to rest, and hopefully that's what I've done to date.
If you care about learning, then the first thing you will do is learn that great content
takes time, and having a written, recorded, choreographed song out barely a week after
the original in such a half-baked manner does not reflect that philosophy, it seems like
a trending cash grab, and I'm not saying that's what you did, but that's how many
perceived it, and due to it they rejected your message altogether, which surely is not
what you want, correct?
Take home message, causes are important to people, if you want to see change in the world
more power to you, work for it, but do it gracefully and try to avoid appearing to piggyback
off other causes in the process, I don't believe a cause's validity necessarily hinges
on the proponents alone, and Abra is no prominent member of such a cause, but if she herself
cares about it she should care about how people may judge it, and I think that's what raises
red flags on her motivations, I think they are very justified red flags, the song itself
is uninspired and poorly written, showing a very surface level understanding of problems
relevant to our society, and it does not deserve a pass for its message alone, even if the
message was decent, which as I've discussed, is debatable, they're hardly problems relevant
in the way that the original presented them, and it rips narrative from the original while
introducing new elements that don't work either, I know a lot of people already hate
it, but hopefully I've given more of a justification for why people hate it, it's not just a
white vs black issue as Vice have portrayed it, but plenty more legitimate criticisms
that if you care, you won't ignore, otherwise, I think it's time we let this die, R.I.P.
fashion, though sometimes it does get a bit too toxic for me, admittedly, otherwise you
can reach me on facebook, you can reach me on twitter, I have open DMs, I tend to reply
to most people, also, I'm trying to be more active in my discord server though that is
currently failing, I will get there in the end, trust me on that one, otherwise I don't
think there's too much else to say, thanks for all your support of recent, it means a
lot, we're making great progress, at the time of recording this I just hit 20,000 subscribers
and it means a hell of a lot, I'm really trying hard to get these videos out, and hopefully
this one will be one that sees the light of day as well, until then however, I'm the
Right Opinion, and I'll see you, in the next one.
