Far right this, far right that, far right, far right, far right.
You see everything being labeled as far right nowadays, but what actually is the far right?
Now for the purposes of this video, I'm going to be using far right, alt right, Nazi, neo-Nazi,
fascist, conservative, neo-con, Republican, racist, sexist, homophobic, transphobic, Islamophobic,
etc., all as meaning the same thing.
Not because they are the same thing, they are certainly not, but rather because progressives
use them to mean the same thing.
These are all actually very different things, but a large swath of the left considers all
of these terms to be interchangeable.
And it may be I'm just an old man, but that's rather ridiculous to see even now.
Because it was once known to be one of the common rules of the internet, that if you
have to appeal to Hitler or Nazis, you automatically lost the argument.
The main reason being the Nazis are a joke, not because they weren't dangerous or evil
in their day, they certainly were, but because they've been largely gone since 1945.
So during those early days of the internet, generally you'd call somebody a Nazi if you
were joking, or alternatively if you wanted to impugn them in an over-the-top way.
Very rarely did anybody use the term Nazi to refer to people whom they thought actually
believed in Nazi ideology, and whenever we met people who still actually believed in
Nazi ideology, they were always laughed out of the room.
But now everyone's a Nazi, everything is far right, it's become ridiculous.
Here's a great example, these are the words of Sadiq Khan, the mayor of London.
It's un-British to roll out the red carpet for Donald Trump, the US president gives comfort
to the far right, the prime minister should speak truth to power.
So what do you expect, do you expect the UK to snub the leader of their greatest ally
for woke points?
Like what the fuck are you talking about here?
And of course he's talking about the very fine people on both sides comment that Trump
gave during Charlottesville, which as far as I can tell was still the truth.
Yes, there were bad actors at Charlottesville, there were absolutely real white supremacists
at Charlottesville, but most people on the right were not that.
You've got people like Nigel Farage being called fringe right-wing lunatics, and Nigel
Farage is certainly on the right, but is he fringe?
Is it fringe when the UK voted for Brexit?
That's not a fringe belief, it seems to be quite normal.
You've got Facebook banning Alex Jones, Mylionopolis, Louis Farrakhan, and other right-wing personalities.
Hold the fuck on, because Louis Farrakhan isn't right-wing, he's on the left.
The Tory membership is far-right, racist, and would cleanse Britain of minorities if
they had the chance.
Jesus Christ, dude.
Do you actually think it's conservative soccer moms who want to go out there and build the
next Auschwitz or something?
White nationalists are now using clowns to spread hatred.
Are clowns right-wing now?
Are clowns fascist?
The Cubs are investigating a fan's offensive hand gesture.
Which one is that?
I'm sure you already know.
Look at this hatred.
Look at this evil, vile, right-wing white supremacist as he makes that O shape with
his finger and thumb.
It summons up all of his white energy, which begins to charge in the empty space in the
middle.
Moments after this was taken, that poor black victim was blasted with direct, unfiltered
white supremacy.
Apparently Megan Murphy is going to be in an event with a number of alt-right figures
such as Andy Ngo, Sargon of Akkad, Claire Layman, Tim Pool, Count Dankula, Lauren Chen.
These individuals all have completely different ideologies.
You cannot simply lump them all together as alt-right.
There's a debate on Twitch right now featuring two big-time alt-righters, Sargon and Nick
Fuentes.
This is from 2019, and funnily enough, people now call Destiny who was on the left-wing
side of that debate alt-right.
The collusion between the military-industrial complex and video games industry is corruption.
Gamergate, if it had any legitimacy, should have been slamming it.
Sadly and predictably, Gamergate elevates the right-wing and Trump while supporting
harassment.
And being one of the biggest supporters of Gamergate, Carl Benjamin, aka Sargon of Akkad,
is dead silent given he's a right-wing hack, xenophobic nationalist, and Trump supporter
who loves joyless first-person shooters.
Now hold on, there's quite a lot of joy to be had in a good first-person shooter.
Things the right-wing gamer and anime audience is okay with.
Not-safe-for-work content that endangers or violates women, children, and the LGBT community.
Things the right-wing gamer and anime audience isn't okay with.
Safe-for-work content that empowers or supports women, children, and the LGBT community.
The fuck does this even mean?
Like, are you complaining that there's boobs in video games?
Are you complaining that porn exists, that hentai exists on the internet?
If I see an anime girl get fucked in a video, how does that violate women?
I guess enjoying porn or liking titties is right-wing now.
This is regarding the cancelling of Ricky Gervais back in 2020.
The idea that celebrities are not only pampered babies, but hypocrites who cause the problems
they make speeches deploring and should therefore shut up and act or sing or be grateful is
a right-wing talking point.
Okay, so if you don't like celebrities, if you think they're out of touch, it's right-wing.
It's a right-wing talking point.
The far-right are uniting around their right to free speech, aka spreading a load of racist
bullshit.
Free speech is far-right.
The Gilroy shooter was a far-right supremacist.
CNN recklessly speculates the Dayton shooter may have been politically motivated.
The shooter's tweets or politics have zero relevancy so far because he killed indiscriminately.
Yeah, that guy was a left-winger.
Inside the mind of Ben Shapiro, the alt-right sage without the rage.
Ben is just a regular conservative.
You're not going to find much white supremacy in The Jewish Man.
Race science guru Sam Harris, that's quite the title, just deleted his Patreon earlier
today.
Dave Reuben and Jordan Peterson claim they're also leaving the platform and are in talks
with investors about building a Patreon for free speech lovers, aka a white nationalist
crowdfunding platform.
Free speech lovers are white nationalists now, using a Patreon alternative as white
nationalists.
Fucking incredible.
Racist and white supremacist ideas have become more visible among the Chinese-Canadian right.
If they're Chinese, they can't be white supremacists, you know that, right?
I mean, they can be Chinese supremacists.
I guess they can be white supremacists if they're idiots and they actually believe in
the inferiority of their own race.
White supremacy is gateway to the American mind.
Amazon's self-publishing arm gives extremists and neo-Nazis banned from other platforms
unprecedented access to a mass audience.
If you self-publish on Amazon, you are a white supremacist neo-Nazi extremist.
Far-right extremists use GameStop chaos to radicalize and recruit on Telegram.
If you buy GameStop stocks, you're far right, guys.
There is a serious problem where Nazis are indoctrinating the hell out of our entire
generation of children through things like Minecraft videos on YouTube.
If we don't do something about it, we'll have a bunch of fascist teens in a few years.
Turns out that when a whole generation of parents completely abdicate their basic moral
duties and let their children watch PewDiePie instead of Big Bird, they grow up thinking
it's their duty to send death threats to queer people and anyone making wholesome art
and entertainment.
This literally just sounds like you being an angry, aging Karen, not understanding that
you're no longer young and cool and the kids are doing something else nowadays.
But no, I guess if you like PewDiePie, you're a Nazi.
By subscribing to PewDiePie, you're supporting somebody who has repeatedly given exposure
to a crypto-fascist and Nazi propagandist.
This is in reference to Ben Shapiro once hosting Meme Review on PewDiePie's channel.
Jonathan Pye taking selfies with UKIP and Tommy Robinson supporters.
They treat him like a hero.
If you like Jonathan Pye, I guess you're part of the far right.
I'm going to give you a bunch of headlines real quick.
Which ones are the fake ones?
Some Trump supporters are co-opting the American flag.
Nazis once did that too.
Inside the alt-right's bizarre obsession with hydration.
Although research debunks white supremacists' claims about the benefits of hydration, like
the myth that it improves your complexion, water drinking has been a staple trope of
American racists since the days of segregated drinking fountains.
The extreme right has a new hobby and it's terrifying.
Hate groups are getting into books and are even encouraging others to read too.
Laughter, the new symbol of the far right.
Dear men, stop working out.
Physical fitness creates a cycle of toxic masculinity that must be eradicated.
It's kind of hard to tell, isn't it?
The fake ones were the water one and the reading one.
The rest of them were all real.
Remember, opposing abortion makes you proponent, unwilling or not, of the far right.
The patriarchal control of women's autonomy, the degradation of bodily autonomy, pseudo-scientific
ideas about life, erasure of LGBTQ people via cisnormative gender ideas and pregnancy.
You know, if you're LGBTQ, you're probably not really that at risk of getting pregnant,
I would guess.
There's no compromise or leeway.
If you're going to go around bad-mouthing abortion, spreading blatantly false and incorrect
information, actively campaign for the removal of human rights, you are contributing to fascism.
It's just in general worth remembering that if fascists controlled the terms of debate,
they would shoot you.
If they debate you, it's because they think this is helpful in getting to a point where
they can shoot you.
So if you like debate, if you want to debate something, you're a fascist.
On thinner bodies, the strawberry TikTok dress skews a tiny bit fascist.
So if you're not a complete fat shit and you wear a trad dress, you're a fascist.
A fascist exercise today?
Did you?
Fuck no, because regimented exercise is actually fundamentally fascist itself.
Do you lift weights?
Do you jog?
Do you do yoga?
Do you do any of that shit?
Do you take care of yourself?
Do you live a healthy life?
You're a fascist.
When somebody accuses me for being a transphobic racist and a sexist for liking and being an
Asian trap, using footage of a white nationalist to prove you're not racist, sexist or transphobic.
John's Persian.
He's not white.
He's from the Middle East.
88 and HH phrases like honk honk.
They're fascist.
They mean Heil Hitler.
HH is the eighth letter of the alphabet, thus 88.
Honk honk is associated with the Honkler and is often used ironically by alt-right trolls.
Socialists on social media are a perpetual motion machine of clown world takes about
clown world.
Guys, we're like 50 layers of honk deep right now.
Oh, hey, Lilith.
You're in here too.
2016 punch Nazis, 2019 punch people who like PewDiePie.
Today marks the European day of remembrance for victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
You mean Nazi war criminals.
You want us to remember Nazi war criminals along with Nazi victims.
So if you were killed by Stalin, if you were put in the gulags, if you were killed by the
socialist authoritarian regimes of the 20th century, you're a Nazi TikTok, which is mega
popular with children and teens, has a problem with blatant violent white supremacy and Nazism.
If you use TikTok, you're a Nazi.
We'll introduce you to a trad wife, a young woman who has chosen to be a traditional wife,
staying at home to take care of household chores while her husband works.
And she is fine with submitting to her husband as he makes the key decisions in their lives.
Who needs YouTube rabbit holes?
And you have the BBC broadcasting literal white supremacist propaganda.
So if you're, if you're a woman who wants to live in a more traditional manner, if you
want to stay at home and take care of the house and take care of the kids, you're a
white supremacist, even though lots of non-white women do this, it doesn't matter.
Drive me a car.
You are a Nazi.
Vroom, vroom.
My little pony fans are ready to admit they have a Nazi problem.
What's going on?
Are they rounding up all the earth ponies and putting them in camps or something?
The claim Trump's campaign shirts feature the Imperial Eagle, a Nazi symbol, are ruling
true.
Are you, are you fucking kidding me?
Eagles, the national bird of the United States is a Nazi bird now is the Snyder cut fascist.
That's the discourse of the day, which is hilariously the wrong question.
The right question is what fucking superhero movie isn't.
If you like Cape shit, you're a fascist balconies and fascists, fascists and balconies because
Mussolini stood on a balcony and Trump also stood on a balcony.
That's the makes them a fascist.
If you got a picture of you out there staying on a balcony, you're a fascist.
I guess I'm never going on my balcony again.
Fuck.
I'm thinking about fascist American mass culture in video games in the mid two thousands.
There's so much shit to talk about and re-examine American devs had a larger market share than
ever before in the eighth generation's technical power led to the pinnacle of fascist mass
culture.
Call of duty, violent video games didn't make kids shoot up American schools, but it did
turn them into little fascist foot shoulders for the U S empire.
So they could shoot up Iraqi schools, call of duty, fascist gears of war, fascist, halo
fascist left for dead fascist, making a game about being a soldier and enjoyable experiences,
a fascist endeavor, sorry to ruin your fun.
So we've actually gone from any Sarkeesian levels of video games, cause sexism to whatever
the fuck this is video games cause fascism thinking no one should ever be bombed as an
inherently pro fascist position.
All right.
So, so even though fascists were notorious for wanting to expand, you know, wanting living
space, spazio vitali, the Italians called it.
If you're, if you're anti war, you're fascist.
The real fascists are the non interventionists guys, the roots of organic farming lie in
fascism.
Oh no.
You can't even be down to earth anymore.
You can't even eat the bugs and eat the soy meat and live in the pot without being a fascist
reminder.
Fascists use mocking humor to test and normalize ideas.
If you laugh, you're a fascist.
You don't get to be a centrist.
You don't get the comfort of taking a higher ground than the outright or right wing or
Nazi groups.
If you're a centrist, you're a fascist.
Astrology is a gateway to fascism.
All such mysticism that seeks to explain human behavior as inborn and predetermined rather
than as a result of material conditions is fascist.
It is not massaging to point this out, man, there's so much wrapped up in this.
If you like astrology, you're a fascist.
If you believe in anything spiritual, you're a fascist.
If you believe that humans have a nature, you're a fascist.
Hallmark movies are fascist propaganda.
Forget triumph of the will.
The most insidious authoritarian propaganda comes in the form of schmaltz.
So those really shitty, really boring Christmas movies where people just, they have good lives
and they're happy.
That's, that's fascism.
Can't, can't enjoy anything.
If you enjoy it, it's fascist.
Oh God, this time everybody's a fascist.
Matthew Wright accuses guest of sharing neo-Nazi ideas as they clash over vaccine passports.
One side says, the idea that you are still talking about herd immunity, which does not
exist without vaccinations, you are talking about essentially neo-Nazi ideas letting the
weak die only the strong will survive.
It's an absolute outrage.
The other side says, don't compare me to Nazis when we're being told we have to show our
papers if we're going to a restaurant, if you get a vaccine, it's fascist.
If you don't get a vaccine, it's fascist.
There is a huge problem with fascism amongst white trans women.
You know how hard it was to find a trans discord that wasn't filled with trans women who posted
Nazi imagery?
Don't, don't be trans guys or else you'll be a fash.
While many vets are being outed as far right extremists, one branch keeps pocking up when
it comes to neo-Nazis, the United States Marine Corps.
So the ones who fought the fascists are the fascists.
All right.
Swag, Sigma, troll, stay mad, y'all are welcoming fascist terms into our spaces, making, making
me feel unsafe even among friends and I deeply resent it.
Do you use modern lingo?
You might be a fascist.
US flags used in fascist rallies around the world, Hong Kong, Venezuela, Cuba, Croatia,
Japan, Poland, Germany, Belarus, Ukraine, Nicaragua, Taiwan, Tibet.
So all of these seem to be revolts against socialist or socialist leaning governments
and they're all using the American flag, the symbol of freedom worldwide.
So I guess wanting to be free from socialism is fascist.
Fascist seems to be the central word.
When progressives say far right or alt-right or neo-Nazi or Nazi or even conservative or
Republican, they're using all of it as a synonym for fascist.
The problem is fascism is actually an ideology with tenants and if you don't follow those
tenants, you can't be a fascist.
For example, this was floating around last year.
Is Trump a fascist?
Eight experts weigh in.
Call him a kleptocrat, an oligarch, a xenophobe, a racist, even an authoritarian, but he doesn't
quite fit the definition of a fascist.
That's because fascist, like communist, like liberal, like conservative, like libertarian
or monarchist, it actually has qualifiers.
You actually have to believe in the political theory of fascism to be a fascist.
But if everybody is a fascist, just like that one conversation earlier between the pro-vaxxer
and the anti-vaxxer, both of them calling each other neo-Nazis, surely we can just call
anyone a fascist now, right?
Like here, remember this from 2018, where Anna Sobery was chased around by Brexiteers
shouting traitor and Hitler.
Hold on, if Hitler's part of the far right, if Hitler is worshipped by the far right,
why would these far right yellow vesters be chasing after leftists whom they don't like
and calling them Hitler?
So if they're far right and they're calling her Hitler, but they should be, shouldn't
that be a compliment?
But it's clearly not.
Jesus, whatever.
Here's a left-leaning politician in the UK being called Hitler.
Well, after everything we've fucking seen in this video, surely that is acceptable,
right?
That's not all the police got involved because you can call literally everybody and everything
a Nazi except for people on the left, which is why I do not trust these people's definition
of fascist or neo-Nazi or far right or alt right or conservative or any of this shit
because to them it clearly means people who I don't like.
When the UK decides to imprison people who view far right propaganda online, I do not
trust them to use that phrase far right in a fair way.
When people want to start banning far right parties from debates or even running for office,
I do not trust them at all.
When people want to sic the police specifically on the far right, I don't trust them.
And not because I'm some card-carrying rightist myself, it's because we have seen what these
people mean when they say right, when they say conservative, even when they say fascist.
Of course I haven't gotten into what fascism actually is, and that will be a video for
another time.
I do have quite a lot to say on the actual fascism and how and why we should oppose it
as liberals.
But I'll end this video by repeating the words of George Orwell.
It will be seen that, as used, the word fascism is almost entirely meaningless.
In conversation, of course, it is used even more wildly than in print.
I have heard it applied to farmers, shopkeepers, social credit, corporal punishment, fox hunting,
bull fighting, the 1922 committee, the 1941 committee, Kipling, Gandhi, Chiang Kai Shek,
homosexuality, priestly broadcasts, youth hostels, astrology, women, dogs, and I don't
know what else.
Yet underneath all this mess, there does lie a kind of buried meaning.
To begin with, it is clear that there are very great differences, some of them easy
to point out and not easy to explain away, between the regimes called fascist and those
called democratic.
Secondly, if fascist means in sympathy with Hitler, some of the accusations I have listed
above are obviously very much more justified than others.
Thirdly, even the people who recklessly fling the word fascist in every direction attach
at any rate an emotional significance to it.
By fascist, they mean, roughly speaking, something cruel, unscrupulous, arrogant, obscurantist,
anti-liberal, and anti-working class.
Except for the relatively small number of fascist sympathizers, almost any English person
would accept bully as a synonym for fascist.
That is about as near to a definition as this much abused word has come.
The answer to the question, what is a fascist seems to be, at least nowadays, whatever the
progressive that you're currently talking to personally doesn't like.
Thanks for watching.
