This is Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey. It's a dark ride that opened in 2010 at Universal
Studios' Islands of Adventure. It seats four to a bench, it lasts approximately four minutes,
six seconds, and it changed theme parks forever. Functionally, the ride didn't reinvent the wheel.
Rather than technological invention, it relied on innovative amalgamation. Unlike any before it,
the ride married tracks, robotic arms, wraparound screens, and film shots exclusively for the
attraction to create a deeply intimate, individualized tour through a universe
previously inaccessible outside of imagination. Guests loved it—they just couldn't explain it.
From TV interviews to enthusiast blogs, the consensus was that you just have to experience
it yourself. This sentiment extended beyond the ride. From the Wizarding World's entrance,
where designers manipulated sightlines to foster a false sense of expanse, to the food, beverage,
and merchandise—be it a pint of butterbeer or a wool sweater straight out of the movies—the
20-acre plot didn't just look like Harry Potter, it felt like Harry Potter. For a few hours,
disbelief went suspended as visitors rode rides, snapped pictures with in-character actors,
and got sighs for wands, happily spending money all the while. The expansion became the park's
crown jewel. In the year following its opening, park attendance jumped a staggering 66%. Tourists
snatched up Harry Potter sweaters in the Florida heat, and stuffed $55 wands into carry-ons.
Through bold innovation, Universal had effectively beat Disney at its own game. Visitors were now
planning trips around Universal Studios and, if they had the time, would check out Disney World 2.
The thing about Disney, though, is that when they lose, they don't stay down for long.
For Disney, the insane success of Universal's Harry Potter park was a massive what-if. More
accurately, in hindsight, it was a massive mistake, because the rights to a Harry Potter
theme park had nearly been theirs. J.K. Rowling and Warner Bros. had signed a letter of intent
to build out a Harry Potter world with Disney in 2004. Then, according to insiders, Disney got cold
feet over concerns on Rowling's creative control and because the project seemed too expensive.
A deeply immersive and experiential park design was just too much for Disney to stomach,
so Rowling went to Universal, who, for their part, harbored reservations as well.
What this 49-page document makes clear is that J.K. Rowling had little interest in settling for
the status quo. Rather, the licensing agreement between Universal and Warner Bros. ensured that
the park would mirror Rowling's vision and ambition. With everything from the property's
artwork, structures, and design, to the food, merchandise, and ads, the author had final
approval rights. Anything with visible third-party branding, on the other hand,
was subject to disapproval by the author, while third-party logos require the author's prior
written consent. And not only would the park be authentic, it would be standard-setting,
as the agreement stipulated that Universal would invest in maintaining a quote,
first-class, world-class-level themed area unsurpassed by any other.
Developing unique, unbranded food, beverage, and merchandise, while partnered with manufacturers
and soda companies, proved tricky. Such novelty simply hadn't been employed before, and Universal
chafed under Rowling's requirements. Stacks of Harry Potter books were ever-present and
oft-referenced in creative meetings, while Alan Gilmore, an art director for the films,
went ahead and moved to the US to consult on the park's development. In the past,
directors like Steven Spielberg and James Cameron had come on at Universal and Disney to advise,
but this was different—their themed additions served Coke and Pepsi, not Butterbeer.
Rowling's centrality and authority was simply unprecedented, and for Universal it proved a
frustrating process. But as with the books, Rowling's vision was on point, and the park's
popped—not in spite of the constraints, but because of them.
Meanwhile, while Universal set attendance records, Disney reopened an upgraded attraction of their
own in 2011. Star Tours, a Star Wars ride that had been stuffing guests onto half-million-dollar
flight simulators and flying them through movie scenes since 1987, now boasted an expanded list
of plotlines to celebrate the conclusion of the prequel trilogy. The revamped ride hardly made
waves, but it gave Disney CEO Bob Iger a chance to speak with George Lucas. Months later, Disney
announced the $4 billion purchase of Lucasfilm. Among other things, the massive move signaled
that Disney was positioning itself to take on Universal's game-changing theme land.
As Iger explained to stockholders, quote, our Lucasfilm valuation is almost entirely driven
by the Star Wars franchise, and that he expected to quote, utilize Star Wars in other businesses,
including parks and resorts, in games, and in our television business. What Disney had learned with
the lukewarm launch of Cars Land in 2012 was that if they were to make a Wizarding World-sized
splash, they needed a fictional world that people wanted to get lost in. With Star Wars,
they finally had it. After some decade of planning, years of construction, and a billion
dollars in bills, the Star Wars universe's newest expansion was finally ready to open for business.
Fans flew in from far, far away to amass at Disney's gates in the early hours of May 31st,
2019. Come 8am, the most committed early risers were escorted through the park to the entrance
of Black Spire Outpost. What they found on the other side was one of the most complex,
most expensive, and most ambitious theme park expansions ever.
Star Wars Galaxy Edge is unlike anything ever built before, with one notable exception. Taking
a page out of Universal's playbook and building on the success of the Wizarding World of Harry
Potter, this wasn't a land inspired by jungles or fairy tales or Jules Verne's vision of the future.
This was the physical embodiment of Star Wars. Seeing the success of bringing Hogsmeade and
Diagon Alley into the real world, this was a trading outpost on the frontier planet Batuu,
a fully-fledged element of Star Wars canon, brought into reality thanks to the deepest
level of theming ever seen at a Disney park. Each of the 1,600 employees, or cast members
working within the land, from the actors in stormtrooper costumes to the cashiers at the
merchandise shops, has a unique backstory that, thanks to improvisation classes included in their
training, reflects in how they interact with guests. They use unique themed terminology—cell
phones are data pads, water fountains are hydrators, bathrooms are refreshers,
and bright suns means good morning. The food—smoked kadu ribs, blue milk,
mustafarian lava rolls, and plenty more—all reflect what Star Wars characters might eat
during the refueling stop on Batuu. Drinks are sold in special, themed containers,
with Coke, Sprite, and Dasani written in the fictional Oribesh alphabet from Star Wars.
Functional areas like bathrooms are fully themed too, with a design that looks nothing like the
Earthly equivalents. Even the receipts from the various shops reflect the fact that they're from
Blackspire Outpost, rather than Disney World or Land. Disney kept the outside world out to a
greater extent than any of its lands had ever before, mirrored only by Universal's Wizarding
World of Harry Potter. While Universal's case might have been spurred forward by the author's
deep creative control, both parks ingeniously shifted their strategies to capitalize on one
of the most dramatic shifts in the way consumers consume ever.
In short, young people aren't buying things, they're buying experiences. Year-over-year
spending growth on spectator sports, amusement parks, live entertainment, and travel has far
outpaced overall spending growth. While the average baby boomer devotes $134 to experiences
in a given month, millennials, a far less wealthy cohort, spend $164. While the reasons behind the
shifts go far beyond a single factor, no small part can be attributed to the rise of social
media. Younger people want to live a life that portrays well online, and that mimics the purportedly
idyllic lives portrayed by others on social media. Disney was a foundational element of the
experience economy before this term was even defined, but not in a way that fit the 21st
century conception of it. Airbnb, for example, grew off of individuals' desire to stay somewhere
unique rather than a cookie cutter hotel room. Supreme became a hot commodity by making the
buying experience one where a select number of people felt privileged for having completed it.
Experiences have to be unique to be considered true experiences, and being one of tens of
thousands to pass through Space Mountain on a given day isn't unique. Therefore, every element
of Galaxy's Edge, from big to small, was designed around providing each guest a unique experience.
To start, the winding streets restrict eyelines so that one can only see so far ahead. That nudges
guests to explore, and once they reach the core of the land they find a complex maze of streets.
Theme parks are specifically designed so that guests get just a little bit lost. This helps
promote a sense of exploration as they move around, and obfuscating people's mental maps
typically defaults them to perceiving a place as larger than it actually is. Another concept that
differs in Galaxy's Edge relative to other lands is that of the payoff. Payoff is what designers
use to refer to anything cool, fun, or unique that a guest will enjoy finding. In more traditional
theme park design, the payoffs are big, but don't always live up to their promise. In its early
years, Sleeping Beauty's Castle was a major payoff for entering the park, but guests were often
disappointed to learn that they couldn't enter the structure. Disney eventually fixes this by
adding an interior, but is perpetually weighed towards overselling and underdelivering with its
major exterior elements… until Galaxy's Edge. The entrances of the land do very little to sell it.
While most lands typically open to a big, expansive, impressive view, Galaxy's Edge's
entrances push in towards fairly tight, unimpressive areas. Then, smaller payoffs like
ships, droids, and characters are scattered throughout, rewarding exploration, and finally,
the biggest payoff, the Millennium Falcon, is only found after a guest adequately navigates
the streets of Black Spire Outpost. In the process of exploration, guests find the design elements
that further promote individualized experiences. The typical problem with individualized offerings
is that they're almost impossible to scale, and theme parks' profitability is all based on
offering entertainment at scale. Galaxy's Edge fixes this paradox by directly monetizing the
individual, unscalable experiences. With the land themed as a trading outpost,
Disney is able to incorporate retail without straying from the plot. Guests wait through
long lines for the privilege of spending $219.99 to enter a workshop where cast members guide
customers through a highly-themed experience of assembling a custom lightsaber. Similar lines
regularly stretch outside of a shop where galactic consumers can assemble their own droid, or outside
the entrance of the purportedly notorious Ogas Cantina, where visitors can enjoy some of the
universe's famed drinks. Guests can even exchange their dollars for the local Batuian Spira, which
is legal tender throughout the land. Through this, the park encourages all to spend more,
and is also able to effectively sell worthless pieces of metal, considering many will take some
Spira home. Essentially, Disney has created a land where to live like a Star Wars character,
to get the individualized experience everyone wants, guests have to shop like a Star Wars
character. But of course, for Galaxy's Edge to exist as a theme park land,
it must have some theme park rides. But continuing to capitalize on the changing
business environment, Disney was able to build an attraction unlike anything ever attempted before.
It's called Star Wars Rise of the Resistance, and uniquely, it's not one that can be succinctly
summarized by describing it as a rollercoaster or a simulator or a drop tower. The need for
highly marketable attractions has long worked in opposition to designers' desire to create the best
experiences. That's in large part because marketing teams continuously push designers
to create world firsts, but doing something new only rarely translates into doing something
better. For example, England's Alton Towers theme park has long featured the Galactica coaster,
which is regularly ranked as one of the world's 50 best. In 2016, after the park's winter closure,
the ride reopened refurbished as the world's first virtual reality rollercoaster. Guests would
don headsets to simulate a ride through space, which earned the park coverage by Engadget,
CNET, Wire, the LA Times, and more media outlets. Ultimately, though, guests hated it. The need to
fit everyone with headsets increased wait times dramatically, and people didn't feel like the VR
experience made that wait worthwhile. Therefore, after three seasons, the headsets were removed,
and Galactica was reverted into a regular coaster. Disney, meanwhile, has recognized that rides no
longer must be marketed through traditional means using a phrase as simple as the world's first VR
rollercoaster, and so the Imagineers behind Rise of the Resistance embraced the value of complexity.
The ride starts with guests entering a briefing room, where a hologram sets up what's to come.
Riders are told that they're new recruits fighting for the Resistance, and are soon
ushered onto a transport ship bound for the planet Pekara. These ships are essentially
simulator pods that provide light motion that matches what's seen through the windows.
However, the plot progresses with the ship being captured by an enemy First Order star destroyer,
meaning guests must exit into an area different from where they entered. To achieve this,
there are actually three simulator pods positioned on a giant turntable. Once the doors are closed,
the turntable spins about a third, timed up with the movement of the ship rotating upon takeoff.
Then, it makes its second movement as the ship is getting pulled in by a tractor beam,
so guests don't feel like the motion is out of place, and exit from the door through which
they entered into an entirely new space—a massive, cavernous room filled with dozens
of stormtroopers. Next, cast members quickly order guests into an interrogation room,
where a door is eventually cut into the side by Resistance fighters, and the captive recruits
are quickly shepherded onto two ride vehicles. Now, for this attraction, Disney opted for
trackless ride vehicles, which are a newer innovation among theme parks. Previously,
similar attractions relied on tracked vehicles, but this restricted possibilities.
Movement on tracks has to be more or less linear, and it's typically quite predictable as guests
can see where the tracks go next. Trackless ride vehicles, meanwhile, can move in any
horizontal direction, and circle back on their path as much as desired. In Rise of the Resistance,
the vehicles wirelessly charge their batteries through pads on the floor as they wait for guests
to load, then use a combination of RFID transponders in the floor, a local positioning
system, and a Wi-Fi network to communicate and navigate through the attraction.
After racing through the twists and turns of the Star Destroyer, the vehicle loads into an
elevator to a second floor of the ride building. The plot continues as the guests encounter more
and more animatronic and actor-portrayed characters attempting to thwart their escape,
and the vehicle eventually enters what is presented as an escape pod. The ride vehicle
is automatically locked into place using attachments in the floor, as what the escape pod
actually is is another full-motion simulator. Except, this time, the simulator isn't mounted
on a turntable—it's mounted inside a drop tower. Guests therefore experience the unmistakable
sensation of freefall as the escape pod ejects from the ship, and rotate left-right back and
forth as the pod flies through outer space. Finally, the ride vehicle exits the simulator,
and navigates through the site of its crash landing to the attraction's exit.
Now, the convolution of Rise of the Resistance makes it terrible for traditional marketing.
One can't succinctly describe what it is, and even video doesn't do it justice. The multi-step,
multi-system ride is designed all around the wow factor—making those leaving it feel like
they've just experienced one of the best theme park attractions in the world. Why that works
well nowadays, but less so in decades before, is because word of mouth is more powerful than ever.
By providing guests a showy, best-in-the-world experience, people want to brag about it on
social media. In the same way that people flaunt going to Coachella or the Super Bowl,
people flaunt having experienced such a unique ride. But creating a once-in-a-lifetime ride
is only half the battle. One of the biggest factors in a ride's value to a theme park
is the degree of re-rideability. After riding once, how much do people want to do it again?
Disney wants people to be able to enjoy repeat visits, as getting guests to come back
is far cheaper than marketing to attract new guests. Rise of the Resistance incorporates
many of the design elements that increase re-rideability, starting with just having a
ton going on. Walt Disney described this as the cocktail party effect. Much like a good cocktail
party, a good Disney ride should have so much going on that one can't possibly focus on it
all at once. While you can't go to a given cocktail party again, you can pay a couple
hundred dollars to come back to Disney next year to ride Rise of the Resistance again.
Like other Disney rides, Rise of the Resistance also avoids using jokes in the plot,
as humor is typically only entertaining once. Instead, it leans heavily on dramatic movements,
like the drop tower freefall, that are fun to experience every time.
In it some, Disney's Galaxy Edge represents the full might of Disney's business and
Imagineering teams combined. With a billion dollars in construction costs at each of its
locations, the company couldn't simply create something entertaining—that wasn't good enough
to justify the investment. They needed something that capitalizes on the latest consumer demands,
down to the deepest level. They needed something that would pull people away from the wizarding
world of Harry Potter. People no longer want to just watch stories—they want to experience them.
Consumers are willing to invest huge sums of money to create memories in a way that,
for one reason or another, they would not decades ago. The future of entertainment is experiential,
and so wherever entertainment companies can find a way of scaling perceived uniqueness,
they're also bound to find huge sums of young money.
The force behind Disney's acquisition of Star Wars and the development of Galaxy's Edge
was the company's much-lauded, long-time CEO, Bob Iger. In his time, he grew the company's
market capitalization five times over, and is regularly credited for much of the company's
modern success. As Iger prepared to retire, he sat down and wrote a memoir, The Ride of a Lifetime,
retelling his rise from a production assistant all the way to CEO of one of the world's largest
companies. I listened to this memoir on Audible, and found it to be incredibly captivating,
especially considering it includes some narration by the man himself. I'd encourage all of you to
give it a listen, especially considering our deal with Audible allows you to listen for free.
You see, Audible is the destination for audio entertainment—they have audiobooks, podcasts,
guided wellness programs, comedy routines, and more. Personally, I love reading, but rarely
find the time to actually sit down with a print book. Audible, meanwhile, can be injected into
any moment your ears are free—it makes doing the dishes, commuting to work,
going grocery shopping, and more far more fun and meaningful. A subscription gets you access
to a huge catalog, but for anything that's not on there, you get a credit a month to
download any other audiobook for free. But, by using our link—available by clicking the button
on screen, texting Wendover to 500-500, or heading to audible.com slash Wendover—you'll get a 30-day
free trial, meaning you get a free credit to download an audiobook that you'll keep forever,
including a ride of a lifetime or anything else. You'll also be supporting Wendover while you're
at it, so head over to audible.com slash Wendover and sign up today.
