I remember exactly where I was.
Sydney International Airport waded into board
a 10-hour flight to Tokyo,
followed by a 12-hour flight to Boston,
then a one-hour one to D.C. to arrive home
the day before Thanksgiving, 2018.
My agent Dave said he had an idea he wanted to run past me,
so he popped on a call.
He had just talked to Vimeo, the video streaming platform.
They were trying to persuade him to persuade
one of his other clients to build a paywall streaming site
for their videos using their tech.
This, and infinite minor variations of this,
was something we'd get pitched constantly as creators,
but everyone recognized that it couldn't really work.
In fact, it had a long history of not working.
Perhaps the most flashy failure was Vessel.
It launched in early 2015
with the big-name creators of the time.
Good Mythical Morning, Epic Meal Time,
Shane Dawson, Linus Tech Tips.
It was basically a YouTube replacement.
Same content, same creators, same features,
with the addition that users could pay $2.99 a month
to watch videos 72 hours early.
Combine that with their supposedly unique
advertising ecosystem, and the pitch to creators
was that they could earn dramatically more per view.
This is always the core proposition
with these alternate streaming services.
More revenue per view,
but they almost always have the same problem.
The number of views is orders of magnitude lower.
Platforms have to extract value from the audience somehow,
whether through a paywall or through
more intrusive advertising.
So why would a viewer watch on your platform
when they could watch the exact same content on YouTube
for free and with less intrusive advertising?
So creators signed on to platforms like Vessel,
get menial views compared to YouTube,
and before these platforms can grow enough
to get to a point where it's worth it
for creators beyond an initial test group,
they run out of money and shut down.
But we had some ideas on how we could fix that.
We thought there was a chance that we had identified
a magic formula that we were in a uniquely good position
to undertake that could make this simple concept work
where all others had failed.
Four years later, well, not to brag, but we were right.
Nebula has grown massively.
Over 650,000 paying users, 100 staff members,
a conservative overall valuation of over $150 million,
and it did all of that with absolutely zero dollars
of venture capital funding.
So what did we do different?
Why were we able to make this simple concept work
when all others had failed?
Clearly this video is going to be different.
I'm not gonna be talking about logistics or geopolitics
or infrastructure or another business.
I'm talking about my business.
So that's why, for the first time, I'm here.
This was a tricky video to write.
I'm trying to use my unique combination of positions
as an owner of a now sizable business and as a creator
to tell an intimate inside story
of how you can grow an idea into an enterprise.
There are a lot of things that can't be said
for legal or practical reasons,
and there are countless different stakeholders involved.
So what follows is what I believe is the fullest story
anyone can tell about the inside operations
of a business of this size and nature,
but there are, unfortunately,
some things I just can't talk about.
It's a long story, but it begins in a very small way.
On July 27th, 2016,
I got this DM from Philip Detmer of Curse Protect.
Hey man, let's get right to it.
So me and another big YouTuber might be starting something,
but I can't really talk about it yet.
We went back and forth for a month trying to schedule a call,
then finally we talked.
Basically, Philip was going to introduce me
to the freelance sponsorship agent
he and CGP Grey had been working with for years,
and later that might turn into something bigger.
That freelance sponsorship agent was Dave Whiskas.
That's a name you'll want to remember.
It's pretty relevant throughout.
We talked, he promised better rates
through a data-driven approach with an upfront commission.
I somehow believed him,
but eventually it turned out he was actually right.
Some important context.
The industry that had arisen around YouTube creators in 2016
was chock full of liars, cheats, and thieves.
It was only over the prior couple of years
that people could start to make a living off of YouTube,
and seemingly the first people
that thought to insert themselves as middlemen
were all glorified grifters.
Getting sponsored is crucial to going full-time on YouTube.
AdSense alone rarely cuts it,
so at the time, the only deals I could land
for my fledgling channel were ones
that automatically locked me into six months of exclusivity
with the agency I booked through
without any guarantee they would actually fill video inventory
and with undisclosed commissions.
Undisclosed commissions in this context
means they just told you exactly what you'd get paid,
which sounds great in theory, but in practice,
what it means is that they're selling the slot
to the sponsor for one price,
then paying you a completely different, lower price,
and never telling you what the difference was.
So just decide what they think you'll accept,
but you have little leverage to say no,
because once again, you're locked into exclusivity.
You're only legally allowed to work with them.
Oh, and also, contractually,
they represented the sponsor, not the creator,
so their incentives were to push the price
as low as it could go.
If you didn't like it and wanted to jump ship,
you had to go without sponsorship for six months,
which would kill your finances.
I've seen hard evidence that this particular agency
was taking a 50% undisclosed commission
on certain creator sponsorships,
so it's no wonder why Dave was able
to immediately beat their rates
and get sponsors to come back.
They might have actually been paying less,
but I, the creator, was getting more hit.
By chance, Gray and Philip had also introduced Dave
to Brian from Real Engineering.
We had collaborated on a set of videos
that turned out to be big viral hits
that launched both of our channels into relevancy,
so he was one of my first creator friends.
The next one was Joseph from RealLifeLore.
I had never met him in person, but we had talked plenty,
so I convinced him to fly out
to the inaugural VidCon Europe in Amsterdam in April 2017.
Part of the reason was because I had been nagging Dave
for months to work with Joseph,
whose channel was exploding, and Dave would be there too,
the perfect opportunity for them to meet.
Joseph ended up having a nightmare weekend
of travel delays, some snowstorm or something,
so he didn't end up getting there
until the afternoon of the last day,
but I introduced everyone and we headed to a bar.
We stayed there for hours.
Everyone hit it off,
and it capped off an exhilarating week out,
the first time any of us had seen a physical manifestation
of the industry we had inserted ourselves into.
After working in isolation, it was eye-opening
to see and talk to so many others
doing the same thing as us, and according to Dave,
in retrospect, this was the moment when he fully realized
that this informal system of freelance sponsorship booking
could grow into something more.
It'd be called Standard, a purposely forgettable name
for a company designed to exist in the background,
making life easier for the creators on center stage,
and it worked.
Creators were simply just having a better experience
working with Standard.
The rates were strong, the experience was personal,
the ethos ethical, in a landscape filled with grifters
and cheats, the concept of a sponsorship agency
simply doing its job fairly
was enough to drive natural word-of-mouth growth.
We added dozens of creators to the roster
and started to be viewed as the go-to agency
for educational YouTube.
We hired staff, got an office,
started throwing VidCon parties, it was all happening.
Unbelievably, this part, the part that at the time
felt like hard-earned yet incredible success,
needs to get glossed over to get to the good part,
November 27th, 2018.
After a couple of days of back and forth
with myself and a few other creators,
that's when Dave emailed his full roster of creators
the white paper, the initial concept
laying out our vision for Nebula.
This is that exact email.
In some ways, it was close.
How would this work?
Standard creators post ad and sponsor-free versions
of their videos, and occasionally
the service premieres exclusive content.
Let's say we charge users $5 per month for their service.
All of this is still true to this day, even the price.
In other ways, we were way off.
How do we attract viewers?
First, we can simply buy AdSense ads on Standard channels.
Sponsoring our own creators feels wrong, at least for now.
We can revisit it later if we think we can do it
without looking dumb.
This is about as wrong as it could be.
We have never figured out how to make AdSense marketing
for Nebula profitable, while sponsoring YouTube creators
has been the driving growth force.
We'll get to how we made that work.
But the real key that we understood from day one
was that opportunity cost.
To Standard, but especially to creators,
had to be as small as it could possibly be.
Equivalents before us always raised a huge amount
of venture capital funding, made a big splash at launch,
and ran out of money before profitability,
leaving creators embarrassed when they folded.
We knew that creators were wary of aligning themselves
to something so risky, so we needed to make a small splash.
We needed to design Nebula to fail gracefully.
We needed to make it so that if it did fail,
it would have the smallest possible impact
on reputation and finances.
Essentially, we followed the most dramatic form
of the minimum viable product model of innovation.
We needed to get a super scrappy version of the product
out into the public so that rather than us having to guess,
they, the customers, would tell us what they wanted
through how they acted.
You watch consumer behavior in order to fulfill their wants.
Luckily, a lot of the bones were already in place.
Dave's prior life was in the iOS app development world,
so he had a lot of experience in software.
We actually had a few engineers on staff
to work on the backend tool we use for sponsor billing
and inventory management.
The trickiest bit would be the actual streaming.
The big platforms like YouTube and Netflix
make it look easy, but it's quite a technical challenge
to distribute high-quality video on low-quality internet
all across the globe, and we didn't possibly
have the money to build our own streaming tech.
Of course, Vimeo originally approached us,
but the problem with partnering with them
was that they'd have owned the billing relationship.
Basically, when someone signed up,
Vimeo would keep their credit card details and info,
and while we'd get the money,
if we ever decided to split with them,
there was no guarantee we'd keep the subscribers.
So we'd rather decided to partner
with another streaming provider called Zype.
Therefore, all we had to build was a front end,
a slick, flashy user interface
to make it all look professional, and an iOS app.
We barely even had a backend.
We had Eric, who doubled as our podcast editor,
who would take the videos creators added
to a shared Dropbox folder, run them through the encoder,
and post them in the right spot with the right metadata.
All in all, it cost around $100,000
to get Nebula ready for launch,
an incredibly low sum for both the website and app,
but there was still one key thing we were missing.
You see, creators don't talk unless they're paid to.
This is because creators are paid to talk.
It's just pragmatic.
You basically get one call to action per video.
You're lucky to successfully get someone
to listen to one call to action,
so what the data shows is that if a creator, for example,
runs a sponsor read, then promotes their Patreon,
what they'll see on average
is that they'll earn less overall
than if they had just promoted the sponsor
as the Patreon push cuts into performance more
than it drives additional revenue.
It's not always intuitive,
but it's a quirk of audience behavior
that we'd understood for years
running sponsorships in standard.
Therefore, we knew we couldn't just simply ask creators
to promote Nebula out of the goodness of their arms.
Not only would this hurt their revenue,
which would mean they would stop working
with Nebula in the long run,
this would hurt standards revenue, too,
since it came from commission on sponsorships.
At the time, Standard and Nebula
were literally the same company
with zero legal separation,
so weirdly, free promotion for Nebula
would cut off the revenue source
that we were using to build Nebula.
We didn't immediately have a solution to this.
In all honesty, this was the biggest flaw
with the business model at launch.
But again, the launch was designed to be an experiment,
designed to be that minimum viable product.
We didn't necessarily need a big marketing method
at launch because the launch was designed
to help us find that,
so the last piece that we needed
was for the creators to be emotionally invested.
Everyone was excited by the concept,
but to assure people would stay excited
through the inevitably difficult early days,
well, we figured they might as well be financially invested.
So, through complex financial and legal wizardry,
we developed a system where 50% of Nebula profits
were distributed to creators, including, crucially,
if the platform were ever to be sold.
It means if one day the platform were to sell for,
let's say, a billion dollars,
the creators would get half of that.
We split that pool based on watch time,
meaning the more creators bring in and engage an audience,
the bigger a share they're entitled to.
In the short term, this would be a concept
that would keep creators building for the future.
In the medium term, this would allocate profit to creators
based on how much they contributed to growing that profit.
And in the long term, if Nebula were ever to sell,
this would make that a scenario where everyone wins,
rather than one where the platform wins
off the hard work of creators.
Not only would this directly tie platform success
to creator success and vice versa,
it would also keep everyone in that collaborative mindset,
one where Nebula and its creators were business partners,
rather than clients and servicers.
We win together, and we lose together.
Next, launch.
We didn't have some massive plan.
The website had been up and running for a bit
as we squashed bugs, so what really marked
the formal launch, if anything did,
was the first public promotion of the platform.
That came from Isaac Arthur.
On the morning of Thursday, May 23rd, 2019,
he released a video called Colonizing Black Holes,
which ended with a push to his Nebula original,
one of the first three called the Paperclip Maximizer.
We also had originals that launched from real life lore,
Second Thought, and Polyphonic,
so we each released videos mentioning Nebula
funded by a small and finite pool of money
dedicated to launch promotion.
This first weekend went better
than we possibly could have hoped for.
By Monday, we had over 4,500 signups.
They were trial signups, plenty would cancel,
but that gave us plenty enough data to work with
to figure out how to make this all work.
Better yet, we were getting buzz.
A lot of it was negative.
Almost everyone thought we'd get added
to the long list of failed alternate streaming sites,
but at the least, this told us that the idea
was exciting enough that people cared to care about us.
Over the following weeks and months,
we used some of our cash on hand
to run some very small additional marketing tests,
basically seeing if we could pay creators
a similar rate to their other sponsors
and bring in enough subscribers
to justify paying that much.
The answers we got were promising.
On one test we did on my podcast, Extremities,
Nebula paid us $800 and got 200 signups,
each of whom would pay $5 a month.
The only problem, we didn't have cash.
While we'd eventually generate cash
with the monthly revenue these subscribers brought in,
that'd be a very slow process,
meaning it'd be quite a while
until we could start sponsoring the larger YouTube channels
and developing bigger Nebula originals.
But we found a solution.
Standard had long-run sponsorships for CuriosityStream.
Another streaming service focused on documentary
and non-fiction content founded by Jon Hendricks,
the Discovery Channel.
To their credit, they didn't get scared
thinking creators were trying to replace them,
but rather understood that we were appealing
to a different, complementary market.
So Dave went down to the offices just outside of DC
and came out the other end with a win-win.
We'd bundle.
While I can't discuss the exact behind-the-scenes mechanics,
we found a way to make it worthwhile for both companies
so that when customers signed up for CuriosityStream
through each creator's sponsorship links,
they'd get access to Nebula for free.
Nobody could really see a downside,
so we negotiated details, signed a term sheet,
and as of September 2019, every Nebula creator
just started promoting the bundle
in their already-booked CuriosityStream spots.
In retrospect, it seems like a minor,
ultimately easy change, but it yielded massive results.
Personally, the bundle deal supercharged
my sponsorship performance.
It was clear that the offering of CuriosityStream
and Nebula together was a more convincing sell
to our audiences than any other sponsor
we ran on the channel.
Even better, we started to understand
the marketing message that worked.
Pushing to behind-the-scenes videos or extended cuts
didn't really work.
Pushing the idea of no ads or sponsorship
on Nebula worked okay, but the thing that clearly created
these performance multiples was full-length,
high-budget, exclusive originals.
Seeing that, CuriosityStream started
to co-produce Nebula originals with us.
In October 2019, to film our highest-budget,
most ambitious one to date, I flew all the way
to the remote Atlantic island of St. Helena
to make the world's most useful airport.
While I was there, we crossed 10,000 paying subscribers,
then it took less than a month more to hit 20,000.
By the end of the year, we had crossed 35,000,
and in six short months, Nebula had transformed
from an idea into a fast-growth startup.
Now, through all this history,
I was not actually an owner of Standard,
just a highly involved long-term client,
but it was clearly something I was interested in.
I was there from the start, I had helped it grow,
and I believed in it, and specifically Nebula's future.
In 2020, an opportunity arose.
Gray and Philip were less keen on Nebula.
It seemed to make less sense to them,
while the rest of the creator roster was,
so they were looking for a way
to end their involvement with the company.
Therefore, Brian from Real Engineering,
Alex from LowSpecGamer, Devin from Legal Eagle,
Thomas Frank, and myself agreed
to purchase their ownership stakes
and divide it up amongst ourselves,
and we were all extremely bullish on Nebula.
By chance, that sale occurred in March 2020,
the same month as the world's descent into lockdown.
With everyone stuck at home, the streaming industry exploded.
It's awkward to talk about in the context of a tragedy,
but the honest truth is that our bundle promotion
was selling faster than ever,
and creators were earning a lot.
CuriosityStream capitalized on industry momentum
by listing on NASDAQ through a SPAC merger in October,
which was initially a big success.
Day one ended with an 11% gain,
and they peaked in February 2021
at nearly double their first day price.
Through and through, the Nebula bundle was a win-win.
It grew Nebula, it grew CuriosityStream,
it grew creator sponsor payouts,
and it was a worthwhile proposition for all.
So we decided to double down
on aligning the success of the two companies
by, for the first time ever, accepting investment.
Now, investment had long been something we were wary of.
In our view, a big reason why similar business models
had failed in the past was because investors
pressured the streaming platforms
to squeeze more and more value out of creators.
Basically, they did the thing that seemed right
when you looked at it on a slide deck,
take a bigger share of the revenue, make more money.
But that fails to understand that the creators drive
almost all of the value of a platform like Nebula.
If they're making good money,
they'll make more exclusive content for audiences,
they'll bring their creator friends in,
they'll keep promoting the platform.
So it's really that if you take a smaller slice of the pie
and give more to creators,
the pie will grow so much in the long term
that the platform will make more overall.
Every dollar a streaming platform like Nebula makes
is through the creators,
so it's about creating that win-win scenario
rather than trying to extract value
from your business partners.
We weren't confident that most investors,
especially institutional investors,
would understand that and the other nuanced dynamics
of the creator industry in the long run,
with one exception, CuriosityStream.
Their people seemed to get it.
They were also, by far, our biggest marketing partner,
biggest production partner.
We'd already aligned ourselves with them so deeply
that investment seemed like a minor additional level
that would yield a lot of cash
to reinvest in growing Nebula.
So after a unanimous vote by myself and the other owners,
Nebula no longer was entirely ours.
While the exact numbers are not public,
what is is that they bought a significant minority stake
that valued Nebula,
the company that did not exist just three years prior,
at over $50 million.
Incredible.
Driven by this funding,
2022 was comprised of some of our fastest growth to date,
especially as shows like Real Life Lore's Modern Conflicts
and Our Jetlag the Game proved massively successful
at driving huge numbers of subscriptions.
Staff had count ballooned,
especially in the engineering department,
as they staffed up to build apps for new platforms
like Roku and Samsung TV.
We also finally had the money
to build our own streaming tech,
which freed us from some of the technical limitations
of Zype's white label offering.
And we geared up to produce
our most ambitious slate of originals to date
with the co-production funding CuriosityStream would provide.
But this is a good chance to acknowledge failure.
Now, failure is inevitable in business.
It's truly part of the process.
You try new things carefully,
and success is defined by your batting average.
If you win more than you lose, you're winning.
Nebula classes, however,
probably pulled down that batting average.
It sounded like a great idea at the time.
Through COVID, creators were earning massively
by making online classes.
We were constantly approached by various class platforms
who wanted to sponsor our creators,
and so rather than promoting their services,
we thought it better to build it into Nebula
so we could promote our own service
and keep all the customer revenue in the ecosystem.
In all honesty, we were trying to capitalize
on a wave of popularity that was relatively aligned
to what we were already doing.
Unlike when we launched Nebula as a whole,
we had a good amount of cash on hand to invest in this
thanks to CuriosityStream's investment,
so we wanted to launch strong.
We built out a section of the website and apps for it,
we built the backend tech to allow for multiple tiers
of membership, and we invested a lot in content.
We launched with six classes, and each was high quality,
shot in a studio in New York,
well-edited with motion graphics and everything.
That's to say, they weren't cheap.
We then planned to release a new one each week,
which meant organizing a dense production schedule.
It was a massively complex, large-scale undertaking,
but the engineering and production staff
made it all happen without a hitch.
The problem was that the concept
just wasn't resonating with customers.
We initially sold Nebula classes
as an additional tier above normal Nebula.
It was $100 a year by itself,
or a $5 a month upcharge for existing subscribers,
which might seem like a lot,
but was actually lower than competitors
with similar production quality.
We ran sponsorships on this and had some minor wins,
but on average, there was clearly audience confusion
as we also ran bundle sponsorships
on the same channels at different times.
We couldn't promote classes and bundle sponsorships
as classes weren't part of the bundle,
so in a way, we were competing against ourselves and losing.
Some people were upgrading.
It wasn't some massive failure,
but hardly enough to justify our rate of production.
Ultimately, creators could improve sponsorship performance
more by making Nebula originals,
so that's what they would do.
It was also clear that by the time we launched,
we were on the downslope of the online classes wave.
We were far from the only class platform
struggling to find product market fit,
so ultimately, we decided it best to just have one Nebula.
No upcharge for classes.
We'd make it available to all subscribers
and simply slow down our production calendar.
It was an important experiment,
and while not a direct, overwhelming success,
in a way, the marketing test we did for it
proved crucial for what was to come,
our biggest, most existential experiment to date.
Come late 2022, as indicated in their quarterly reports,
CuriosityStream was looking to pull back their growth rate
and orient more towards profitability.
COVID was dying down, screen time was lowering,
the streaming industry overall was weakening,
and so it made every sense in the world
for them to switch from a growth orientation
to a profit orientation,
as all growth-oriented companies that survive eventually do.
I assume for these reasons we got
were that they wanted to significantly pull back
on marketing spend through Nebula bundle sponsorships.
Clearly, this wasn't something we wanted.
Not only would it slow Nebula's growth rate,
but more crucially, it would reduce how much
we could pay creators to talk about Nebula on YouTube.
This was still the primary way
creators were earning through Nebula.
While watch time payouts and originals were significant,
payouts for YouTube sponsorships about Nebula
were far more so.
So the natural next question to ask was,
could we just do sponsorships ourselves?
You'll notice that nearly everything advertised
in a sponsorship at the end of a YouTube video
is an online subscription-based service.
For some reason or another, these are just what works best,
and here's how those advertising campaigns
work in the background.
Let's say a service costs $10 a month.
Every service has data on how long
the average subscriber sticks around.
Let's say it's 27 months.
That means the average lifetime value of a signup is $270.
It might actually cost, say, $5 a month to run that service,
meaning per month there's $5 left.
A good bit of that has to go to actually getting
the customers in the first place, to marketing.
Knowing there's $135 left in the average lifetime value,
the company will decide on a target
average cost per acquisition.
Let's say it's $75, leaving $60 in lifetime value
for profit that can be reinvested in platform growth
or just taken as profit.
Now that $75 target cost per acquisition
acts as the central success metric for marketing,
and when an agency designs a campaign
with creators pushing the service,
their payment will be designed in the background
by this number.
If, on average, they drive 100 signups per video,
their pay will be roughly $7,500 per video,
and either the agency or the service itself
will evaluate spots as they run
to make sure the long-term average cost
ends up at or below $75.
This works quite well.
The only issue is when that $75 needs to get paid.
Here, right when the customer signs up.
But on the company's side,
after the $5 in monthly operating expenses,
it's going to take 15 months for them
to capture that $75 back in revenue.
You essentially need to spend $75
to eventually earn that $60 in profits.
Put another way, you need to invest it.
This is the role of investors in these startups.
Companies can have an entirely viable business model,
but just need more cash in the bank
to pay for the marketing that leads to growth.
We didn't want to take more investments.
We didn't want to give up more ownership of the company.
So the question was,
could we use the couple million we had in the bank
to kickstart growth at a fast enough rate?
We were sure we had a viable business model.
We had years of proof that we could get a customer
through YouTube sponsorship
for less than their average lifetime value.
The question was when that cost per acquisition
was recaptured.
If it was quick, in the first year or so,
we were in business.
The math worked out that we could maintain
or even grow our monthly marketing spend
if we would recapture revenue fast enough
to reinvest it in new marketing.
If it was slower,
if we didn't recapture target cost per acquisition
until far in the future,
the careful balance that had made Nebula work
or so many close equivalents failed,
could all come crumbling down.
Today, we're five months on
from the switch to direct marketing ends.
I won't breathe the lead.
It went off better than our wildest expectations.
Crucially, over 80% of signups are opting to pay
for the annual subscription rather than the monthly one.
Considering we pay creators for Nebula sponsorships
the day after they go out,
that means we actually get a year's worth of revenue
before we even pay for the promotion.
In this case, that entirely eliminated
the cashflow constraint
because we make more day one on an average signup
than our average cost to acquire a new customer.
Of course, that doesn't mean we turn a day one profit,
we have operating costs beyond marketing,
but it means we have a marketing strategy
that could theoretically expand basically infinitely
zero cashflow limitations.
In just a few short months,
we went from spending $0 to more than half a million dollars
on marketing per month,
and we are earning back more than that in the same month.
I can't stress enough how incredible this is.
We, the creators, are now entirely in control
of our own future.
With this, we're charting our most ambitious slate
of originals to date, we're bringing in new creators,
we're investing in our tech.
There is so, so much that this big risk has unlocked.
Right now, it feels like the last couple of years
have been an overwhelming success,
but I truly believe that, looking back,
we'll consider 2023 much like we see 2019,
the turning point that makes previous success
the backstory you just have to get through
to get to the good part.
We have learned so much,
so now we understand what people want
and we have a company configured to offer that.
I truly cannot wait to show you what we can do.
Now I need to do thank yous.
When describing Nebula's history like this,
it feels like its success was defined by decisions.
And while partially true,
those decisions could only lead to anything
thanks to the sum of small collective actions
made by dozens, hundreds, thousands of people.
First and foremost, the staff of Nebula and Standard.
Unlike us creators, they do not get the public recognition
for what they do.
They pour their passion into servicing our passion,
working day in and day out to build a system
that allows us to do more of what we love to do.
Nebula truly could not exist without them.
Us creators could not exist without them.
So I'm endlessly grateful for the work they do.
Second, the creators.
The community that has risen out of Nebula and Standard
is just incredible.
Every day we talk, celebrating our wins,
commiserating our failures,
searching for solutions to problems.
We go to conferences together.
We go on vacation together.
We go to each other's weddings
and we'll be at each other's funerals.
I truly don't know if I could have navigated
the stresses of life as a creator without them.
And I know Nebula would have failed
without our collective vision for a brighter future
for the creator economy.
Lastly, the subscribers.
I could never have imagined that people would look at Nebula
as anything more than a company,
something trying to separate them from their dollars.
But I was wrong.
There is an unbelievable community of people
who not only use Nebula,
but have latched onto the same vision we have.
They celebrate our wins and help show us
where we can go stronger.
I'm constantly in awe of how much forgiveness they gave us
for scrappiness on our bootstrapped early days.
And we could not have come to today without that.
Thank you for taking a risk on us.
I hope we proved it worthwhile.
And I promise that we'll only work harder
to make that even more so in the future.
To close out,
I had to pay for the production costs on this video somehow.
And it kind of felt weird to make it feel even more
like a big, long Nebula ad
by putting a Nebula sponsorship at the end.
And it felt even more weird
to put another sponsor at the end.
So I'm going to go with the less weird weird option,
but keep it simple.
If you aren't subscribed to Nebula,
but want to check it out, use our link.
Nebula.tv slash Wendover.
You'll get $20 off an annual subscription,
bringing the cost down to just $2 and 50 cents a month.
Thank you for caring enough to listen to this story.
It's a wild one.
And I hope in a few years
we have an even better one to tell you.
Thanks to you.
