Hello, everyone.
As you can tell by the different thumbnail of this video, I've decided to do these every
single day for the rest of my channel.
No, I'm kidding.
Obviously not.
I am going to do, maybe we'll do like TikTok Tuesdays or something because it's a video
that I can shoot easily, which frees up time for me to do other more in-depth projects.
For example, tonight I'm going on Adam and Sitch.
We're talking more Moldbug.
And so rather than doing a longer video and kind of painstakingly editing it together,
I can just slap this together in half an hour or so, maybe an hour at most for those busier
days.
I know some of you were saying, but Dave, you hired an editor.
Yeah, I know.
Guess what?
Dave's computer is actually broken too.
So hey, if you feel like donating an extra few bucks, maybe we can get things back on
the road again.
But anyway, I have collected a number of ridiculous things we may watch yet again.
Let's have some fun, guys.
And by fun, I mean, let's turn our brains into melted cheese.
If you want my future, I'm gonna get you fast.
If you wanna get with me, turn your face into a mask.
You're not gonna be wasting this precious time.
I'll get you in the dark and then commit this crime.
Don't tell you what I want, but I really want my soul.
I really want your soul.
Your soul.
Your soul.
Your soul.
Your soul.
If you wanna be a corpse, I'll bring it to my basement.
That's right.
I won't feel no remorse.
This has to be a joke.
Nothing lasts.
Dude, this has to be...
This has to just be a joke.
I mean, if it is, they got me, but...
Man, imagine the last thing you see is this person coming at you.
I want...
I want your soul.
This one's got no sound to it.
It just appears to be a bunch of people ransacking a fucking target.
Oh my God.
They're just stealing everything out of the target.
Like fuck it, we're just taking it all.
You keep seeing videos of...
See, I know some people say black people, it's not all black people, there's a white
woman doing it.
But like, I know you keep seeing these videos go viral of just constant, rampant, unending
theft, and no one cares anymore, no one is interested in being part of the social contract
anymore, no one's a decent human being anymore, and you know what?
These stores, they will eventually close down, right?
They can't just operate like this forever, they can't operate at eternal losses.
Eventually these stores will close, and then these communities will have nowhere to actually
get anything, and they'll just all be fucked.
What a shit show.
I'm literally shaking right now, because I just had a man approach me in a parking lot,
and it went fine, and I'm going to tell you why it went fine and how to address it, because
it was in a book I read, and this is how you're supposed to address it, but it scared me.
I'm literally shaking.
So this guy, I'm alone with my son, by myself, a woman, and a male approached me in a parking
lot.
He's like, excuse me, miss, and I don't know why in the hell he was approaching me or what
he was trying to do, and he was probably 30 feet from me when he said, excuse me, ma'am,
and I turned around, and I literally yelled at him, and I said, do not approach me.
What?
And he immediately started going in the other direction, and I just kept saying it over
and over and over.
I said, do not approach me, do not approach me, and he, of course, got like, what the
eff, like, he started cussing and yelling, like, what's your problem?
And I looked at him, and he started, he actually then crossed a couple cars down from my car,
and he didn't come anywhere near me.
He crossed a couple cars down from my car, and was like, what's your problem, and I said,
you do not approach women in a parking lot.
I just kept saying, do not approach me.
You do not approach women in a parking lot, like, yelling it.
No male, no male should ever approach a woman in a parking lot, ever.
No male should ever approach a woman in a parking lot, and if a male does approach you,
you need to turn around and use the strongest voice that you can possibly use with them.
Don't be polite.
They need to literally screw off.
No male should be approaching you in a parking lot.
Wow.
Okay, so I guess if a woman, you know, drops her wallet or something, guys, it's fair game.
You can't approach women in a parking lot anymore for any reason.
If you left her son behind in the cart, nope.
You got to leave that kid there.
Sorry, kid.
It's a, it's a sexist for me to approach your mother.
There are a thousand innocent reasons as to why you might go up to a stranger in a park,
in a parking lot, and say something.
To just immediately react like this.
This is like, this is pure, I don't know what you, what you want to call it, like, it's,
it's kind of schizo.
It's not really conspiracy brain.
It's just like, assuming that every single person has it out for you at all times.
Sometimes they do.
A lot of times they don't, you know?
Oh, this one's an old one.
You guys Americans?
You guys here to spread sodomy or what?
Isn't that what America's number one export is?
So these are like American soldiers in Poland.
Is it George Floyd culture or is it sodomy?
George Floyd culture!
Yeah, these are American soldiers in Poland.
What do you guys think about your health secretary being a fucking tranny?
Jesus Christ, dude, you're gonna get me fucking demonetized.
So yeah, this guy is just like harassing random soldiers because they're soldiers stationed
in Poland.
Defending a country that has, there's no meaning to be a citizen, like any, any Mexican crossing
the border is literally one of you.
Like regardless of his complaints, they're mostly stupid complaints too, but like regardless
of any of them, what is harassing for anal sex to Poland?
Like even he's laughing how dumb it is.
Like, you're just bugging for random soldiers, dude.
He's lucky they don't just like knock him out, you know?
Jesus Christ, what a fucking asshole, dude.
Dude, what a fucking asshole, man.
Like regardless of how you feel about any of these issues, and in my opinion, a lot
of his views on these things were just fucking stupid, but regardless of how you feel about
any of these issues, man, harassing random ass soldiers, I guess that doesn't help your
case.
It doesn't help anyone.
It just makes people fucking hate you.
Oh, I remember this one.
This was like woke cards against humanity and more kinky queers just needs less subconscious
self sabotaging patterns and more magic mushrooms.
Oh my god, guys.
That's a really good one.
Less being ghosted and more accountability.
Wow.
Oh my god.
Less celery juice, more psychedelic.
Less overthinking absolutely everything, more polyamory.
Fucking hell.
Less love and light, more tearing down the patriarchy.
These are all really good.
Oh yeah, guys.
That sounds like a game that I want to break.
You know what?
I've only really played Cards Against Humanity like once or twice, and I didn't, like, not
my kind of game.
I didn't really like it.
I can see why people like it, though, because there's some edgy cards in there, right?
At least the original set, but like that just sounds un-fun.
There's no edginess there.
It's just constant reaffirmation of woke politics.
Like, I don't know if you guys remember, but yeah, this is like going way back like the
gamergate days, I think.
But Cards Against Humanity, you know, for those of you who don't know, it has some really
edgy cards in there, alright?
There's some stuff that's like pretty grotesque, pretty over the line, definitely shock value
humor in there, right?
However, the creators of the game, like around the time of gamergate, came out and they went
like full hardcore SJW in the gamergate era, and then they've gone like hyper woke since
then.
You know what I mean?
Like all of their old problematic cards have been taken out of the game and replaced with
shit like this.
Okay, so the heading for this is, being a fat person in a skinny capitalist society.
Oh, okay.
I'm also a fellow fat, so lay it on me.
Why don't they make things for fat people specifically?
This kid ain't fat.
Why aren't we included in shit, you know?
I got a knee brace a while ago because I really, really, really need a knee brace because my
knees are fucking awful, right?
Because you're fat.
You have to measure your calf and your thigh and shit like that so you can get the proper
size, okay?
Well, I got the proper size.
I got the size that fits my knee of the knee brace, right?
But they come with this little spandex knee sock thing, so you don't like hurt your fucking
knee.
You don't like mess up your skin and shit because it fucking hurts sometimes, right?
Put a thought together, buddy.
Guess what?
The knee sock doesn't fit right.
It rolls all the way down, and when I pull it up to where it needs to be, it's like he's
wearing thigh highs.
One size fits all only works if you're skinny.
Fat people can't find cute clothes that fit them.
Fat people can't get fucking knee braces that work correctly.
Why do you guys hate us so much?
What the fuck are we doing that's so wrong?
I'm just a fat man.
I'm just a fat guy.
That's it.
That's it.
I'm just a fat dude.
Why do you skinny people feel the need to, first of all, treat us like shit, and second
of all, not fucking allow us to have things we need or fucking wear things we want to
wear?
There's a lot of fat people in the world, like a lot of fat people.
It's a really common thing to be fat, and honestly, half the time it doesn't have anything
to do with your eating habits.
That's not true.
That's fucking false.
You know one of the big reasons people get fat because we're stressed out.
You want to know why?
Capitalism!
It all comes down to capitalism!
Oh my fucking god, guys.
You're fat because capitalism.
How retarded is that?
I mean, you know what?
Technically true.
Capitalism's extreme wealth and abundance has made it so that food is actually hyper
cheap compared to the way it was 1,000 years ago, and so poor people are actually more
fat rather than starving and skinny.
But no, the actual truth is, fat people aren't physically attractive.
Not usually.
I mean, hold on, it depends.
There's some girls out there with fat in the right places, but you know what I'm talking
about, right?
It's not that they don't make cute clothes for fat people, it's that once you hit a certain
level of fat, you don't look cute in any clothes.
And if you're sitting here blaming your fatness on capitalism or stress, hold on, where fat
is stressed, oh, does that mean you're eating?
Stop fucking eating!
Listen, I'm a fat guy.
I know how much I eat.
I know it's too much.
I know what's causing this, okay?
It is me.
Oh shit!
Antifa's out in the streets!
Washington, this is like a pride march, not Antifa.
Are they just like, yeah, they're just gonna block traffic, because fuck you, I guess.
Like, imagine being this guy.
You can't ride around in your car anymore.
Fuck you.
Look at this piece of shit, what the fuck?
Trans lives matter, so we're blocking you from driving around!
Like, what the fuck is this?
Man, if you ever want people to like hate the trans movement, this is how you do it.
You're just going along, you're driving to work, driving to the store or whatever, minding
your own business, suddenly a bunch of these people show up and start banging on your car
and screaming about transphobia.
What the fuck?
All right, after that, I need a palate cleanser.
And hey, this lady's got something for us to drink.
Oh my god, dude, okay, they're spilling it everywhere!
What is this, like the wine ant anthem, where you have like 40 year old aged hipsters drinking
wine out of mason jars, trying to get as drunk as possible because they're so desensitized
to alcohol, their liver's already like shot.
Jesus, this person's not very happy, are they?
So Tristan and Andrew Tate are now in house arrest, which is not quite out of jail, but
it's progress, which progress is good always, we take those.
I send a voice note to both him and Andrew, honestly I'm just very happy that the truth
actually eventually comes out, and it's just fucking unacceptable that all the, you know,
forget the jail time, forget the time there, ultimately people like Tristan and Andrew
will use this to their advantage.
This guy's like hardcore simping.
Now think about all these fucking worms and insects that spoke about them as if they committed
the crimes they're being said they committed, without any proof, okay?
And these people like Hasanabi, Destiny, I don't know what the truth is, I don't watch
any of it.
These guys, man, imagine simping for Andrew Tate this hard.
Would you say they're Gusano?
Dude, imagine sucking off the Tate brothers this hard.
This guy's got like a full mouthful right up to the brim of Tate semen just slurping
down right now.
Man, who cares?
I've done a few Andrew Tate videos, you know, it's a new story.
I personally don't actually care that much.
I don't know Andrew Tate, he's not part of my life, his business is not my business,
he exists for me in so far as I can make videos, talk about a story, but for me personally,
it doesn't actually matter.
Imagine being a fanboy this hard, or hating him this hard too, like fuck.
Just as you shouldn't simp for e-girls, do not simp for the Tates either, guys, alright?
My half hour's nearly up, let's do one more.
A short, attractive guy, or a tall, ugly guy?
Tall, ugly.
Who edited this?
It's just a pause in her face, in the actual video, just a pause in her face, for real.
Oh my god.
Listen, lady, I hope you understand here, but the question was tall and ugly versus
short and attractive, and the only thing I'll say is, you are neither tall nor attractive.
Okay, that about does it for me for today, thanks very much guys.
I'll be on admin stitch tonight, I think pretty much when this comes out, if my speed
at editing is normal, so I'll see you guys over there.
Have a good one, okay?
I love you.
