Oh boy, it's been a long time since I've been here, eh? At this point, I have been gone long enough
that you guys deserve to hear about what I've been doing, what I haven't been doing,
when I'm coming back, which by the way is right now, and what the plans are. So let's go over it.
Back during the first presidential debate, which was I think September 29th, 2020,
putting it nearly six months ago, jeez, time flies. I was streaming the debate with Scrump
and Arch Warhammer and a few other people, a few of my friends, Lilith was there,
and Scrump, being the naughty boy that he is, said the gamer words. Now, none of us knew this
at the time, but we were actually on the front page of YouTube, which is why we had I think
nearly 5,000 people watching. If you were to go to youtube.com and just go there logged out,
you would see my channel on the front. I was certainly getting more traffic than some of the
news network streams of the 2020 presidential debates, but being on the front page of YouTube,
combined with gamer words, combined with the fact that I am not one of those lucky pre-approved
progressive channels that YouTube likes to protect, well, I got demonetized. And yes,
through some people that know people and through some back alley stuff, I did eventually find out
that it was because of Scrump. So you can all go and yell at him if you like. But the point is,
I had at least a fair shot at getting demonetized. So I said, you know what? No,
I'm not going to work for free YouTube. I'm not just going to make videos and have you run ads
on them and then take all the revenue. I'm going to apply to get my monetization back,
which I did. It took until about mid January, but I did. And in the meantime, I'm going to do some
other things. I ordered some new artwork and I ordered some new music and I got to work on a
rebrand. I started re-uploading my backlog to other sites like Bitchute and Odyssey and others.
In fact, the only one that I kind of forgot about was Dailymotion. I'll get on that a bit.
Dailymotion kind of sucks though, because you can only really upload like five videos a day.
So to upload my entire backlog, it's going to take a while, you know? In the 11th hour,
it actually felt like I wasn't going to get my channel back. So I started another channel
called Devtrospective. And to be honest, I like the name enough that I might actually turn
this channel, Shrek Fight Otaku, into Devtrospective. Because frankly,
SFO, it's funny, but it doesn't really match what I do anymore. Like I still like anime.
I'm still short. I'm still fat. I'm still an otaku. But that name was picked before because
back in 2009 we were doing anime reviews, and we're not really doing that on this channel
anymore. So I'm not sure exactly what I want to do. Maybe the channel can be Devtrospective,
or the series can be Devtrospective, and SFO can be the person who does it. At the same time,
Dev is my name. I don't mind being called Dev at all. But that is where I've been.
And for the most part, it's been my side channel, my Game Boomers channel over on Twitch,
that has been keeping me afloat. And yes, Game Boomers is not nearly as successful as SFO right
now, but I treat it just as seriously. I stream there like five times a week, and I get enough
money to live. So it's pretty good, all things considered. By the way, if you haven't checked
it out yet, you should totally check it out, am I right? But this story doesn't account for
everything. Around late December, early January, my house had some renovations go on, and I found
myself unable to do anything. Unable to do any SFO recordings, even if I wanted to. Unable to do the
Game Boomers streams, because the room being renovated was literally the Game Boomers studio.
And then, in resetting up everything for Game Boomers, I didn't have the help that I thought
I would. I was expecting my roommate to be back at that time, he wasn't back from his travels yet,
so I had to kind of do it all myself. That added a few more days to the rebuilding of the studio.
Basically a bunch of things happened all at once, back in early January, that kept me from coming
back to Game Boomers until like the end of January. So for a good solid month there,
unless you were seeing me on Discord, like talking to the community a little bit,
I was gone. I was like, I was gone from the internet. And although Game Boomers, again,
is not as successful as SFO, the income that I get from it is more regular, and it is a little bit
easier to do. So my priority was getting that back up, just so I could have something while I
tried to rebuild SFO. While all this was going down, I realized I'd been watching a fair amount
of BreadTube. And guys, don't worry, I'm not a BreadTuber, I'm not a socialist, I'm not
interested in converting to those ideas at all. I will always be a liberal. A liberal the way that
it's supposed to be known as, not the way that Rush Limbaugh used it to describe a socialist.
No, no, no. I am a liberal. I am within the liberal tent of politics. I view what smooth
brains call the far left and the far right with an equal amount of disdain. But I realized that
there are a lot of liberal commentators who don't quite know what BreadTube believes,
or why they believe what they do. And I will say, after having watched a few months worth
of their content, I'm not convinced by anything that they've had to say. But at the very least,
I now know with more certainty why I oppose them. At this point, the only like lefty tubers
that I think have any kind of good arguments, or quality, or any kind of moral ground to stand on
whatsoever are probably like Destiny, who's not really considered a leftist, and ContraPoints.
That's it. Lindsay Ellis every once in a while, but everyone else just, they seem to be like,
they seem to be really hypocritical, and honestly pretty garbage. And we will be able to get into
why that is in the coming weeks as I make my return. Because at the same time, I've also been,
admittedly very slowly, chewing through a stack of interesting books that will help.
If there is one lesson that I've taken away from from Kraut, it's that when you have to argue your
position, don't do so on a live stream where charisma rules the day, where people are interested
in 30 second sound bites, and the crowd is only out for blood, not truth. Do so by reading,
and then presenting what you've learned in a logical, coherent way. And I think, among all of,
I don't know what you want to call it, like LibTube, I know Kraut hates LibTube, but among
all of liberal YouTube, Kraut is one of the better people at that for sure. And so is Sargon with his
book club. I know those two hate each other, it's like oil and water at this point, but they do seem
to be like the liberal and conservative side of the same coin. So I definitely appreciate both
their perspectives. Point is, I've been reading, and we will talk about the books again as the
weeks go on. And yes, at some point, I did just kind of get in my own head, you know?
I've described this multiple times over the years. Whenever you take a break, you feel like your
return has to be amazing and huge, and so you work on it, but then that work makes it take longer,
so then you feel like it has to be even bigger, and then you get into like a self-defeating spiral
when you're putting anything out. And I think it was a lot of people who said this, but I think it
was eventually ArchWarhammer who said, you know, just put something out. Put something out that's
bad. Put out a terrible video so that you're at least started again. And it's like, yeah,
fair enough. There's also one final topic that I can't completely cover because it is legal in
nature. This has been happening over the past week or two, I think. Don't worry, I'm fine.
It's not like a dank situation where I'm going to be like thrown away for speech or something,
but there is something that I can't completely talk about. I know some people have learned some
details, but there's more to it than I've even told them. And even though I can't say anything
about it, it has occupied some time and made some things harder than they had to be. I'm sure I'll
be able to talk to you about it at some point, sometime down the line. It'll definitely come up.
In fact, Lilith has said she wanted to record a podcast on it because she personally found it so
egregious. And I want to, but we have to wait. So yes, I'm back. If you see this video,
that means that SFO has officially returned. I'm here. There will be videos. There will be
more content. I'll be expanding some things. Maybe I'll do something approximating a regular book
club. I've approached Lilith with the possibility of us doing regular streams.
I'm going to figure a few things out, but the content to SFO is back.
Now, if you want to ask some more details about this, when you see this video, I'm streaming.
Again, it's over on Game Boomers. Game Boomers is kind of where I like to relax after the day's
work. I'll go over there. I'll play some games. I'll usually talk with the chat room because
on Game Boomers, there's maybe 50 viewers. On SFO, there's maybe 500 or sometimes more.
So it's hard to answer every question on SFO, but on Game Boomers, generally I can relax with
people and we can hang out. We can have a good time. It's not always going to be about questioning
me because sometimes my friends are there. Sometimes we just, we crack jokes. Sometimes
it's a comedy thing. Sometimes it's about me playing video games somewhat badly,
but I think I'm pretty good. I think I'm pretty good. But the point is that it's a variety show.
Politics is not banned, but it is a variety show. But when this video uploads, I'll be there. I'll
be hanging out. I'll be talking with people who want to see what the details are, what's going
on with the channel. I'll answer some questions and it will hopefully be a good time. So if you're
watching this, go over there right now, twitch.tv slash Game Boomers and watch this channel because
SFO content is coming soon.
Oh, how soon do you ask? Well, here's the recording of the next video.
I just got to edit it, so you'll see it tomorrow.
