This is going to be one of those Dev Thinks videos.
No goofy TikToks, no ridiculous headlines, no Twitter morons, at least for the most part.
But we can start off with a bit of drama to get the ball rolling.
["The
This has led to many, many long hours of discussion on the topic.
Not all of it is necessarily worth watching, frankly.
No offense to either of these guys, but this is a lot of dead horse beating.
For the sake of brevity, I will give you the clip that I think encapsulates the situation perfectly.
So they'll be like this position, this position, this position, this position, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this.
So these are like the political positions that people have, and these are the things that I'm most interested in arguing with.
This is what I want to fight about.
I want to fight about what you think about that, or what you think about this, or what you think about that.
But people seem more concerned with like, can we group all of these together and call them this?
The problem is that this is one definition of Nazi.
It might include these traits.
Here's another definition of Nazi.
It might include like these traits.
Here's another definition of Nazi.
It might include like these traits.
Here's another definition of Nazi.
Might include, eh, we'll say these traits.
Maybe it encompasses something else here.
And people are fighting over like, what's your definition of Nazi?
And this is, this is the entire conversation of the sub.
Is it this?
Is it that?
Where?
Why would you call him this if he meets it?
If he, well, he did this, he said that, and he did this, and he's like, okay, hold on.
I don't, I don't care about any of this.
I just want to focus on these things.
This is what I talk about.
This is what I do.
I'm not interested in like giving you a particular political label or assigning you or ascribing to you some shit.
I don't really care because the problem is that when I use this definition, let's say that I define Nazi like this.
Okay, what you really want is you want this and this thing right here is your moral condemnation.
That's what you're looking for.
People are looking for this thing, which is bad Nazi bad.
This is what you want.
And the problem that people are running into, you might not realize this, but the problem that you're running into is that I'll talk about this and I'll talk about that and I'll talk about this and I'm at and you're like, no, no, no, no, no.
I need you to call him a Nazi.
And when you call him a Nazi, you're pretending that it's because we'll look destiny.
He's got this and that and that and that is, you know, see, you don't care about that though.
What you really want is you want this.
That's what you want.
You want the moral condemnation.
That's all you're concerned about.
And this thing here is the last thing in the world.
I care about I don't give a fuck about this thing because to include this thing already excludes anybody that would consider themselves any of these things.
They're necessarily not going to see themselves as evil.
They're obviously because they are they believe these things.
But it's telling because we'll agree on this and we'll agree on that and we'll agree on this and we'll agree on that and then you'll get mad pretending that I'm not grouping these things together.
You're like, why would you just call him a thing?
It's like, well, who why do you care if I if we already agree on this shit?
Why do you care if I call him a thing or not?
And like because you're obfuscating because you're hiding what he really is.
Well, what am I hiding?
If I agree on this tell me for Nick Fuentes and this would be a challenge to the subreddit.
What am I hiding about Nick Fuentes when I'm calling him this this or this or this or this and the answer is like, well, you won't call a Nazi.
Why do you care if I don't call him a Nazi if I identify with this person and the real reason is because you want this you want this here.
This is what I'm hiding by not calling him a Nazi.
I'm not including that he is evil or bad part.
That's the issue but that's just the part that I don't really care about.
I don't care about this.
I just don't really give a fuck about it.
This state of affairs is largely due to the overuse and misuse of terms like Nazi and fascist to the point that the words have been destroyed at least online.
They now only refer to whatever the speaker considers to be evil.
An example given repeatedly in these convos was when Vosch called President Bush or Justice Scalia fascists, even though they really don't have anything that makes them fascists except for Vosch's hatred.
How are Bush or Scalia a fascist?
So with Scalia, I would need to go back over the case rulings that he's given because I don't have a great memory for the judicial stuff.
I said that earlier.
I'd be happy to come back with a lot more arguments because this is stuff that I have to remember from podcasts that I've listened to and articles that I've read and conversations that I've had.
With Bush, I think the argument is a lot more direct and it's obviously something I remember a little bit more directly.
I think that Bush, the obvious ones, the straightforward ones are obviously the 2020 election and a nepotistic relationship between George Bush and a person already in power in order to undemocratically secure an election to which he otherwise probably didn't have a right.
I think that's definitely in line at least with the anti-democratic element of fascism, though it's nowhere near as overt as what Trump did, of course.
I'll get back to this in a second, but I've got to throw some books at you.
I won't go into super detail on any of them.
They're each deserving a video on their own that maybe I'll have time to give you one day.
I just want you to know what kind of rabbit hole I've gone down recently.
There was a pretty big event in this channel's history about a year ago that I know y'all know about which motivated me to read a stack of literature on fascism in an effort to understand the ideology.
The beginning point of this journey was me nagging Sargon to read Zeeb Sternhell's Neither Right Nor Left which he eventually did and made a book club video on with Callum.
The TLDR is, Sternhell was a historian and a Polish-born Jewish Holocaust survivor who, after the war, devoted himself to studying fascism.
Neither Right Nor Left is primarily a history book and it pins the origins of fascism not on Germany or Italy but instead on France,
specifically out of the ideas of the French socialist and syndicalist George Sorel who envisioned a pairing of nationalism with the revolutionary left as the task was not a revolt against the bourgeois of Marx's time,
the nationalist-oriented nobility and its elected leadership but instead against an internationalist capitalist bureaucratic class of globalist elites.
It was this Sorelian socialism that became the ideological basis for Mussolini's fascism.
That opened the floodgates for me and I began to look at multiple other positions on fascism.
The mass psychology of fascism is an analysis of fascism from a psychological and socialist perspective.
Wilhelm Reich, as a Freudian, traced the support for fascism among the working class back to sexual repression and advocated for a cultural shift towards total sexual openness and the complete dispensing with traditional sexual morality in order to combat fascist tendencies.
As a direct continuation of Reich's work, the Italian communist Mario Mielli penned the pamphlet Towards a Queer Communism where he advocated making love to children to desensitize them to sex as a form of anti-fascism.
Meanwhile, Hayek's The Road to Serfdom is a discussion of fascism from a libertarian point of view, focusing specifically on fascist economics.
His argument was that when the individual loses the ability to make economic choices for themselves as a result of central planning,
what inevitably follows is a total loss of freedom, the creation of an oppressive society, the tyranny of a dictator, and the serfdom of the individual.
Hayek wrote in the context of an era where the popular view of fascism was that it was a capitalist reaction against socialism, something that Lenin popularized with this famous quote,
Fascism is capitalism in decay.
Liberal writers would eventually take up positions closer to Hayek's than Reich's, all drawing comparisons between the socialism of the Soviet Union and the fascism of the Axis powers.
There's two books that serve as foils for each other.
The first is The Wages of Destruction by Adam Tooze, an open communist.
The second is Hitler's Beneficiaries by Goetz Ali, a German historian.
They both examine the domestic economic policies of Nazi Germany, with Ali saying that the socialism of national socialism was not simply propaganda,
but was actually reflected in the extreme amount of social mobility and wealth that the German working class gained from the Nazis in order to keep them complacent,
while Tooze naturally rejects Ali's conception of this as real socialism.
They actually entered into a fun back and forth for a while, editing new footnotes into subsequent editions of their books to respond to the claims of the other.
It's like shitposting in the fine print.
The most notable thing I've read recently was Fascist Interactions by Professor David Roberts of the University of Georgia.
Roberts asserts that fascist studies stagnated for decades because academics had stopped reading what the fascists themselves were writing.
Under the pretense that fascists always lie, so reading their political theory is useless.
Instead, academics were often encouraged by their peers to read other people's interpretations of fascism, generally socialist interpretations, and take it as gospel,
even to the point that social stigma began to develop in the academy if you wanted to look at fascism through a non-socialist lens or read fascist writers for yourselves.
According to Roberts, fascist studies only began to make breakthroughs again when this tendency was finally shook off,
and academics actually began listening to what fascists had to say about themselves.
After Roberts, I decided the next best thing was to follow his advice and read some of the fascists.
Mein Kampf by Hitler, which even taking the morality of the subject matter out of it, is a horrible slog to get through.
Hitler was a terrible writer.
The Doctrine of Fascism by Mussolini and the similarly named Political Doctrine of Fascism by Alfredo Rocco
both functioned more as manifestos to be handed out and easily consumed, and less as full political science texts.
Revolt Against the Modern World by Julius Evola, who famously declared at his post-World War II trial that Italian fascism was not fascist enough for him,
and so he was a super-fascist.
Let me tell you, there's so many people out there.
While I've learned a lot having read just this much stuff about fascism, I think on some level destiny is correct.
Demanding that you use an emotionally charged term like fascist isn't about the ideas behind the word,
but the moral condemnation attached to it, and the word itself has become meaningless.
Which is a shame, because the ideas of all of these people need a way to properly describe them.
On Destiny's subreddit, this very long thread was posted, describing a highly academic definition of the word Nazi, and why Nick Fuentes doesn't fit the bill.
The issue with this is, despite it being accurate, it also means that, per this definition, there's pretty much no Nazis today.
Now, I'm okay with that. I can just let the Nazi label fade into history, personally.
But a lot of people can't. For them, it's too politically useful.
I've come to believe that there's actually three separate things that we refer to whenever we use the word Nazi or fascist.
And it's more useful to draw distinctions between them than it is to simply abandon the term.
The first one is the classical fascist.
And hey, if you search for the phrase classical fascism on Wikipedia, you will get a unique page different from the one just titled fascism.
So there's already some knowledge of the distinction here.
I said earlier that fascism got its start in the political theories of French socialist and syndicalist, George Sorel.
In Sorel's book, Reflections on Violence, Sorel laid out the case for violence as a civilizing force.
Where an overly educated, overly civilized, overly pampered man was too domesticated to ever revolt against the bourgeois.
While a man who is in touch with his nature will know the regenerative effect that violent action has on the human soul.
To Sorel, violence was equated with life, creativity, and virtue.
While parliamentary democracy deadened the revolutionary spirit of the socialist.
He believed the state would use taxation and money printing as a new tool to siphon surplus value from the proletariat to the bourgeois.
And that voting was simply the means by which leftist reformist parties could skillfully manipulate the specter of evolution.
By which he meant keep the population docile enough with concessions that they don't overthrow the state.
And engage in the regenerative violence necessary for the socialist project.
Mussolini was an admirer of Sorel.
It's no secret that Mussolini was a socialist in his youth.
But many leftists today like to pretend that Mussolini wholly abandoned leftism in becoming a fascist.
This is far from the truth.
Mussolini's shift away from his socialist contemporaries was due to Sorel's influence.
He believed that the socialist of his era had been compromised, made docile in a sense, by engagement with democratic systems.
That socialists were happy to abandon the goal of revolution against the bourgeois state.
And settle for reforms within the current system meant to alleviate the working class's material conditions without actually granting them the ownership of the means of production.
At the same time, Mussolini operated within the shadow of the mutilated victory.
Here's the TLDR on that.
The Italians fought a war of independence to free themselves from the Austrian Empire in the 1860s.
After a cohesive Italian ethnic entity began to emerge to the point that the Italian people desired to be unified under King Victor Emmanuel II.
Rather than continue as a collection of city-states.
However, as is the case with almost all events like this, many ethnic Italian citizens and lands remained within the Austrian Empire even after formal Italian unification.
The Italians joined the Entente in the First World War and fought against Germany, Austria, and the Ottoman Empire.
Because the other European powers promised them a united Italy.
But American objections, of course it was the Americans, to the treaty between the Entente and Italy caused them to receive almost nothing for their efforts.
The Italians came to call this state of affairs the mutilated victory.
As the Italians had lost half a million soldiers in the war, incurred great economic cost to mobilize, and were already dealing with social turmoil.
From their point of view, World War I was a victory in name only.
Where more powerful and important nations would decide Italy's fate, regardless of the written text of any signed treaty.
Within this context, Italian socialists of the era developed the concept of the proletarian nation, which is a nation that is productive, moral, and inclined towards direct action.
Contrasted with a bourgeois nation or a plutocratic nation, which is a nation that is bureaucratic, financial, controls other nations with wealth and trade, and consumes the products of proletarian nations while also controlling their economy.
Enrico Corradini, who is both a socialist and an Italian nationalist, said in 1910,
We are the proletarian people in respect to the rest of the world.
Nationalism is our socialism.
This established, nationalism must be founded on the truth that Italy is morally and materially a proletarian nation.
We must start by recognizing the fact that there are proletarian nations as well as proletarian classes.
That is to say, there are nations whose living conditions are subject to the way of life of other nations, just as classes are.
Once this is realized, nationalism must insist firmly on this truth.
For the Italian socialists, revolution against the bourgeois was a nationalist revolution against an internationalist capitalist world order.
Other Italian thinkers came up with the concept of the corporative economy.
In the modern day, corporative and corporation make us think of large business, but that is not how the Italians used the term.
And Mussolini's famous quote about the merger of state and corporate power is often abused by people who don't know what they're talking about.
It is fascism. This isn't the name for this, and I think we can get some strong agreement that this is the model of fascism.
In fact, they call it a public-private partnership, so they don't have to call it fascism because people would probably be alarmed if they called it fascism directly.
Okay, so none of this has anything to do with fascism, and I don't know why the word isn't both.
Also, I think that this entire conversation portrays a huge misunderstanding of the efficiency of capital markets in the United States and across the world.
Can I break up for one second? How many of Cloud 12's books have you read?
Give me a definition of fascism that would be incorporated in this.
It's the fusion of public and private. It is the corporatism of the D.W.S. where he said that he brings a corporation into the state.
There's a fusion of corporate and state power, or in modern parlance, a public-private partnership.
Well, that's the case that we've been in a fascist state for a long time.
That means literally every single government and everything in the world is fascist.
This is not what fascism is. I guess it's a fun word to use if people on the left like to use this, and maybe people on the right are using it too.
Corporatism is an economic theory separate from capitalism and socialism, and is the main reason why fascists often refer to themselves as the third position.
The idea is, society will reach a peak of harmonious functioning when each of its divisions efficiently performs its functions, like organs in a body or cogs in a mechanism.
Though there may be small or large components, all need to be in place in order for the whole to function at its best.
Like capitalism, corporatism allows for profit and private enterprise.
Like socialism, corporatism collectively controls the economy.
Corporatist theory called for a series of councils, divided by industry, where representatives from the nationalized labor union and business owners who had been granted patronage by the state, would be directed by government officials in the setting of economic policy.
In many ways, the fascist corporative theory is similar to Anton Penacik's council communism.
Mussolini adopted these various theories and others into a wider, more complete political theory of fascism, with the help of the Italian philosopher, Giovanni Gentile.
Classical fascism is best described by Mussolini's most famous quote,
All within the state, a state of affairs where everything is political, there is no private, there is no personal, all things are a matter of public inquiry, and therefore within the state's jurisdiction.
At the same time, George Sorel described fascism as a merger of the national and the social, and was modest but proud of inspiring Mussolini's new step in the socialist project.
Many socialist thinkers of the era, not just Sorel, noticed that Marx's predictions of an inevitable revolution had failed to come to pass,
and they ultimately became enamored with Mussolini's fascism as the next logical step of progress beyond socialism.
After fascism's failure, Sorel threw his lot in with the Soviet Union until his death.
There were only two true classically fascist nations, Italy and Spain, though Portugal did it test the waters for a while.
That's right, Germany was not classically fascist, and Hitler was not a classical fascist.
Hitler was a neo-fascist, and the neo-fascists are the second group we've got to talk about.
You know how a lot of leftists online like to make the claim that Hitler wasn't a socialist, he killed all the socialists in the night of the long knives?
On June 30th, 1934, Hitler conducted a purge, where he killed a bunch of his political opponents.
One of the groups he targeted and wiped out were the Strasserites.
Otto and Gregor Strasser, two German brothers, led the Strasserite faction of the Nazi party.
They were colloquially known as Left Nazis, or Left Fascists.
Strasserism called for a mass-action worker-based form of Nazism, where anti-Semitism was justified due to its anti-capitalist component.
Gregor Strasser and his supporters were killed on that night, while Otto had fled Germany a year prior.
So whenever a leftist leaps to the defense of the socialists that Hitler purged, feel free to remind them exactly who they're defending.
Also, as a quick aside, this sounds a lot like Trotsky's own purge by Stalin that I described a few videos back.
It's almost like socialism as an ideology naturally creates the environment for people who are only interested in power to appear.
Seize control, and purge those who are more ideologically devoted to socialism.
This is why they always say it wasn't real socialism, and it's also why it never will be.
The reason we're talking about the Strasserites, though, is because the Strasserites were more classically fascist, and the Hitlerites were neo-fascist.
Unlike the classical fascists, the neo-fascists don't have an ideological commitment to the idea of the corporative economy.
Germany played a bit more loose with the idea of private ownership, as long as you were a member of the Nazi party, anyway,
while Japan outright nationalized everything it could.
The classical fascists also had a conception of ethnic superiority, but this was ultimately based on culture, not race.
Fascist Italy contained both light-skinned Italians in the north, and dark-skinned Italians in the south.
Even Jews, one-third of Italy's Jewish population, joined the Italian fascist party.
For the classical fascists, at least in Italy, superiority was not based on race, but on identification with the Italian ethnicity and culture.
Meanwhile, the neo-fascists in Germany had a much more strict definition of who was Aryan or non-Aryan.
It wasn't simply a white person thing, because many people that we would consider white nowadays, like Slavs, for example, were not considered Aryan.
Their theories were based more directly in the supremacy of Aryan blood.
The neo-fascists also secularized the mutilated victory.
While the Italians felt they had been cheated out of their unification, and they were simply getting what they were owed,
Germany turned unification with all ethnic German peoples within Europe into its own virtue, independent of any signed treaty.
To them, bringing all Germans within Germany was simply the proper ordering of the world.
The neo-fascists also entangled race and spirituality and land in a way that hadn't quite been done before.
For the Germans, the claim of Aryan superiority stemmed from some rather wacky Nazi occult beliefs.
To them, the organized indigenous religions of Europe were an act of hindrance.
The classical fascists treated religion more pragmatically, simply as another organ of society that was to be brought under the control of the state.
Another difference between them was in their conception of anti-politics.
The neo-fascists took Sorelle's conception of regenerative violence and pushed it to the extreme,
believing that politics itself was a capitalist, and Jewish in the case of Germany, corruption of the human spirit.
In their view, because politics is the vehicle by which we non-violently solve our disputes, politics is a castrating force.
If politics serves to lengthen the distance between having a disagreement and the outbreak of violence,
the neo-fascist seeks to shorten that distance as much as possible.
Hitler used the phrase anti-politics to describe this desire,
but anti-politics has been a component of populist movements on both the left and the right.
Neo-fascism's rejection of democracy is a component of anti-politics,
while the classical fascist rejects democracy as a consequence of sublimating everything to the state.
In general, neo-fascism is classical fascism at its maximum, its most realized, its most brutal.
It is also a more pragmatic, less ideological form of fascism.
In contrast with Mussolini's more overt state worship with all within the state,
neo-fascism is best described by the famous words, blood and soil,
though that had been a German folk saying for many years, Hitler repeated it often as a justification for Nazism.
The classical fascists and the neo-fascists are more similar to each other than they are to the final group,
but nonetheless, there is a natural line of evolution we can examine.
The third group are the post-fascists.
These are the modern-day fascists, the ones that you are most likely to encounter nowadays.
Outwardly, these people seem quite different from the first two,
to the point that they often mask their intentions by appealing to this difference.
Hey, we're not members of the National Socialist German Workers' Party,
we don't believe in the Aryan master race, but they are connected in a few key ways,
and in order to explain how, I need to explain to you the concept of spontaneous order.
Spontaneous order is, well, exactly as it sounds.
It's when order generates on its own out of chaos.
Primarily an economic theory, used to describe how markets tend toward equilibrium,
but it does have uses outside of economics.
Spontaneous order describes the various types of social orders
that exist within human social networks
that are generated by the behavior of independent, rational, self-interested people
who are not intentionally trying to create a social order through planning.
Large swaths of anarchist and libertarian political theory relies on spontaneous order
with the belief that the state and its mechanisms are not necessary
because free people will naturally recreate all that they need in a decentralized manner.
For example, anarcho-capitalists believe that the state's market regulation isn't necessary
because free markets will naturally self-regulate.
Meanwhile, anarcho-communists and libertarian socialists believe that the state isn't necessary
because it's the state's mechanisms that create and uphold property and capitalism,
and without it, communalization of everything is inevitable.
They believe, in the absence of the state, that people will just naturally communalize everything.
So, the post-fascists believe, and this is going to sound a bit wild, so hold on to the edge of your seats,
the post-fascists believe in a form of fascism that comes about due to spontaneous order.
A libertarian fascism, or an anarcho-fascism, as weird as that sounds.
The idea is, the liberal capitalist bureaucratic state,
the thing that lengthens the distance between politics and violence,
that turns the common person into a tamed pet of the bourgeois.
If this institution is overthrown, people will, on their own, naturally trend towards the creation of the ideal fascist society.
But paradoxically, without a fascist state, no one forced corporative economy, no state worship,
no concern for cerulean socialism, instead, a series of stateless, decentralized communities
that are highly anti-democratic, and rigidly authoritarian, based along tribal lines.
That tribe can be a race, or an ethnicity, but it doesn't need to be.
It can also be a religion, or a nationality, or a political affiliation.
Whatever it is, though, the friend-enemy distinction is fervently observed.
In essence, we're talking about post-modern neo-tribalism.
This is why you see people who call themselves Christian nationalists, or Christian fascists,
or islamo-fascists, as they frame their movements as struggles for freedom to break away from the liberal state
and establish their own decentralized, separate, small communities.
These people generally don't have any sort of racial or ethnic superiority narrative either.
Where the Italians appealed to unity, and the Germans appealed to supremacy, the post-fascists reject both of these ideas.
For a post-fascist, the only difference between you and an opposing tribe is that you are your tribe, and they are theirs.
No further justification is needed to treat the other as an enemy.
No supremacy narrative, no past slight, the difference itself is enough.
Additionally, for the post-fascist, religion and spirituality has already been laid bare by the Enlightenment.
Nonetheless, the spiritual impulse is what drives people to take action.
Taking a page from both Evola and Hitler, the post-fascist believes that he can simply construct a new mythology out of thin air,
one that will serve to unify his community and provide the most social utility, regardless of truth or tradition.
If everything is all simultaneously fake and necessary, then why not just tell the most politically effective lies?
More so than the other forms of fascism, post-fascism is anti-ideological and extremely opportunistic.
Post-fascism is anti-democratic, but where the classical fascists rejected democracy as a side effect of state expansion
and the neo-fascists rejected it for ideological reasons, the post-fascists reject it as a failed experiment.
They blame all of the ills of modern society on the democratic project itself.
After all, if you wouldn't tolerate somebody else voting on what you should do in your private life,
why should you tolerate people outside your community voting on what goes on within it?
Post-fascism also has a thirst for violence.
Where the classical fascists leaned on Sorelle's conception of violence as a revitalizing revolutionary force,
and the neo-fascists conceived of anti-politics, of shortening the distance between disagreement and violence by subverting a liberal society,
post-fascists, like the libertarians and the libertarian socialists they're related to,
believe that politics itself is violence, that when you vote or otherwise engage in politics,
you are already committing violence against those you disagree with,
since the state will enforce your laws on them if they lose the vote.
So there's no difference between normal political engagement and actually, you know, political violence in the streets.
Though Mencius Moldbug rejects the term fascist to describe himself, he does so by specifically rejecting classical fascism.
Post-fascism fits his views quite well, as well as the views of the broader neo-reactionary movement,
and their writing bears that out.
And there are a number of figures on the online left, most comically Vosch, who also fit the bill.
The rejection of truth or principle in the pursuit of political advantage.
The rejection of any institution that does not generate victories for them, regardless of its legitimacy.
The desire to shorten the distance between disagreement and violence through a rejection of the very concept of compromise.
The belief in an internationalist capitalist world order using dark money to bring nations to heel.
And a tendency towards isolation and extreme purity testing.
The best way to describe post-fascism is, paradoxically, anti-liberty libertarian.
I have presented these three positions, classical fascist, neo-fascist, and post-fascist, for the most part, impassionately.
And without my own judgments attached.
Because I want you to hear the ideas for yourselves and make your own judgments on if they're good or bad.
The best way to do that, by the way, is to read that big stack of books for yourself too.
But I doubt you're going to do that.
And it would be unreasonable to expect it of you, considering just how fringe these people are, frankly.
A lot of people on the left say that fascists lie, or fascism is incoherent, or whatever else.
These people are stupid.
Fascism does contain some outward contradictions.
But careful examination shows these are just products of ignorance.
For example, the phrase reactionary modernism was coined to describe how the classical fascists and the neo-fascists
appeared to be simultaneously reactionary and revolutionary.
A concept that leftists and academia just couldn't wrap their head around until, like David Roberts said,
they stopped looking at fascism through a socialist lens.
Which was, really, politically motivated to erase the history of fascism blooming out of surreal socialism.
Mussolini and Hitler both explicitly rejected de Maistre's reactionary views,
and they had no desire to reconstitute the old institutions of medieval Europe.
They were searching for an alternative anti-liberal, anti-Marxist future, but it was still a futuristic vision in the end.
The paradoxes of post-fascism seem similarly inscrutable,
but they are laid bare once you understand the anti-democratic, anti-capitalist, and anti-freedom elements of that movement.
Just as today's radical socialists claim that you cannot be on the left without being a priori anti-capitalist,
today's radical fascists claim you cannot be on the right without being a priori anti-democratic.
As for what I believe, I'm against all of it.
All three fascists.
I'm against all the socialisms, too.
I have no problem in proudly proclaiming myself as an open liberal nationalist, maybe even a liberal supremacist at this point.
I value parliamentary democracy, but I also value a government that has appropriate anti-democratic elements.
I value private property, but I also value a social safety net.
Not as a right that's stupid, but as a privilege that wealthy nations should strive to afford.
I am distrustful of institutions, but I'm not a doomer.
I believe reform is possible, and that things are not nearly so bad that revolution is required.
There are people who used to associate with me who, for some reason, thought that I was dog-whistling, as they were,
when I said that I was a classical liberal or a centrist.
Those are the people that I would call idiots.
So, if you wanted to, you could make the argument that Nick Fuentes is post-fascist, if the discourse surrounding that word wasn't so toxic.
But destiny's correct.
The real question is, are those political positions any good?
Because every bad ideology, even the different flavors of socialism and fascism, have a few good positions that we would be wise to consider.
But it's my opinion, but for the overwhelming majority of them, the answer to that question is a resounding no.
Anyway, this has been a grueling video over a year in the making, a lot of that just reading boring stuff, so I'm going to go take a nap.
See you later, guys. I love you.
Oh, also, never bring up Umberto Eco's 14 points, unless you are a retard.
Do we really want me to read out Umberto Eco's 14 points?
No.
