Hey guys, Dev here.
Dave was supposed to do this video like the last two times, but because he's a hungover
lazy bum I'm going to do it instead.
The video footage is just me playing Marble Zone Act 3 in the original Sonic the Hedgehog
again.
I wanted to show all of you naysayers I could do it without Dave heckling me.
For those of you paying attention to our channel, you probably noticed that we managed to keep
a 5 video a week schedule going from September to January with only a few minor hiccups.
That's a pretty big success in our books.
Going forward, we're going to try to expand that to 7 videos a week.
That's right, a Team SFO video every single day.
Let's take a look at how things will be arranged from here on.
The week begins with multiplayer Mondays.
We'll be playing a variety of 4 player games every Monday, and introducing old and new
faces to the channel as well.
Tuesday will remain the release day for Sonic and Miramasa.
Instead of alternating though, I think we'll release one until it finishes, then release
the other.
So one of these two titles will go on a short hiatus, probably Miramasa since Sonic the
Hedgehog 2 is a much shorter game.
On Wednesday, we've got the second season of Game Roulette already underway.
Our channel actually won 3 awards for the first season of Game Roulette, so hey, why
not keep it up?
Plus the 3 of us love doing it.
Thursday is Zelda Day, currently linked to the past.
This is the same.
Fire Red Fridays are still a thing as well.
Banjo Kazooie is moving to Saturdays, however as Fire Red comes to a close, Banjo will eventually
shift to Friday with a new feature starting up on Saturday.
And finally, there's behind the scenes Sundays.
On this day, we'll post stuff like commentaries, bloopers, and other goodies.
Oh, and I know I've been talking about dev-trospectives now for a little while.
Almost 2 years actually, or at least a year and a half.
They're still coming, it's just we have so much stuff on the go it's kinda hard to get
around to everything, but they will come within the next couple months, and they'll also be
released on Sunday whenever there's no behind the scenes stuff to go out.
This will be a way for us to tackle larger animes that we couldn't cover in a single
SFO review, but it won't just be anime either.
Using dev-trospectives, I'm going to be looking at a whole bunch of different stuff.
I'm sure a lot of you are asking, what about the anime content?
After all, we started off as an anime channel.
Well, we haven't forgotten it.
When anime stuff comes out, it'll likely take the place of Zelda on Thursdays.
Also, we're going to try to ramp it back up to two anime videos a month, like how we had
in the summer of 2013.
There's been a minority of people complaining in comments about what they perceive as a
lack of anime content, and let me address that here.
Do you remember when the Short
Well of course, we could always do more, and we will always try to do more, no matter how
advanced we get, but those people who are claiming that we don't post as much anime
content as we used to, are just factually incorrect.
Also I guess I'll update you on the copyright situation.
As predicted, we've won every copyrighted battle we've come across, but on YouTube,
it's just never ending.
You've probably heard this already since the double shitstorm of Google Plus and multi-channel
network neutering just happened, but every time someone puts a claim on our videos, frivolous
or not, that's 30 days of ad revenue that we lose.
There are entire companies set up solely for the purpose of making unfounded copyright
claims on YouTube and stealing 30 days of advertising revenue.
So if you're a fan of the show, I'd ask you to check out our videos over at blip.tv slash
shortfatotaku or our website at shortfatotaku.com.
These sources provide a significantly bigger payout than YouTube does, which supports the
channel.
And it's not like we're just swimming in a pool of internet monies or anything.
We actually reinvest every single cent you guys send us right back into the show.
We reinvest everything so that we can give you a quality product, nothing saved for ourselves.
Of course, if you want to ad block, ad block, that's cool too, we won't hold it against
you.
We still enjoy the fact that you like to watch our content.
I mean, who do you think we are, Reviewtopia?
