Hello one and all, it's Dev. How's it going everyone? We're here to look at some TikToks,
let's get right to it. No time to waste today.
What? Kind of quiet. Oh, give me your cash. Oh, she has a knife.
Robbing at knife point, guys. Jesus. Going crazy right off the bat.
She just puts the knife down? Dude, grab the knife. What are you doing?
What are you? I'm actually surprised at how, this is a comedy of errors already.
She just picks the knife back up. Why didn't he grab it?
She's not going to do anything. You could probably disarm her too.
This is a, it's like a really calm robbery, you know?
And there she goes with like her 30 bucks or whatever. Jesus.
He just calmly walks after. What a man. It's, I mean, robbery is never good, right? Like,
obviously fuck this person, but what a weird, so, so many things. It's like, you're watching like
two pacifists engage and one of them wants to rob the other. It's like,
please let me rob you, sir. Oh, I cannot. Oh, you know what I mean? It's strange.
Speaking of robbery, they're robbing the Amazon truck.
Oh, my God.
Just grab whatever box you can and run, dude.
That guy's going to lose his job. Oh, man. You got to lock your truck up when you go
and deliver something, dude. You can't just leave it open. Also, like what a terrible neighborhood.
What terrible people. They're just going to see an open truck and immediately jump in.
That's genuinely awful. It's like you're living in the third world at this point.
Oh, there's some music. Hold on. Give me music here. Okay. She got her boyfriend's name
tattooed on her forehead. Why do you think this is a good idea? Why? Oh, why? No, no, no. You don't.
Like, I guess if you're just going to have a career as a prostitute, maybe like,
what, what, what is your plan here? You can't have a real job. Oh, my God. Okay.
So there's, there's definitely this conversation with tattoos, right? It's like,
should a person be barred from like having a normal office job for like a tattoo
that's on their wrist, like a small tattoo or something, or like if they have like tattoos
in their back that can't be seen because they put a shirt on or like a suit or whatever.
It's like, okay. All right. You can definitely have tasteful tattoos, but your boyfriend's name
on your forehead, not only will that like fuck your career up, it also just looks stupid. I have
a feeling that even the boyfriend eventually is going to just be looking at that and be like,
I got to look at this again. Trashy fucking people, guys.
Here we go. Oh, dude, this guy's a baller. Oh, my God. You're asking to fly off and get destroyed
at that point. Man. Yeah, there is no way that would be allowed on like a Western ride. Like
it was in Korea, I think. No way that would be allowed here. Like stringent safety regulations
here in Canada, dude. Naomi and I just went to Canada's Wonderland, which is a theme park in
Toronto. Really fun time, but man, they don't mess around with the safety. In fact, what happened
there was the latest indication that I should probably start losing some weight because the guy
had to like really squeeze a harness down on my fat gut to try to fit me into the roller coaster.
I should probably lose some weight before I go next day. What's going on? Look at this guy. He
just has like a battle ax. That's like a medieval battle ax, dude. Like he's standing there high as
fuck, heroin up and he holding the battle ax. What the fuck? Okay. I've seen a lot of like videos,
both. I've put a lot of them in TikTok Tuesdays. A lot of them I just see on Twitter and I just
like scroll on because you can't, you only react to the same type of video so many times, right?
But it's just like people who are high as fuck, needles hanging out of their arm and they're
sitting around on the street. Maybe they're shitting in the street. People have to walk
around them and they're just, just decay in human filth and moral degeneracy everywhere.
Usually in San Francisco, right? But man, a guy who is high, barely able to stand,
holding a battle ax. That is a, what, how, what the fuck happened for that to be a thing?
Like where did the battle ax come from, dude? Now, certainly him in the lead brings some much
needed new energy to the franchise, but the plot of the film in particular, the actions of Bond
just did not sit right with me. In particular, there's a plot point where Bond tricks a young
religious zealot into sleeping with him where he takes her virginity and she's literally less than
half of his age. Bond has done some questionable womanizing things in these movies. I think this
is by far the creepiest version of Bond. From there, there's a lot of like racial elements
in the film that are so tied to the early seventies that it's kind of uncomfortable to watch.
Oh my God. Okay. Modern, modern soy boy progressive watches a Bond film from the 1970s
and considers it problematic. Things were edgier back then. All right. That's welcome to reality.
What do you want? All right. The past didn't follow progressive morality. What the fuck do
you want? It's like you can't conceive of a time when Funko pops didn't exist.
I'm looking at the thumbnail for this and I already know what the fuck I'm looking at. Holy shit.
What's going on? It's a CGI Klaus Schwab.
You will eat the box. Yum, yum.
Katrina chrome so good. Population control. Thank you for your sacrifice.
I despise you. That's so good. Population control. Yum, yum. You will eat the box.
Okay. We've hit the end. You've hit the end of that meme. All right. Like
it's already an old meme. It's a few months old at this point, but still like that has to be the
peak. It has to be the peak of the parodies of this. Oh my God. Oh, music. Can't tell if cool
or cringy. This guy just has like a screen on his backpack and it's displaying memes.
This is fucking awesome. I mean, it's pretty cringe to be honest, but it's also fucking
awesome. I can see myself doing that if I were a kid nowadays. Damn, that guy's a baller. Wait,
zoomers don't use baller anymore. That guy's Kino. There we go. I know. I know what's going on.
Loading a container in Korea.
How are you getting it out of there, dude? Just ram it in, I guess.
Okay. All right. They're just like, pack it up. We don't care. It's got to get into the
shipping container. What happens when it gets destination? Not our problem. Just shove it in
there. They can worry about it above our pay grade. Our job's done. Go home guys.
Happy national coming out day. I teach fourth grade and I think that fourth grade is the
perfect age for children to really start exploring their sexual orientation and gender identities.
No activity I did in my class today was I had children go into the closet, literally. I have
a closet in my classroom and I would have the kids one at a time go into the closet and then they
would come out and share with the class what their sexual orientation is. So of course we
would celebrate and I would give the kids that I could define as 2SLGBTQIA+, a cupcake, a rainbow
cupcake, the kids that came out and said they were straight. I didn't give them anything because
they're just contributing to a heteronormative society. Oh my fucking god. Okay. Okay. Hold on.
This was like, I got to think about this for a minute.
Is this a parody? Like is this a person who's trolling?
Like that was too on the nose, don't you think? Oh god, what them
Palestinians got to do with me? I'm ready for the cancer.
If black people in America ever defended ourselves...
There's supposed to be a beat?
People are defending their rights. We would get the exact same treatment.
Wait I was too busy beating. What did you say?
If black people in America ever defended ourselves in the way that the Palestinian
people are defending themselves, we would get the exact same treatment.
I mean, yeah. If black people did in fact start going around slaughtering whites en masse
indiscriminately, I'm sure there would be a crackdown on you. Yeah, you would get the
same treatment because what the Palestinians did was fucking unacceptable. Oh god. It seems
like for some of these people, the only thing holding them back from just attempting an actual
genocide, just going on rampages, is the government. They're so full of hate. They're
so morally bankrupt. It's unbelievable sometimes. And I think it's because they're so divorced from
the consequences of their actions and their rhetoric. That combined with all the hate
that they've imbibed has led to the creation of some very terrible people.
Okay kiddos, that about does it for me today. Hey listen, if you're watching this on release,
I should be going on the Side Scrollers podcast right about now, hosted by Stuttering Craig from
back in the day. So I should, I hopefully am including that link on screen. You can click
on it right now and go over there and say hi. Also, I'll be streaming tonight as well,
so make sure to drop in. And no matter where you are, I will see you there.
Have a good one guys. I love you.
