This is a unique situation.
I'm currently on a time limit recording this.
This is my only time to record a video until Tuesday, so if there's going to be content
on Monday it has to be recorded right now.
And the only time I can record is this 45 minute window in between the ending of Sunday's
weekly sip, which just ended if you watch that live, I'm recording this right after,
and the beginning of ARCH's Skaven RP, which starts back up today, or yesterday for you
guys.
So I have 45 minutes in between these two events to record this video, and then no free
time until Tuesday morning, so, so if there's going to be content on Monday I better do
it now.
Which means that this video is going to be a little bit lazy, but hey, it's fine, we're
going to have some fun, it's going to be a great time.
Allow me to introduce you to the hipster paradise of r slash we want plates.
This is the place that you go if you want to see the absolute depths of soy-swigging
socialist stupidity.
Let's say you decide to go out on the town, assuming that you have your vaccine passport.
You want to go and get a dinner with your friends or maybe with your girlfriend or whoever,
you're heading out to a restaurant, and you want to enjoy yourself.
So maybe there's a new place that opened up downtown.
It's getting lots of good reviews.
Only it turns out, because it is hipster central, they kind of serve their food a little bit
strangely.
This one's not so bad actually, I guess we're starting off light.
Eating your meal out of a cast iron skillet.
I mean it's still technically food related, it's a skillet, it's kind of weird eating
out of a skillet, but hey, this is how they serve the food to you.
What's in there?
Is it sweet potatoes and beans?
You've got some bread, you've got some chicken, some portobello mushrooms, and it's clearly
not cooked in the cast iron skillet.
It's put into it.
So here you go.
Eat up.
How about this?
You've got chips in a box, and you've got the dip just spread out on a slab of wood.
Maybe get a few splinters in there, it'll add to the experience.
Here's a great classic mixture, cold ice cream and hot brownies dusted with powdered sugar
and served on what looks to be a plate of obsidian.
Not a plate like a dinner plate, but literally a sheet of stone.
I wonder if people who eat like this, that actually enjoy this, if they think it's classy
or something.
Oh dude, check out this fancy wine decanter.
You know, if you're really worried about COVID, aren't you worried about that guy's
fingers touching everybody's wine?
Okay, this is literally like a rock.
It's not a rock plate.
It's a circular, smoothed rock.
Imagine you're sitting at a restaurant and someone just like walks up, here's your order,
sir, and puts down a fucking stone that you could skip across a lake.
Hey guys, it's New Year's, you want to go get drunk?
Sure, hold on.
Let me just get my beer ramen.
It's not actually beer in there, at least I assume.
I think this is literally a ramen shop that just serves the soup in a beer mug.
I guess it'd be easy to drink.
Oh my God, it's ice cream on a shovel.
I know it's cold, but it's not exactly snow, guys.
What the fuck?
Who wants to eat off of the blade of a shovel?
Who thought this was a good idea?
What dumb fuck hipster said, my popular downtown gastropub eating establishment will serve only
the finest food on shovels in solidarity with the working class.
You guys down for a steak?
I haven't had steak in a while.
I mean, I've had bulgogi, which is like steak strips made in a Korean style, but not like
a Western style barbecued steak.
You can get one at this place, they serve it on a brick.
You order your big fat cut of steak, maybe you want it rare, maybe you want it medium,
whatever, who cares?
The most important part is how thick is the brick that it's coming out on?
And you know what?
I bet the brick is on the house too.
All the hipsters who eat here, they can take that brick and go throw it through a window
at that night's protest.
This is one inventive way to get your meal to you.
You just have your wings on a cart and the waiter can just roll it across the table in
your direction.
I want to see waiters like pulling the cart by a rope or something and saying, beep, beep,
coming through as they deliver people's stuff.
This ain't food, but it still kind of fits.
The menus of this place are printed onto meat cleavers.
So I guess if you find the prices to be too offensive, you can just take this thing and
shove it into the head of your waiter.
Actually, to be fair, the prices aren't bad.
This one is titled, make sure you only eat what's edible.
What am I looking at?
It's a campfire, but is there supposed to be food in there?
It's like wood and rocks.
Maybe this is one of those performance pieces where you have cakes that are made to look
like other objects.
Maybe that's what this is.
You want a fruit and cheese platter?
Well, here it is.
You got an upside down wine glass with all the fruit stuffed inside and a bunch of onion
rings on the top of the wine glass.
I'm not even sure who's supposed to eat this without making a huge mess.
If this came out at a restaurant that I was at, I would be incredulous.
I would just be like, what, what the fuck am I looking at?
So I know people like cheesecake flavored milkshakes, but you ever actually had a slice
of cheesecake on top of your milkshake?
I mean, it looks good.
How the fuck are you supposed to eat it?
Do you eat it like an ice cream cone?
You just kind of like lick it or bite it on the way and hope it doesn't like fall the
way the models are holding it.
It's almost like they expect you to eat it on the go, but there's, there's no fucking
way anyone's ever eaten this on the go.
Have they?
Oh my God.
What kind of amalgamation is this?
This is all attached to a bloody Mary by various toothpicks and chopsticks.
And it's like a sandwich and onion rings and pickles and fries and chicken wings.
It looks like in a full pizza, all just balanced on a bloody Mary.
There's no way you can even eat this thing without the whole, there's a second bloody
Mary and I didn't even notice that there's no way you can eat this thing without the
whole thing.
Just toppling over.
What kind of hipster dumb fuck thought that this is what they should be selling at the
restaurant.
It's the early morning.
You don't have much time to spare.
You head over to your local coffee shop and breakfast nook to order some food while you
tap away on your overpriced MacBook air waiter says, yes, sir.
And brings out a bookshelf, a bookshelf full of food for you to pick at while you work.
This person ordered a nacho platter and it came literally in the kitchen sink.
Now this is actually be kind of interesting if the, if the faucets worked, like if you
could get like maybe cream cheese out one side and salsa at the other, that could be
kind of cool.
What am I kidding?
This, this looks fucking ridiculous.
Literally everything in the kitchen sink.
Hey, you guys want the world's best scotch egg that comes in an award.
Now I don't even know what, what a scotch egg is.
It's probably some British thing.
That's what it sounds like.
It looks like it's egg wrapped in some kind of meat wrapped in some kind of breading that
gets fried.
It's probably like bar food or something.
We don't have that here in Canada, but tell me, tell me Brit bongers.
Is this how you would eat your scotch egg?
What am I looking at?
I don't even know what food this could possibly be.
I see like a single berry to the lemon slices, orange slices, and there's like some kind
of a gelatin.
I don't even know what this.
You know, dishes are not meant to completely destroy the dining experience to the point
that you don't even know what you're eating anymore.
Imagine ordering a cocktail and you get this fucking science experiment instead.
Here you go.
Enjoy your test tubes embedded into the side of a fake tree.
You know, I always thought the whole eating sushi off a person thing was a meme.
I guess not.
I guess people actually do this stuff.
Why?
What's the point?
Like it's not even a cute girl.
Why?
Look at this guy's face.
Look at this motherfucker's face.
He's like, yep, I get paid to do this.
I get paid to lie here and let people snip at my taint with some chopsticks.
It's a living.
You guys want your red jello served on tampons?
I'm sure there's some feminist restaurant out there that'll do it for you.
Why the hell not?
Jesus God.
Like I know it's not actually anything bad, but just the fact that it's a tampon makes
it look fucking disgusting.
Only for the most subversive palates.
Speaking of a palate, here is another cheese platter served on, in fact, a palate.
Now if you're a true working class individual, you fucking hate palates.
You have dealt with them your entire life.
You have received them, you have emptied them, you have stacked them.
Palates suck.
But if you're some kind of bourgeois champagne socialist who's never actually worked a real
fucking job in your life, this probably just seems quaint to you.
Of course, if you're looking for a more artistic palate, you can have your meal served to you
as if it were splotches of paint.
This place prides itself in having only the freshest olives.
In fact, they grow on a tree that they bring to you.
Well, they're not actually growing.
They're hooked onto a tree.
Clearly, they're not actually growing real olives here.
But hey, I guess it's the thought that counts.
You need meals to go?
We got meals to go.
Check this out.
It's a pizza served on a full assed tire.
That's right, you can chow down and then just roll away.
Oh my god, this meal actually looks a lot more dangerous than the last shovel one.
The last shovel one had like obviously rounded edges because it was clearly meant to be used
as, for some dumb fuck reason, a plate.
But this is like a real shovel head with, like look how sharp those edges are in comparison.
Well, just shovel it into your mouth, buddy.
This is probably the classiest way to eat pizza rolls.
Have them delivered to you strung up on a wash line, complete with clothespins.
Make sure they're dry before you eat them, guys.
Are they serving food on an iPad?
What kind of a fucking upscale place do you have to go to?
They're serving food on iPads.
Fuck the scratching from the utensils.
Fuck it being stolen.
Who cares?
What is buying one?
What kind of a place?
What would it cost to eat here, do you think?
Finally, a meal that tells us the true nature of justice.
I want the waiter to walk in like blindfolded delivering this and then just like falls all
over the place.
You ever get your drink served to you with steak strips inside of it?
Who seriously buys all this garbage?
What the fuck?
I just want to go to a place, order the food, have it brought in in like a way that I can
eat it.
It doesn't need to be like on a brick or in a boot or some other bullshit.
Just let me eat the fucking food.
Yes, I do literally mean from a boot.
This is a place that'll serve your wings from directly from the shoe.
Some of the stuff I don't mind so much.
Like this just looks like a regular meal.
Yeah, it's on a board, but it's not really the worst offender, is it?
It's kind of strange.
But like if you go to a sushi place and order sushi, it always comes in on little boards.
That's just the style for sushi and they've adapted that style for stuff that's clearly
not sushi.
So whatever, it's not a big deal.
But most of the stuff really just seems nuts.
It seems like people trying to go fucking crazy overboard, desperate for attention.
Because being a hipster whack job is the hot new thing where you get these unsufferable
beardos and art hoes talking to each other, OMG, did you go down to the new place on commercial?
You can get your food served to you in a coffin.
Isn't that so like deep?
It really makes you think about like the nature of life, you know?
Some of the food even looks good, but I just want to be served regular food, you know?
I don't want to have to go on an adventure just to eat the stuff that I've paid for.
So hopefully we see this sign on every single one of these restaurants in the near future.
Due to circumstances beyond our control, all meals will be served on plates.
We apologize if this spoils your experience.
No, no, it's okay.
The less hipster energy I have in my life, the better.
