Well, I had intended this to be a dumping with Scrump, but when I sat down to record
it my internet went out, so I guess I'll just have to do it live.
And by live I mean the opposite of live.
Sorry, Scrump.
But speaking of claiming to do something live, but actually not, let's talk about Bully
Hunters.
Oh boy, this sounds like a show I want to watch.
This sounds like a channel I want to follow.
Tell me more.
While our casual gamers are playing, they may experience harassment.
When that happens, we'll be alerted.
They'll also call on a Bully Hunter.
A Bully Hunter will jump into their game and take on harassment head on.
They'll hunt down and take out the perpetrator.
You heard that correctly.
Bully Hunters will get these harassers where it hurts them the most, by beating bullies
at their own game.
This is a type of harassment that over 21 million female gamers have experienced.
It was at this moment when we saw that it was not just trash talking.
It was straight up harassment.
So that's when the Rose Thorn, our casual gamer, decided to call on one of our Bully
Hunters.
What the Rose Thorn did in this case was use our new tool on her mobile device.
It says our Bully Hunter has just entered the game.
See, Bully Hunter 77 has joined the game.
Now our victim, the Rose Thorn, and our Bully Hunter can communicate with one another.
Now you see there, the tool connected these two.
A victim with a Bully Hunter.
Okay, so now Bully Hunter 77 knows the name of the harasser and she is ready to take action.
Now we are going to switch over to Bully Hunter 77's screen to watch the hunt.
And it looks like she's going to use her knife, folks, and there it is.
Just pause right there.
Let's back up and see that again.
A brilliant knife move.
Very difficult.
And look right there.
See, in the lower left hand corner, let's pause that and zoom into that.
Our Bully Hunter left the calling card message to the harasser.
Harassment is not a game.
Bully Hunters dot org.
So let me get this straight.
You've gathered together a bunch of female gamers who are just casually playing CSGO,
having a good time, and waiting for a dude on the other end to shit talk them.
Once this happens, one of your Bully Hunter pro gamers will join the game, kill them in
the game, and then leave a message in the chat saying, harassment is not bullying.
Bully Hunters dot org.
Okay, okay, before we get into just how pants on head retarded this idea is, let's take
a look at the pure logistical problems involved.
One, there's already block and report buttons in CSGO.
If you don't want to hear an asshole in the game, you don't have to.
Two, CSGO is a team based shooter, meaning you're only able to hear the voice chat
of people on your own team.
If an enemy is angry with you, you can't hear his voice taunts.
If a teammate is yelling at you over voice chat, and you call a Bully Hunter in, this
Hunter would have to join the opposing team in order to hunt your harassing teammate down,
making it very likely they'd kill you in the crossfire.
Three, this won't work if a CSGO match is already full, or if you're playing the game
in competitive.
Because new people won't be allowed to join the match in either of those scenarios.
Four, getting other people to fight a bully for you not only would make the bully more
likely to continue targeting you, it's also some weak ass shit.
Why not get better at the game and kill them yourself, rather than calling your big brother
over?
If you actually use this tool, you deserve to be shit on at that point.
Five, how well do you think your service is actually going to function when the internet
clues into what you're doing and clogs the Bully Hunter request queue up with bullshit?
Or alternatively, fills the Bully Hunter application queue up with fake applicants.
Or even worse, when one of these fake applicants manages to slip in, become a Hunter, and trolls
the entire service.
But you know, there was something odd about the actual show itself, wasn't there?
I don't know, it didn't seem quite right, like everything was staged instead of being
a live production.
They'd show the casual gamers playing, say something like cut to her feed, and it would
be a completely different location on the map.
And then when that one casual player, TheRoseThorns, called in BullyHunter77, it all moved a bit
too smoothly, didn't it?
I guess that's to be expected, since it turns out that they were the same fucking person.
The history logs of TheRoseThorns' steen account shows that it's also recently gone by the
name of BullyHunter77, as well as BullyHunters89 and 3.
It was all a fake.
But despite that, there were still some pretty serious claims made.
Three
million women harassed in gaming.
It's no laughing matter.
Let's look into these statistics a bit more to see if we can get into the real deal.
PlatinumParagon, a researcher and PhD student, published a blog post breaking down the numbers
presented during the BullyHunters broadcast.
Around 3 million women have stopped playing games altogether because of harassment.
The source for this is a 2012 survey of 874 participants, extrapolated to every single
console owning women in America.
This means that what was previously around 3 million women have stopped playing games
altogether because of harassment is actually 84 women stopped playing one online game because
of harassment.
While I deeply feel for these women, this is a false, dishonest, and huge stretch in
the data in what has been uncovered to be a marketing campaign for SteelSeries headsets.
False mental health statistics are being pushed to sell you gamer gear.
To this I have three things to say.
1.
You are right.
874 participants is a decent participant pool to extrapolate from.
2.
The extrapolation was made incorrectly for hyperbole.
What was women quitting one game became women being pushed out of games entirely, with the
use of have stopped playing games altogether from ZombieUnicorn, the host.
3.
The worst crime is that the extrapolation as a whole was done incorrectly.
Extrapolation is a good thing because things like random sampling allow us to make inferences
about patterns of illness and behavior without sampling the entire population, but when we
extrapolate we make very very very clear that we are extrapolating, otherwise we are quite
simply lying and reporting fake data.
The extrapolation was applied only to American women who own a console.
This is a methodological flaw as not only are female PC gamers left out, but it is arguably
easier to harass somebody on a PC due to the increased likelihood of having a keyboard
at your fingertips.
And I would just like to personally add to this, the entire Bully Hunter premise revolves
around PC gaming, from the Bully Hunter site, to Steam integration, to CSGO.
I think we should take a look at this 2012 study for ourselves.
Maybe a closer look at the raw data will shed some light in this situation.
Well it turns out that it's actually a student project, written and researched by Emily Matthew.
This wasn't a peer reviewed university funded piece of academic literature, this was a class
project later published on pricecharting.com.
Emily Matthew actually posted the results of her project over on reddit at r slash girl
gamers, and replied to some criticism there as well.
I've never done a survey like this before, so that's something that I'll have to consider
in the future.
Well shit, this seems like a real professional piece of work, doesn't it?
Certainly something the Bully Hunters should use as a cornerstone of their entire operation,
right?
Imagine handing in a bullshit high school essay or something, and then realizing five
years later, some marketing company found it and turned into the basis for an online
train wreck.
Oh, and Emily?
If you've been trying and failing for the past 12 years to get that Bachelors of English,
like it says on your resume, maybe you should look at doing something else with your life.
I mean, in that time span, I attended school, took a break from school, worked a real job
for a little while, went back to school, completed a degree, and worked most of my way through
a second one.
Just saying.
In any case, in trying to find the source for these statistics, PlatinumParagon actually
ran into a wall, the show's host, ZombieUnicorn.
I searched for such a study during my lunch break and could not find even a crumb of such
a study.
Desperate to find out more, I politely asked for a citation.
She refused, telling me to watch the stream for the source.
I genuinely did not have time to watch the stream for one source, so I recalled that
she had rehearsed for the event.
If she rehearsed, she would know the name of the psychologist speaking about the data.
Once again, I politely asked for anyone I could contact to discuss a large scale and
amazing study.
I was told to watch the VOD.
Well that does seem a bit shady, doesn't it?
I mean, the other show's host, Tien Tran, has completely locked down her online profile,
and she was a virtual unknown before the Bully Hunters.
So fat chance of her finding out what her deal is.
But ZombieUnicorn has been all over the internet for years.
I'm sure she has a long history of standing up to bullying and harassment, right?
Oh wait, she has the exact opposite of that.
Now, I'm not somebody who sees any issue with in-game smack talk or use of the word
faggot or anything like that, but if you're going to claim to stand up for bullies arm
and arm with oppressed female gamers, maybe you shouldn't have a history of, time and
time again, being a bully yourself.
Like this.
Or this.
Or this.
Or this.
Or this.
Or this.
Or this.
Or this.
Or this.
Alright, in the interest of being impartial, let's let ZombieUnicorn herself have her
say on the event.
It's only right she be allowed to speak.
Hold on, gotta cover up that free SteelSeries headset first.
Okay go ahead, you've got the floor.
It's based on real stuff that has happened and real examples of harassment.
So it's not completely- Yes, I'm sure it all really happened.
I mean, the show was presented as a live, currently occurring event.
I know you had a script and it was all fake, but in the script, it talked about how you
were presenting it as live.
The word live was in the script.
The statistics are real, they're just based on a smaller pool and they applied the percentages
to the overall population of female gamers.
So they're based on real statistics, but it's an extrapolation.
And if you check my Twitter, I have the link to the studies and the sources for all the-
Yes, absolutely top quality statistics there.
Nothing like a school project to give you the best of the best.
The thing about griefing is that, what that original tool thing would have been was they
join the game, play the game normally, and kill them once, and then say harassment's
not a game, and leave.
And nothing about that is inherently harassing or abusive or griefing, it's just playing
the game normally.
This sounds like something that any normal person would love to do, absolutely.
You know, I've got to work that 9 to 5, but I've got a few free hours out of my busy day,
what should I do?
Oh I know, I'll sign up to be a bully hunter and be on call, for free, to join other people's
games that I'm not invested in, kill somebody, promote a brand, and then bail out.
That's how I want to spend my evenings.
So hold on here for a minute, if the Bully Hunters tool was never intended to actually
stick around, on the one hand the upside is that I wouldn't actually be spending that
much of my free time.
But really, what was the point of all this?
You guys spent all this money, time, energy, production value on Bully Hunters, and for
what?
Was it intended to last?
Was it for the show?
Because honestly, the two thirds of it that I cut out was them interviewing exceptionally
boring talking heads spouting pop psychology.
So why was this all made?
Oh yeah, SteelSeries.
That was it.
Selling gamer junk.
And according to our pal Zombie here, SteelSeries was front and center in organizing Bully Hunters.
One of the representatives from SteelSeries was involved as a consultant.
They were part of the meetings and the brainstorming, and that person is also the same person that
connected me with FCB and this campaign.
So the fact that they're saying that they had nothing to do with picking the talent,
that's not accurate.
And at the same time, they did have something to do with the discussion of how this event
campaign would go.
An archived listing on MediaPost also shows an advertising agency called FCB Chicago enlisting
SteelSeries, the National Coalition for Women, and the Diverse Gaming Coalition to be part
of Bully Hunters.
That's not what you'll hear from SteelSeries themselves.
Apparently it was all the Bully Hunters fault.
Same with VertiGear, they put up a similar statement distancing themselves from the whole
thing.
I mean, it's not like the source code of the Bully Hunters website directly references
SteelSeries' involvement as a corporate sponsor, right?
So what's the truth here?
Honestly it seems like everyone is just playing a game of hot potato, slowly realizing that
they're all a bunch of retards who tossed a lot of money into a flaming dumpster fire
and they're all racing to not be the last one holding the bag.
SteelSeries even believes its brand was so damaged by the Bully Hunters, they're considering
legal action.
I actually understand that point of view because, I mean, I know I'm never gonna support that
company again, after they decided to plaster their name all over a tool that downloads
a bunch of data not only from your Steam account, but also your Facebook if you're logged
in when you use it.
Or how the charity they planned to give the proceeds to was Time's Up Now, an activist
group that advocates for women in Hollywood.
Great job SteelSeries.
Take my money, take my private info, and give that shit right to Harvey Weinstein.
Un-fucking-believable.
I have noticed something odd though.
All these older pictures and videos of Zombie Unicorn, they don't even seem to be the same
person.
I mean, this one girl here looks like she's about 90 pounds, while the host of Bully Hunters
looks like she might need to unbutton that blazer.
Let's dig a little bit more and see if we can confirm these two to be the same person.
Oh shit, she did a Playboy shoot back in the day.
A shoot that's only recently been deleted now that the spotlight's on her.
This feels kinda like a Zoe Quinn situation, doesn't it, where a young spunky gamer girl
does a bit of porn on the side before she hits that fucking wall of mid-thirties depression.
You know, Zombie, it's not inevitable that you get out of shape as you get older, despite
what your girlfriends tell you at the ice cream cat lady meetup.
Just watch what you eat and hit the gym, and you can look just like your 20-year-old self
again.
Oh, I forgot, the gym's full of those misogynist males who just don't understand a woman's
struggle.
Well, how about this?
I've got some corporate sponsors here in the wings.
Let's set up, say, Gym Hunters.
We'll go into gyms and act as fake spotters who drop weights on the dude bros who ruin
your feminine lifting experience for simply doing what is normal while at the gym.
I know it sounds like a stupid idea for a reality show, in fact, it might even be career
ending for anybody who decides to take it up.
That's right up your alley, isn't it?
Who knows, with any luck, maybe you'll even be able to make enough money to fund all those
lawsuits you're going to be faced with for filing false DMCAs against the entire fucking
internet.
Listen, if you didn't want people to make videos about your retarded shit, you shouldn't
have been a part of the retarded shit.
So the Bully Hunters stream ended with them checking the Twitch chatroom for feedback,
and afterward abruptly cutting the show early, presumably because the entire thing was swastikas
and ascii dicks and criparian copypasta.
And even though it's been just a few days, the Bully Hunters are already dead.
The website for the app was still running for a little while during the firestorm, albeit
without the corporate sponsor logos at the bottom, but as of this recording it's just
gone.
It's too bad, you know, I was really looking forward to being a Bully Hunter myself, even
though I was rejected from the site.
I guess my Steam account didn't have enough playthroughs of Life is Strange on file or
something.
But in the end we all knew it was going to end like this.
These morons painted a huge target on themselves, no really it was in their fucking logo, and
it really seems like a few stupid venture capitalists thought they could milk gamers
for a quick easy buck by putting together the flimsiest of causes parroted by the most
bit-part actors and low-rent Twitch streamers they could find.
For anybody who came out of this looking bad, from products to personalities, you've only
got yourselves to blame.
