Did you know that the average adult has 5 to 20 pounds of toxic poop in their body at any given moment?
Ads. We see them every day.
And when we do, it's almost always against our will.
The average American is exposed to at least 5,000 ads per day.
If given the choice, most of us would probably prefer to see zero.
It turns out that most people don't like being interrupted every five seconds by a manipulative sales pitch.
Any sane individual would be far better off avoiding ads whenever possible.
It's for this reason that marketing is such a tall order.
How do you make people pay attention to something that no one wants to see?
Out of the 5,000 ads we see per day, how many do we even register as anything more than white noise?
The vast majority of marketing campaigns are utterly forgettable.
And the handful of ads that actually managed to stand out usually do so for the wrong reasons.
However, once in a blue moon, we'll encounter an ad that extraordinarily beats the odds.
One that we remember for long after whatever they were selling ceased to exist.
In 1986, America's most powerful restaurant empire deployed a marketing campaign so brilliant
that it still has a place in our culture more than 35 years later.
But the full story of one of advertising's most timeless mascots goes back a bit further than 35 years.
It all began with an Englishman by the name of John Gay, who in 1728 would unveil the play of the century.
The Beggar's Opera was a theatrical performance unlike anything else in its time.
It was an opera that set out to make a mockery of opera itself.
It not only ridiculed the conventions of the medium,
but served as an irreverent critique of the aristocratic world it often glorified.
The Beggar's Opera was one of the first definitive examples of counterculture,
one that satirized issues of wealth and corruption among England's most powerful institutions.
The show was beloved by audiences and essentially became the first opera to belong to the common man.
This resounding success was due in large part to the play's main character, Captain MacHeath.
Considered by some to be one of literature's first anti-heroes, portrayed as a womanizing thief,
MacHeath was a character of questionable virtue and undeniable passion.
One who succeeded in winning over the audience despite his inherent vices.
The Beggar's Opera was the most revolutionary play of its time
and would go on to inspire a whole new genre of satirical comedy in theater.
Just four years after releasing his magnum opus, John Gay would pass away at the age of 47,
never to know what would eventually become of his creation.
While his story had ended, Captain Mac's had only just begun.
Two hundred years later, the Beggar's Opera would experience a revival in Germany.
The play would be retooled by Marxist playwright Bertolt Brecht,
who intended to punctuate its anti-capitalist themes.
Now renamed to the Three-Penny Opera, the show would once again captivate the masses.
Captain Mac would return to his leading role, now wielding a far more unsavory demeanor.
This darker version of the character would henceforth be known by another name, Mac the Knife.
The new moniker quickly caught on thanks to an unexpected addition to the play.
Shortly before the premiere, lead actor Harold Paulson threatened to walk out of the production
unless his character received a special introduction.
With very little time to spare, composer Kurt Wheel quickly devised what would become
the most iconic musical number of the entire play, The Ballad of Mac the Knife.
A song that depicts Mac as a serial killer who stabs his victims to death
and dumps their bodies in the river.
You might be thinking that this far more sinister version of the character
would have made him somewhat unpopular, but as fate would have it, the exact opposite was true.
After its successful debut in Germany, the Three-Penny Opera would soon be translated
and performed in numerous other countries.
By the 1950s, the play had arrived in the United States,
where it began a six-year run as an off-Broadway show.
At around the same time, musicians began recording their own versions of the play's defining song.
Louis Armstrong's 1955 cover of Mac the Knife established the tune as a jazz staple.
Over the years, more than a dozen artists would put their own spin on the song,
but by far the most enduring version would be the one released by Bobby Darin in 1959.
Bobby Darin singing Mac the Knife. Let's have a nice hand for him.
The single rocketed to the top of the charts in the US and UK,
cementing Mac the Knife as an international phenomenon.
Darin's big hit resembled the popular genre of crooner music,
songs characterized by a smooth soft-spoken male singer paired with big band jazz instrumentals.
The style was most closely associated with performers like Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby,
two figures who are inseparable from 20th century Americana.
But considering the sanitized culture of 1950s America,
it's unusual how something as dark as Mac the Knife wound up being such a mainstream hit.
In a time when you weren't allowed to show a toilet on TV,
it's somewhat shocking to consider that one of its most popular songs happened to be about
a serial killer. Just like the case with nearly all pop music today, most listeners just never
pay attention to the lyrics. With that being said, it's not a stretch to suggest that Mac
the Knife was essentially the pumped up kicks of the boomer generation.
Sing Mac the Knife. And because he wanted to hang out with us, he'd belt it right out.
In just 30 years, the song had reached unimaginable heights from its humble German origin.
And coincidentally, at around the same time, a certain other German creation would also
experience a meteoric rise in the United States. At the turn of the 20th century,
a new food item was quickly picking up steam in the American cuisine. The delicacy was thought
to have been brought over by immigrants originating from Hamburg, Germany. Of course,
this exciting new sandwich would soon become known as the hamburger. And throughout the history of
the American diet, no other food would be more influential. The success of the hamburger had
to do with two key advantages. It was a hearty meal that could be prepared very quickly and very
cheaply. The founding tenets of America's most famous industry, fast food. In 1961,
businessman Ray Kroc completed what was essentially a hostile takeover of the
McDonald brothers and their chain of California restaurants. Under his leadership, McDonald's
would revolutionize the American food industry with one simple vision. The idea that a customer
could visit any restaurant in the country and order an identical sandwich. After a decade of
aggressive expansion, the golden arches would span from sea to shining sea. McDonald's had
become one of the first truly national brands in America. The new fast food empire ushered in
a new era of commerce and along with it, a new challenge in marketing. Sell me this pen.
Compared to other disciplines, advertising is relatively new. The practice only began to be
seriously studied at around the turn of the 20th century. But while research into the field may
still be quite young, it all seeks to answer the same age-old question. Both the art and the
science of advertising exist to figure out what people want. Selling a product requires so much
more than simply making people aware of its existence. The power of marketing relies on
infiltrating the gooey center of human desire. It attempts to deliver us our grandest fantasies,
to exploit our deepest fears and insecurities. The purpose of advertising is not to give people
what they want, but to redefine the meaning of want. Most products and services in the economy
are totally superfluous. They offer the customer no intrinsic value versus any replacement level
item. It is the job of the advertiser to manufacture that value, to convince the customer
that a product is more than a product. And perhaps no other company understood this concept more than
McDonald's, which sought to brand itself as not just a restaurant, but an American institution.
McDonald's prospered by getting working-class families out of their dining rooms and into their
restaurants. The golden arches came to symbolize an oasis of comfort and familiarity. No matter
how far you were from home, you were never too far from a McDonald's. Across the 60s and 70s,
McDonald's marketing acumen brought them tremendous success. Success which quickly
drew in competitors. And soon enough, the franchise had several challengers to their fast food throne.
The 1980s were truly a landmark time in advertising as newly titanic brands fought for
control over a nation of consumers. The marketing battles fought during this time period would
dictate the industry leaders of the 21st century. Companies could see that valuable market share was
up for grabs based solely on their ability to sell to the American people. As the dominant force in
fast food, McDonald's quickly found themselves with a target on their back. All of a sudden,
the franchise was under fire from an onslaught of commercials attacking both the quality and
quantity of their products. McDonald's was thrust into an advertising arms race, spending millions
on radical new campaigns of their own. However, despite their best efforts to subdue their rivals,
the company was still losing ground. In order to protect themselves from the pandemic,
they had to start thinking outside the box. Fortunately for McDonald's, an unexpected flash
of inspiration would come from their biggest business partner.
Hi, Max Headroom here with... this is my guest.
In 1985, Coca-Cola was looking to regain momentum following the rocky launch of New Coke.
They would find a rather unorthodox solution in Max Headroom,
an obscure experimental character who had recently sprung up on the British airwaves.
The virtual talking head replaced Bill Cosby as Coca-Cola's spokesperson,
a change that was met with massive success. Coke had proven the value of manufacturing a cult icon,
inspiring McDonald's to brainstorm a character of their own. Like many great creative minds before
them, they decided to borrow from the past. And in the winter of 1986,
America would be introduced to Mac Tonight.
For the fourth time in his long and convoluted history, Mac was once again on top of the world.
McDonald's had deployed a variety of corporate mascots before, but none moved the needle quite
like Mac. It was an ad campaign unlike any other in the company's history. The anthropomorphic
crescent moon was a surreal window into the soul of American enterprise. It was bold, decadent,
and idealistic. A perfect marriage of nostalgia and pure fantasy. For the fast food eating public,
Mac Tonight truly delivered something old, something new, something borrowed, and something
blue. While conceiving the ad, marketing executive Brad Ball and director Peter Katrolis sought to
create a veritable Micktopia. The hand-built miniatures and practical costume work gives
Mac Tonight an otherworldly aesthetic. A parallel reality where McDonald's has single-handedly
ushered in a new epoch of human advancement. A glorious vision of a society that had long since
transcended its struggles with crime, poverty, and especially hunger. It was the greasy,
delicious future that all of us needed, but none of us deserved. For Los Angeles marketing firm DMJC,
it was lightning in a bottle. What was originally planned as a regional campaign quickly expanded
nationwide. The ad made a huge impression on consumers, with some stores reporting more than
a 10 percent increase in dinnertime business. McDonald's brand recognition skyrocketed,
giving the franchise the boost it needed to pull away from its competitors.
The character of Mac Tonight was so popular that scheduled meet and greets would draw on over a
thousand visitors from LA to Boca Raton. Over the next three years, actor and contortionist Doug
Jones would strap into the moon costume for 25 more commercials. The popularity of the campaign
would mark a turning point in his career. Today he is best known for his leading role of the
amphibian man in academy award-winning film The Shape of Water. It seemed that no matter where or
when Mac appeared, roaring success was sure to follow. By the end of the 80s, he was basking on
cloud nine, lifting a fast food empire and its investors all the way to the moon. But in the
midst of the company's greatest marketing campaign to date, not all was well in McDonaldland. By
becoming the face of the franchise, Mac had strayed a bit too far from his roots. The character was
originally conceived as a critique of wealth and capitalism, only to eventually wind up as the
mascot for the most capitalistic company on the planet. The once iconoclastic Captain Mac had
effectively sold out, and unfortunately for him, the pendulum was about to swing in the other
direction. As fate would have it, the corporate gravy train that he now represented would soon
betray him, as Mac Tonight was sacrificed for the system.
In October 1989, Dodd-Darren filed a 10 million dollar lawsuit against McDonald's claiming that
Mac Tonight had infringed on his father's song. At face value, it looked like a pretty nonsensical
confrontation. Bobby Darin had passed away more than 15 years earlier, and his defining single
wasn't exactly the most original composition. He didn't write the lyrics, he wasn't the first
to perform the song, he hadn't single-handedly invented the crooner style. Like many works
involving Mac, it was derivative content that just so happened to be in the right place at the right
time. It's hard to say what Bobby Darin even owned that McDonald's could have possibly infringed upon,
but due to the oppressive nature of our wonderful copyright system, not even Fortune 500 companies
are exempt from getting pushed around by frivolous greed. Had McDonald's fought the lawsuit, they
could have very easily won, but they decided that the legal expense was simply not worth the trouble
to save an ad campaign that had pretty much run its course. With very little to gain in court,
McDonald's chose to bite the bullet. And so, after nearly four years of service, Mac Tonight's golden
run on the airwaves would come to an abrupt end. Who would have thought that after all this time,
Mac finally got to experience what it was like to get stabbed in the back?
While their fallen mascot was no longer allowed to perform his signature jingles,
McDonald's wouldn't entirely give up on Mac Tonight. Starting in the 90s, they would install
several Mac animatronics which played retro hits in stores across the country. During this time,
Mac would still occasionally appear in commercials, including a brief campaign in 1997. That year would
also see Mac make his debut in NASCAR, appearing as a select sponsor on Bill Elliott's number 94
Ford. In 2007, 20 years after his national debut, a CG Mac would suddenly resurface on the
international market, announcing the opening of 24-hour locations in Southeast Asia. But beyond
these sparse sightings, Mac Tonight was essentially retired, left to ride off into the sunset as a
marketing martyr and a hamburger hero. An ending that was a little too good to be true. By
transforming Mac into the perfect company mascot, McDonald's had to omit the character's more
distasteful attributes. It was a character who was never designed to be a hero, and one who had spent
the past two decades running from the sins of his past. The truth is that Mac had built his legacy
not through fame, but through notoriety. In a shocking turn of events, everyone would be rudely
reminded about the dark side of the moon. In the mid-2000s, the internet revolution was in full
swing. A popular site at the time was the online community YTM&D, a place where users could create
their own web pages with looping images and audio. The site quickly became a prominent spawning
ground for various memes and subcultures, and in the Wild West era of online moderation, practically
nothing was off limits. Possibly the most infamous series of events to ever come out of YTM&D just
so happened to involve a certain McDonald's mascot. Users had begun posting gifs of Mac Tonight as
early as 2006, but the character's downward descent into degeneracy would truly begin in the spring of
2007, all due to an individual by the name of Farkle. Starting in June, he created several sites
combining Mac Tonight with AT&T Mike, a text-to-speech bot that could be made to say anything the user
desired. As is the case with many things on the internet, what began as simply goofing around
quickly devolved into something very profane and very offensive. Farkle's site soon inspired a
variety of imitators looking to make their own twisted interpretations of the once family-friendly
character. This heinous new alter ego of Mac Tonight came to be known by a different moniker,
Moonman, a name that would live on in infamy. It started with a few racially insensitive chants
and quickly escalated to full-blown song covers advocating for crimes against humanity.
Some of these songs were so hideously obscene that they have since been expunged from all
but the grittiest corners of the web. As the meme grew in notoriety, so too did the scope of its
contributors. In 2008, several of the most prolific Moonman posters would form a faction known as the
Moon Crew, a collection of users dedicated to the advancement of their new lunar overlord. Together,
they would help establish a sophisticated lore around the character, which was unofficially
referred to as the Mooniverse. In the following months, the Moon Crew would amass dozens of
members who made themselves known as a nuisance to the entire platform. Moonman sites were being
created with such abundance that they began to draw the attention of outside forces. During this
time, many of the most popular Moonman edits would be frequently re-uploaded to YouTube,
a platform with far stricter rules than YTM&D. Due to the extremely vulgar content of the genre,
most of the YouTube uploads wouldn't last long before getting flagged and removed for community
guidelines violations. But despite their short lifespans, the sheer amount of traffic on YouTube
meant that it was the most visible place for the public to discover the shocking fate of the fast
food legend. Evidently, McDonald's and AT&T must have received some complaints over the meme,
with McDonald's issuing copyright strikes and AT&T banning the term Moonman from their text-to-speech
service. Even YTM&D attempted to ban the Moon Crew from the platform, but with limitless accounts
at their disposal, they could stick around for as long as they pleased. Despite their best efforts
to quell the movement, the downfall of Mac Tonight could not be stopped. Moonman was not going
anywhere, and for a new generation who had never seen Mac Tonight, it was the only version of him
they ever knew. The racist megalomaniac would persist into the next decade, where he eventually
reprised his former role as a mascot, this time representing 4chan's politically incorrect board.
And in 2019, the meme was officially inducted into the Anti-Defamation League's list of hate symbols,
an ugly ending to one of the most beloved characters of all time. Following the controversial
turn, McDonald's would distance itself from their former marketing juggernaut. Nearly all of the
Mac Tonight statues and animatronics have since been dismantled, and the character has remained
absent from any official promotional material since 2010. Possibly the last remaining artifact
of Mac's glorious reign can be found sitting high up in the rafters at the Entertainment
McDonald's in Orlando, Florida. Oh Mac, where did we go so wrong?
Mac Tonight's precipitous fall from grace may have been painful to watch,
but oddly enough, it helped the character achieve something that very few others could.
When you look back at the very beginning of Mac's journey, he was created to illustrate one essential
conflict, the struggle of the masses versus the rich and powerful. The beggar's opera told the
tale of an unrepentant thief, one who was no less virtuous than the system which outlawed him.
It made a bold statement that the only difference between a thief and an aristocrat is the number
of zeros in their bank account. Before anything can be stolen, we must choose to own it in the
first place. Across most of human history, ideas were not stolen, only borrowed. We were all free
to sing whatever song and recite whatever story we desired. Then came the age of mass consumption,
where we decided to turn all of our favorite stories, songs, and characters into commodities.
We now live in a grim era for creative discretion, where any remotely nuanced ideas ground up and
mass-produced like a fast food assembly line. A character like Mac was borrowed and borrowed
and borrowed until all of a sudden it was owned. As of now, nearly every fictional entity that
pervades our culture has succumbed to the same fate, just another hopeless cog in the money-making
machine. But by some extraordinary cosmic coincidence, Mac was different. It may have been
through the ugliest means possible, but by God, we stole Mac back. He was returned to where he always
belonged, in the loving hands of the masses. From Captain Mac to Mac the Knife to Mac the Knight and
even Moon Man, he has always been destined to live in the public domain. The story of Mac is a
remarkable case study in the evolution of media. It speaks to our ability to reimagine and
recontextualize ideas into something entirely different. If there was one thing about Mac that
stayed the same throughout his 300 year long transformation, it was that he absolutely stole
the show no matter where he wound up, even in a medium as hated as advertising. The truth is,
you look around at advertising today, it's all pretty boring. These days it's hard to say what
marketing even is anymore. It mostly resembles a murky haze of corporations half-heartedly virtue
signaling against the very issues they helped to create. Most people would agree that advertising
today has never been more insufferable. The very same could probably be said about pretty much
everything else in the world too. Now, more than ever, we could all benefit from a little bit of
nostalgia. And for generations, perhaps no other character has been better at delivering a blast
from the past than that surreal singing Moon. No one can predict exactly where and when Mac
will show up next, but if one thing's for sure, we most likely haven't seen the last of him.
So you've been gone for a while. Yeah, you could say that. Three months since the last upload.
What exactly have you been up to? Well, to tell you the truth,
I've been in a bit of a slump lately. Merchandise sales have been way down and management is
starting to get a bit agitated, so I've been traveling around trying to get my mojo back.
So they just let you disappear like that from once at a time?
It may seem a little unorthodox, but trust me, it's all part of the process. Any numskull can
chug a bunch of caffeine and pump out a list of ideas, but the truly great ideas require a bit
more composure. You have to detach your mind from the burdens of everyday life, immerse yourself in
a strange and unfamiliar territory, wander far enough, and you'll find what you're looking for.
Seems like a pretty convoluted way to come up with a new shirt design.
I hope you at least figured out something good.
My journey brought me to some of the greatest creative minds that mankind has ever known.
It was there where I studied the ultimate limits of proportion, form, and aesthetic beauty. Then,
one moment after soaking it all in, I got it.
And that's how I came up with my greatest t-shirt design yet. I call it Emp tonight.
Wait, so your whole spiritual epiphany was to trace over a Mac Tonight poster?
What kind of an amateur do you take me for?
No, I hired an Indonesian guy on Fiverr and he traced it for me.
You can't be serious. No one's gonna possibly want to buy this.
I think you'll find that our focus testing was overwhelmingly positive. So, what do you think?
Yeah, I mean, it looks great. Why is Mac Tonight green though?
This whole thing is just nonsense. How are people supposed to know what Emp tonight even means?
Way ahead of you, buddy. I'm gonna put together an entire video about the detailed history of
Mac Tonight. And then, when the viewers are all nice and satisfied, it's time to exit
through the gift shop and say hello to Emp tonight. I don't know. I'm not quite sure if
this is the kind of thing your audience is looking for. Come on, this is a good product. I know it is.
But the real question is, do you? The new Emp tonight merchandise collection,
now available at crowdmade.com slash emp lemon.
Come down to Mac tonight.
Come down to Mac tonight.
