Alright my friends, this is the video that a lot of you have been waiting for.
I've been regularly receiving comments about this video topic for some time now,
so I guess I should get into it. Let's talk about corruption culture.
Yeah, that's the video you wanted, right? I don't know how popular the term
corruption culture is. It's certainly not nearly as popular as the term
cancel culture, that's for sure. But corruption culture is still definitely a thing.
Corruption culture refers to the tendency of people on the left to infiltrate certain spaces
that were, if not apolitical, certainly not left-leaning, and gradually over time
tilt them towards radical leftist politics. And we've seen this happen for, like, a decade now.
Rational Wiki didn't start out as this bastion of feminist thought, it actually once was
rational. You head over to the Rational Wiki nowadays and it's basically viewing all the
topics through an intersectionalist lens, not a rationalist one. It happened with the whole
atheism plus thing, which for a long time was all, like, Richard Dawkins types, making fun of
the religious right on the early internet. Well, that got co-opted into atheism plus,
where it wasn't true atheism unless it had a social justice slant. The online atheist sphere
was meant to combat intolerance stemming out of religion, and while there's definitely some
crossover between that and feminism and anti-racism and etc etc, there's also a lot where it's
actively opposed, like when you bring Islam into the mix. And gamergate was a corruption culture
issue too, ultimately. The old SJWs rampaged around the internet like eight-ish years ago,
forcing their way into any community they could get into and shitting it up. And it was those
pesky gamers that told them finally to fuck off, earning them that only partially deserved
incel reputation in the process. When I'm just kinda talking about internet bullshit so far,
there is a real aspect to corruption culture that I think we can discuss.
When I made my video on Gearbox Software, in the part talking about Borderlands 3,
I brought up this series of tweets. From Siran Strange, and this is not some nobody,
this is somebody who actually worked on Borderlands 3. Flak uses they-them pronouns.
Print six, I guess. Stop pushing your own ignorance and anxiety on LGBTQ game devs and gamers.
Smooch. Ah. I imagine it's legit difficult playing what could be your first game without
two-plus options for strictly male characters. That can be legit scary. But you aren't being
erased. I swear, heart, everyone has a place in this world. We just want to give options to those
who've never had them. And if, after that, you still find yourself spitting mad, fuck you,
it's 100% canon. Retweeting this again, this one goes out to all the haters out there.
I hope you find what you need in your own life to be fulfilled enough that you no longer feel
the urge to be a wank-not. This is in reference to a robot character named Flak, and how they use
they-them pronouns, presumably because they're a robot and therefore they wouldn't need a gender.
I guess that makes sense. I don't really care too much because Borderlands 3 was absolute fucking
garbage. But the point is, read this condescension, guys. Like, I've played a lot of games where there
was no option to play as male characters. I'm fine with it. I think most people are honestly fine
with it. This whole thing, you aren't being erased, I swear. Like, they talk a lot about
trans erasure, or, you know, about LGBT erasure, whatever. Erasure is the method in which, in
narratives and storytelling, you basically get rid of things that are kind of outside the norm.
This was known for a while as burying your gays, meaning that in TV shows and movies,
especially in the 90s, even though there was gay representation, the gay characters often
always died very early into the narrative, or they left the show, or something like that.
But the reason this person words it like this, like, you know, you aren't being erased, I swear,
there's a reason for that. It's because they know that they've wormed their way into a position of
power, and they're going to inject their own politics wherever they can now that they're
there. You can see both the olive branch and the knife, you know, in the two separate tweets.
It's like, come on board with the LGBT agenda. Oh, you don't want to? Fuck you.
And as you scroll through the actual replies, you see something like this here.
I'm getting so tired of people blatantly using the wrong pronouns for flack. Legit saw someone
say the pronouns don't matter. It does not impact the character as if gender identity isn't a highly
important part of who someone is. It's a fucking robot. In this case, in this specific case,
where it's a robot and not a human. Yeah, that gender identity doesn't really matter. Like,
who fucking cares, right? And there is some discussion on both sides of the aisle happening
here. But this really isn't about the discussion. The initial tweets up here really weren't about
the discussion. It was about this. It was about the corruption culture. It's about that person
who has finally managed to after years of subversion, generally having themselves first
subverted, probably by their university professors, and now doing their own subversion
in the private space. But now that they've finally grasped that little reign of power,
they're using it to make tweaks and saying, you know what? I can do this now. I can do this now.
I can affect this now. If you don't like it, fuck you. I'm the one in charge. That is the
corruption culture. It is going to a property that they didn't create, taking it over from within,
and then turning it to be their political mouthpiece. Now, again, this is Borderlands 3.
It's the pronouns of a robot. This doesn't matter. It's just that this is the most obvious
case of it because this person, I guess they know it doesn't matter, really. It's like a small
thing. So they're just taunting on Twitter. But there are larger and more obvious examples,
and I think we've all seen them before. Let's see how many we can name right off the top of
our heads. The She-Ra reboot. The 2016 Ghostbusters film. Star Trek Discovery and Star Trek Picard.
The new Star Wars trilogy. HBO's Watchmen. Pop culture has been entirely overrun with this shit.
They're all examples of at least some form of failure of these new iterations. New people come
in with new ideas, and fair enough. Sometimes you need those new ideas to bring new stuff to
the table, bring the next generation in, update things. I understand. I get it. You can't just
tell the same stories over and over. But at the same time, these are people who have no respect
for the actual canon of these things, no respect for the fans of these things. These people simply
want to be given the keys to a shiny new supercar, drive it around going way too fast, wreck it,
and then basically escape from the scene of the crime. I mean, do you guys remember when the new
Ghostbusters was announced? The one that was skipping over the 2016 and just acting as like
a sequel to the first two Ghostbusters? Do you remember how much fucking coke that generated?
Because people didn't want to see the continuation of that terrible, terrible movie. So insulting,
like fuck us, we didn't count. It's something Trump would do. Gotta redo Ghostbusters. Better
with men will be huge. Those women ain't Ghostbusters, ugh, so annoying. Such a dick move.
And I don't give a fuck, I'm saying something. What makes this funny is that one, yes, you,
you didn't count. The sales and the fan reaction kind of bear that out. Secondly,
you're acting like returning to form, returning to the original canon is redoing the Ghostbusters,
like you and your version somehow have the ultimate claim on this series. But you don't,
you were the usurper. Remember all the coke that came out of Birds of Prey being a complete bomb?
Please go out and see it. Don't wait. Please don't let hate massage into your sexes and win.
Please go out and see it and need your help and support. Hashtag reasons to support BOP.
Please don't let yet another one of our terrible movies flop. This movie rules and I will not allow
you bitches to let it flop after Joker made a billion dollars. Go fucking see it. Nobody's
watching this shit. And even when they do watch it, like with the case of Star Wars or something,
they're certainly not coming back for more. Star Wars is, bizarrely enough, not the cultural
phenomenon that it used to be. And it's all because of this gross mismanagement of the IP.
At this point, you can pretty much tell if something's going to be shit or not. Not even
by watching the trailers or anything, but just by seeing who's making it and what some of the people
involved are saying about it. Especially some of the people who were part of the old guard.
If they're giving you subtle warning signs, kind of like Joel's voice actor from Last of Us 2,
telling fans to keep an open mind. When they're saying stuff like this, you know that it's
garbage. And I can already hear the reply of some of these corruption culture charlatans.
It's not even out yet. You don't know if it's going to be shit or not. No, no, no. I'm pretty
sure it's going to be shit because it's coming out of an asshole. But speaking of The Last of Us 2.
And by the way, I'm streaming it tonight on Twitch after this video goes out. So hey,
go over there and check it out. But let's see what Neil Druckmann himself has to say about it.
And the first project we started kind of, excuse me, moving forward on was called Mankind.
And the idea is very similar to what you've seen in The Last of Us, that the cordyceps has jumped
from insects to people. And people it infects, it can kind of create monsters or kill them.
But the twist, the thing that was different about this idea was that it only infected women.
And you found the one girl that it didn't infect. And that was Ellie.
And you kind of protected her and try to like bring her to the slab where they were kind of
finding a cure. And there were a lot of things that we were really excited about this idea. But
ultimately, it failed. And the reason it failed is because it was a misogynistic idea. One of the
things that she's going to be kind of really attracted to and attached to as she grows up.
And as a game creator, I look around at kind of what we are making,
and what are going to be her role models from other stories. And I don't like what I see.
More specifically, I'm talking about our female characters.
And whether we want to admit it or not, these are role models. And yet we sexualize,
we objectify, we marginalize, and we reduce these female characters a lot less than they can be.
To me personally, it's hilarious listening to Druckmann talk about how sexy women are bad
role models. Meanwhile, all of the women that he wrote in The Last of Us Part 2 are all psychotic
murderers. Woman wearing a bikini is bad. Woman beating another pregnant woman is good. I don't
know, man, I think I'd take being attractive over being insane. But again, it's all about
coming into spaces that you didn't create, joining companies that you didn't found,
working on franchises and properties that aren't really yours, and then using that newfound
influence to twist them towards your political point of view. That is corruption culture.
And you know, considering that these people love to rant about how parasitic capitalism is,
isn't this the exact example of what they're talking about? I mean, think about it. You have
people with true passion. They cultivate a hobby, or a fandom, or some kind of property. That thing
becomes profitable. A community springs up around it. Sometimes it even becomes a cultural staple.
Then you get people who don't really care about the hobby. Maybe they actively hate it,
like someone like Anita Sarkeesian or something, but they want that cash, they want that money,
and they see it there. So they subvert. They get on the inside. They milk it for short-term
profits. They run it into the ground. They slander their critics as bigots, or they claim
they're gatekeeping. And then these people finally bail out and move on, when the thing that they
have parasitically attached themselves to dies. When the thing that they have corrupted and taken
over is completely twisted and subverted and turned into nothing but a mouthpiece for the
communist fucking manifesto, then they simply move on and do it again somewhere else. These
tyrants with lofty political goals but no actual creativity? They go far beyond fanfiction. They
go far beyond creating their own thing. I don't think they're capable of doing that. They're not
capable of creating something that is iconic or lasting. They have to take over what somebody else
has created and then sculpt it into their image. It's the height of arrogance. And the backlash
to that is frankly only natural. It's kind of like the, I don't know, the psychological equivalent
of preventing your old school bully from knocking you down, stealing your book, and ripping pages
out of it. At this point I've just been talking about pop culture. Even though pop culture is
pretty big, it is in fact in some ways the dominant culture now. But it isn't everything, and it is
ultimately just entertainment. So I understand when somebody would say that it's not that big
of a deal, but I still think that it is. And I think it is because of, and I'm sure you know
what's coming if you've been paying attention, Mr. Yuri Bezmenov. Now this 10 minute clip of
Yuri Bezmenov talking, called Ideological Subversion, is available up on Bitchute.
I will leave a link to this video in the description. Please consider checking it out.
It has to be Bitchute, by the way, because this very same clip was taken down off of YouTube for
apparently violating YouTube's policy on hate speech. Now to be clear, there's nothing hateful
in this clip at all. He simply talks about the strategies that the KGB used back in the 1960s
to long-term subvert the United States population by worming their way into various institutions,
subverting them with Marxism, and then indoctrinating students through the use of
professors. Nothing hateful was said in this at all, and it is honestly ridiculous that YouTube
would take this down. Of course, because YouTube is run by a bunch of monkeys, there is a longer
two-hour variant of that interview that is currently up on YouTube. This will be linked
into the description too, but I have a feeling as soon as YouTube discovers it, it'll probably go
down. Now I'm not going to actually play these videos because I don't want to get my channel
taken off of YouTube, but I will tell you the content of them, at least in my own words.
He describes a process known to the communists as demoralization. The basic idea is that people
would be indoctrinated to a form of self-hatred. Sometimes it's racial self-hatred, sometimes it's
gender-based self-hatred, sometimes it's ethnic self-hatred, sometimes it's nationality self-hatred.
But the point is, you will be taught that what you are intrinsically is bad and evil and wrong
and immoral, even though you were simply born that way, because people superficially like you
in the past in some small way committed crimes against other people. It's basically a divide
and conquer tactic, where across any possible lines, race, gender, class, whatever, they promote
a kind of self-destructiveness. This process is carried out by getting in league with not only
the academics and the universities who will push this stuff onto students, but also into those
people who make popular culture, who in the 1960s made movies and TV shows, and certainly who make
video games and comics today. There's a lot of different values that they push using these
avenues, but probably the most important one is apathy. This all-encompassing nihilism that seems
to be gripping every single person right now. This idea that absolutely nothing matters and therefore
there's no value in the universe and therefore you should do whatever you want and completely
destroy yourself and others in the process. After the demoralization and the apathy, you give the
nation a crisis of some kind. Sometimes it's real, sometimes it's manufactured, doesn't matter really.
In response to that crisis, a demoralized population will simply look for the government to fix it the
simplest and quickest way possible so that they can get back to basically watching TV. This phase
is called normalization, and it's the idea that even though something new is onerous, it simply
becomes accepted by the population as the new way of doing things, the new normal. Have you heard
that phrase uttered recently, the new normal? I remember people saying it about the post-9-11 world
after the Patriot Act, and that new normal sucked. That gave rise to the constant drone strikes in
the Middle East and the NSA perpetually spying on everyone. And due to another crisis that we're
having right now, which by the way I do think is a real crisis not a manufactured one, we're being
told about the new normal again. And we can definitely see the evidence of this cycle of
demoralization, crisis, and normalization repeating again and again. We can see the
footprints of it if we look back throughout the decades. How many idiot socialists and
breadtubers justify their workplace co-op by saying, it's democracy, you love democracy,
lol right? While their audiences either don't know or don't care that America was founded not
as a simple majority democracy, but as a representative republic. How many of those
same people can no longer understand that America's greatness is built and dependent
upon a capitalist economic system, and modern prosperity could not have been built any other
way? If you pay attention, you'll notice that all of socialist and communist culture is created
with the express purpose of demoralizing those who view it. Classical art is inspirational.
Even these statues of people that you might not like, like you know confederate leaders or
something or slave owners or whatever, they are at the very least created proficiently.
To contrast, does modern art look like anything at all? What kind of architecture would you prefer?
Soviet style apartment blocks? Or literally anything else? All of the pieces of pop culture
that I talked about, the fan reaction to them was demoralization. It was, oh my god, I love this
property, I grew up with this, how could you do this to my childhood? And the people holding the
reins of power above them, blatantly shitting on them for daring to criticize them. Saying things
like, lol too bad, it's canon, I'm in control now, ugliness, grotesqueness, chaos, that is the name
of the game when it comes to this type of creation. The commies, the socialists, the intersectionalists,
the far left, all of them, they're all utopian. But their artwork, their architecture, their
creations are almost entirely either technically deficient, whether that be through bad writing or
bad acting or terrible animation like CalArts junk or whatever, or alternatively in the brutal
realist style. These things are basically monuments to demoralization. They are the lowest common
denominator. And you know what? That actually makes sense. These are people who are utopians.
They believe that they will usher in the grand communist utopia should they be allowed to run
society the way that they want to run it. And the reason that everything that they produce is utter
shit is because they believe that that lowliness, that grotesquery, that brutal realism is actually
the peak of all human potential. They believe that we are in fact the lowest common denominator,
and that is the best we will ever be, therefore anybody who's better than that has to be cut off
at the knees. Which is, of course, entirely in line with their economic worldview. Because
whenever the communists get into power, they always slaughter the most productive classes
for being too oppressive. Socialism always drags everyone down to the lowest common denominator
in the name of redistribution. It only makes sense that all of their creative efforts would
do the exact same thing. On my gaming channel, I watched a conference called Games for Change,
and it was basically a social justice event taking place around the same time as E3 this year. E3 was
spread out and mostly digital due to the coronavirus. But Games for Change was this
three-day event. I'm gonna actually do a separate video on it because it was kind of a big thing.
And it was basically just demoralization propaganda. It's on the E3 website,
so you tune in expecting like new game announcements or something along those lines,
and instead you get keynote after keynote, panel after panel of people talking about
intersectionality, Black Lives Matter, identity politics, power and privilege,
all of these bits of radical left thought. And Games were barely talked about at all.
We were sitting there on stream and my girlfriend was actually very demoralized by this. She was
like, is this what video games have become? Just being lectured to by these fucking people?
And she was actually like emotionally in the dumps for the rest of the day. And I get it.
I understand why, but that is their ultimate goal with this stuff. They want to see you broken.
They want you to watch them raping those things that you cherish over and over until you accept
it. They want you to speak a lie, knowing in your head that it is a lie, and yet they can make you
say it anyway. And so because most of us lack institutional power, most of us aren't involved
in making video games or shows or movies. Some of us are. And if you're going like the indie route
just to kind of make your own thing, good for you. Keep going. If you're like working for
Bitchute right now and you watch this video, good for you. Keep going. If we actually have to make
an alternate culture just to tell the truth, then that is something we will have to do. And that
work is worth doing. But most of us aren't in a position that we can contribute in any big way.
So here's what we can do. Always tell the truth as you see it. Don't use that as an excuse to just
hurt people because you're going to be blunt or something. Don't do it like that. What I mean is
consult your conscience. If you think something is the truth, then stand by it. There may be a
social cost to this. It might be steep. Depending on where you live, there might even be a legal
cost to this. I don't know. But what was Orwell's quotation on the subject? In a time of universal
deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act? Mass demoralization is that time of universal
deceit. It is that time when they are going to force you to enjoy your own destruction.
It is that time when they are going to force you to repeat and believe their lies. So no matter
what, don't let them do it. Speak freely. I'll talk to you next time, guys. I love you.
