I'm noticing a trend with my channel.
A lot of my videos eventually come around to the sentence,
I remember when I was in high school and the left...
To anyone watching this that is in their teens or early 20s right now,
it must be hard to imagine a time when the left wing of politics was the same rational side,
caring about stuff like individual liberties and free speech,
while the right wing was full of evangelical Christians
who wanted to take away video games, rock and roll, D&D, and South Park.
I remember when I was in high school and the left fought for the legalization of gay marriage,
and the left fought for freedom of speech in academia against the religious orthodoxy,
and the left fought for legalized marijuana,
and the left fought racism by demanding equal opportunities rather than reparations.
Am I really that old?
Climate change is another one of those I remember when the lefts.
I remember when the right's position on climate change was akin to the ostrich with his head in the sand.
We don't got to think about how much energy we're using
or how much waste we produce because that's all hippie nonsense.
Meanwhile, the left's position on climate change wasn't that the science is settled,
and if you disagree, you're a denialist like it is now.
Back then, the science was still relatively new,
and the left had to fight the right to get further studies going because,
let's be frank, the right wing of the 80s and 90s was entirely bought by big oil.
In my opinion, the scientific side of climate change seems to be a mostly settled topic.
Is the climate changing? Yes.
Do humans have something to do with it?
Probably. There's no way seven and a half billion of us
pumping carbon into the air at the rate we all do is having zero effect.
But for some reason, this is where that exceptionally radicalized wing of the left
that I like to call the eco-fascists stop their line of questioning.
There's a list of requirements that have to be met before you can reasonably advocate
for radical action regarding climate change.
It has to be real. I grant you that.
It has to be in some significant way caused by humans.
I grant you that too.
But there's more to the story than just those two points.
It also has to be universally negative, and I don't grant you that.
If you were to heat up Earth's atmosphere by a few degrees,
it would be harder to live near the equator for sure.
But suddenly, large swaths of usable land in places like Northern Canada and Russia
open up for farming.
The usable tree line for lumber moves north.
Access to northern resources like ore, gems, and oil,
all things Canada has in abundance up in the northern territories,
become easier to access.
And a usable northwest passage opens up in the ice,
allowing trading ships to sail through Canadian waters rather than the Panama Canal,
which is a massive shift in global trade, potentially in Canada's favor if monetized properly.
Yeah, you can tell I'm Canadian, right?
Heating the planet up just a little bit actually brings us prosperity, not ruin.
But there's also a fourth criteria.
Climate change has to be reversible.
It has to be something we can actually help.
If it's not, then all of this hysteria going on about it doesn't matter, right?
If it really does turn out to be an accept the things you can't change scenario,
then it makes everyone screeching bloody murder on the topic look like children.
However, if you ask any of these questions or bring up any of these points,
you are, as I said earlier, a climate change denialist.
You're peddling in conspiracy theories,
which is some wild arrogance in itself to simply label people who disagree with you as conspiracy theorists.
Have we become this arrogant?
Do we think we know so much now that anyone who puts forward a scientific hypothesis
that is a bit unorthodox is automatically lumped in with people who believe we didn't actually land on the moon?
What happened to legitimate inquiry?
Isn't that the point of science?
When religious people say that science is a religion itself,
I think this is specifically what they're referring to.
Those who claim to have science on their side as if it were a god,
and then label good faith skepticism as doubt or sin.
Hell, NBC's even set up a website called Climate Confessions,
where you can anonymously confess to your climate transgressions like an eco-catholic.
Weird, man.
But there's also the political side of the climate change topic, and let's be honest,
these two things are constantly conflated by the eco-fascists.
When a climate change activist puts forward a retarded policy in the name of helping the environment,
any objection is labeled as climate change denialism,
even though the policy is from the political side and the act of denying climate change is from the scientific side.
The eco-fascists know this and they're counting on it.
After all, having science on their side is just another variant of being on the right side of history.
We've all seen that rant from Greta Thunberg by now, right?
Yeah, there it is. Fiery, passionate, and very obviously scripted.
Greta has actors for parents and a director for her grandpa.
There's no way this is her convictions.
In fact, here's her conviction.
I want to ask you, do you think it's about time that President Trump would respond to what you have said today?
I think… I'm sorry, what was the first question?
What's the message you would like to send to our leaders by doing what you are doing?
I think what we want to send is… the message we want to send is to say that we have had enough,
and anyone else want to ask another question?
When asked for her actual off-script opinion, she's got nothing to say.
She's like the student who hasn't completed her homework and is bullshitting to the teacher, because that's what she is. A kid.
And yes, the memes surrounding her have gone wild recently,
but she's being pushed forward by the adults in her life to be both a figurehead and also a target,
so that the actual activists and agitators don't get in trouble when they push their agenda.
This is a tactic as old as time.
The religious right would unironically say stuff like, think of the children, and this is the same thing.
Think of Greta. Think of David Hogg and the other kids affected by school shootings.
Think of whatever young face we can plaster all over the media for the next news cycle,
whenever an event happens and we want to twist it to further our agenda.
And when those fifteen minutes of fame have passed and the story has moved on, what happens to Greta?
Most likely, she falls into a deep depression because she no longer has the pull she used to.
She feels like she's peaked at sixteen.
Maybe she feels used.
Maybe she continues a career in activism.
Or maybe she just grows out of it, like a lot of other child activists do.
But if she actually holds a deep-seated fear about the state of the planet she'll be inheriting,
she's going to need a lot of therapy to be a functioning adult.
Let me put it in simpler terms.
Installing a fatalistic attitude into your kids so that they can maybe become a short-lived star like Greta Thunberg,
and then leaving them to spend the next decade of their lives in therapy
because they genuinely believe they will see fallout within their lifetime, is child abuse.
We don't let kids vote for a reason.
They have no grasp of politics or policy.
The whole out of the mouths of babes thing very rarely applies.
Most of the time, it's kids playing at something they don't understand.
And that's not a slam against them. How could they understand it?
I was playing Mario Sunshine blissfully unaware when I was Greta's age.
Okay, I'm still playing it now in Game Boomers, but you get my point.
Here's another example.
I like Soph as a YouTuber, but I also recognize that she's a child who co-writes her videos with her older brother.
She's edgy, she's funny, and she's often wrong.
Soph on Alex Jones was only different from Greta on the international news by virtue of scope.
I don't want anyone holding up a kid as the next messiah.
And yet, here we are.
Greta's nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize,
an award made useless back when Obama won it for simply getting elected while black.
People are getting punished on social media for speaking out against Greta's ideas.
Or even saying objectively true things like she's been scared into extremism.
Were the radical left considered Soph to be brainwashed, Greta can do no wrong.
And the only thing that's going to come of this, when the whirlwind passes,
is a broken young adult who will still think the world is collapsing around her.
Who will think that she failed in her duty as a savior of humanity,
and will be suffering from crippling anxiety and depression because the limelight is gone
and the establishment has abandoned her to rot.
Either that, or she'll wholeheartedly embrace the activist role, David Hogg style,
make a career out of it, and become insufferable in the process.
Let me share with you a bit of Canadian history.
This is David Suzuki, one of Canada's most well-known intellectuals,
and a die-hard climate activist for like 30 years now.
His daughter, Severn Suzuki, spoke at the UN back in I think in 1992 on the subject of climate change.
Hello, I'm Severn Suzuki speaking for ECHO, the Environmental Children's Organization.
We're a group of 12 and 13 year olds trying to make a difference.
Vanessa Suttie, Morgan Geiszler, Michelle Quigg, and me.
We've raised all the money to come here ourselves, to come 5,000 miles to tell you adults you must change your ways.
Coming up here today, I have no hidden agenda. I am fighting for my future.
Losing my future is not like losing an election or a few points on the stock market.
I am here to speak for all generations to come.
So how much of that speech was her, and how much of it was David?
Care to hazard a guess?
And how much of it sounded like Greta's speech too?
It's the exact same playbook.
Parents who have their hands up their kids' asses, puppeting them to publicly push their politics,
and the media eats up the image of the brave youth speaking truth to power.
Severn Suzuki is now 39 years old.
She's made a career out of climate activism, following in her father's footsteps.
She has two children, who will probably one day be pushed into climate activism as well.
And although her career has taken her all over the world, she's never lived outside of the hyper-lefty privileged bubbles
of either the British Columbia coast or the campus of Yale.
Severn has this to say about Greta.
She's calling for revolution, so of course she's getting pushback.
They're trying to silence her by discrediting her.
And that it's all because she's powerful.
This is weird, man.
It really feels like child grooming in a strange way.
Here's a woman who was shoved into the spotlight as a little girl by her high-profile father.
And now, as an adult, she's praising and encouraging doing what was done to her to the next generation.
I don't know how I feel about this.
I'm not saying there isn't a real scientific discussion to be had about climate change.
But that's the science side of the issue, not the politics side.
And they are two different things, no matter how hard the eco-fascists try to muddy the water on this.
On the political side, it is damaging and irresponsible to tell kids that the world will be barren of all life in the next decade.
We're saying that shit in the 80s, the 90s, and the 2000s, and yet we're still here.
Are there problems? Yes. Can we do something about them? Probably.
But this fear-mongering nonsense about the Earth turning into a wasteland has to stop.
Not only are generations losing out on a childhood due to this hysteria, but people are actually killing themselves over it.
People are losing their sex drive over it. People are vowing not to have children over it.
There's a wild theory out there that the reason YouTube is promoting how to live out of your van,
or how to squat in a shantytown content, and why the media is writing articles talking about eating bugs and eating human flesh,
is because they are preparing us for the climate catastrophe.
This nonsense has to stop.
Greta or any of the other kids here aren't the problem, they're the victims.
The worst part about the whole thing is that the eco-fascists blatantly admit that they're co-opting the scientific side of the discussion to serve as the political side.
To them, it's not even about saving the planet at all, it's about pushing their politics.
And all of these kids are just collateral damage.
Climate change is not just about climate change.
Climate change is about making sure that all people have equal opportunities and access to basic needs and to be able to thrive.
Climate change is a problem about equity, it's a problem about race, it's a problem about how we relate to one another.
And so I think this climate crisis actually might provide us with an opportunity in a weird way to make the world the way that we want it to be,
not just avoid catastrophe.
There it is, right out of our own mouth.
It's not about the climate, it's about the great communist struggle.
But if you oppose it, then you're opposing science. What horseshit.
The world's not going to be done in a decade.
No, AOC, this is not our World War II.
And no, nobody believes you when you backtrack by saying it was a joke.
You're an eco-fascist, and this was your power play.
That's all the Green Deal was.
Let's talk about the elephant in the room.
Bindi Irwin, the daughter of Steve Irwin, the Crocodile Hunter, in 2009 was a climate activist.
At 14 years old, are you seeing a pattern yet?
Hillary Clinton was doing a youth activism climate e-journal thing at that time, as Secretary of State.
And her office was accepting essay submissions from young people regarding climate activism.
Bindi's essay won a spot in the journal, but Hillary's office, presumably not Hillary herself because let's be real,
heavily edited what they considered to be offensive content out of Bindi's essay.
The central thesis of Bindi's essay was that an ever-growing human population was the primary cause of climate change.
Not fossil fuel consumption, not garbage production, not anything else.
But printing this would have been political suicide for Hillary.
But is Bindi wrong?
If there were only 100 humans on Earth and they were all driving cars around and burning coal in the most dirty way possible,
and doing whatever else they could to fuck with the planet, they wouldn't cause climate change.
We output more carbon into the atmosphere today than we did at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution,
even though technology is significantly more clean because there's just that many more of us on the planet.
The real inconvenient truth is that if what the eco-fascists say are true, there's just too many of us and nothing we do will help the climate.
Modern agriculture relies on these forms of energy, at least for the moment.
So if you actually want to return to a pre-carbon society, you're going to lose most of the world's food,
and soon after, most of the world's people, and that's just how it is.
However, bringing this up as a politician, like Hillary with the Bindi e-journal thing, is political suicide,
because it makes you sound like you're a raving mass murderer.
To solve climate change, we need to kill 90% of the human population is both a horrifying statement
and also the only way we know how to actually solve the problem if it's truly as bad as the eco-fascists claim.
Or you could always go the movie-bob eugenicist route and sterilize 90% of the human population.
Same thing will end up happening in 100 years.
My point is, the eco-fascists know all of this, and they don't say it,
because they don't actually believe in what they're saying.
Like AOC from earlier, backing down from the World War II comments,
if it truly was on the scale of World War II, if you actually believed that,
your solution wouldn't be, give me power and let me implement socialism.
The truth is, it's only ever been about implementing socialism.
It's never been about the environment.
By the way, I'm not advocating for killing or sterilizing everybody, obviously.
My point is, for how bad the eco-fascists say the situation is,
all of their proposed solutions, that you're bigoted and uneducated for not agreeing with, by the way,
have turned out to be limp-dicked power plays.
In my opinion, the actual solution is to use the vast energy that fossil fuel provides
to invent technologies that will allow us to power our society on cleaner future tech,
like hyper-efficient nuclear or whatever,
and then if we need to do some cleanup after it once we've got there, then we do it.
And by the way, that's actually what we're doing.
The majority of carbon's coming from India and China in the Middle East, not North America or Europe.
Oh, but to those countries that are still getting through the modernizing-towards-green-tech phase of Sid Meier's civilization,
Greta says drop dead.
I guess this is what you meant by the climate can't wait and the youth can't wait, eh?
I'll give you one final parting bit of hypocrisy on my way out.
In my opinion, the carbon being put into our air is a minor problem.
The serious environmental issue is the destruction of the oceans by ships dumping garbage out at sea.
The ocean is the planet's lungs, not the forests, Macron, you idiot,
and the widespread death of plankton is actually a serious problem
that needs solving within our lifetimes or you might actually be fucked.
At the same time, the destruction of the coral reefs is a major loss,
as those will take thousands of years to regrow.
It's not the air. The planet will sort that shit out eventually on its own, even if you don't develop ways to help it along.
It's the water.
But hey, who's doing most of the damage to the oceans?
Oh, it's India and China, and by a much wider margin compared to the West, too,
than with that carbon emissions thing.
I guess that's why the eco-fascists are largely silent on the oceans issue.
If the endgame is revolution, they'd rather side with who they view as their comrades.
