It's pure madness.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too
much free time, and net neutrality not had the best week has it?
Yes, Ajit Pai, the big old twat end, finally got his hands on it and managed to pass a
vote to repeal it, 3-2 in the hearing.
This doesn't surprise me, because at the end of the day, nothing was going to budge
those commissioners, they were superglued to their position and you could tell that,
as an aside point I must say, that Ajit Pai is a bit of a rude knobhead.
Minion Clyburn made this really impassioned speech on the matter, and let me just show
you his response.
Which is my thoughts, bit unprofessional, but anyway, that part's all said and done
for now.
As many senators are raising their concerns, it will likely go to Congress, and if you
care about it then you should definitely give your congressmen a buzz to let them know how
you feel.
This video has been made to wrap up some loose ends that weren't quite addressed in my
last one, and I hope that I can do that sufficiently.
Since the vote there has been a lot of speculation about what the future could mean, even more
than before the vote.
I think that some of these outcomes have been blown out of proportion, I don't think that
certain websites will be sanctioned off, nor do I ever think you'll be paying for individual
tweets.
Also, all the people talking about how the repealment of net neutrality may affect certain
groups such as the LGBT community, even if you do have a point, the way you structure
it makes it sound like it's direct victimisation rather than just the collateral damage that
it would be construed as.
I state that it's important to not get too carried away with these arguments because
basically a lot of the anti-net neutrality journalists don't have any arguments beyond
HAHAHAHA look at these extremists, and listen, I'm not saying that there aren't decent points
of discourse for the whole debate, but the journalists see pointing out extremes as the
easiest way to represent their points because it's hard not to condemn someone making a
death threat for example.
And in a way, I have seen few people turned off to the whole fight for net neutrality
thing because this pro-net neutrality side has been a bit carried away at points.
I'm happy to admit that.
With that said, there's nothing wrong with pointing out genuine and truthful arguments,
and I had a few that I didn't mention in my last video, which I'm going to bring up now,
just so I can feel satisfied with being able to close the whole topic with nothing unsaid.
Speaking of these things that have been unsaid, do you know why people have been coming up
with these wacky conspiracy theories about what's going to happen?
Because people haven't been able to answer the hard question.
You ask Ajay Pai a question, and you might as well play FCC Commissioner Bingo, he'll
open with the word well, dodge the question and use the term free and open internet as
many times as possible, and also throw in the term light touch regulations a few times
too.
Probably in one of the most infamous interviews with PBS, when asked about paid prioritisation,
he said the situation is hypothetical, when presented with the evidence that it had happened
he then said, but it's rare, and then he said we should put our faith in fair trade regulations
now.
He is referring to the Fair Trade Commissions Act, but given the fact that a lot of the
times it has happened in the past, and underwhelming actions have been taken to say the least,
it doesn't instil people's faith, and given that no one can say with conviction the NISP
would be apprehended for partaking in such actions is not great either.
Also the fact that Comcast removed their no pay prioritisation pledge on the same day
the FCC announced their intentions, yeah, it was understandable that people were fairly
suspicious.
People haven't received enough information to say, okay, this possibility won't occur,
we can let this change happen.
In fact, when Comcast were pulling stunts like this, it compelled the very opposite.
All Ajit Pai had to do was assure people that some of these things that individuals
view as an overwhelming positive in this day and age will remain, and he could not do that.
All he could do is dress up as Santa with fidget spinners and kill an already fucking
dead meme.
Thank you Daily Caller for blessing us with that one.
What also doesn't help is the fact that online companies are so concerned about it.
Now what do I mean by that?
Well we understand that from hysteria people could misunderstand what's going on, and people
could be wrong, and in fact there is nothing that we should be worried about.
But the fact that so many sites oppose this, sites who employ people to be fully informed
on the status and the possible implications of such, is not a good sign, are these sites
mostly self-interested?
Definitely, but what happens to them will definitely have more of a public impact than
the current situation with the ISPs.
The lack of a convincing case and the uncertainty is partly due to the fact that Pai practically
wants to repeal Title 2 and then just pass on responsibility to the FTC, absolving them
of any consequence of what happens next.
I think it's a bewildering decision to do such a move in one, especially when you can't
make guarantees to an already judgemental public.
And that was the problem for me.
I am very anti-payee prioritisation, and even when I put all the crazy possibilities down
for one, I couldn't see anyone of authority or trust saying, this definitely won't happen
and here's why.
I don't put my faith in the law, especially in America, and there's this constant buzzword,
deregulation being thrown around, and I don't really understand the point.
From a sceptical perspective, which is the perspective that I have to take in this instance,
all we're doing is moving from the government's regulation of ISPs to the ISPs' regulation
of the internet, and there is just not enough to prove otherwise.
When even right-wing libertarians like Colin Moriarty are signalling their concern for
such a policy, everyone else has complete justification to be cynical towards such proposals.
As he put it, a complete upheaval just wasn't warranted enough.
Title 2 is far from perfect, but the solution in this circumstance wasn't to gut the whole
thing, and it's a shame that Pai couldn't do some light-touch framework of his own,
maybe the public would be a bit more permitting in that instance.
Whatever the outcome, people need to make sure that companies are held to account and
it doesn't just slip to the back of our minds.
Once again, there's still plenty more time, if you do feel strongly, let your congressman
know.
I feel like people don't utilise this more, and the fact that we are doing it this time
round is kinda cool, but now we're there we shouldn't let it be forgotten about.
Make sure they know what they're signing up to, and make sure they know where you stand.
This will likely be my final video on it for a while, unless any new developments occur.
Once again, I would love to hear your thoughts, though they may have already been stated in
previous videos.
Nonetheless, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
