So, China's social credit system has been making the rounds for the past few weeks on
social media.
The basic idea is that, in the near future, each of China's citizens will be ranked
by social credit.
People will be punished or rewarded based on their scores, and like financial credit
scores, will move up or down depending on their behavior.
Examples of bad behavior that would lower a person's score given by the Chinese government
includes bad driving, smoking in non-smoking zones, buying too many video games, and posting
fake news online.
Here's an incomplete list of things that can happen to you if you happen to have a
low enough credit score.
You can be banned from flying or traveling by train.
Your internet speeds can be throttled.
You or your kids can be banned from attending the best schools, working the best jobs, or
staying at the best hotels.
You will have your pets removed from you.
And the government will also have the option of publicly shaming you.
A prototype list already exists that the government is running tests with.
And most recently, Beijing has decided to go forward with full scale implementation
on all of the city's 22 million inhabitants by 2020.
Those with better so-called social credit will get green channel benefits, while those
who violate laws will find life more difficult.
The Beijing project will improve blacklist systems so that those deemed untrustworthy
will be unable to move even a single step, according to the government's plan.
If this sounds like a massive overreach of government power, as well as the violation
of the individual's right to a private life, hey, you'd be right.
But it's China.
It's not the West.
It's not the US.
It's not Canada.
It's not Europe.
We don't have anything to worry about, right?
Laura Loomer was just drummed off the internet, like Gavin McInnes and the Proud Boys, like
Alex Jones, like the Daily Stormer before her.
And Laura Loomer's actually pretty innocuous compared to those other examples.
She's an air-headed loon that's too attached to her tires.
But she's harmless.
However, she's also a high-profile conservative.
And with the radicals already purged away, people like her are the next to go.
Under a totalitarian form of government, like a fascist or communist state, nearly everything
is run top-down.
The government creates a plan encompassing the whole of society, and then attempts to
implement that plan.
However, in free societies, things are much more likely to be run bottom-up.
Individuals each build small sections of society piecemeal, according to their own inclinations,
ability and resources.
This is the fundamental difference between a controlled economy and the free market.
But it applies to more than economics.
Communist China has no problem with a top-down solution like a social credit score.
And it's pretty clear with the naming and shaming tactics that we see from the progressive
left nowadays that the Chinese solution is basically their wet dream.
But the citizens of free countries generally don't like the idea of the government becoming
the arbiter of not only the law, but of cultural morality.
And the more that a free country inches towards becoming that arbiter of cultural morality
– like, say, the UK with its hate speech laws – the less free and more centrally
planned that country becomes.
In the absence of a unified, government-enforced social credit system in the West, the progressives
within private businesses have taken it upon themselves to piecemeal construct such a system
– a top-down solution implemented in a bottom-up manner.
With YouTube banning problematic streams mid-broadcast, Twitter considering removing likes and follower
accounts, Facebook blaming human nature for its need to censor, PayPal banning people
without warning or reason, and Google believing free speech is disastrous for society, I don't
know about you, but I can only see one conclusion.
Big tech is angry that the government won't police people's thoughts.
So they're going to try and do it themselves.
And the most bewildering part of it all is, if these neo-Marxists would just put down
their little red book, they'd realize that capitalism already has a social credit score
built right in.
It's called money.
I described this phenomenon in my previous video on why capitalism works, but let me
quickly reiterate.
With the exception of the ultra-rich and the ultra-poor, the amount of money you earn is
a rough estimate of how much value your actions have brought to other people's lives.
When you go to a job and get paid, you're performing work for the betterment of somebody
other than yourself.
In a sense, it's quite altruistic.
And then you get a reward in the form of little slips of paper, which would be the physical
representation of your social credit score.
The more people you help at your job, generally speaking, the more paperized social credit
you get.
And that's what money is.
And then you can trade in your social credit for other goods and services that you can't
provide yourself, and since the person you're hiring or buying from has added value to your
life through that good or service, they gain some social credit from you.
This is why theft is immoral not only on a personal level, but on a social level.
Because it's gaining social credit that you didn't earn.
The reason the Chinese social credit score includes restrictions on what you can buy,
as well as why SJWs in the West get mad at consumer boycotts of their approved products,
like Gamergate or Comixgate or the panning of She-Ra or Han Solo, it's because they know
money already functions as a social credit score.
But because it's a bottom-up solution, they can't control it.
To them, capitalism needs to be destroyed.
Not because it's oppressive, despite what they say, but because it does not allow them
to become the oppressors.
