A few weeks back, the Japanese Twitter account for McDonald's put out a series of advertisements,
all of which use the same art style.
The first one is of a mother, father, and their daughter eating McDonald's together.
The second one is a group of high school aged friends hanging out and eating McDonald's
together.
And the third one is a bunch of Halloween monsters driving down a bridge in a convertible
eating McDonald's together.
Okay, that last one went from normal human situation to strange fantasy occurrence.
But all three were a part of the same ad campaign, drawn by the same artist and premiering around
the same time, specifically for the Japanese McDonald's audience.
And yet, that first one, the family oriented one?
That one went viral online, but not in Japan.
In the English speaking world, this ad became a meme for about a week, with people posting
tons of fan art of the characters.
Funny versions, sad versions, lewd versions, pepe versions.
And to be honest, the whole situation seems kind of odd.
Why did this go viral of all things?
Well, this grotesque recreation by political cartoonist George Alexopoulos can probably
clue you in.
He redrew that same family McDonald's scene, only woke-ified.
It looks like Lizzo is one parent, and I think Dylan Mulvaney is the other one.
A pride flag is draped in the background, and the kid is their fat adopted baby covered
in slop and surrounded by slop.
I think the kid is inspired by this early internet meme of a morbidly obese child at
McDonald's.
This picture is from 2002, guys.
I used to see this posted everywhere back in the day.
I don't think you could get away with making this picture into a meme nowadays, but it's
so prevalent on the internet that it's basically just been grandfathered in at this point.
The point is, though, the family McDonald's ad contained no woke political messaging,
no shoehorned minority representation.
It was just a normal family dynamic.
Parents and child enjoying a meal and being happy.
It looks like the kind of scene that most regular people would actually want to experience
in their own lives.
Moreover, for the Zoomer generation, who have known nothing but politically slanted advertising,
it was a glimpse into a different reality for just a second.
An advertisement that didn't talk about Black Lives Matter or the Trans-Bean struggle
or whatever?
It just wants to sell me burgers?
What a novel idea.
All you have to do is compare the main English-speaking McDonald's account to the Japanese one to
see the difference.
Why is McDonald's talking to me about Black trans women?
Where's the fucking hamburgers, dude?
This is a big difference between Western and non-Western advertisements.
Western corporations make political advertising because the people at the top of those corporations
believe it will net them more customers if they virtue signal about the latest hot-button
topic.
While people in the middle of these corporations have convinced their superiors of this because
they believe they have a moral obligation to push forward a specific partisan message
using whatever social or cultural influence they might have.
Non-Western corporations tend not to behave this way, and seeing straightforward advertising
like this comes as a bit of a shock in 2023.
I remember back in school I took a media arts class, and one section of it was on advertising.
Advertising, at least back then, tended to focus around what the viewer can gain by consuming
the product.
An ad like the McDonald's family one, if we had examined it back in that class, the
teacher would have said something like,
McDonald's is promoting a specific type of lifestyle, in this case a happy nuclear family,
with the subtle implication of, if that lifestyle appeals to you, then you can consume McDonald's
and live that lifestyle too.
You too can be a part of a happy nuclear family if you eat McDonald's.
In that class, we learned that this type of advertising is just subversive in the end.
Obviously, eating McDonald's won't be the thing that allows you to have a nuclear family
in your life, or a set of school friends, or a car full of Halloween monsters.
The advertisement simply needs to make you feel like it will long enough to make that
sale.
It's quite insidious.
But, in 2023, it's also actually quite refreshing, because a lot of Western ad agencies have
moved away from that sort of, promote a lifestyle advertising, and have moved into more direct
virtue signaling.
McDonald's supports trans rights and BLM, therefore if you want to support trans rights
and BLM, you should consume McDonald's.
You're a good person, aren't you?
Don't you support trans rights?
Why aren't you consuming McDonald's?
It's a significantly more hostile form of advertising.
Before, ads would promote a positive vision, a possible future for your life if you just
bought their product.
It was fake, but at least it was positive.
Now ads in the West tell you that you're a bad person if you don't buy the product.
Consumption has become its own form of activism, and you know that this is true.
Remember back when progressives were shitting on people for liking that Joker movie?
Or they were complaining that it was bigoted or sexist?
That those same people weren't going to see that shitty Harley Quinn movie?
It's not a super common position, but it is common enough among the more consumerist-oriented
lefty spaces that a valid form of social justice activism is the consumption of politically
correct products, and in that same vein, the suppression of politically incorrect products.
So when the West got a hold of that McDonald's family ad, it was like a breath of fresh air.
Oh thank you God, a piece of corporate advertising that isn't preaching at me about how awful
a person I am or how ruined the world is.
They just want to lie to me about what their shitty food will do to my life.
Imagine being that poor Japanese McDonald's Twitter intern who has no idea why their latest
innocuous post is taking off in another language halfway across the world.
The Japanese figured it out pretty quickly though.
Japanese Twitter users and bloggers were writing about exactly what I just mentioned, the dominance
of politically correct advertising in the West, and how your average person is simply
tired of it all.
And of course, it became one of those flash-in-the-pan culture wars.
But according to some leftoids online, no it didn't.
That was all just made up by the rightoids.
Here's Sean, formerly of Sean and Jen.
I scrolled the quote tweets on this for a very long time, and saw hundreds of right-wingers
saying some variation of, I can't believe the left are melting down over this, and zero
evidence of any leftist caring about this at all.
An imaginary war going on.
Are you sure about that, Sean?
Here's a bunch of posts from left-leaning accounts.
It's creepy how the mom has the same proportions as the child.
I love my McBreeding ads.
The kid is old enough to eat by herself.
The way the mom hand-feeds her is weird.
She shouldn't sit in her dad's lap.
Excuse me, Japan.
Pedophilia!
McDonald's is now trying to appeal to pedos.
These people do quite literally hate the family dynamic promoted in the ad, by calling it
creepy or weird or pedophilic.
Because the daughter character happens to, you know, share physical traits with her parents.
Which is, uh, pretty common among people who reproduce.
Though I guess that's Nazism now, apparently.
Also, these people consider childlike innocence to be sexual, and then they call the ad pedophilic.
It sounds like they might need their fucking hard drives searched.
Moreover, some leftoids actually gave the inverse take of Sean's.
Sean said that nobody on the left was culture warring over this, when they actually were.
While a few of these takes immediately expected the right to culture war over this, which
they actually did.
Presumably for the reasons I mentioned earlier.
Sean specifically said, the right gets mad when they see what they consider a non-traditional
representation of a family, so they assume the inverse must be true for people to the
left of them.
But, these are leftists who are getting mad at a traditional representation of a family
by crying about how they're too straight, or too white, or about how this appeals to
right wingers or whatever the fuck.
Basically, both sides are now playing idpol, screaming bloody murder online when the next
bit of culture doesn't directly represent them.
It's just that the left is vastly overrepresented right now.
So when a normal ass family takes center stage for once, it's considered a rare event.
Here's everyone's favorite communist Canadian, no, not me, Lance from the serfs.
And he went even stupider.
Not a single person of any political persuasion complained about the anime McDonald's family
ad.
The right hates non-traditional family units so much, they assumed the opposite is true.
Imagine if the ad had two dads, how the outrage would be going right now.
And you know what?
The rightoids probably wouldn't like it if it were two gay dads featured in the McDonald's
ad.
I'll grant you that.
But Lance's greater point here, is his claim that the left does not hate traditional family
units.
Are you sure about that, Lance?
Are you sure about that, buddy?
I'm going to have to do a full video on this topic eventually.
But the whole abolish the family segment of the left has been frothing at the mouth since
angles over how much they hate traditional family units.
And yes, of course, right wingers engage in this culture war too.
You're not going to convince me that the guy who posted the quotes on this are revealing
that this ad is Jewish kryptonite is a leftoid.
But then again, considering the leftist response to the recent Hamas massacre in Israel, maybe
it is, who the fuck knows anymore?
But this is primarily a case of right wingers saying that the McDonald's ad is a breath
of fresh air, while left wingers oscillate between being offended at the straight cis
white pedophilic Nazi propaganda for promoting a happy nuclear family, while also trying
to pretend that they don't hate nuclear families or normal people.
The bigger question is, why did the right wingers really vibe with it?
Look at this other ad that came out of Japan, this time for Tokyo Disneyland.
It starts off with a little girl enjoying the theme park, and then she's a teenager
hanging out there with her friends when she bumps into a guy.
Then the two are on dates there, they get married, they bring their kids there.
This is a story told in a 30 second corporate advertisement that resonates with the hopes
and dreams of your average person.
It's not preaching to you about what you should do, what causes you should support,
or what type of evil person you are if you fail to do so.
It's not trying to inform you of some social justice struggle somewhere, it's simply
presenting a happy story that most people would want to live out themselves in some
form.
Now it's still corpo shit, you're not going to get a girlfriend just by going to
Disney World guys.
But the point is that it's a message of hope set against a realistic backdrop where
it could actually happen to you, and that's way more appealing to people than political
propaganda.
In other words, 20 years ago I found this marketing method of presenting a desirable
lifestyle and associating it with your product as soulless and exploitative.
But compared to the political activism ads that came after it, oh god, please give me
the 2000s back.
I know that I'm not going to meet a girl just by going to Disneyland or have a wife
and child just by ordering McDonalds, but I prefer that shit over being told that I'm
a straight white cis male oppressor who's destroying the economy and the climate and
making trans people kill themselves unless I eat the goyslop.
The fuck are you doing?
