Well, that's it. They nicked the new Twitter account, guys. I hadn't even posted on it
yet. I guess I'm on a watchlist now or something. I've come back from the dead too many times.
But you know what? It's Twitter. Accounts are a dime a dozen. I'm sure if I cool off
for a couple months, come back, it'll be okay. And while prepping for this video, I realized
just how annoying it is to surf Twitter or try to get news from Twitter without having
an account. Like here, I'm on Lilith's account, right? We'll just scroll down a bit. Look
what happens. See more tweets from Lilith. Love it. Well, I would love to sign in. But
actually I realized a really interesting thing you can do. I installed uBlock Origin. You
got the element zapper. You zap the box. You zap the clear coat. And then you can scroll
again, no problem. And if you want to interact with anything, then you just zap this layer
that's bugging you and you can click on things. No problem. Again, Twitter becomes normal
and usable. Anyway, we all know about libs at TikTok at this point, right? I've done
a few videos on them. I think you guys know my opinion at this point. They're clearly
a biased source of information, but they are still a source of information. The things
that they show off, like another kids at drag event or a second grade teacher who's explaining
a workaround that they use to discuss gender ideology with students. Sometimes these captions
are a bit hyperbolic, but they are posting real pictures and real videos made by real
people who do seem to be doing some shady stuff. So clearly libs of TikTok has an ideological
bent. It's in the name, but she's still a reasonable source of information. You just
have to go in there with that in mind. She's reporting on things that are really happening,
but she herself is biased. And there's the obvious problem of the spotlight effect where
she is only showing you things that are good for her side. And that's fair enough. I consider
myself to be independently minded enough that I can look at what she's talking about,
notice that it might be a problem, but still not accept it as if this is the prevailing
narrative because it's not, it's only one narrative, but there is a counterpart to libs
of TikTok, someone who is just as partisan, but on the other side, and that is chuds of
TikTok. It's quite the name, you know, considering how often the word chud is memed. I thought
the left would have grown out of using it by now because it's, it's dunked on so much,
but I mean, I saw Adam and Sitch yesterday. I'm recording this on Monday. I saw Adam and
Sitch yesterday and they were doing like a, a teardown of Xander Hall's attack on mauler
and Xander Hall was like, chuds, chuds, chuds, like Jesus Christ, dude, 2015 wants their
terminology back. Fuck. But here we are. This is the inverse from a leftist perspective.
Looking at the right, we've got chuds of TikTok. And in fact, the icon looks kind of similar.
You know, like you look at libs of TikTok, it's got like the gender, the gender nonconformity
symbol. You look at chuds of TikTok, it's got QAnon. It's like, okay, I can appreciate
that. They're going for the same kind of memes. And on chuds of TikTok, you will find
things that are pretty much the inverse of libs of TikTok. The stuff they say is true.
They don't make anything up, but they add their own specifically lefty spin to it. And
they only report on things that suits their narrative. So in my opinion, you take libs
of TikTok, you take chuds of TikTok, you smash them together. You, you absorb real happenings
from both positions and you probably get some semblance of what the truth is. Here's a Q
anon casualty story. A man in Michigan shot and killed his wife and dog injuring his daughter
who's now in the hospital. Also firing at police responders who killed him in the shootout.
He reportedly, according to a Reddit post, had severe QAnon delusions that started after
the 2020 election. Yep, the internet ruined him. Growing up, my parents were extremely
loving happy people. I always had a special bond with both my parents. In 2020 after Trump
lost, my dad started going down the QAnon rabbit hole. He kept reading conspiracy theories
about the election stolen, Trump, vaccines, et cetera. He always said he wanted to keep
us safe and healthy. It kept getting worse and he verbally snapped at us a few times.
Nothing physical though. He never got physical with anyone. Well, at around 4am on September
11th, he had an argument with my mother. He decided to take our guns and shoot her, my
dog and my sister. My mother succumbed to her wounds and my sister is in the hospital
right now. My dad also fired back at the cops and they killed him. I'm shocked. I don't
even know what to say. Fuck you QAnon. I hope the FBI tightens its grip on you and that
your lackeys rot in prison. Jesus, that's wild, man. I know that some of the rightoids
who watch my channel sometimes get a bit triggered by this, but there are some legitimate crazies
on your side, dude. You can't fucking deny. Man compares his struggles as a mega to what
happened to the Jews in the Holocaust. Thursday's speech from Biden. Jesus Christ, two minutes,
37 seconds. I thought that TikTok was known for its brevity. All right, let's see what
is going on here. And this sounds awful familiar for me. Very familiar. If you don't see it,
I don't think you ever will see it. And I posted a video on this before. I did the video,
I did the tubcast with Lilith and I did my own video. People are complaining about that
one. That's fine. It's not that I don't see it, it's that I don't agree with you. And
Lord have mercy on our souls for those that don't see it.
Dad, you're never going to believe it. Hitler just won the election and he's blaming us.
Is he doing anything? Okay, right.
The Jews for all the problems in the country. Oh, don't be silly. Those politicians will
say anything to get elected. Dad, did you see the new Nazi newspaper? It's spreading
lies and some terrible things about it. Jesus Christ, he does this for like 10 years. Okay,
maybe I get the point. They're going to show the escalation. You don't want to watch all
this for this video.
Turn this down here again. Your mother and I are going anywhere.
All right, dude. Do you see the correlation here? Do you see where two and two is going
together? All you got to do is just change one thing to the other. You don't see it?
No, I don't. And here's the reason why I don't see it.
Anyone can be persecuted, but the linchpin is are you being persecuted for a legitimate reason
or not? It probably doesn't need to be said, but the Jews in Germany weren't persecuted for a
legitimate reason. Are mega people being persecuted for a legitimate reason? That's going to depend
on your point of view. If you believe that the election was stolen from you, then no,
you're freedom fighters. However, if you believe that the election wasn't stolen,
now you are illegitimately usurping a democratic process. And that's dangerous. You know,
this is the crux of the whole one man's terrorist, another man's freedom fighter situation. Just
because you are being targeted does not automatically make you a victim in the same
way that criminals are not victims. It's more complicated than that. Moreover, let's see if
what's happening in this video is actually happening to mega people. Hold on. Okay, hold on.
Let's see. Let's see. Dad, did you see the new Nazi newspaper? It's spreading lies and saying
terrible things about us. Okay. It might be the case, assuming that you're correct,
that everything Biden said about you is a lie. Okay. I'll give you that one, even though I don't
agree. We're not allowed to have gatherings anymore and they're passing anti-Jewish laws
in parliament. Okay. So are they cracking down on mega gatherings? You can make a joke about
COVID all you want, but gatherings specifically for the purposes of discussing or spreading the
mega point of view. I just saw a Trump rally yesterday. What are you guys talking about?
I think this analogy kind of falls apart. And frankly, I think Mr. Meth addict here might just
be a bit of a snowflake who really wants to reap some of that victimhood power that the left has
been getting high on for the past decade. So yeah, I would agree with Chet's TikTok here. This is
pretty low worthy. I didn't threaten anybody proceeds to make a vague threat about fighting
the government. Now you're really starting to piss me off because now I'm being contacted by
people that I've never met before telling me that I need to be worried about the things that come
out of my mouth and the content of my videos, not on this platform, but social media platforms.
Well, I got something to say to you. You can suck a whole fucking nest of bird dicks.
You want to know why? Because freedom of speech is freedom of speech. I haven't threatened anybody
come on my fucking land and see what a threat is. But you guys, on the other hand, your presidential
fucking overreaching powers and your bullshit fucking policies that you've enforced, that is
a clear declaration of war on the people of this country and a people across this planet.
So my big question that I have for you is who gets to hold you accountable when all the blood
gets fucking spilt on the ground? Huh? Who holds you accountable? We'll see in the near future.
Okay. We'll see in the near future. That was the moment when it tipped from angry libertarian
into actual threat, at least as the tweet says a vague threat. So it's like, I didn't threaten
anybody by the way, when the feds come to my house, I'm going to have my AR 15 primed and
ready. Jesus Christ. Dudes, you ain't kicking anyone's ass. Is that supposed to be asses?
Okay. Dudes, you ain't kicking anyone's assess anytime soon.
Hey, those photographs are the UN forces in the United States. All I gotta say is,
dudes, our ancestors kicked the British off this country twice.
Jesus. Where are you recording this?
You're here under behalf of sloppy Joe. All I gotta say, I think I'm speaking for all Americans.
Bring it. We'll kick your asses out of here. And you might have a little friend going with you.
United not heads does not scare Americans. Hell, you can't scare people in foreign countries.
You think you can come here and intimidate us. All right. All right. Solid patriotic sentiments
from our drunk uncle over here. I'm not exactly sure what he's talking about. I don't, I didn't,
I didn't recognize whatever he was referencing, but the rest of the message, it wasn't, wasn't
all that objectionable. To be honest, he's just kind of a redneck. It's like, whatever
something tells me they're more upset about race and not the fact that live action Disney
remakes have been awful. Okay. Let's see. This is a quartering video accounts like this.
They always go after the quartering because Jeremy is kind of a big fish on YouTube when
it comes to this, this area of the internet at this point. And if they can shut up an
anti woke advocate with over a million subs, they'll consider it a massive victory. So
the locust backfire in history, Disney demolished over the little mermaid in the recent little
mermaid remake. They made Ariel black because all of the gingers are becoming black people.
That's just how it is in the modern era. And let's see some of these comments that apparently
are about race or a racist replacement isn't inclusion. It's a blatant racism to hate the
people who created something cool, but at the same time, desire to take everything they created as
yours to compensate for your own. I get his point. That's not really a racist comment. I will
disagree with his first sentence though. Inclusion is replacement. If there's a fixed, finite number
of spots, if you have say 10 spots and 10 white people, and then you boot out one of the white
people to put in a black person, well, you've made things more inclusive and more diverse,
but you've also replaced one white person. Now you can argue whether or not that's morally
justified. It might actually be depending what we're talking about, but it's still
replacement. Let's see here. If they race changed Ariel, we should demand that they
change the race of black Panthers. Someone like Ben Affleck in the next movie keeps this equal
all across the board. I mean, yeah, fair enough. Doesn't bother me. My favorite part is when the
race swapped character said it's race swap in time and race swap the entire theater,
truly one of the Disney movies of all time. That's that's just the Morbius meme. Here's
what's going on here that doesn't seem to understand. I can't speak for all commenters.
I certainly can't speak for Jeremy, but I can speak for myself and I can speak for a lot of
people that I know what's going on here is that people don't really care too much about the race
swapped thing. Like, yeah, it's cringe. Like, you know, the little mermaid isn't isn't a black
person. You know, this is specifically a European folk tale and therefore it is proper to put a
European in the role. You wouldn't take an African folk tale and put a white person in that role,
obviously, or maybe you would, maybe it should go both ways. I don't know. But whatever ethic
that we're appealing to, we should be using it across the board. What's actually happening here,
though, the more important conversation, all of this media that's coming out right now,
they're they're trash. That's the whole point of my Lord of the Rings series with with Arch and
Kibbs and Lilith. That's the whole point of like, it's a Gundam and Mauler and guys like that
talking about She-Hulk. All these shows and movies coming out, they're pure garbage. And what they're
doing is they're presenting the fact that they have people of color in lead roles as defense as
to why they're garbage. Like, well, you can't criticize our terrible show now or our terrible
movie because there's a black woman, a strong and proud and beautiful black woman in the lead.
So if you criticize us, you're racist. The true race conversation here is how the Corpos are using
race as a shield for the declining quality of their products and their profit extraction schemes.
And leftoids are running defense for them, even as they claim to be socialist and whatever else.
They will soy the fuck out at this shit. That's what's going on here. But that doesn't really
fit Chud's of TikTok's narrative. So that's going over her head. I'm assuming it's a her just like
just like Liv's a TikTok is. The communists are trying to take over the world and you're on TikTok?
They spent the better part of 70 years setting this shit up. 102 year movement of the Communist
Party. Complete world domination. You guys really think that we're going to win this battle
sitting here on TikTok? You guys really think that? You guys think that we're going to win
this war without a single shot fired? The indoctrination worked on you too.
Glow posting aside, let's let's take her at face value, OK? And this just isn't some fed.
All right. What exactly is Chud's of TikTok complaining about? We hear this rhetoric all
the time from the left. Fascists are everywhere. Fascists are in the government. Everyone's a
fascist. We need to rise up and overthrow the system. We can't rely on democracy anymore.
Electoralism is what destroys our movement. We need direct action. We need to get in the streets.
We need to riot. We need to throw bricks through windows. Libs get the bullet to overthrow this
oppressive capitalist system. You hear this from the left all the time. In fact, I would argue
insofar as the mainstream posting on the Internet, you hear a lot more calls to violence from the
left than the right. I would argue insofar as the right calls to violence. There are revolutionary
rightists out there. There are like neo reactionaries, other crazy people, but they're
kind of relegated to their own very tiny corners of the Internet because our society is very
sensitive to right wing calls to violence, but not so much left wing ones. There's always a new riot.
There's always some new figurehead calling for an overthrow of the capitalist system,
which is why you'll see something like this. If you're an anarchist, anti-fascist, Marxist
organization that does mutual aid, protests, local organizing, helping the unhoused or low income,
please DM me for promoting events and retweet this so I can reach out to groups across the
nation. Okay, so they want to do the mutual aid thing. They are explicitly and openly leftist
revolutionaries against the liberal capitalist state. This is farther to the left than Libs of
TikTok goes in the right. You don't see Libs of TikTok posting. If you're like a revolutionary
Christian nationalist or a fascist or something, DM me and we'll start organizing for our violent
uprising. You don't hear that come out of Libs of TikTok. Now, who knows if the person behind
Libs of TikTok really is that extreme? I'm sure at least some of the people following them are,
but the point is they don't openly say it. And that is, at least by this metric, what makes
Chuds of TikTok a bit more yikes-y, in my opinion. However, as you scroll through Chuds of TikTok,
you begin to see very similar types of content. You'll see videos and clips from YouTubers and
from TV. You'll see articles. You'll see TikTok videos from right-leaning TikTok accounts.
It's all the same kind of thing that Libs of TikTok does. It really is the mirror inverse.
And as I scroll through, I'm realizing like, yeah, there are some crazy fucking people
on TikTok, you know? Joe Biden said that we need F-15s in order to defeat this government.
Well, I got some news for you. Those F-15s belong to us. We'll just go and fucking take them.
Tread lightly, Joe. Tread fucking lightly. Like, Jesus Christ, dude, that's a bit ridiculous,
isn't it? You really think that you're going to be able to walk onto a military base and not get
blown the fuck up? Go ahead and try. Fuck. Like, there are some dumb people on TikTok,
but that just seems to be TikTok's thing. Everyone just seems to be a retard. You got left-leaning
retards. You got right-leaning retards. It's just a whole platform full of retards. And frankly,
I'm happy for chuds of TikTok's existence. They are just as disgustingly partisan as Libs of
TikTok. But you know what? They both serve their purpose. They both present real people and they
both refuse to present anything that might refute their position. So you got to go into it with an
open mind. But fundamentally, they both have a place in the ecosystem to extreme places,
but nonetheless, legitimate places. And if I were on Twitter, I'd follow them both and just kind of
balance it out because yeah, man, there are crazies everywhere. And it's important to see
all the crazies everywhere, but it's also important to understand that that's not everyone.
That's not even the majority of people. So anyway, this is more of an off the cuff video.
I figured I'd just talk about chuds of TikTok for a while. And that was, you know,
a fun little bit of time. I will see you guys next time. I love you.
