Australia is a nation defined by starkness.
Evoking images of the New World, and mirroring the process of Western expansion, European
settlers arrived on an untamed continent, pushed across vast wilderness, through hostile
indigenous populations, and established, then doggedly defended, a few narrow bands of civilization.
As the years rolled forward, cascading sequences of gold rushes and increasing need for agricultural
output pulled Australian society further from the convenient natural harbors where
it began.
With Man and Beast continuously working to reclaim the land they usurped, the increasingly
small and informal groups of settlers on the frontier relied on their more advanced weaponry
to maintain their foothold.
Guns matured into a standard-issue piece of kit for those straying beyond the established
towns.
A century on, that reality remained.
20th century Australians continued to leave the comfortable confines of coastal cities
in hope of transforming rural land into a living.
Those that found themselves in this less urban life, in turn, inherited a unique culture
and identity framed around individualism and rugged self-reliance.
These individuals were proud of their lifestyle, providing for their families and nation through
what they helped pull from the earth.
Yet, even as technology advanced, nature proved unruly, and so rural Australians continued
to rely on their weaponry to defend their crops or livestock or minerals from the other.
Among this population, guns had become conflated with culture—they were important tools,
they were pest control, they were family heirlooms, they were security.
But as urban Australia continued to develop alongside rural Australia, guns in cities
and suburbs began to seem superfluous.
Guns no longer worth the inherent risk of operating, and in untrained or uncertain hands,
potential disasters.
All the while, as this rift widened, the weapons grew more effective.
The destructive potential of a minute shrunk down to a second.
What was once but a cultural difference morphed into an issue—should personal gun ownership
be allowed?
Was the necessity of some stronger than the risk to most, as the potential for misuse
grew in step with technological development?
As the century progressed, as the cosmopolitan and countryside continued to drift apart,
the issue escalated, and the questions informing the issue begged for an answer.
Australia's gun debate—informed by history, landscape, and legacy, intensified by growing
urban-rural divide and the technology's ruthless efficiency—was at an impasse.
As one exasperated New South Wales politician voiced after a futile national gun summit
in 1987, quote,
It will take a massacre in Tasmania before we get gun reform in Australia.
Nearly a decade later, his words proved prophetic.
It was just after one in the afternoon, on the 28th of April, 1996, when a 28-year-old
man in a yellow Volvo entered the Port Arthur Historic Site.
Carrying what security described as a sports-type bag through the tourist-laden formal penal
colony, the man entered a busy café, ate a meal, then opened fire on unsuspecting tourists.
Within just 90 seconds, the gunman had killed 20 people with 29 bullets.
Leaving the café, the shooting then continued onto the streets.
By the time of his capture the following day, the gunman had killed 35 and injured another
23.
In the hands of the murderer throughout his rampage was a semi-automatic Colt AR-15—a
weapon that, under Tasmania's uniquely hands-off gun laws, was available for purchase
without a license.
All told, it was the worst mass shooting in the nation's history, and while perpetrated
in a far corner of the country, the sheer depravity rocked Australia to its core.
For a moment, the shocked nation stammered.
Then it began to move.
When the Port Arthur shooting was Australia's largest, it was far from the country's first.
The Hoddle Street killings and the Queen Street massacre, just months apart in Melbourne
in 1987, had set the backdrop for that year's ultimately fruitless national gun summit.
The gun violence continued into the new decade too, with one or more shootings in 1990, 1991,
1992, and 1993.
In ten years, Australia experienced 12 mass shootings, abruptly ending the lives of 98
people.
While gun ownership was common across the nation's history, the increase in mass shootings
and the high firearm death rate of 2.84 per 100,000 people, well above England's rate
of 0.42 per 100,000, were becoming too much for most Australians to bear.
By 1996, punctuated by the most horrific shooting of them all, Australians had had enough.
In a poll run days after the Port Arthur massacre, 90% of the 2,058 respondents supported a national
ban on automatic and semi-automatic firearms, and 88% supported registration requirements
for all firearms.
Simply put, average, everyday Australians were ready for change.
But popular public attitudes won't move policy alone—a fundamental restructuring
of Australian gun laws was anything but a foregone conclusion in the wake of Port Arthur.
Any attempt at sweeping change would have to navigate around the country's powerful
gun lobby, a vocal and impassioned minority of rural Australians wary of government overreach,
and the fact that gun policy was governed not by the federal government, but by states.
And yet, the day after the shooting, John Howard, Australia's Prime Minister for all
of 48 days, announced his effort to push through major gun law reform.
Howard and his coalition government had ample room to cop out—to throw their hands up
and say it was a state-level issue.
Instead, they pushed on.
As he later reflected, quote, you never let a good crisis go to waste.
Tragic though the event was, it gave us an opportunity to do something in the wake of
it, so that those lives were not lost in vain.
In the days that followed, cabinet meetings poured over studies pulled together by non-governmental
groups like the Coalition for Gun Control, and previously, internally produced policy
recommendations that followed the Melbourne shootings.
Outside of cabinet meetings, Howard urged representatives from his coalition of Liberal
and National Party members to stand with him.
But as Howard applied pressure on conservatives representing rural Australia, so too did the
nation's gun lobby, which organized marches, street demonstrations, and speeches.
Ultimately, the lobby's mobilization proved detrimental to its own cause, as arguments
made in media that 99.9% of gun owners abide by the law, for example, gave way to high-profile
figures like the Vice President of the Firearm Owners Association threatening bloodshed if
stricter regulations went through.
In less than a week after the Port Arthur massacre, the political determination emanating
from Parliament had resulted in a cabinet agreement on a prohibition on automatic rifles,
semi-automatic rifles, and pump-action shotguns, the creation of a national firearm registration
system, and a compensation fund for a gun buyback program.
Four days later, on May 10th, the Prime Minister hosted the police ministers from all states
and territories to present the 10-point plan that soon informed the nation's first set
of universal gun laws—what would be known as the National Firearms Agreement.
Even with broad public support, the NFA was hard won.
Queensland, the Northern Territory, and Western Australia refused to agree to the NFA for
months and pushed for semi-automatics to remain legal as long as they were crimped, or modified
to carry limited rounds.
Only after Howard threatened to expand federal power did they join the nationwide program.
In some places, the NFA was bitterly resented.
During speaking tours intended to explain and promote the program, Deputy Prime Minister
Tim Fisher was burned in effigy in the Queensland state of Gympie, while Prime Minister Howard
donned a bulletproof vest when speaking in Sale, Victoria.
With all states and territories signed on by the middle of 1996, the agreement flipped
Australia's loose, decentralized gun laws—on their head.
What was once a system so scant that a law student reading through gun statues thought
there were pages missing, had suddenly become one of the world's most thorough.
Only a gun and gun sale now had to be recorded in a national registry.
Anyone who owned or sought to own a gun needed to prove they had a genuine reason—crucially,
in the eyes of Australian policymakers, self-defense was not one.
Semi-automatic rifles and shotguns were now banned except for when a farmer or professional
shooter could prove genuine reason.
Gun owners now needed to be 18 or older, needed to pass a safety course, and had to abide
by strict gun storage rules.
And if in possession of a newly-prohibited gun, Australians now had 12 months to surrender
it and receive fair compensation, funded by a one-time Medicare levy.
A year later, Australia had confiscated and destroyed 650,000 guns, and it did so under
budget as the project cost Australian taxpayers around $360 million.
So… did it work?
Did the sweeping, disruptive reforms of the National Firearms Agreement actually save
lives?
Well, in the decade leading up to the Port Arthur Massacre, the country experienced 12
shootings with at least four fatal victims, totaling 98 individuals killed.
In the decade after the Port Arthur Massacre, Australia experienced none.
In fact, in the 26 years since, there have been only three mass shootings with a total
of 12 victims.
Proponents point to this as the conclusive piece of evidence that Australia's gun restrictions
were a masterstroke of public policy—a single maneuver that solved a massive, deadly
problem.
But others are quick to point out that mass shootings are a relatively rare event.
Even during Australia's most notorious and deadly decade of shootings, they occurred
just over once a year.
While undoubtedly tragic on a human level, from a statistical standpoint, this frequency
instills relatively low confidence in any observed trend.
The confidence is lowered yet further when glancing back another decade—from 1976
to 1986, there were just two shootings with ten total victims.
So, was the ten years starting in 96th a deviation from the trend, or was it the ten years starting
in 86?
Especially in the context of mass shootings, where shooters get inspired by shooters who
get inspired by shooters, was there simply a spate of violence followed by a regression
to the mean?
To determine this, one can substitute this low-frequency statistic for a higher-frequency
equivalent—the more data points, the more one can be confident in causation over mere
correlation.
While the National Firearms Agreement was implemented in response to a mass shooting,
it was concurrently designed to address all types of gun violence.
So, Australia's overall firearm mortality rate can be used as a proxy metric in examining
the policy's effectiveness.
In 1996, the year of the Port Arthur Massacre, this rate sat at 2.84 gun deaths per year
per 100,000 people—today, it's just 0.9.
A threefold drop in less than three decades surely proves that gun control curbed gun
violence, but some are quick to respond that trends don't mean anything in isolation.
Glancing backwards, firearm fatality in Australia was already on the decline, and the drop from
2.84 was just a continuation of the drop from 4.7.
Prior to 1996, according to research led by gun policy expert Philipp Alpers, the rate
of decline was an average of 3% a year.
Post-1996, however, it accelerated to 4.9—a meaningful, measurable, near-doubling in rate,
right after the most significant gun policy reform in decades.
Now, while certainly stronger, there are still potentially holes in this proof.
One could, and some have argued that this too could be random chance—that the rate
of decline had the option of staying the same, or decelerating, or accelerating post-1996,
and it just so happened that the third option occurred.
But there is yet another method of establishing causality—a method that has real-world,
practical evidence behind its effectiveness.
It's called rare-event predictive modeling.
You see, predictive modeling for common events is fairly straightforward—a streaming service
like Netflix, for example, will use troves of data to build out a model for how long
it expects a given customer to stick around based on factors like their age, home address,
gender, and more.
This model is useful, since, if the company learns that a given sign-up in Illinois, for
example, stays subscribed on average four months longer than a given customer from Massachusetts,
the company can afford to spend more marketing to those Illinois-based customers, since their
lifetime value is higher.
Netflix and others rely on the sheer quantity of data points to build out highly specific,
highly accurate models like this.
The rarer an event becomes, though, the tougher it is to build out an accurate, predictive
model.
But it's not impossible, and the reason why it's not impossible is because time
and money have been poured into developing and validating predictive models for rare
events thanks to the massive industry it makes possible—insurance.
How the insurance industry works is simple.
Individuals are way more afraid of having a 1 in 10,000 chance of having their home
robbed and having to spend $100,000 to replace things than having a 1 in 10 chance of breaking
their microwave and having to spend $100.
That's despite the fact that in either scenario, the average person is going to be out $10
either way.
$100,000 divided by $10,000 is $10, and so is $100 divided by $10.
While in isolation illogical, this bias is in reality pragmatic, since far more people
can weather a $100 expense than a $100,000 one without going into debt and financial
hardship.
Therefore, what insurance does is aggregate 10,000 people with that 1 in 10,000 chance
together and charge them each $10 so that the one of them that does get robbed doesn't
go into financial ruin.
Except, they don't really charge them $10—they charge them, say, $11 so that they can turn
a profit—but in order to do this, they need to determine what the likelihood of a given
individual getting robbed is.
And again, the events that insurance companies insure against are by their very nature rare
because those are the ones people are worried about.
Therefore, insurers need to take in a miniscule number of data points and build a predictive
model based on them.
If they do it wrong and consider home robberies more common than reality, they'll overcharge
and a competitor will come in, undercut their prices, and capture all their customers.
If they consider it less likely than reality, they'll run out of money from paying out
more to robbed customers than they take in.
Without diving into the mind-numbing mathematics behind rare event predictive modeling, the
proof that it works is that the insurance industry exists.
The proof is that these companies can only make a profit if they've accurately predicted
the commonality of events as rare and unlikely as sinkholes, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions,
missile attacks, plane crashes, bear attacks, and more, damaging and destroying homes.
The same rare event predictive modeling techniques were applied in research led by Simon Chapman
of the University of Sydney's School of Public Health.
He and his co-researchers looked at the data on Australian shootings in the same way an
insurer would, and built a rare events predictive model that indicated between 1996 and 2018,
when the study was conducted, there should have been 16.3 mass shootings in the country,
with a minimum of 65 fatal victims.
In reality, there were just two.
Building on that baseline, the researchers were able to calculate the likelihood that
this trend could be explained simply by random chance—that the rarity of mass shootings
meant that their 22-year absence was merely a data anomaly.
The answer was one in two hundred thousand.
That's to say, there's a chance that the absence in mass shootings in Australia post-1996
was caused by the natural ebb and flow in their occurrence, but that chance is one in
two hundred thousand.
Meanwhile, there's a 199,999 in two hundred thousand chance that something other than
random chance is behind the trend—something like the implementation of the most significant
gun control measures in the country's history.
One can't ever outright, 100% prove a link between two separate occurrences in the real
world.
This is why people say that correlation does not imply causation.
If you asked a data scientist to prove that flipping your light switch light to your light
turning off, they'd tell you that there's a chance that the light was on a timer scheduled
to switch off at that moment regardless, or that there's a chance that the research
assistant tasked with collecting data about switch flips and light illumination was being
bribed to make them look more correlated than reality, or that there's a chance that the
light wasn't real in the first place and was just a hologram made to make you think
it was turning off in time with the switch.
These are all unlikely, but technically not impossible.
In a world of infinite possibility, one can always find another genuinely possible cause
for a given outcome.
The data scientists will always tell you there's a one-in-a-lot chance that something other
than flipping the switch led to the light turning off.
But probably not.
It probably wasn't any of that.
Flipping the light switch probably led to the light turning off.
In every way, it's tough to make videos about subjects with the weight and tragic
significance of this one.
From word choice and motion graphics to visuals, and a close reading of YouTube's content
guidelines, we have to put a lot of thought into how to cover and visualize this story.
Thankfully, we have our sponsor Storyblocks, who has allowed us to take this subject on
in the first place by sponsoring this tough-to-monetize video.
Long before they sponsored this channel, Storyblocks was quite literally the first place I turned
for stock footage—its footage is what the very first video on this channel is almost
entirely made up of—and because they're still built for small-scale, independent creators,
I still use Storyblocks for stock footage today.
With their unlimited subscription, you can use and download all the material you want
for less than what a single clip might run you at another stock footage provider.
Storyblocks offers way more than just stock footage, too—they also carry After Effects
and Premiere Pro templates, images, music, and sound effects.
No matter what you end up using from their demand-driven library, though, you won't
have to worry about royalties—Storyblocks is entirely royalty-free, meaning you can
use their stuff for any commercial or personal project without having to think about it down
the line.
I've used Storyblocks from the beginning, and I can tell you from personal experience
that it's been a crucial resource for this channel and channels like it.
If you're making videos already or want to become a creator, give Storyblocks a try.
Click the button on screen or head to Storyblocks.com slash Wendover to sign up, and you'll be
supporting Wendover while you're at it.
