I still don't quite understand why they put roundabouts in, they just seem like unnecessarily
complicated.
Maybe I'm a boomer though.
You are a boomer.
We're on the way out of the city, we're going to go back to my hometown to visit my parents
for a little bit.
How do you feel about it Naomi?
We're going on a drive.
As you hit every bump.
It's not my fault that our city roads suck so damn hard.
Well we're technically out of the city now so you can't blame that.
No I can, see now they're nice.
We'll be gone for a little bit but we left Dave in charge of the garden, I'm sure he
won't screw it up.
Oh god.
Here's the garden update for the beginning of June, I just got back from a trip so it's
been a bit since I've seen this.
The lettuce is growing back after that first trim.
It grows pretty quick in a few more days we'll be able to have some.
Same with the spinach, that's already regrowing and the kale is starting to grow too except
for that one in the middle.
Of all the kale that I put in I accidentally stepped on that one really early in the growing
process.
Don't step on the plants Dev, I don't believe you.
I don't know if it's going to survive but it is like slowly getting there but all the
other kales as you can see they're all taking off.
All the peas are doing well except for that one that I said was pretty much dead.
Yeah it has actually failed.
It needs to be weeded and watered but otherwise it's going pretty good so far.
Oh no it's clover.
Gone with clover.
Clover is like a monster.
Did you have a clover?
I what?
I think you just dug it up.
I think I did.
But there was nothing there.
No it was growing back.
Oh sorry hun.
And now you're stepping on it.
Oh I definitely dug it up.
It was a big root and I was like what's it doing here?
Was it a pepper or a kale?
No it was a kale.
I thought the one that you stepped on and were pushing was that one.
Yeah that was the second one that just lost all of its leaves is what was coming back.
Okay well now it's not.
Uh huh.
Hey guys it is about 6 30 in the morning right now and we are in the middle of the first
heat wave and you know what?
It shows.
Check out the garden now.
I moved the lettuce to make sure it gets a little bit more sun.
Now did this one start to die?
Nope it's just the way it's opening up.
Okay everything's still fine with the lettuce.
We can probably cut that again soon.
The spinach's are regrowing though we still have that seed problem.
It keeps sprouting more seeds rather than leaves.
I don't know how we made a mistake.
The kale's doing very well.
The peppers are always a slow start and they haven't really done anything but I guess we'll
see.
The cucumbers are slowly making it.
The tomatoes have their first little flowers and check out the peas.
Yes the floppy pea died but the rest of them are going.
There is one thing that I want to try.
I remember hearing that if you take a pea plant and you snip the top of it, it will
grow wide and spend more time on growing pea pods than on growing leaves.
I'm going to do it with this one, maybe the shorter one here.
Because there's all the space in the middle from the dead plant.
If it doesn't work I mean I only lose one right?
I'll just snip it maybe here and maybe here as well.
I want to see if we can promote these plants to grow a bit wider rather than reaching to
the sky like last time.
Good morning everyone.
I'm about to do the weekly sip.
In fact I'll be late today on it, sorry, because I have to do some garden stuff first.
And yes it does mean in fact watering but it also means the first real harvest.
So let's get to it.
The lettuce has stagnated slightly but maybe cutting it will help because all these leaves
are good to eat again.
The spinach, I don't know how to do spinach I guess because no matter how often I prune
out the seeds they keep coming back and they're not growing leaves anymore.
I don't know but the kale is what we're here for.
Look at these huge leaves.
This kale has got to be snipped.
You go really deep in because the stalk is the healthiest part and just snip off each
one.
What I'll end up doing with this is I'll freeze a lot of it and eat it over the year because
kale is actually pretty expensive.
It's one of those hipster superfoods.
So you want to cut it to about this amount.
Maybe I can take this one off.
But basically you cut off most of the stalk so there's still enough leaf for the plant
to keep growing.
And there's the three bags of kale.
All the kale plants are nicely trimmed down.
As I pulled all the leaves off I noticed this.
This is that one kale that I stepped on like a month ago.
Don't step on the plants Dev.
And it was coming back it was slowly growing leaves but if you look really close it looks
like something's been eating the little leaves.
Maybe it won't make it.
Maybe that's two kale plants we've lost.
There's that one.
Then there's the one over there that Naomi accidentally pulled up.
But there's the three bags of kale that go in the freezer.
I don't know what to do with the spinach man.
I did my best to trim it as often as I could but I had to go away a bit.
And as soon as it started sprouting seeds it stopped sprouting leaves.
Like this one I trimmed a lot.
And still now it only grows seeds instead of leaves.
I just need to learn how to do spinach before I try that one again.
The rest of the garden's going well though.
There's some flowers coming in the peppers so that'll be nice soon.
The peas are looking excellent.
Look at all those peas over there.
You can actually start eating them.
Tomatoes are starting and the cucumbers have also recovered too.
So despite the failure of the spinach there still might be a good year.
So I looked it up or rather I had people chatters in the weekly sip help me and then I looked
it up.
Spinach can be very vulnerable to sudden temperature change or changes in the ground acidity.
Oh.
When a plant switches to reproductive growth it's called bolting.
Spinach wants to make seed when it's hot.
Yeah.
I have now learned that spinach stops producing leaves and starts basically only producing
seeds when the weather gets too hot or there's not enough water or some kind of stress and
that spinach is really only like a spring fall plant and that it's also very sensitive
to changes.
No matter how many seeds I snip these plants never coming back.
I can still eat those leaves.
They'll be a little bit bitter but I can still eat them, I don't care.
But in the light of that, man, I don't know if I ever want to do spinach again.
And you know what?
There's still at least like three months left for growing in this garden.
So you know what?
I think we might just pull the spinach out.
That was kind of a waste of money.
We didn't really get what we should have gotten out of it but you know whatever.
And we're going to put maybe more lettuce in there or something.
I don't know.
We'll figure it out.
Those plants will become tonight's dinner and I'll put something else in this spot.
Planting season's over, that's why it's all 50% off because it's so late in the season.
There's not many vegetables left and they are all reduced.
Our choices seem to be eggplant, which I'm not a fan of and I don't know if you like
it or not.
I've had it.
It's okay.
It's okay.
And Swiss chard.
It's like in a giant cheese dish.
Swiss chard is just like a little lettuce.
You grow it the same way, you eat it the same way.
Wait.
You're used to hot peppers.
No.
Why not?
If we're getting it you can only get one.
You don't want to?
No.
Beets?
No.
I don't like beets.
Really?
Why don't you like beets?
Do you have a study to back that up?
Yeah.
Yeah, I didn't like kohlrabi when I tried growing it a few years ago, like before I
was doing the videos and I didn't like how it tasted, I didn't like how slow it took
to grow.
I didn't like anything about it.
It was cherry tomatoes.
We love tomatoes though.
No.
I think at this point Swiss chard is probably the best bet.
Okay.
I have a second chance to spray you with one of these.
Pop off.
You know, I don't think in any growing season I've ever had to go back to the store
three times.
This is a unique experience for me.
And never this late.
How about this one?
That's okay.
That's okay.
It needs to go in now though, doesn't it?
They're all going to be off right now, you know?
No, I know.
Because you need to go outside.
Let's just take the two that you have and pray for the best.
Like with the cucumbers?
This garden is fucked this year.
Yep.
Actually, you can plant a palm tree if you want.
Why?
Alright, we're back home with the chard.
Now those plants come out and the chard goes in.
Okay, so whatever good leaves remain on those spinach plants, as well as all the lettuce
I just cut up, that's going to be tonight's dinner.
Okay, Naomi.
Here's the spinach.
Why?
Because you've got to cut it up.
The soil went right in my mouth.
Good morning, guys.
It's time to harvest the peas.
Look at how many peas there are.
I cut some scissors out just in case, but I think I can just pull them off.
I don't want to damage the plant.
I can kind of just pull them off.
Mmm.
And they're pretty good too.
I'm supposed to take these for a salad for this afternoon, but I might just...
Oh, this one was not coming off that easily.
Maybe I should use the scissors.
I feel like I might just sit here and eat them though, because they're actually really
good.
Yeah, man.
Look at that.
That's really good.
I was a little worried about the lettuce for a while, but since I last snipped, you can
see they are all coming back.
There's just some dead leaves in the bottom, but the actual plants still seem to be doing
okay.
They're growing a bit more slowly, but as long as they keep coming back, we should be
able to keep eating it.
Here's the replacement chard.
Yeah, those few dead leaves in the bottom died, but the actual bunch of it was looking
pretty good for both of them.
I guess if we just keep watering it, it'll be okay.
And the kale.
Kale grows like crazy.
Look it.
I trimmed these a couple weeks ago, and there's already some pretty decent leaves here.
I'll still wait a couple weeks before I trim any more out of this.
If you look closely at some of the pepper blooms, they are in fact turning into the
beginnings of peppers.
That's nice.
No word yet on the tomatoes or cucumbers, though the cucumbers are beginning to climb
up the lattice.
I think I have to redirect that one over there.
This one here is trying to climb onto the tomato plant.
That's no good.
Let's pull it.
Come on.
Let's pull them this way.
I want it to climb up this lattice in the back.
People keep telling me to take off what they call suckers on tomato plants, and I think
it's these.
It's a little growth in between the branches of the plant, so rather than growing more
branches it doesn't need, it can instead grow the tomatoes.
So to be fair some suckers, like in the case of this one here, actually grew tomato flower,
so maybe I shouldn't pull off all of them.
And there we go.
I didn't get nearly all of them, of course, but that is more than enough for a lunch salad,
and when I need more tomorrow I'll come out and get more tomorrow.
At this point there will probably be less garden updates because all of the garden opening
shenanigans are basically over.
This is probably the roughest garden that we've had to ever open.
Usually we just buy the plants and put them in and it's not a big deal, but this time
we had multiple things happening that got in the way.
But at this point there's no shopping, there's no planting left, it's all just going to be
watering, harvesting, and the occasional weeding until it's time to close up the garden in
the fall.
So I guess the next time you'll see the garden will be in the fall.
It was really annoying to have to deal with all of the stuff we dealt with this year to
get the garden started, but it did provide for three videos worth of content.
I hope it turns out well this year.
I think it will.
Hey guys, quick addendum, I'm recording this just off the cuff.
I watered it only an hour or two ago, and look at the growth already.
I don't know if you can see because of the sun, the sun's up now, but everything grew
a bunch just with water and sun in like two hours.
That's crazy, man.
Anyway, everything that's in is now in I think, there's going to be no more plant swapping
around or buying anything new.
I think we are now set, and so you'll see me when it's time to harvest.
Okay, say goodbye to the garden, Naomi.
Bye, garden.
See you next time.
So it's the night of July 1st, Naomi and I are walking to the Canada Day celebration
right now.
And yes, that was the last we'll see of the garden for this year, at least for a little
while.
Not because the garden's going anywhere, obviously.
In terms of setting up, this is pretty much it, because usually it only takes us one video
worth, this year it took us three.
So happy Canada Day everyone, we'll see you next time.
Goodbye.
Bye.
See you next time.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
