Hey guys, I sincerely have to apologize.
I don't know if you can tell, I'm quite sick, again.
And you know, I really feel like Naomi is a disease vector into the house, because I
didn't get this sick before I met her.
And whenever she comes into the house with like a sickness, we all fucking get it.
So mean to me dad.
God damn it Naomi.
My original plan, if you had heard me talk about it, was that I had like five Canadian
election videos planned.
And I really did.
And they're like all in various stages of work, but like this, I'm not going to be better
before the election happens on Monday.
I don't know what the fuck to do.
Here's what I'm going to at least attempt to put out, okay?
Tomorrow will be the Trouble with Trudeau 2, you know, Trouble with Trudeau 2019 edition.
Sunday will be a, Sunday will be like a Canadian election guide video.
So if you're undecided, I guess, you can listen to me blabber on about who I think the better
candidates are.
I think it's obvious who I think the better candidates are at this point, but you know
what I mean.
And then Monday, I might do like an election stream.
I might maybe gather together a couple people from the crowd, and then we will chat about
the Canadian elections as the various results roll in.
I think that's going to be the plan.
I had other things planned, like I have like a Canadian Islam video, I have a Canadian
free speech video.
Basically there's not enough time to do them, not with me in my current condition.
I'm really sorry guys, I seriously tried to, I tried to pull it all together, but as it
became obvious that Naomi was literally infecting fucking everything around her, it was obviously
not going to happen.
Well maybe you shouldn't be such a slacker when you're not infected.
No Naomi, it's all your fault, don't sell me out!
One thing I can do while sick is Game Boomers, because I'm literally just playing video games
and I don't mind being sick for a couple hours and feeling like shit and playing video games
with the Twitch chat.
So if you want to swing by Twitch.tv slash Game Boomers, basically right now, I'm going
to play some Halloween games with Naomi.
We're going to finish up Costume Quest 2, Tim Schafer's final good game.
If you're interested in that, I'll see you tomorrow with Trouble with Trudeau 2.
I'm going to do my absolute best to get it out.
I think I might be hitting the hump of the sickness, so maybe I'll be feeling better
by tomorrow.
Let's hope.
Okay guys, I'll catch you next time.
I love you.
