We cannot prove that we cannot prove at all that there is some kind of political
motivation or some kind of concerted effort to, uh, to take down Alex Jones,
but we can be conspiracy theorists ourselves.
We can stay up until 3 AM with like coffee and cigarettes and pinning things
together on a board with tax and string like pictures.
And we can do that too.
We can be that crazy guy too.
So maybe we should indulge a little bit.
Okay.
So this is an article from December of 2020.
This is mostly regarding COVID stuff.
How should you talk to your friends and relatives who
believe in conspiracy theory?
There is, this is like a lifestyle article.
This is not a serious news piece.
It's a fluff piece, but let's just, let's check it out.
Okay.
You're dreading the moment as your uncle passes the roast potatoes.
He casually mentions that a coronavirus vaccine will be used to inject
microchips into our bodies to track us.
Or maybe it's the point when a friend after a couple of pints starts talking
about how COVID-19 doesn't exist or when, or when pudding is ruined as a long lost
cousin starts spinning lurid tales about QAnon and elite Satanists eating babies.
Oh my God.
So I think I recall this.
It was like 2018 or 2019 Lilith, and you posted a tweet that
inspired a video of mine.
And the tweet was, it was a trans person waving the, the, the, the, the
trans flag, and then having a turkey shoved on their hand in the other hand.
You remember that?
I don't remember that.
What was that?
Okay.
Hold on.
They have a turkey?
Okay.
So I can't find it.
Shit.
I did a video and the thumbnail of the video, there's a trans person with like
brown skin and short purple hair, and they're screeching and they're waving
a trans flag and they have a turkey shoved on their fist in the asshole of
the turkey on the other one.
And it was supposed to be like a trans Thanksgiving thing.
There was that picture.
And you posted that it was a drawing.
It was a drawing.
And someone took that.
No, you took that picture post on your Twitter and you said, this is what these
crazies want you to think trans people are, but we're not this, we're not this
fucking crazy.
I don't remember saying, I, I, sorry.
I, I, it was like four years ago, were you remembering somebody else?
Oh, no, it was, it was definitely you.
I'm trying, I'm trying to remember the turkey.
It was a cooked turkey.
It was a cooked turkey.
I don't, there's nothing like that in my mind, but you might be right.
Okay.
Can I, maybe if like I find a picture you'll know, Hey chat, can you guys
like find that video?
Oh, that one.
Yeah.
So you, you definitely took this and posted it on your Twitter back in the day.
And you were like, yeah, that's such a, but it's such a, okay.
So then the dream, why I feel like you've mentioned it.
I was, I thought it was like, was this a fever dream?
What the hell?
So this, this image, it looks like it's a meme.
It's a fucking joke, but it was used on ironically, it was used on ironically in
like a pro trans Thanksgiving article where it's like how to confront your racist
conservative uncle at Thanksgiving, how to shoot them down and it's like, chill
the fuck out guys, like Jesus.
Yeah, it was, it was used like, like why do you make, that's how you portray trans
people, a crazy pink haired person.
I mean, I'm sure some are.
Fisting a turkey for fuck's sake.
Fisting a turkey.
So why, why, why are they fisting a turkey because their, uh, relatives
drove them so crazy, I guess, but why?
So I'm bringing that up because this article kind of plays off of that, you
know, like how do you deal with crazies, crazies at the dinner table during
holidays, you know, the uncle you only see once a year or whatever.
Now, rather than this being about like LGBT stuff, this is about conspiracy
theories.
How do you deal with your uncle who thinks that a coronavirus vaccine will
inject microchips into your bodies or talking about how COVID doesn't exist or
QAnon or elite Satanists.
Now, first of all, the left itself, they're also, they're also, uh, very in
on the conspiracy theories.
They talk about the globalist bourgeoisie 1%, you know, they, they talk about Bill
Gates just as much like that's, it's not fucking pretend that there's not, this
isn't like a, like a bipartisan thing.
It certainly is.
All right.
But still, how do you talk about conspiracy theories, ruining your,
your family get together?
Okay.
So this, this article gives you like, it's a keep calm, don't be dismissive,
encourage critical thinking, ask questions, don't expect immediate results.
Okay.
So soy, soy, soy, soy, soy, soy.
So let's actually go, what you do is you play into it.
Yeah.
So you play into it.
You, you, you go, you go even crazier.
You go even crazier than, than your, than your relatives.
You go, if they think, if they think like a fucking, if they think that
nine 11 steel beams and shit, you just, just say the tower didn't even exist.
The tower never existed.
Tower.
It never existed.
I mean, has there been proof?
Has anybody, has anybody seen the towers for 20 years?
They vanished.
Okay.
So with Alex Jones being the primary conspiracy theorist peddler, we should
look into some of these conspiracy theories.
Okay.
So for example, this was a good one.
This was like, this is a surface level Alex Jonesery.
Okay.
Remember when Alex Jones said that whenever Silicon Valley gets called
out on their shit, they just throw some Indian out in front to act confused
and say that they don't think they're doing anything wrong.
And that is exactly what Twitter did on the, on the Joe Rogan show a few years
ago, where, uh, Jack showed up with, with this, this Indian woman who was like,
we're, I don't know what you mean.
We're, we're doing okay.
Aren't we like, I don't understand, you know, like that was the meme, you
know, three or four years ago, let's check this one out.
This is from 2019.
Okay.
So about three years ago, Alex Jones, Joe Rogan war leads
to conspiracy theory meltdown.
Infowars host says that babies are being harvested for their organs.
Okay.
It seems pretty crazy, right?
It seems pretty fucking crazy.
Yeah.
Sounds like sounds like Alex Jones, but then, but then.
But then hold on.
So after a recent feud, Jones has invited back on Joe Rogan's show while
speaking with martial arts instructor Eddie Bravo, an episode uploaded on
Wednesday, Jones began shouting about infanticide, I came here and I proved
they're keeping babies alive and they're taking their organs, the Senate voted
Monday to keep it legal, they fucking did it Bravo, and you can't fucking admit
they're, they're killing already born kids, so you're telling me it isn't real
when they had a fucking vote in the God, in the goddamn fucking Senate, that's
the conspiracy theory that Bravo responds, I am ready to beat your fucking ass.
Jones answers.
You think you're fucking tough.
You're about to get it.
Bullshit.
They're killing already born babies.
Stop fucking lying.
God fucking damn it.
I'm getting pissed.
So Jones is going off.
Jones is fucking got a hinge at this point.
I'll beat your fucking ass.
He's fucking crazy.
Um, when, when contact for comment and info wars representative sent
Newsweek articles about late term abortion, including a slate report
dating to 2012, I'm going to give you the benefit of the doubt and assume
that you're simply ignorant and not malicious, mentally challenged.
Okay.
So Alex Jones is ranting.
This is back in 2019, clear conspiracy theorist.
And this is going to be used to, uh, restrict, restrict abortion
rights and all this shit.
It's going to make people, you can already see the narrative unfold.
This is what a leftoid would say is that Alex Jones need to be
censors because he's going to make things worse for women.
Okay.
Well, what actually, what came out recently.
So this came out, this came out, um, about a year ago, two
years after this rant happened, federal government caught buying
fresh flesh of aborted babies who could have survived as preemies.
So the U S government has been buying and trafficking
fresh aborted baby body parts.
Now, if you, if you believe that if he is as a baby, then the whole,
they're killing babies for their body parts, that language makes sense here.
So, um, these body parts purchased by the U S food and drug administration
to humanize mice and test biologic drugs in scientific experiments came
from babies up to 24 weeks old in gestation, just weeks from being born.
Uh, okay.
That's kind of crazy.
So records indicate that ABR waste not want not.
Waste not want not.
So they were going to get aborted anyways.
Yeah.
Um, so the company, so there's a company called ABR that makes millions.
This company makes millions every year by harvesting organs, like lungs,
livers, eyeballs, and brains from aborted babies and reselling them at profit.
ABR was paid $12,000 upfront per per box of babies.
Some of them were survivable outside of the womb.
Between the gestational age of 16 to 24 weeks, most purchases are
for intact thymuses and livers.
Yeah.
Intact thymuses and liver and livers shipped fresh and on wet ice.
The FDA doctor with the callousness of picking a cut of meat from a butcher
shop, an FDA doctor request tissue samples be procured from a baby boy.
As they claim, it is strongly preferred to have a male fetus if at all possible,
but undetermined sex or female is better than no tissue.
Okay.
So there's, there's, there's this stuff.
Now this, this is from the Federalist and the Federalist has,
has a right wing slant for sure.
So maybe, you know, maybe this is just like, who knows, right?
So we can keep going.
Here's Fox.
Fox is a more mainstream right-wing source, and this is six months later.
Um, six months after this previous report, millions in federal money
flowed to a tissue bank that collected fetal heart gonads, gonads, legs, and brain.
And this, this report came from the university university of Pittsburgh.
Yeah.
So the university of Pittsburgh, the department of health and human services
has funneled at least $2.7 million into a university of Pittsburgh project
that utilizes a tissue bank with Oregon's.
Okay.
So there's like, there's multiple organizations doing this
sort of thing right now.
Okay.
Um, I mean, yeah, it's, it's pretty, it's pretty oof.
Um, so Trump, Trump put a ban on it in 2019.
He banned it.
And this came out of the national library of medicine.
It was just basically a paper signed by some researchers who were
saying that we should not ban it.
And they were saying like this, this tissue is being aborted anyway.
Abortion is still legal in the United States.
And so as long as it's being aborted anyway, this tissue actually
is useful in medical experiments.
There have been good things to come out of it because there's
various medicines and studies and, and, and, and, and whatever the case
may be new data has come out of that has been come out of examining this stuff.
So we shouldn't be stopping it for a moral reason like that, because
they're getting aborted anyway.
And that was their point of view at the, um, at the national library for medicine.
So they, they wrote this paper saying here, we, the undersigned believe
that we should be able to use this, this tissue to solve these problems.
And they mentioned some HIV research that mentioned some other research.
So it's like, okay, fair enough.
Like there is obviously a benefit here.
Um, and then this happened April, 2021 Biden's national Institute of Health
has officially rescinded the ban on using fetal tissues and research on Friday.
So Trump banned it in 2019, Biden unbanned it in 2021.
So there's probably going to be a partisan going back and forth on the use of
these, these body parts for some time.
But the point being is that everyone was calling Alex Jones, a conspiracy theorist
back when he yelled and screeched this on the Joe Rogan show, but it turned
out to be at least kind of correct.
And that's the important part is that like, like you, you can, you can move
the goalposts and say, okay, it's true, but we just think it's good.
That's it, but yeah, exactly.
So like the, the, we do it and it's good conversation is a different conversation
than the, we don't do it conversation.
So they were saying, we don't do this.
It's so crazy.
Alex Jones is a conspiracy theorist, but it turns out he was
kind of right in that one.
All right.
So then you have to ask, well, what else has Alex Jones said that has turned out
to be true, at least partially, at least from like his own, from his own arguing
position, from his own point of view, from his own definitions, what else
has turned out to be correct?
Okay.
So build, this was back in 2015, Bill Gates is funding a birth control microchip
that lasts 16 years inside of your body and can be turned on or off with a remote
control now, Alex Jones has been talking about microchips in the body for like 20
fucking years now to say that people aren't looking into this just seems to be
ridiculous, yes, people are looking into this and the idea that you could like,
this sounds pretty convenient, right?
Like, Oh, what if, what if I could have a microchip and then for 16 years I can
control whether or not by touching a button on my phone app, whether or not I
can get a girl pregnant, that sounds pretty cool, but then you think about it.
Well, what if it's not you who has the app, but it's the government.
What if you suddenly the government is suddenly these chips are going into
everybody all the time and the government controls your fertility.
That doesn't sound very good either.
So like, yes, there's a convenience argument.
And then there's the, well, what if the Republicans come into power and make
everyone have kids or what if some crazy fucking progressive comes into power and
makes everyone sterile either way, like it should not be some central authorities
position whether or not you should have kids, period.
All right.
So, yes, that's just say that this technology has the real possibility of
getting used for evil and lots of it.
Yes, yes.
So this side, people are like Alex Jones has ranked about microchips and Bill
Gates, but you know what, some of it seems to be at least partially, partially true.
You know, this, this one was kind of goofy where the Australian health chief actually
used the phrase new world order in a speech.
I watched this video.
Um, but basically she says, we will be looking at what contract, we will be
looking at what contract tracing looks like in the new world order.
Yes, it will be pubs and clubs and other things if we have a positive case there,
but our response may be different if we know people are fully vaccinated.
So this is talking about COVID, COVID contact tracing, obviously, but she uses
the phrase new world order, a really dumb fucking phrase to use and the entire
internet lost their mind about it.
So this is probably more of a case of...
You think, you think, you think that these, these government officials would
avoid using those triggering terms.
Yes.
Yes.
And this, this is probably just like a really dumb fuck mistake and not
actually indicative of anything, but you know what it's...
It's like Trudell saying, oh, we're going to have the great reset.
Yes, yes.
Or you have like Klaus Schwab saying that he's injected people into the
cabinets of various, various, uh, various countries, you know, like shit like this
where it's like, it's possible that you guys are absolutely fucking evil or it's
possible you're really fucking dumb.
Like it's, it's possible.
Who knows?
You know?
Or they just might be so evil and they're like blatant about it.
Yes, that too.
That too.
Right.
You don't know.
So yeah.
Or they could just be like idiots, like you said.
Alex Jones has talked about semi comedically, like always ranting and
raving about how the, the 1%, you know, the globalists are sucking the blood of
young people to stay alive and then you have this shit happened in 2020.
Could young blood stop us from getting old?
And then you have like, you have like rich people who are like getting blood
infusions from young people.
They remember seeing that shit?
Like it's crazy.
Okay.
But what if, what if we could create young blood without harm?
And what if that worked?
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know.
Maybe, but still though, like we're not at that point yet.
And so, you know, should old people be getting, just like paying
for young blood transfusions?
I don't know about that.
That seems kind of ridiculous to me.
What if the young people get rich from doing that?
That's, that'd be a way of redistributing the wealth.
I mean, that's true.
That's true.
Right.
The, the, the issue there though, like the, the capitalist, the capitalist
in me says, yes, obviously, right.
Right.
But then, then you have like, like the argument against it seems to be more
of a lefty argument where it's like, even if they consent, it's still kind of
exploitative, but yes, this is a case of Alex Jones was probably right.
No, he was right.
Yes.
It's another Alex Jones was right.
If there's some, if there's some.
Backings towards it.
It's probably, yep.
So also, but then again, then again, that, that, uh, old people have a young blood.
That was in Simpsons too, wasn't it?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
This is a lot of this stuff is, has been floating around the comedy
sphere before it turned out to be real.
Um, Alex Jones's most famous quote is turning the frogs gay.
The chemicals are put in the waters, turn the frogs gay.
And then it turned out this came out male frogs may be turning into female.
Thanks to estrogen in suburban waste.
It, the frogs gay thing is at least the femboy fucking frogs.
Femboy Pepe's are out there guys.
So basically estrogen waste.
So, so the, the idea seems to be that, um, certain foods have a lot more estrogen in it.
Uh, women who take birth control, they piss out estrogen.
Um, so there's a lot more estrogen in the water supply right now.
And that might be leading to certain feminization of things like male, male
sperm counts are down, there's some hypothesis that that might be part of it.
We don't know yet.
Um, it's possible, it's not a conspiracy theory.
It's possible, but the frogs gay thing seems to be related to the amount
of human estrogen waste in the water.
So like,
it's very meme-y, but there is some truth to it.
Yes.
There's some, there's some truth to it, you know,
another, another dollar into the Alex Jones was right.
Regarding, regarding more implants, Pentagon has developed an implant
that can detect COVID that they put underneath your skin.
This came out last April, April, 2021.
So they've built a micro sensor that goes underneath your skin that
can detect your, your health situation.
They used it so that they invented it so that soldiers can be, have their
health monitor during, during a mission.
Um, which I could see how there'd be utility in that if you're, if you're a
soldier, but like, it's a pretty cool technology if it works, it's just, it's
just, it's just like, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's
the obvious question is what if it becomes mandatory?
Yes.
And also what if it becomes used on civilians and what if it becomes used
for more than just health and like, there's so many, like basically Alex
Jones talking about microchips and we are, we do seem to be heading slowly in
that direction.
Um, what else do we have?
Oh yeah.
So the WHO has published a guidance document for countries and implementing
partners on the introduction of digital vaccine certificates.
And the work was funded by, by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
and the Rockefeller Foundation.
So this came out of the WHO's website, digital documentation of COVID-19
certificates, vaccination status.
So back when COVID started, all of the conspiracy theorists, including Alex
Jones said they will never make vaccines mandatory, that was a lie.
They will never have vaccine passports, that was a lie.
They'll never push for digital ID and digital vaccine certificates.
That was a lie.
They'll never make you scan your phone going into a business to make, to ensure
that you had your vaccine, they'll never actually make you verify it constantly.
That was a lie.
They'll never restrict movement.
That was a lie.
Like so many things, they just, people, again, mostly leftists, people, when
COVID first hit, they're like, we'll never do this.
You're crazy for assuming it.
You're crazy for predicting it.
Even like, even like leftist YouTubers and stuff said that it was, it was right.
Misinformation and disinformation and conspiracy theories.
And these people are crazy.
They're, they're undermining public trust.
They need to be deplatformed fucking everything.
And it all came true.
It all came fucking true.
And I don't like being the guy who has to sit here and say that it came true,
but it came fucking true.
I've heard people say that, uh, COVID like passports was never going to be a thing.
And then it became a thing.
And then it became a thing.
Like we're not, we're not, we're not anti COVID or anti-vaxxers here.
It's not even that big of a deal personally, I think, unless, unless
they're like micro-tripping people.
It's just like a piece of paper that says, that says like, I, I got, I got a shot.
That's, that's fine.
They should have never denied it is what I'm saying.
Yeah.
Well, here's the issue now.
Never said, Oh, you're, you're crazy.
The issue now seems to be now that they've gone back in so many things and they've
tried to rewrite history so many times.
Now they're saying we will never microchip you.
So everyone is like hyper on edge and they're like, we know what's going on here.
We've seen the song and dance that has played out since, since early 2020.
You know what I mean?
Like everyone is now being like, I know, no, we know what's coming now.
You're saying that we're not going to do this.
Let's see what happens in a few years.
That's what everyone's saying now.
Yeah.
Um, and then finally the, the biggest, the biggest conspiracy of all the, the girls
were just so young, the horrors of Jeffrey Epstein's private Island, Alex Jones, Alex
Jones has been talking about the pedophiles in Hollywood and in the news and in the
ruling class for anybody.
And it was always just crazy conspiracy theories.
And then like the Epstein Island thing was, was probably the most blatant example
of it, where it happened.
We all know that it happened and everyone has agreed just not to talk about it.
You know what I mean?
Everyone has agreed not to look into it.
Every everyone has basically said, no, he clearly, he clearly hung himself, shut the
fuck up.
And like, everyone knows, everyone knows what, that it's a fiction.
Don't question it, don't look into it.
So this great meme was sent to me by, um, by Charles Kahn.
So how should you talk to friends and relatives who believe conspiracy theories?
Here's what you say, Hey bro, you were right about everything.
I'm sorry.
That's, that's how you fucking deal with someone like Alex Jones.
You just, you just admit it.
I guess, I guess that's the case.
Oh no.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's funny how hard our world works.
Yeah.
What seems to have happened though, my actual honest take on Alex Jones seems to
be something more like Alex Jones is kind of like Nostradamus, where he made a
billion predictions.
Most of them are wrong, but the ones are bound to be right.
Yeah.
Some of them are bound to be right.
And the ones that were right are like really high profile.
Yes.
They were really high profile.
The wrong side, the ones that he were, that he was wrong with was high profile
too, tiny hook shit that ruined him.
Yeah, that's true enough.
Yeah.
He also had some high profile hits, like the whole Epstein shit.
Yep.
Like I was talking about it, like after hearing about it, I probably didn't even
know he was the one who said it at first, but like, uh, I was, I was talking about
it back in my fucking 2017 or some shit earlier on, and it was like, I had, it
is just like, like these horrible things that these rich people are doing.
And it's just like, I get looked at and it's just like, I'm looking at,
looked at a lot of like, I'm crazy.
Like I'm like, this must be pre QAnon, but like if QAnon existed, I would
have probably got called bad too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know what you mean.
And the worst part is, is like the people who still call him just a conspiracy
theorist, they kind of it's like, what the fuck, like, what the fuck are you doing?
He is a character.
He's a, he is a conspiracy theorist, but he's also more than that, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, but you see people, so, so when it comes to the mainstream media, they're
protecting, they're, they are protecting their own interests.
They're going to say, Oh, obviously he's a conspiracy theorist.
You guys, but like, then you see, you see like some YouTubers though.
They like, you got like, YouTubers should know better at this point.
We're, we're more on the ground.
We're more like regular people.
We're, we kind of, we're kind of closer to things like you should know better.
We don't purport to be the arbiters of truth.
Yeah.
We're learning just like you, but it's why we, it's like, we're not the same as
like, like those big media profiles where it's just like, they have an entire team.
Yeah.
Where it's just like.
But also more importantly though, we don't have the same interest that they do
because they're, they're, they're, we don't have the same, we don't have the
people paying us.
Yeah.
It was just like, to tell us what to say and that type of shit.
Yeah.
Real Holzner for $5.
Thank you.
Alex Jones was right in the same way that you're bound to hit your target.
If you aim in the right general direction and are close up with a shotgun.
We're more on the ground is what I mean.
Yes.
Yes.
More on the ground in some ways.
Yeah.
But also like we're, we're less ideologically possessed.
Let's say, you know, like I'm not interested in.
We have our own personal biases, but we, we try to like, we don't have like people
telling us like, this is what you need to believe.
Yes, yes, exactly.
So like you have, you might have like a right wing pundit who are like, Alex
Jones is never wrong based.
He freaked out everything.
He knows, he knows what's going on.
Legitimately believe Alex Jones is like, chill the fuck out.
All right.
Then you also have like, like a left wing, like lefty tuber, like a
bread tuber or something.
And they might say something like, if you believe in anything that Alex
Jones says, you're a conspiracy theorist, Nazi, you're part of the problem.
You're radicalizing.
But it's like, both of you guys need to chill the fuck out.
All right.
Like just, just, just calm down.
It admitting that Alex Jones was right about some very bad things
does not make you a bad person.
It does not make you a conspiracy theorist.
It doesn't, it, you know, God, the truth is the truth regardless of
the political inconvenience of it.
The question is, has Alex Jones been more or less correct than
the general news companies?
I get that he looks more unhinged, but is he less correct than they were?
I actually don't know.
I think, I think what's actually going on.
I think what's actually going on here is that Alex Jones is, has been
more correct about things that the mainstream establishment has
been like vehemently denying.
It's like that never happened.
You can't say that happened.
You can't talk about like those kinds of topics.
Alex Jones has been correct about that.
And I think that's, that's important because if there was no stakes to
any of these stories and Alex Jones just said some wild shit, most
people would just ignore it.
Yeah, I think that's what seems, I think that's, what's going on here
is that where he's, where he's correct.
It seems to be kind of a big deal.
