Hello everyone, welcome to TikTok Tuesday. Before we get going, I want to announce two things just
very quickly. If you're watching this on release, I'll be streaming. I'm doing a Euro-friendly
gaming stream for once, which will be starting around 1pm my time, 6pm BritBonger time. And
secondly, the reason I'm doing that is because I'm going on WIC-TV's channel tonight. I'm going
to do another interview, I think with Brianna Wu again. There's always more things to talk about.
It always feels good to occasionally dip my toes into the Twitch politics sphere. So after you've
watched this video, please go and check those out. I really appreciate it. Let's get on with
the TikToks though. What have you guys sent me this week? Oh wait, wait, there's music. Hold on.
Okay. Decided I'm going to misgender my entire family on Thanksgiving so they know how it feels.
Okay. I mean, that can be kind of funny, right? However, just real quick, what gender is this
person? Is this one of those like women who are very clearly women just calling themselves
non-binary? Is that what this is? I don't know. Oh, it's a marriage.
Oh, wait, wait. What kind of wedding dress is that?
Even he's like, what the fuck? He's got to sit down for a minute.
I know it's supposed to be very traditional that the groom doesn't see the bride on the
wedding day, doesn't know what the dress looks like or anything. The surprise is a traditional
part of a wedding, I think. But I'm pretty sure in modern times, they don't do that anymore.
Isn't it normal for guys to have seen the wedding dress before the wedding actually starts
nowadays? I don't know. He looked legitimately surprised though. He's like, oh my God.
It looked like a maid outfit than an actual wedding dress. Confusing strangers and NPCs. Okay.
The wild animals are coming tonight. There's no way you'll be able to fight.
Oh, why? They're vicious. They're hungry. They want to eat the whole country.
What the fuck?
Is that just like acting intentionally cringe and awkward just to get people's reaction,
even though it makes no fucking sense? Is that becoming a thing again? It was a thing in like
2008, 2009. I remember it very well. Is it becoming a thing again? I hope not. Jesus Christ.
I have no clue what she's saying. I have no clue what she's saying.
I'm just going to mute her. I'm just going to mute her. I have no clue what she's saying, dude,
but like this is maybe Sargon and Akamek agent were right with the tomboy abs guys.
If this is the end result, if you stick your dick in this chick,
it will just come out flattened. We're at actual death by snooze new levels here.
The kids just giving him shit. Are we trying to play the game?
Like, I think he knows better than to actually confront the audience directly,
but you could tell he heard that when it was like, what the fuck?
You know, it's always kind of fun to see kids trolling and being little shits probably because
I was once a troll in little shit back in the day. Hi. Hi. My name is Tempest. I see
those pronouns. And if you don't want me to step on your toes. Yeah. Move your fucking feet.
What? Is that supposed to be a threat? Also, okay. That's a very feminine person. Yeah,
they're very old, right? But like it's still very feminine. What about them is they them?
Forget about the, the Neo pronoun bullshit. Like that's just fucking ridiculous. But like,
what about this person is in any way masculine. This is just a punk girl. We didn't consider,
we didn't consider punk, a different gender back in the two thousands guys. In fact,
I'm calling it now. They took away your punk and your goth GFS by turning them into not GFS at all.
This is an actual Nazi March on. There's some hidden faces. They could be glowies,
or they could just be wanting to hide there. Who knows? Right.
Nope. Well, whatever they are, they're marching around.
You know what? I don't like them, but if we're going to be having, you know,
other political groups, March around in the streets with masks and intimidating people,
this, this is, this is the world that we've built now. It's fucking disgusting. But here we are.
Whoa. A lot of them don't though. A lot of them haven't though.
I want to stab all of you to death as many times as I can. I want to stab you in the throat and
twist it like I'm carving a fucking pumpkin. I want to shred you into tiny fucking pieces.
I want to tear your fucking bones. Oh my God, dude. I want to scoop your brains out with a
fucking spoon. I want to eat your fucking flesh. Holy shit. Okay. How much of that is
just edulardism? How much of that is like pure schizophrenia? I don't know. But like,
there are, I know, it's not all of them. Obviously, there are definitely some violent
transphobes out there. But there's a lot of people that let's say trans activists call transphobes
that are actually decent people that just don't agree with you on this issue. Also,
this just seems like impotent rage, you know, this person's not ever gonna be able to do any of this.
They would probably like go to like swing a punch, and they just break their fit their
fist on someone's jaw. Like there's, there's no actual strength behind this. It's just impotent
rage. What's your body count? Hey, Grandpa, whatever you think it is. Only three. Only three.
Only three. Okay, what are you thinking it is? What do you think I'm asking? How many people I
killed? Listen, you gotta never ask an Italian that question. Okay.
That's a, that's a pretty big self report. Okay, hold on. Let's turn the music off.
Um, hold on. What? Wait, wait, what? Putting lipstick on your teeth. Why?
Okay, let's just skip over the fact that this person's very clearly male and
very male presenting wearing lipstick. Forget about that part. Why? Why put it on your teeth?
What's the purpose of that? Like, what? Okay, fine. We get it. We get it. You're wearing,
you're wearing lipstick. You want those blowjobs to look real nice. We understand.
But why? Why the teeth? What the fuck is the point of the teeth? Why would you like,
it looks like you've just been punching the face. Why would you ever match your teeth to your
lipstick? All right, so cheers to tricking that fucking dumb ass nigga. You can't say that,
you're white. This is for all trans women in the world to get this suspected. What's going on?
What the fuck?
Are you just, this is a hotel room, right? You're just trashing a hotel room?
I mean, it's nice that you recorded yourself committing the crime.
What the fuck is going on here?
Is this just going to be like this person trashing the hotel room?
Oh yeah, dude, just shove your foot in there when there's glass around. Good idea. This person's
a retard. Fuck. Okay. So I went and looked it up. Apparently this person went to a hotel room to
have sex with a guy. However, she didn't tell the guy that she was trans. And so he left because
he's like, I'm not interested in this. So he left. However, the hotel room was under his credit card.
So she got drunk with the alcohol that I guess he had brought and then decided to destroy the
hotel room because she was pissed that he wouldn't sleep with her. If you think guys take rejection
badly, it's another thing coming when you see some of these people. In fact, let me just play
the start of this video again real quick. All right, so cheers to tricking that fucking
dumb ass nigga. Cheers to tricking that dumb ass. Okay. So even she is framing this as if she
tricked him. I know that some people in the trans community think the word trap is transphobic
because it implies that trans women are trying to trap guys. But even she's saying it. I got scammed.
PlayStation five. That's a PS2 game though. That's not a PS5. That's like a
fan or a router or like an air exchangers and hold on. PS5 Spider-Man 2 box.
Inside of it is the Spider-Man 2 PS2 game and I'll pause it. Let's see. That looks like
a fan or a dehumidifier or something. You know what I mean? You go on Facebook marketplace,
you go on Craigslist or whatever and they're just like, hey, 20 bucks, PS5. Don't ever take that
deal. What the fuck? Okay, was that real? Like that could have been CG'd or something or like
AI'd, right? Like, I mean, I guess if you really want to look cool, you could do that. But like,
that's fucking stupid, dude. One wrong slip up and you're done. I got to watch that again. Hold on.
It doesn't look fake. He just hops up. Fuck, dude. A heart attack just watching it.
Okay, so in November, I decided I no longer wanted to be a responsible parent.
Okay. I was just tired of being responsible and caring for them. I felt like I was too young and
I wanted to go out there and experience life. This piece of shit. So it just didn't fit with
my new lifestyle. Yeah. And I didn't have anything to worry about because the other parent is a very
responsible parent. But now I'm here because now I'm in child support and to top it off,
I'm really pissed off that I took care of them all the way up to November and I couldn't claim
them on my taxes because the other parent had already claimed them. Child support is
anti-feminist and anti-woman, guys. It's preventing her from living her best life.
What a terrible fucking piece of shit, human dude. You're an adult that comes with responsibilities.
That's how it is. Take care of your fucking kids. Hey. Hey. So we're having a real debate
right here. Okay. I am non-binary. I am a non-binary woman. Non-binary woman. Got it.
Kinda. I have a vagina owner. And my husband tells me consistently that he is a cis man
that likes vagina. Yeah, what's wrong with that? It's disgusting. And that's how he
identifies as a straight cis man. What's wrong with that? I find it offensive. What?
That my husband sees himself as straight. You're a woman. He's married to someone who is
non-binary. You just said you're a non-binary woman. I'm not a woman. You just said you're
a woman. So you're not straight. You're actually queer. And he won't acknowledge that. What the
fuck? He won't give me the acceptance of, yes, I understand we are a queer marriage and I am
inherently queer because I am attracted to all vagina owners, not just girls. What the fuck?
He likes non-binary spectrum women. Non-binary people, no gender, that have a vagina. He just
likes vagina. He just does not like penis. That makes him straight. So what he's saying is kind
of an insult to the LGBT community, honestly. Oh my God, dude. That he's not willing to accept
our marriage is queer because I'm non-binary and I'm pansexual. He would inherently be pansexual.
Oh my God. Am I wrong? Yeah. Because he likes anyone, not based on genitalia,
but he likes them for who they are in the heart. He just said it's based on genitalia. Yeah,
vagina owners. That's based on genitalia. So what is he? And is this offensive? This can't
be fucking real. No, I think this one's actually real. Usually I ask, is this a troll? I think
this one's real. I know a guy, who's a straight guy, who is dating a non-binary woman. And this
non-binary woman is very tomboyish. And honestly, probably would just call themselves a tomboy had
it been 10 or 15 years ago, but now non-binary is in the lexicon. But this guy's like,
yeah, I'm straight. And even the person he's with says, yeah, it's ridiculous to call a relationship
anything other than a straight relationship. I have to make this video at some point of what
queer actually means because queer is just the political aspect of being LGBT. The relationship
described in this TikTok is just a straight relationship. It's penis and vagina, male and
female. It's just a straight relationship, but you have this political identification
overlaying on top of it. You have people who are frankly, just they're just straight
and they're just cis and they're calling themselves LGBT because they've adopted a certain
political point of view that allows them inclusivity without actually being gay or trans
or bi. It's wild dude. I got to talk about this at some point. Not today though, because TikTok
Tuesday is over. Thanks very much for being here guys. Like I said at the start, you're watching
this on release, I'm streaming, so come by and say hi and I'll be on WIC TV tonight. So I hope
you enjoy all that stuff. I'll see you there guys. Have a good one. I love you.
