Hey! Did you know that everyone is gay for Bridget? Yeah, that's a really old meme.
If you're a Zoomer, you're not going to know the deep lore.
In 2002, the fighting game Guilty Gear XX came out, adding to the roster what is undoubtedly
the series' most famous character, Bridget.
The TLDR of the story is, Bridget was born in a village with a superstition that frowned
upon same-sex twins. So in order to avoid getting cursed, Bridget was raised as a girl
by his parents.
When he became old enough, he ran away, became a bounty hunter, and desired to return home
one day after becoming successful, to prove to his parents that the superstition was false.
But as a result of his upbringing, he looks, acts, and sounds quite feminine.
Bridget is the origin of the term trap. Yeah, from 20 years ago. The whole point of the
character is that everybody thinks he's a girl, but he's not. And this was generally
played for laughs and Guilty Gear, with straight men becoming embarrassed for their attraction
to him.
The 2000s saw a lot of Bridget fan porn, both men and women cosplaying as him. The Everybody's
Gay for Bridget meme highlighting his ability to attract and confuse straight men, as well
as the Dropped a Bridget on Him saying, which refers to a shocking gender reveal scene in
a piece of media.
The name Dropped a Bridget on Him is a cross between, well, Bridget, and the saying Dropped
a Bridge on Him, which is a trope where a character is written out of a story and given
an unceremonious quick death to get it over with, often because the actor left the show.
Despite this, the phrase Dropped a Bridge on Him comes from Captain Kirk's death in
Star Trek Generations, which wasn't unceremonious or quick, but was still a little bit odd.
Nobody expected him to die like a redshirt.
In any case, Bridget is a trap. You're gay for liking Bridget.
This stuff permeated 2000s era internet culture, and it was one of the first real instances
of acceptance of the idea of what we would now call gender nonconformity, at least among
males. We had tomboys before, yeah, but nothing for men.
It might be teasing and kinda rude, but that was the nature of acceptance back in the day.
Everybody takes their lumps to become a part of the crowd, and Bridget was a fan favorite,
specifically because of how the character played with gender.
In an interview in Anime Expo in 2009, the creator of Bridget, Daisuke Ishiwatari, was
asked if he anticipated Bridget's popularity. This was his reply through a translator.
There were already other good-looking and tough characters, so I added a cute character.
However, a lot of fighting games already had the token cute character, so I wanted something
unconventional. So I made a cute character that's a guy.
The big surprise was that it didn't matter. Bridget still has a huge following.
There's nothing here about representation or whatever, it was just done on a whim, because
it was interesting and new. I can respect that. Make whatever you want to make.
But the recent shit show about Bridget is that he was added into the latest game, Guilty
Gear Strive, as a DLC character. And there are a lot of very loud, vocal individuals
online right now, insisting that Bridget is not a trap, or a femboy, or any other sort
of feminine man, but is in fact a trans woman. And they use these clips from the English
version of the game to say so
Fair enough. That sounds a lot like Bridget is dejected when he says I'm a boy, and is
very happy, like a weight is off his shoulders, when he says girl is fine because I'm a girl.
This is being treated as Bridget's coming out moment. Bridget is trans guys. If you
spread any of those old memes around, you're a transphobic bigot. We're going to lock
down the Guilty Gear wiki and prevent anybody from talking about it, because Bridget is
trans and the person who's an admin on the site is also trans. Also if you have any complaints
about any of this, you're a nerdy man baby who is worrying too much about fictional characters,
and the world is changing and leaving you behind. Well, yeah it actually doesn't matter
if people make Bridget trans or not, it is just a game. Just like the pride flag in Spider-Man
is also just a game.
But when somebody draws Black Panther as a white man, or posts an old image of Bridget
being a trap, these people scream bloody fucking murder. So clearly they think it matters,
and they're hoping you will take the bait of it doesn't matter, so that they can do
what they like without any pushback.
More importantly, let's examine the actual situation here. People are saying that the
Bridget comes out as a girl scene is from a bad ending and therefore we should laugh
at the people who consider this to be canon. That's actually not true. In Guilty Gear,
the endings in Arcade mode are all canon. They each reveal a different part of the story,
but none of them actually overwrite each other. For example, Bridget's three endings
in Guilty Gear XX each tell a different story, where Bridget brings a reward back to the
village, where Bridget befriends the jellyfish pirates, and where Bridget is hit on by Johnny.
But in the next game, it's canon that all three of these endings happened, and none
of them actually prevent the others from being true and some kind of consistency problem.
This is how the games are written. Each ending provides a different story point, and to get
the full story you watch all of the endings. And some people are using the clips where
Bridget says I'm a boy to counteract the clips where Bridget says I'm a girl. And
at that point it's just cherry picking what you want to hear. But nonetheless, I still
don't think that Bridget is trans or a woman. I do think that Bridget is still the same
femboy trap he's always been. And here's why. The Japanese internet, and more importantly
ArcSys in Japan, still refers to him as a boy. In Japanese, he's specifically referred
to as an otokonoko. Yeah, y'all knew this word was coming. It means male daughter. Otokonoko
is a type of gender nonconformity unique to Japan, but it's explicitly not trans. Otokonokos
are still men, they're just feminine men. They've adopted a feminine role, but they
don't consider themselves women. And while the English version of Bridget's final line
is translated as a triumphant coming out moment, the Japanese one has added context. Otokonoko
will often refer to themselves as girls, specifically in this type of playful way, not because they
actually consider themselves girls, but more as a playful aesthetic flourish. And there's
probably a few weirdos out there who will say that this point is cope, she's obviously
trans. But you know, this actually happens regularly outside of Japan. How often do gay
effeminate men call themselves, or other gay effeminate men, girl? How often do drag queens
refer to themselves as girls, or ladies, or queens, obviously? None of this is an expression
of transness, of the desire to be a different physical sex, or of gender dysphoria. It's
all playful expressions of gender nonconformity. People are even saying that because the symbol
on Bridget's design was changed from a male one, that's got to be proof that he's trans.
But this isn't the trans symbol, it's the androgyny symbol which Otokonokos use in Japan.
A lot of the woke's gold replies to these points have an undercurrent of the idea that
Japanese people don't know how to do transness correctly, and that being Otokonoko is being
trans, even if both the Otokonokos themselves and the culture that spawned the idea disagrees.
At that point it feels like it's not about representation, but about cultural colonization.
And that's because it is! Let me show you how.
Lilith nailed it on the head back in 2018, when she tweeted this now-deleted banger.
In just half a decade, anime traps and dick girls have done more for the normalization
and popularization of feminine boys and trans women within the western zeitgeist than social
justice has since its inception. She nuked the tweet because the trans activists and
woke's golds were raging like mad at her. But this is a true statement. Bridget's
gold popularity and the current fan backlash can attest to that.
While Bridget was portrayed as a trap back in the day, testament from the same game series
was basically non-binary or some flavor of genderless before that was even a thing. In
earlier games he was portrayed as an androgynous man. People used he and him to refer to him,
and he was male, but he was more than happy looking and behaving like he was in between.
But in modern games he's been revisioned due to an in-story event which actually made
him biologically sexless. And yeah there was a little bit of fan backlash when this
happened too.
I think what's happening here is that people just like the idea of playing with gender
outside of the bounds of transness. There's a lot of gender stuff out there that isn't
strictly hyper-masculine or hyper-feminine that at one point existed separate from transness.
And the people who both liked those characters and viewed themselves in that way in real
life also preferred existing outside of the trans sphere.
But in recent years there's been a concerted cultural push to make everything that isn't
strictly man or woman trans, and that's not good. In other words, you can't have a feminine
male character anymore without the trans lobby demanding they be trans. And yeah they don't
actually care about Bridget or Testameter Guilty Gear.
My friend Dimitri Munro, who's actually a femboy IRL, does a lot of good videos on this
topic way more in-depth than me, but we can scratch the surface here for our purposes.
The manga I Think I Turned My Childhood Friend Into a Girl took that girl character, who
is an otokonoko in the original, and the plot, which was about two gay men falling
in love, one of whom was a trap, and through translation shenanigans, in English rewrote
the story to be about a trans woman. Or how Naoto in Persona 4 is a tomboy who wants to
exude a tough presence because she's entering into a male-dominated profession, and she
was rewritten by English translators to be a trans man.
The most striking example is probably the most famous trap after Bridget, a Stolfo from
Fate. He explicitly says I am a man multiple times despite looking and acting girly, and
yet he's often considered a symbol of anti-transness online, simply because he's not trans.
The word trap is considered a slur against trans people, which is why the Are Traps Gay
kerfuffle from years ago was a thing. And when femboy began to replace trap as a word
used to describe feminine men, femboy began to be considered a slur in the same way. The
ethic that these people are operating under is, if you're not a traditionally masculine
man or feminine woman, if you're playing with gender in any way, you have to be trans,
or else you're offensive to trans people. What's really behind it, though, is simply
craving the cultural power that comes with representation.
The reason a Stolfo is the most striking example for our purposes is because Fate actually
has trans characters already, who are pretty good representation for that demographic.
But a Stolfo is popular. He's the face of the series, and so they want him. It's not
for representation's sake. If it were, they would know who they're already represented
by. It's for cultural colonization. It's for the cultural power that comes with the representation
being pushed front and center. And their pursuing this power makes for some, uh, really weird
scenarios. For example, in Cowboy Bebop, the character
of Gren is a former super soldier, who, as a side effect of the drugs he was given to
become a super soldier, has grown breasts. But he's still a man, and his arc in the
show deals with his PTSD, how his society basically sacrificed their veterans and threw
them away. And when he's mistaken for a woman or insulted by being called one, there's
a lot attached to that. But in the god-awful live-action Cowboy Bebop
show, Gren is reimagined as a proud, out, flamboyant, non-binary character. If the message
is that you can be abused and mistreated into gender non-conformity, that's not a
very positive way of looking at this topic. In fact, that's the weirdest thing about
this whole Bridget controversy. Terminally online twitteroids who are demanding that
Bridget is trans. You gotta know what this means, right? It means that Bridget is literally
a grooming victim. You could post him on Libs of TikTok and they'd actually be completely
correct for once. His story is that he was forced to be a girl by his parents to prevent
a religious superstition. And his entire arc is trying to get away from that life. Where
exactly is the positivity about Bridget being trans? Are you really okay with your trans
representation being a person who was socialized and tortured into being trans? Aren't you
just giving ammo to the conversion therapy fucks who want to do the same to you to make
you the other gender too? It seems like the online trans activists can't help but shoot
themselves in the foot every time this happens. This Bridget stuff was funny, and yeah, at
the end of the day, it doesn't really matter. If ArcSIS comes out and directly says, yes,
Bridget is trans, fine, it's just a game. These people still seem unhinged that this
is the story they want. Oh well, at least it made going back and watching old Markiplier
videos have a bit of an extra edge to them.
Are traps gay?
