Kibi Farms is, or was, I don't know if it's coming back, a forum dedicated to the discussion
of lolcows.
A lolcow is a person the forum designates as worthy of following solely to laugh at
their exploits.
The people they follow range from YouTubers and streamers to celebrities and journalists,
to people who just happen to have a large Twitter following sometimes.
They began as the Cwicky forums, CWCicky forums, I don't know, devoted to the following of
Chris Chan and laughing at all of the ridiculous drama that came out of him, but gradually
evolved to keep tabs on pretty much everyone.
I can understand the Kiwi Farms impulse, frankly, they're a bunch of autistic data hoarders,
and so am I.
They like to watch a good trainwreck, just like I do.
But Kiwi Farms is, overall, an extremely distasteful place.
They're rude and bigoted beyond belief towards the people they follow.
They engage in regular troll operations against people who fall under their eye.
They stalk, they dox, and they're not above IRL harassment, including 4chan prank shit
like ordering a bunch of pizzas and taxi cabs to someone's house.
Now, the users of Kiwi Farms are also smart enough not to post that shit on the site,
like saying, her, der, I just sent PewDiePie 100 pizzas.
So they outwardly appear to be innocent.
But come on, how dumb do you think I am?
I've got a thread on Kiwi Farms, for no real reason, frankly.
I have no drama, no skeletons in my closet, with the exception of, I guess, being horrendous
with deadlines for projects, and some people in my community are kind of mad about that.
Fair enough.
The vast majority of my thread is just made-up bullshit, and it's pretty funny to see what
internet schizos think about you sometimes.
In case you guys ever get your site back, the next time you want to do weird sex rumors
about me, you might want to remember that Naomi isn't Lilith and Naomi isn't trans.
But overall, I'm not too bothered regarding what they say about me because I know it's
not true.
Nonetheless, I still don't like Kiwi Farms.
They've bothered a few of my friends, and their thread's coming up under the Google
search for my friends' real names has caused quite a few IRL problems.
And even if the people I cared about weren't affected, I would still consider the site
an absolute cesspit.
It is wild the length that these people can go to to throw false rumors around and wreck
people's lives.
Multiple people have committed suicide, with the media blaming Kiwi Farms for it.
June 29th, 2016.
Julie Terryberry hung herself, with news articles speculating that it was Kiwi Farms' obsessive
documenting of her life that led to it.
June 19th, 2018.
Chloe Sagal set herself on fire.
Kiwi Farms began documenting her life in 2013, after there was evidence she took money
from her indie game fundraiser and used it instead on gender-affirming surgery.
On June 27th, 2021, another trans indie dev going by the online handle of Nier also killed
themselves after getting harassed by Kiwi Farms.
There's a chicken-and-egg conversation here regarding Kiwi Farms' involvement.
Clearly, what they're doing is morally reprehensible.
But many people get shit on by Kiwi Farms and don't kill themselves.
Me, Sargon, Destiny, Ethan Ralph, Vaush.
If you're even a D-tier E-celeb, you've got a Kiwi Farms threat.
And most people aren't offing themselves when a Kiwi Farms user shows up in the chat
to be a little weiner.
So it seems to be factually incorrect to say that Kiwi Farms killed these people, or even
that Kiwi Farms drove them to suicide.
These are people who already had lifelong problems.
Chloe Sagal was homeless at the end of her rope.
Nier was extremely depressed and dysphoric.
Before Kiwi Farms ever got involved with these people, they were already spiraling downward.
In fact, it was the opportunity to laugh at their downward spiral that attracted Kiwi
Farms to them in the first place.
This doesn't absolve Kiwi Farms, but it's entirely possible that these people would
have killed themselves anyway.
In case I'm not being clear enough, I don't approve of what Kiwi Farms does.
And yet, the title of this video is, In Defense of Kiwi Farms.
Because as distasteful and grotesque as they are, I do think that sticking to my principles
means that I need to draw a line somewhere.
And that line has to be forcing Kiwi Farms offline.
In order to talk about this, we've got to talk about keffles.
I will have to do a full video on her at some point, because she's also a truly grotesque
person who has hurt a lot of people.
But that's not for today.
Today, we're only going to focus on her campaign to get Kiwi Farms kicked off the
internet.
On August 5th, 2022, keffles was swatted at her home in Ontario, Canada.
Her description of this event changed multiple times.
First, keffles said she woke up to an assault rifle pointed at her face.
Then later, while being interviewed for global news, she said that she had the rifle pointed
at her in the hallway of her house.
The police later clarified in a public statement, saying that officers did not conduct what
is sometimes referred to as a dynamic entry into keffles' residence.
Rather, they knocked on the door, announced themselves as police, and occupants answered.
Kefles was arrested for uttering threats based on information officers had at the time.
She was polite and cooperative.
The proof
for this is an evidence bag using her former family name, which she was able to show to
global news.
The police's statement cleared this up, too.
While I can't confirm any conversations which might have transpired during keffles'
initial arrest, activity in our holding cells is monitored by audio and video equipment.
At no time while she was in our holding cells did members of our police service address
keffles by her dead name and gender.
I have personally reviewed the recordings and found our officers were polite, respectful,
and professional.
The reference to keffles' former name appears to stem from the existence of prior police
reports.
Police are not normally notified when somebody legally changes their name.
It appears the bag in which keffles' personal property was held in was labeled with her
dead name for tracking purposes.
In other words, keffles has a record from before she transitioned and her old files
hadn't been updated because, presumably, she hadn't been arrested since then.
What the actual swatting was, was two 911 calls directing the cops to keffles' house
with the claim she was going to shoot up city hall, along with an extremely cringe letter
that reads like a person who's never encountered a trans person before trying to write in the
voice of a trans person who hates cis people.
It's pretty clearly a troll op, but I understand the police have to take these things seriously.
The media attention keffles gained from basically lying about all the details of her arrest
eventually ballooned into a $100,000 GoFundMe for keffles' legal fund against the police
department for being the victim of a hate crime.
Kefles moved out of her residence into a hotel, but she posted pictures of the hotel room
online.
Those pictures were reposted on kiwi farms.
People discovered what hotel it was in those pics, and began ordering pizzas to her room.
She moved again, this time to an Airbnb, and her Uber account got hacked to send her food.
After this, she moved to Northern Ireland, where she stupidly posted her location again,
when somebody local to the area who follows these troll communities showed up at her
apartment building.
I really do have sympathy for people who get doxxed, but if you are repeatedly posting
identifiable information after it happens multiple times, then it's either one of
two possibilities.
One, you're incredibly, ridiculously fucking stupid.
Or two, you actually want this to happen, because maybe you love the media attention.
Maybe it's good for your channel.
Maybe you've got a fundraiser for legal fees that's funding a two-month vacation
to Northern Ireland.
What you don't do, though, is start setting up an IRL streaming backpack, unless you're
actually trying to monetize these people who are following you around, which requires that
they don't lose your trail.
Anyway, Kefles is claiming that this all comes from Kiwi Farms.
And fair enough.
When Kefles posts her hotel room to social media, and then it gets posted to Kiwi Farms,
and then suddenly pizzas show up, there's a missing link there.
There's nobody in the Kiwi Farms Kefles thread screaming, I am the one who ordered the pizzas,
but it's a reasonable assumption that somebody there did it.
The question has to be asked, though, whose fault is it?
I mean, it's clearly the fault of the guy who did the ordering, obviously.
But is it Kiwi Farms' fault for hosting the images that Kefles herself made public?
I don't think so.
I don't intend for anybody to do anything whenever I publish a video.
In fact, I explicitly say, don't bother the people I'm talking about.
But if one of you listening decides to be an idiot and go against my wishes, is it my
fault?
No, of course not.
Because I'm me, and you're you.
Taking Kiwi Farms down doesn't mean the individuals who are actually responsible have vanished
off the planet.
And yet, Kefles moved to take Kiwi Farms down.
Following the trending hashtag, Drop Kiwi Farms, they started by targeting Cloudflare,
the domain register for KiwiFarms.net.
Cloudflare initially resisted, saying it would set a bad precedent for a private corporation
to be the judge of what legal content is and isn't allowed on the internet, a stance that
I agree with.
That was the whole point of the net neutrality fight, which progressives agreed with back
then, but they were never interested in neutrality, only dominance.
Eventually, though, Cloudflare gave in, replacing KiwiFarms.net with a splash page, stating
that Kiwi Farms is an imminent threat to human life.
I understand how they came to that conclusion, considering the suicides linked to Kiwi Farms,
but I want to make it clear, those were only linked to Kiwi Farms by the media.
And Kefles' claims about Kiwi Farms are also only backed up by her friends in the media
as well.
Jesse Singal, a freelance journalist who formerly worked for New York Magazine, did a deep dive
into Kefles' claims about Kiwi Farms.
Singal read the entirety of her Kiwi Farms thread, over 50,000 posts.
Many of the posts were toxic, inflammatory, and certainly transphobic.
It's not illegal, though, nor should it be, and it's also not anything that is a direct
violent utterance or an imminent threat to human life.
Singal found only two posts that fit Cloudflare's definition.
In both cases, the entire forum turned on these people for being glowies in fed posters,
with new accounts that seem to have only been made to go into Kefles' thread and plant
these very posts.
No idea who did it, but considering that other flash-in-the-pan internet woke-scolds with
absolutely no morals, like Anita Sarkeesian and Brianna Wu, have both posed as themselves
and directed hate towards themselves to further their goals, I personally wouldn't be surprised
if it came out in the future that this was her or one of her pals.
This is not to say that Kiwi Farms isn't a driver of harassment, it certainly is.
There's a lot of toxicity over there, but there's a huge difference between this website
is really nasty and mean and I don't like what they say about me, and this website is
an imminent threat to human life.
Though it is likely, there's no proof that Kiwi Farms users are the ones harassing Kefles.
It could be fans of The Quartering or Destiny, two other internet personalities who also
have beef with her.
It could be any number of other random trolls on the internet.
And even if there is proof that it's Kiwi Farms users, that's not proof that Kiwi
Farms itself is responsible.
Considering that none of it actually happens on Kiwi Farms, Kiwi Farms only documents it.
That's like saying, if I get murdered, the form that my murderer posts on is guilty of
murdering me if other users there talk about my murder.
It's a ridiculous standard.
But nonetheless, Kefles' drop Kiwi Farms operation was a success.
Cloudflare is not allowing KiwiFarms.net to return.
Joshua Moon, the owner of Kiwi Farms, moved his domain hosting to Russia under KiwiFarms.ru,
though that is also experiencing some problems.
The physical servers hosting Kiwi Farms itself are in a server farm in Ukraine, something
that Kefles is aware of because she implied that the servers should be bombed as a part
of the current Russian-Ukrainian war.
Yes, that is a real thing she said.
If I have any Ukrainian followers, here is the phone number and address for where Kiwi
Farms is currently hosted.
Do your thing.
The site is down, but I know Joshua Moon has expressed warm sentiments to Vladimir Putin
and the site has many Russian supporters on it.
I would let them know this.
So the main reason you might think that Kiwi Farms is somehow responsible for what's happened
to Kefles and others, solely because they've documented and laughed at the events, is because
we all know what a wink and a nudge looks like.
But if that is your standard, then if you apply it to Kefles here, she's literally
supporting terrorism, calling on Ukrainian partisans to bomb a server in their own country
because of apparently pro-Russian posts on it.
This is why Kefles is one of the single most revolting people on the internet.
It's got nothing to do with her being trans, I don't give a shit about that.
It's because she does everything that Kiwi Farms does and more.
But unlike Kiwi Farms, she's got the protection of the progressive establishment on her side,
being both trans and a member of Canada's Communist Party.
Like Kiwi Farms, Kefles spreads false rumours about people in an attempt to destroy their
lives.
Like Kiwi Farms, Kefles is fine with harassing people and gloating about their nervous responses
to it.
Like Kiwi Farms, Kefles is fine with her enemies getting swatted in exactly the same way she
did.
Like Kiwi Farms, Kefles is fine with her enemies getting doxxed and the family members of her
targets losing their jobs.
And it's not just her, it's the entire community that she fosters.
Just as they all accused Joshua Moon of fostering a terrible community in Kiwi Farms.
One of Kefles' mods doxxed chud logic by posting a picture of his face.
This wasn't public info.
Another one, NE43, went hard on Destiny's Wikipedia article, trying desperately to get
allegations of him working in coordination with Kiwi Farms to attack Kefles, despite
Destiny having his own thread on the site, using two news articles as sources, both of
which were published by those journo friends of Kefles, and both of which only use Kefles'
word as their source.
Destiny seems to be Kefles' next target.
Now that she's got the power to destroy Kiwi Farms and has no moral scruples about stooping
to their level to do it, why would she stop?
Destiny has made 41% jokes about me, accused me of being a rapist, accused me of being
a pedophile, and is now actively mocking me for being a childhood grooming victim.
I do not regret at all my role in getting him deplatformed from Twitch because he deserves
worse.
What's worse than losing your job, Kefles?
Assaulted?
Tortured?
Murdered?
What are we talking here?
Even if everything you're saying about him is true, and it's not, it's all just speech,
it's all shit that you've also done to other people.
One thing I will say about Kiwi Farms is, they don't actively lie.
They may get things wrong.
They may offer their own speculation.
That's not the same thing as purposefully lying, as saying something that they know
to be false.
They're there to digitally document and make fun of the real happenings of real people,
and their community doesn't take kindly to liars.
They aim for accuracy.
But I can't even give that to Kefles.
She's completely fine with saying things she knows are false in order to try and get her
eyes out of Destiny.
And considering that she's now spitting up a false narrative that Destiny is intimately
involved with Kiwi Farms, I have to wonder, is this a case of Kefles just destroying all
the people who have ever spoken out against her grotesque behavior?
Or is this just Destiny Derangement Syndrome?
Kiwi Farms is a horrendous place, filled with some very morally ugly people.
It has caused my friends a lot of problems.
But on principle, I must say that I hope it overcomes these issues and makes a return.
It is a scary world we live in, if the loudest, most abusive, woke scold can just bully a
website off the internet because she doesn't like getting flack while at the same time
behaving exactly like them and terrorizing her own targets.
At the end of the day, Kefles did not deserve to get doxed or swatted.
On some level, I have no sympathy for her.
She's legitimately as bad as Kiwi Farms.
Both of them should still be around to continue spewing their toxicity because that's what
free speech is.
But it's unironically an abortion of justice that Kiwi Farms is gone and Kefles isn't gone
along with them.
