Jordan Peterson is a Nazi
Of course, this is something that we've heard for years now. Ever since Jordan Peterson's
psychology lectures started getting a whole bunch of views online back in I think 2014 or 2015,
and he started to become known for being a self-help guy, and regardless of what you
think of his takes on philosophy or religion, his self-help advice generally does seem to work.
But politically, he represents a fundamentally liberal point of view, which got him into some
trouble when he spoke out against the compelled speech legislation happening in Canada at the
time. So the left calls him a fascist, not because he actually is a fascist, but because the left is
so far off the political spectrum that liberals and fascists look to be the exact same thing.
So this happened a couple days ago, where Jordan Peterson says,
what the hell, to a segment of a Captain America comic where Red Skull is portrayed as a YouTuber
and... I can't believe we're talking about this, this is ridiculous. Red Skull is a YouTuber who's
currently, you know, speaking, and it seems quite angrily speaking at the viewer, in a video called
10 Rules for Life. The linked videos on the side are Chaos and Order, Carl Luger's Genius,
and the Feminist Trap. It's not exactly subtle, Jordan Peterson's book is 12 Rules for Life and
Antidote to Chaos, and his second book is 12 More Rules for Life Beyond Order. For those of you who
don't know about the Captain America lore, Hydra was founded as a component of the Nazi war machine
and Red Skull is a German. It later broke off to be its own thing in future stories after the Second
World War, but it definitely has a fascist component. So let me get this straight, let me
get this straight, Marvel, you're saying that Jordan Peterson, a psychologist, somebody who is
by modern political sensibilities a very generic conservative, somebody who writes positive
messages for men because he believes, in my opinion rightly so at least to some extent,
that there is not enough, I don't know, positive energy going towards men right now. There's a lot
of focus on toxic masculinity, and let's be honest here guys, you can't really argue with the
existence of toxic masculinity. The wife beater, the tyrannical father, the rapist, the corrupt
king, these are all parts of masculinity that are indeed toxic, but there is obviously a positive,
non-toxic, wholesome, flourishing masculinity as well, and the problem of toxic masculinity is not
solved by becoming feminine, but it is by becoming positively masculine. But anyway, Marvel is
comparing Red Skull, the Nazi, to Jordan Peterson, the honestly very mild-mannered person. Here's the
full page, Captain America says, let me guess, your brother, he disappears into the internet,
and when he comes back out, he can't stop talking about his new theory of the world,
and that theory comes from one man, Jordan Red Skull Peterson. It's the same for all of them,
young men, weak, looking for purpose, I found the flag, you found the badge, they found the skull.
He tells them what they've always longed to hear, that they're secretly great, that the whole world
is against them, that if they're truly men they'll fight back, and bingo, that's their purpose,
that's what they live for, and that's what they die for. This page is only presenting Red Skull's
position without actually refuting it, because the honest truth is, if you remove all of the
avenues for a person to actually, you know, find purpose, find meaning in their lives,
they are going to gravitate towards something that's destructive. That seems obvious, right?
Like, if there's no longer any virtue in being a good worker, or being a good entrepreneur,
or being a good inventor, or being a good father, then why would men play your game?
Why wouldn't they just say, fuck you, I'll do whatever I want? If society is failing men,
then you cannot blame them when they decide to shift their interest to something that they feel
does not fail them. Jordan Peterson's message is largely positive, but this comic says that instead
of Jordan Peterson, these people are going towards the Red Skull. So let's listen to the Red Skull's
message. What has happened to the men of the world is truly one of the great tragedies of our time.
Once the American man was a conqueror, now he is but a caretaker. And a caretaker of what? He
stands for some amorphous dream, a dream of nothing. But what I offer you is more than just
some petty dream, more than a life of tending the hearth. No more shall women be summoned to
fight your battles. I offer steel for your spine and iron for your gut. I offer you the
sword of manhood. Worst part about it is, um, that's actually not all that objectionable to
somebody who's not an insane fucking radical. Like, let's go over it, okay?
Once the American man was a conqueror, now he's a caretaker. You could see some negativity in that.
I understand, you know, being a conqueror is, there's glory in it, but it's also not necessarily
good, especially for the conquered peoples. And clearly we do not really live in an age where
colonization is considered acceptable anymore because liberalism has progressed our morals to
that point. So I understand his position. A caretaker of what? He stands for some amorphous
dream, a dream of nothing. I mean, yeah, when you take away every positive thing that people have
about themselves, what do you expect happens? What I offer you is more than just some petty
dream, more than a life of tending the hearth. No more shall women be summoned to fight your battles.
I think this would resonate with people just because there is, you know, a psychological
need to go on an adventure, to do something new. Not everything has to be an adventure,
but there is definitely a call to adventure. That's the whole point of the hero's journey
and storytelling. And also I've noticed when it comes to the creative spaces,
progressives absolutely hate the hero's journey. There is a hatred of heroism on the left because
fascists legitimately do glorify heroism, but so do liberals and they can't tell the difference.
I offer steel for your spine and iron for your gut. I offer you the sword of manhood. Again,
a positive vision of masculinity is absolutely required and steel for your spine and iron for
your gut. You know, that's, that's not negative actually. It's that's actually straight up
positive. Sometimes you need to be stoic. Sometimes you need to do what has to be done.
And sometimes that steel means that you must object to what you are being told to do because
you know, it's wrong. This entire speech is presented such that the reader should view it
to be negative because it is a critique of power, but power itself is not the problem. In a liberal
meritocratic system, competence is the virtue. Power is what you get as a by-product of that.
But the socialist position does not actually think that deep. They don't view competence.
And when they do, they don't accept it. They think it's false. So to them, it's only power.
Of course, Jordan Peterson, being a boomer, let's be honest here, guys. He's a little bit
disconnected. He has to ask, do I really live in a universe where Ta-Nehisi Coates,
is it Coates? I don't know how to pronounce this. This guy's name has written a captain America
comic featuring a parody of my ideas as a part of the philosophy of the arch villain red skull.
Oh, look, Anthony Fantano. Look at that shoe. It fits. I didn't even know about Anthony Fantano
until doing research for this video. But apparently back in 2017, he made like
edgelord anti SJW content. And presumably because he's a fucking coward, he cucked
out and became a socialist. Yeah. And when Anthony Fantano was asked about Jordan Peterson
actually being a Nazi, he links a talk between Peterson and Stefan Molyneux saying that he's
talking to a fascist. I don't think Stefan Molyneux is a fascist. Isn't he just like an
end cap or something? Also, I guess talking with a fascist now makes you a fascist in support of
baseless race and IQ science. Hold on, hold on. You do know that you learn in first year
university level psychology that IQ is the strongest research that has ever come out
of any of the social sciences. Anthony, do you consider reality itself to be fascist?
Also at this point, I have to point out this idea that Nazis are somehow obsessed with IQ science
is a complete falsehood. Contradicting common beliefs, national socialists were opposed to
intelligence research. In their view, intelligence research would represent a supremacy of bourgeoisie
spirit. Intelligence measurement would be an instrument of the jury to fortify its hegemony.
Selection in schools, according to intelligence, would stand for a system of examination of Jewish
origin, especially the concept of intelligence as a one dimensional dimension and one common
central factor. Because people differ and therefore intelligence differs, they called
for an intelligence measurement according to a national and typological point of view.
For Germans, they asked for a measurement of realism. They were opposed to a measurement
solely of theoretical intelligence, a measurement of intellectualism. Instead, they favored what
they called practical intelligence. Nazi researchers were opposed to the scientific
methods of correlation and factor analysis and believed that general intelligence did not exist.
This is not the first time that the Red Skull has basically been used as a mouthpiece to present
normal liberal or conservative ideas, things that your average person would either agree with or
only marginally disagree with because the writer of the story is so far out there that they actually
think these reasonable normal everyday positions are fascism. Back during that whole Captain
America says hail Hydra nonsense, that was a meme a few years ago. This was the incarnation of the
Red Skull in that story. We grow in number each time I visit. Thank you my friends for your
courage and dedication to our cause. I have just come from Europe, my homeland in fact, and you
know what I saw there? It was an invading army, these so-called refugees, millions of them marching
across the continent, bringing their fanatical beliefs and their crime with them. They attack
our women and bomb our cities. And how do our leaders respond? Do they push them back and enforce
the borders as is our sovereign duty? No of course not, they say here take our food, take our shelter,
take our way of life, and then take our lives, despicable. So it is good to be here where some
men still know how to fight. When I was a young man there was a great war and our two countries
did not see eye to eye, but all the sides they all agreed on certain things, the fundamental
responsibilities of a nation, protecting the land through strength, preserving the heritage and
culture of the people, offering them opportunity. Now look at the world today, look here at the dead
husk that was these United States, how the mighty have fallen. Who is protected I ask you? On my
flight I was briefed about these brave patriots fighting the government's illegal claims to their
land. Who does the land belong to if not the people? This is who your government sees as the
transgressors? What about the criminal transgressors who make a mockery of your borders? No they are
protected of course, but that is only the beginning, your entire culture is under siege.
The principles that your country was founded upon lost in the name of tolerance, your religion,
your beliefs, your sense of community, all tossed aside like trash and you cannot even speak out
against it lest you be called a bigot. And who benefits from all this but the vultures feasting
on the carcass, the bankers who stole your homes out from under you and the politicians they have
purchased? Well let them call you what they will, I know who you truly are. The beginning of a
revolution, the first to see the collapse of the old guard and the road to something glorious,
the glory of hydra. Now if you weren't looking at you know the the obvious picture of the red
skull and you just closed your eyes and tried to think of what political alignment this individual
could possibly have been, would you consider him to be a socialist? I mean possibly he talks about
bankers and purchased politicians, he talks about revolution, he could be a fascist because he talks
about the land, he talks about the responsibilities of a nation, he talks about the people,
he could also be a liberal because even a properly liberal society has a mandate to establish and
enforce borders, to expel illegal immigrants, to defend itself from a foreign invasion if there
is one. This comic was published during the migrant crisis that was happening and to some
extent is still happening back around I think 2016 and the red skull is expressing the rather normal,
rather reasonable conservative position, though he's obviously ramped up the rhetoric a little
bit, that nations have a right to exist, to be separate, to have borders and to control their
own immigration policy. And this idea that being anti-migration is fascism is is just ridiculous,
yet here we are. There are other times where comics have been co-opted in this way,
to be used as a mouthpiece for the writer's stupid political opinions. After all the joker might be a
mobster and a homicidal maniac but he's an american, he hates nazis, for all of his sins
he's not a traitor. It is incredibly stupid, like beyond words, to think that all of the terrible
stuff that joker has done across all of his incarnations and nazism is where he draws the line,
but that is the situation that we find ourselves in. Somebody who is obviously evil has to claim
that nazism is worse than him. Meanwhile the actual nazi characters like the red skull,
they must present milquetoast liberal takes, because the socialists understand the fascists
aren't their enemy, the fascists are gone, the fascists aren't the one currently standing in
their way, the liberals are, and they have no argument against liberalism, so they have to
make it seem like fascism. This is ridiculous but it is of course not new. It seems to be a running
theme that I'm an old man on this channel because I am old enough to remember when Dr. Doom shed a
tear when 9-11 happened. Here's Dr. Doom's monologue. The story of humanity is not written
in towers but in tears, in the common coin of blood and bone, in the voice that speaks within
even the worst of us and says this is not right, because even the worst of us, however scarred,
are still human, still feel, still mourn the random death of innocence.
This is, okay, Dr. Doom is like on the level of the red skull in terms of being evil and all the
heinous shit he's committed over the years, but because of the popular opinion of the 2000s.
Of course Dr. Doom would cry when the twin towers collapsed, even though realistically that's
something he might actually do himself being a terrorist. In much the same vein, the red skull's
most evil fascism has to be boiled down to Jordan Peterson's milk toast liberal takes,
because these people don't understand that, I still can't believe I have to say this,
that they're supposed to be making something that's entertaining, and you can have political
messages of something that's entertaining, but if you are twisting around the pre-established
personalities of these characters for your political point you have already lost the game.
Liberalism is not fascism, red skull is not Jordan Peterson,
Dr. Doom would not cry at the collapse of the twin towers.
I miss this Captain America, it doesn't matter what the press says,
doesn't matter what the politicians or the mobs say, doesn't matter if the whole country decides
that something wrong is something right. This nation was founded on one principle above all
else, the requirement that we stand up for what we believe no matter the odds or the consequences.
When the mob and the press and the whole world tells you to move, your job is to plant yourself
like a tree beside the river of truth and tell the whole world, no, you move.
In the latest incarnation of Captain America, this is something that Red Skull would say,
but you know what my friends, this is the only Jordan Peterson comic I'm gonna read.
What the fuck, nothing's getting into him, keep yelling the buzzwords,
people don't listen to his reasoning, racist, bigot, nazi, it's working,
make more noise comrades, I'm gonna show my tits.
Quickly now, punch that fascist in the face, hear me creatures of the underworld,
the evil archetype, Satan to Christ, Cain to Abel, Loki to Thor, Darkness to Light,
Chaos to Order, I command you, go home and clean your room.
I still personally cannot believe that somebody as normal and as unoffensive as Jordan Peterson
has been made out to be a nazi.
I understand why, like I can believe it, but like emotionally, viscerally, I can't believe it.
I know Sargon's take earlier today was that they have done it because the radical socialists,
the leftists, they are so far out to lunch.
Liberalism and fascism, even though they are opposing points of view,
are two dots off in the distance and so they look together, that was Sargon's conception of it.
And there's some truth to this, but there's more to it I think.
I think there's also active subterfuge here.
It's like I said, fascists largely do not exist anymore.
It is the liberals who are opposing socialism now.
It is the liberals who are the primary enemy of socialism.
If there is ever a socialist revolution, it will be the liberals that oppose them.
And so the liberals have to be dispatched from their point of view.
And yet they have no real argument against liberalism.
So anytime they can find some overlapping similarity between liberalism and fascism,
that must be chipped off, it must be partitioned away from liberalism.
This is why you keep seeing the joke that like,
Hitler was a vegan, therefore vegans are fascists.
Hitler breathed air, therefore if you breathe air you're a fascist.
That is what that joke is referring to.
The socialist subterfuge to undermine liberalism by constantly calling it fascism.
When it is not.
Liberalism is not the handmaiden of fascism.
Liberalism does not excuse fascism.
Liberalism does not lead to fascism.
Liberalism is the only true opponent to fascism.
And I do believe that Hayek was right when he said that fascism is the stage after socialism
once communism has proved itself to be impossible to obtain.
But I'll put it in shorter words that I think at least some leftists will appreciate the irony of.
Fascism is socialism in decay.
Thank you for watching my friends.
If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around and do all of the other
algorithm-positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like.
I don't know.
Sub for more or hit up my Patreon or subscribe star if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So I'll see you tomorrow.
I love you.
