The Patreon Purge Everyone remembers the Patreon Purge, right?
I did a series of videos on it back in the day, go check them out.
TLDR is, in 2017, Jack Conte published a video about what he called Manifest Observable Behavior
as justification for why he banned Lauren Southern's Patreon account, costing her
quite a bit of money.
Southern was involved in a controversy in Europe, where she was in a boat attempting
to block an Italian search and rescue mission in the Mediterranean Sea.
He was campaigning against the flow of migrants into Europe at that time, and viewed the search
and rescue operation as connected to the steady movement of refugees by water from Africa
and the Middle East to Europe.
I'm not here to talk about that controversy today, I don't know enough about it, frankly.
But I do know that Patreon interpreted the event as likely to cause loss of life, recognized
that their funding helped her perform those actions, and so they banned her from receiving
any further funding on Patreon.
As Jack said, Manifest Observable Behavior.
According to him, it was not any sort of hateful rhetoric that got Lauren Southern banned,
but rather what she did in real life.
A year later, in 2018, Patreon violated this Manifest Observable Behavior rule by banning
Sargon of Akkad from its platform, not for anything he did in real life, not for anything
he did on his YouTube channel, not for anything he did on Patreon, but for dropping the gamer
words as a guest on another person's channel.
You would really have to go and search it out to even know that it happened, as the
channel that it happened on was extremely small, and in fact that's what happened.
Here's some deep lore that's been lost to time, and unfortunately I can't corroborate
it anymore since my old Twitter DMs are gone, but I have it on first-hand knowledge that
it was Ethan Ralph's community that mass-reported him.
But nonetheless, the message from Patreon was clear.
Their terms of service extends not only over their platform or your channel, but over reality
itself.
If you've got a Patreon and you jokingly say some slurs with your friends, you'd
better hope nobody's recording that shit, because it's against Patreon's terms of
service.
Patreon banning for off-platform behavior opened the floodgates for other big tech sites
to do the same, and nowadays it's common and even expected for YouTube, Twitter, Twitch,
and Facebook to ban you for whatever they like, regardless of whether or not it actually
breaks the terms of service you agreed to.
And since the Patreon purge, other crowdfunding sites have followed suit.
Everybody points to Kickstarter as a decent crowdfunding platform, since it famously allowed
the studio fowl porn game Subverse to reach full funding, despite Tim Pool's protests.
But porn on Kickstarter is still a roll of the dice.
The Japanese doujin creator Push Publications has had multiple of their hentai projects
canceled by Kickstarter, with Kickstarter's official reply being,
Our rules strictly prohibit explicit pornographic content.
And further, our payment processor, that's Stripe by the way, does not allow pornographic
projects.
This is clearly a lie, because other Push projects have received full funding on Kickstarter,
as well as many other pornographic projects.
It just seems to be completely arbitrary whether or not something gets banned.
You'd think they'd have the manpower to manually review every project and figure this
shit out.
I guess that's what you get for using unionized workers.
In fact, just a few months after unionizing, Kickstarter had to lay off 40% of its workforce
in order to make the budget work.
It's not just porn though.
Mike Miller of Lone Star Comics tried to get his graphic novel, Lone Star, funded on
Kickstarter.
Kickstarter sent him an email stating,
As a public benefit corporation committed to fighting inequality and creating a more
equitable world, Kickstarter does not allow discrimination, subjugation, or intolerance
towards marginalized groups.
The comic's objectionable content was that the hero, Lone Star, was fighting members
of the Central American criminal organization MS-13.
Now, I don't know about you, but it seems like what naturally follows from Kickstarter's
implication that the comic is racist, is that violent MS-13 marauders are somehow representative
of the average Latino individual.
Either Kickstarter is shockingly racist themselves, or they're actually carrying water for a
raping murderous cartel.
There's other examples of Kickstarter behaving this way, like them removing a page for funding
a pro-life abortion documentary, or the large number of comics that have been rejected for
vague, hand-waved reasons.
But let's not get too bogged down, Kickstarter's competitors are just as bad.
The owner of the Parkside Cafe in Birmingham, Alabama found himself getting canceled for
his anti-George Floyd views, where he notably called Floyd a thug.
Candace Owens decided to start up a GoFundMe for the business, but GoFundMe pulled the
plug on it.
Along with Owens' entire GoFundMe account and any other pages connected to it, for her
support of hate, violence, harassment, bullying, discrimination, terrorism, or intolerance
of any kind, a different GoFundMe page attempted to raise the necessary amount to pay for a
recount during the 2020 election.
GoFundMe claimed that the page was spreading misinformation about the election, while Matt
Brainerd, the Trump staffer who created it, claimed that GoFundMe was interfering in the
electoral process by deplatforming him.
Regardless of how you feel about either of these events, George Floyd, or the 2020 election,
it's not hard to see that these moves by GoFundMe are taken in the context of supporting a prevailing
cultural narrative that extends far beyond their company.
GoFundMe's job isn't to pass judgment on whether or not the election was fraudulent,
or whether or not George Floyd was murdered, but rather than remain neutral, they have
accepted one narrative as fact and called its opposition misinformation, even though
many of their users actively disagree with them.
Indiegogo is much the same way, though at least that brought us Lightbringer.
Bitchute's attempt to fund an alternative comment plugin to Discus was removed from
Indiegogo for no reason whatsoever.
Same with Althaven, a QAnon-centric superhero comic, though that does actually sound pretty
cringe.
For examples all day, but the point remains clear.
Rather than remain neutral platforms, pretty much every crowdfunding site with the exception
of Subscribestar, and don't forget to go to Subscribestar.com and get yourself into the
$5 club and my Discord, kids, have all decided to take blatantly political stances on how
their services are used, and what they deplatform in the name of safety or misinformation.
And you know what?
Just for the sake of argument, let's give them the biggest possible benefit of the doubt.
Let's accept the George Floyd deplatforming because Floyd did die in police custody, making
the police ultimately responsible.
Let's accept the election one because every investigation into the events surrounding
the election has turned up nothing.
Let's accept the Lauren Southern thing because she impeded a search and rescue.
Let's accept the QAnon comic one because, well, QAnon.
You might disagree with their politics, but they are still internally consistent.
They have decided on which narrative is the truth, and yeah, they shouldn't do that,
but now that we're at that point, it's reasonable to expect them to apply their terms
of service equally within this framework.
Even giving them this benefit of the doubt, though, these platforms almost always end
up being scumfuck pieces of shit because they don't actually apply their terms of
service equally within this framework.
Here is an excellent example.
GoFundMe took down a number of campaigns for Kyle Rittenhouse's defense after the Kenosha
Riots.
Yes, believe it or not, that video's still coming.
And after Kyle got his not guilty verdict, GoFundMe reversed that stance, stating that
while their terms of service doesn't allow for the raising of funds with the defense
of somebody charged with a violent crime, once that person is acquitted, it's fair
game again.
That seems alright to me.
The problem is, GoFundMe doesn't actually apply this policy evenly.
Instead, they apply it with a political bias.
Brandon Lee Pack, an Antifa rioter, has been convicted and sentenced to nine years in prison
for throwing rocks, bricks, and fireworks at police during a BLM event in May of 2020,
causing 21 officers to suffer burns, permanent hearing loss, one broken foot, and other injuries.
His charges include aggravated riot, vandalism, breaking and entering, and felonious assault.
His bail was raised on GoFundMe.
There's also the case of GoFundMe deleting a black Trump supporters fundraiser for bulletproof
vests while allowing an identical fundraiser for Antifa's vest to remain up.
No, really.
Look, he used the exact same language as the Antifa GoFundMe page, but only his was locked.
The creator was told it would be reviewed if he produced clarification surrounding the
use of funds, as well as receipts of purchases, which he did provide.
GoFundMe went silent for a week, and when the creator emailed them asking them what
the holdup was, he was quickly banned from the site.
Hell, the event that sparked the Kenosha Riots, the completely 100% fucking justified
shooting of Jacob Blake, where Blake was in the middle of abducting kids, getting into
a vehicle with a knife in hand after assaulting the mother, whom he had sexually assaulted
in the past, and he was shot in the back in order to stop him after tasering him had failed?
Yeah, fuck this guy, he's a piece of shit.
Well, his GoFundMe page is still up, 18 months later, with 2.3 million dollars already donated.
The page's description is ambiguous about Blake's own crimes, mostly focusing on his
kids and his medical recovery, but it is nonetheless called justice for Jacob Blake,
noting that part of the proceeds will go to, the deliberately vague, assisting our family
in the days to come, which could mean anything, including legal defenses.
I guarantee you, prior to Kyle Rittenhouse's acquittal, if any GoFundMe popped up talking
about funding Kyle's mental health treatment or something, while not mentioning the trial
expenses at all, it would still have been taken down.
You know it, and I know it.
These platforms have an obvious bias when it comes to who they fund and why.
They'll have some perfectly reasonable restrictions on not funding people for certain legal reasons,
but then completely throw these away when the politics have flipped.
The more normie objections regarding fundraising platforms generally revolve around two critiques.
One, that big game companies use them when they've clearly got the money to pay for
a game themselves, like with Shenmue 3 or the wonderful 101 Switch port, which came
out looking awful, how the hell did you manage that, it was a Wii U game.
And two, that people just take money and run, whether that be for scam products that never
see the light of day, video game projects that become vaporware, or YouTubers who continue
to take payouts while producing nothing at all.
And all of these fundraising campaigns?
The scam products?
The failed games?
The lazy YouTubers?
They never get cancelled.
But if you disagree with the politics of the company, your ass is grass, son.
Let me repeat it.
To these guys, writing about thieves in a comic book is worse than being a thief in
real fucking life.
As always, there are alt-tech alternatives.
SubscribeStar works wonders as a Patreon alternative.
GiveSendGo is pretty good for single large fundraisers, for projects that would normally
use Kickstarter, Indiegogo, or GoFundMe, though it did recently suffer a data breach, revealing
the names of the anonymous donors to Kyle Rittenhouse that use the platform.
But as always, people reroute around monopolies and tyrannical behavior all the time.
The philosophical problem underpinning all of this, though, is the attitudes of these
companies.
As I previously discussed during the Patreon purge, Patreon's stance is that it funds
the creative class, and that if you're a creator using its platform, you should be
lucky they don't contractually own your content or your business, though they have
been slowly moving in that direction over the years since.
For example, the Patreon merch options gives them exclusive ownership over any merch and
branding used on it should you decide to go with them for your merch.
However, the reality is, Patreon does not fund the creative class.
The fans of those creators do.
Patreon is a business that handles the money exchange between audience and creator, and
provides convenience in exchange for a skim off the top.
PayPal, at this point, has its own recurring monthly donation button too, but Patreon bundles
all of your donations into one convenient charge.
And yes, PayPal also has its own problems with the platforming.
The point is, though, that the people at Patreon have a completely different view of their
service than the people who actually use that service.
On some level, Patreon believes that it employs creators and that it pays them a monthly check,
but it doesn't.
It facilitates payments.
It's not an employer.
And the language used at Patreon is also used at Kickstarter, GoFundMe, and Indiegogo.
They all view themselves as something more than they are.
They all believe that facilitating money-changing hands should give them some kind of stake
in the creators that use them.
And they're all making these slow but steady steps to position themselves as the owners
of the projects they fund and the employer of the creators who use them.
That's why they think it's no big deal to just behave the way that they do.
After all, all of us content creators are just going to be their employees one day anyway.
Without any benefits of actually being employed, of course.
YouTube and Twitch, in their own way, also talk about creators like this too.
And they are, as well, slowly moving in this direction.
The roadblock in the way of their plans, frankly, is the massive number of creators who still
sit on old contracts in perpetuity with places like Twitch or Patreon, where it's still
enshrined that the creators own the IP, not the platforms.
And how ridiculous would it be if it were reversed?
Should my phone company own my business if I do business over the phone?
It's stupid.
Yes, it's shitty that people get to platform from payment processors.
Yes, we should be using alternatives as much as possible.
But I want you to bookmark this video.
Within a decade, and likely a lot sooner, unless something major changes, we will see
a very strong public push from all of these platforms.
We will see the mask come off, where they attempt to rearrange their relationship with
content creators such that creators lose all ownership of their operations in exchange
for the privilege of crowdfunding.
I'm calling it now.
This happened with multi-channel networks on YouTube 10 years ago.
Why do you think Yahtzee is still with The Escapist?
Why do you think Doug Walker still works for Mike Michaud?
Why do you think Machinima had the reputation that it did?
If you're a creator and you're not using an alternative crowdfunding source, you're basically
putting the nails in your own coffin.
