Hello, welcome to SJ Weekly. No coffee slurps this time because I don't have any coffee.
Instead, I have chocolate-coated roasted coffee beans. Check this out.
They're really crunchy and I feel like they're loaded with caffeine.
Let's start with, a college student was told to remove a fuck nazis sign because it wasn't
inclusive. This email tells me the university cares more about the feelings of nazis and the
safety of their students. Well, let's be honest, this is the endpoint of identity politics.
If you can racialize a non-racial group like, say, Muslims, they're very clearly a religion,
not a race, and the process of racializing them is to collectivize them together through shared
beliefs and values and behaviors, and then consider them outsiders within the main society,
you can obviously also do that to nazis, which basically makes nazis a minority race. So I'm not
surprised that the university did this. Nicole Parson said she was fed up with her university's
silence over a string of hate crimes on campus when she put up a sign in her dorm window that
read, fuck nazis, you are not welcome here. I wonder what these hate crimes on campus were.
Were they somebody posting flyers that say something like, you know, it's okay to be
white or something nonsensical like that? Very clearly not a hate crime. In my opinion,
she should be allowed to leave this up. In fact, it's obviously regressive SJW bullshit,
but it's her dorm. It's her freedom of speech. She shouldn't have to take it down.
A week after posting the sign in her dorm window, she received an email from a resident director
asking her to remove the sign over issues of inclusion. The email says I'm one of the
residence directors at UMass Amherst and currently the RD on call for East Side. I'm emailing you
today in regards to a phone call I've received concerning a sign that is placed in your window.
From this conversation, it appears to be that the sign mentioned can be paraphrased
as nazis are not welcome here. Though the sign is permitted under freedom of speech,
I would also like to discuss the impact on the community that the sign has had.
There are some in the community who have expressed that the sign should be taken down
as it has created mixed emotions in the community on how to proceed, issues of inclusion,
and the ability to be active members of their community. While residence education cannot
force you or your roommate to take the sign down, I am asking that you or your roommate take the
sign down so that all students can be part of an inclusive residential experience as well as
having a respectful environment to be a part of here on campus. So as it turns out, she's not
even being forced to take it down. It's just that somebody complained and then these people,
being the cucks that they are, are saying that, oh, somebody feels bad about this,
so can you please take it down? No, you know what? She should leave it up. She's probably stupid,
and the reason she put up the sign is also probably stupid, but it's her right and she
should leave it up. I was in absolute shock. This email tells me that university cares more about
the feelings of Nazis and the safety of their students. You know what? The university shouldn't
care about either of those things. The university should care about providing an education. If
people want to have political disagreements and exchange points of view, that's their business.
As long as it doesn't become violent, the university should not be stepping in.
Here's a great tweet from Bro Team Pill. I've always respected this guy's stuff.
Gamers, important warning, do not bring your meme shit to class or to anywhere.
Wow, I gotta say, the students going to school now seem to be fucking cucks as well.
There are obvious issues with Diablo Immortal. I did a video talking about it earlier,
but I guess they just found it offensive, so they had to talk about it at school or something,
which is just surreal. When I was in high school, talking about video game stuff at school would
mean that the teacher would tell us to shut up. Main Teen says struggles with gender identity
led to brutal stabbing deaths of parents and pet dog. Jesus Christ. Andrea Balser has been
sentenced to 40 years after admitting to killing her parents in October 2016.
I know there are a lot of people that would just attribute this to the fact that she's trans.
I wouldn't necessarily go that far, though there does seem to be some kind of correlation between
being trans and other mental issues, for obvious reasons. A teenager who said she killed her
parents and the family's pet dog because of struggles with her gender identity has been
sentenced to 40 years in jail. She was 17 at the time when she snapped and fatally stabbed
her parents. That's fucking insane. Balser alleged she was struggling to deal with her
transition from male to female and that her family offered her no support during this time.
She also claimed she was molested for years by her mother and physically and mentally
abused by her father, accusations the rest of the family denied. This is fucked, man.
Assuming that she's telling the truth, and she might be. Families do like to cover this
kind of thing up. Assuming she's telling the truth, she seems to be a victim who has become
a perpetrator. Assuming that she's not, and she just used that as a cover story, it's very clear
that this was somebody who needed help and didn't get it. It's very common for families to not offer
support when people start to transition, and so I'm not surprised that something like this happened.
I'm not trying to excuse it away. Very clearly, she still takes the blame for stabbing people,
no matter what the actual truth is. Her brother told the court that her claims that she did not
receive any support during her transition were an insult to our family, an insult to society,
and an insult to the LGBTQ community. There was no hatred, there was no malice, there was no ill will.
There was resignation, to be sure, but ultimately there was acceptance. To justify these killings
because of sexual identity or gender dysphoria beliefs is a truly cowardly act. Andrea should
be ashamed of herself for it, and the judge did say he did not take her struggles with gender
identity into account when sentencing her. This is just a sad situation all around. I know there's a
meme floating around right now about how trans activists, especially radical trans activists,
claim that anybody who basically is not a radical trans activist, their belief harms and kills
trans people. You know, misgendering them or using the wrong pronouns or whatever. It literally kills
trans people, and the meme is that, well, it turns out that being trans actually kills people. I can
see why you might get a chuckle out of that. There's some dark humor there, but this is just a sad
situation. Y'all, this is real. There is a sexy eagle ad on fur affinity that leads to healthcare.gov.
Are you fucking, are you serious?
You wouldn't bang an eagle without having healthcare insurance?
I, uh, I don't think I'd bang an eagle at all, thank you very much. On the BBC,
girls are more likely to face loneliness. All right. Young women are more likely than
young men to have feelings of loneliness. According to a study from the office for
national statistics, one in 10 young people in the UK often feel lonely.
Is, is this really worth, I can see how it can be worth a study, but is this really worth an
article on? Like everyone feels lonely sometimes, you know, sometimes you want to hang out with
somebody and nobody's available. So you got to spend like an evening by yourself and you go like,
oh, that's kind of lonely. You know, there's a difference between feeling lonely once in a while
and like having no friends. The study found a stigma attached to loneliness with young people
fearing it would be seen as failing. Um, maybe, maybe that's a new thing. I know that I never
felt a stigma attached to loneliness, at least not like short-term loneliness. I think everyone
has nights once in a while where you want to see somebody but can't, and then you're just like,
oh, well, I guess I'm by myself. It doesn't, it doesn't feel like you're failing. It feels like
you're lonely and maybe you're bored. I can see though, if you, you know, can't maintain friendships
or something that it would, it could be seen as failing. I can see that. The, there were young
people who used social media to cover up their feelings and pretend their lives were not lonely.
I can see that too, because social media is just one giant fucking parade where everyone compares
the shitty parts of their own lives to the good parts of other people's lives. It's actually been
a, been a problem for me too. You know, I think everyone has this problem. Like I've, I've logged
in and seen high school and college friends doing some pretty incredible things with their lives,
things that I wish that I'd be doing, but that I'm not. And part of me is like, well, I guess I'm
just a failure. And you know, maybe I am, but part of me also recognizes that those are highlights.
Those aren't the average times of their life. It's the best times of their life. I could post some
pretty remarkable things that I've done. And I'm sure some of them during their lower points would
look at that and also feel the same way. The study from the ONS looks at the extent of loneliness
among people aged between 10 and 24. There were about 11% who often felt lonely and a 34% who
sometimes felt lonely with more girls than boys feeling this way. And this is why the BBC is
talking about it. It's a gendered issue for them. It's a girl's issue. Of course it is. But let's
actually look at that study from the ONS. I have it right here. Children's and young people's
experiences of loneliness 2018. And this is how you can tell that the BBC only read the headlines
of the study and just picked out things that fit with their worldview. You have the headline of
this section in the study, girls report experiencing loneliness slightly more often than boys.
Okay, that's fine. That's what the BBC printed. Here's the actual content. On the loneliness
scale, boys were more likely than girls to score three, the lowest score, with 38.5% of boys and
29.9% of girls scoring in this way respectively. This means that boys were more likely than girls
to say hardly ever or never. What this means is that boys are not lonely more than girls.
But that doesn't necessarily mean that the inverse is true, that girls are actually more lonely than
boys. Girls were more likely to score four, five, and six in the scale, suggesting that
they were more likely than boys to choose the response some of the time. So there are more
girls who are sometimes lonely than boys. However, when asked directly how often they feel lonely,
we found no significant differences between boys and girls. 12.6% of boys reported that they often
felt lonely compared with 10.1% of girls, while over half of boys and half of girls reported
that they hardly ever or never felt lonely. So as it turns out, when it comes to constant
loneliness, there's actually 2% more boys. It's not even that big of a gap, but it's still
ultimately a boy's problem. So the BBC did not actually read the contents of the study.
They just printed what looked good to them. You can see on this graph that on the left side,
there are more boys than girls that don't feel lonely at all. In the middle, there are more girls
than boys that sometimes feel lonely. And then on the right, there are more boys than girls that
always feel lonely. This honestly doesn't surprise me because in general, and in almost every
measurement, men seem to hang out at the extremes more than women on average. This works out across
most metrics, whether we're talking about life success or earnings or average strength or average
intelligence or creativity. I'm not saying that women can't excel at any of these things. They
obviously can, but men are more likely to boom or bust while women are more likely to hang out
around the average. But of course, the BBC doesn't care about any of that kind of nuance. They just
want to print what they want to print. This is an older article, May 15th, 2018. Israel has the
right and obligation to defend its border with deadly force by David French on the National
Review. Israeli border police officers take positions during a Palestinian protest of the
US embassy move to Jerusalem. Would you let people who want to kill you into your home?
One of the enduring mysteries of modern political discourse is the way in which smart people who
are not remotely anti-Semitic impose curious, unworkable double standards on the nation of
Israel. Let's take, for example, the response of many on the left to the so-called Great Return
March, an effort by thousands of Gazans to storm the Israeli border. A nation has the right to
protect its integrity of its border, and that right is supplemented by an inherent right of
self-defense in the face of a hostile foreign power. Yeah, it's all reasonable, isn't it?
This David French guy knows what he's talking about. Oh, here's David French on October 30th,
2018. It's time to calm down about the caravan. What happened to the nation having a right to
protect its border? What happened to the right of self-defense? When Gazans were marching on
Israel, it was a big deal. Honestly, it's hard to think of a response less measured and more
effective at undermining moderate support for immigration restrictions than the reaction of
the president and key allies. The president's tweets have conveyed extraordinary alarm.
Here are some selected entries. I have alerted border patrol and military this is a national
emergency. Must change laws. Many gang members and some very bad people are mixing to the caravan
heading to our border. Please go back. You will not be admitted into the United States.
This is the exact same thing that you said Israel should do. This is an invasion of our country and
our military is waiting for you. Trump's right. And it's exactly what you said it was completely
fine for Israel to do. Let's finish off with some slate fun. I'm so sorry to report that
Ted Cruz's new beard looks great. Sometimes every once in a while, you have to admit that somebody
that you may disagree with politically or ideologically is not a complete fucking scumbag
serial killer. I have no particular fondness for the subject and it brings me no pleasure to cover
it. But as a truth seeking journalist, I feel I must write what follows. Senator Ted Cruz's new
beard looks great. I bet that is the first time ever a slate journalist has written an inconvenient
truth. Cruz showed up in the senate with a filled out salt and pepper beard giving his face a
defined jawline and its first ever hints of ruggedness and affability. Cruz's new beard
serves as a proof point for a few aesthetic and economic theories. First, beards are contouring
for men. Men who complain that women who wear a ton of makeup or don sunglasses in their tinder
profiles are scamming men into thinking they're hotter than they are had better never grow facial
hair because beards are capable of facial trickery. I think there's a big difference there. Beards are
a natural part of what men are and makeup isn't. You have to take makeup off at the end of the day.
The beard can just stay. I'm sorry for the lack of videos this week, guys, but that giant Mastercard
project that I put out yesterday sucked up like five days of my time. And I'm also sorry about
this SJ Weekly being shorter than normal. That's because I have a stream to prepare for tonight.
It's the December community stream. It's happening tonight at 730 EST. If you're a Twitch sub or a
Patreon Donator, you are eligible to join us on a voice call while we watch Star Wars The Holiday
Special. And of course, you can always still watch in the chat room with us as well. In terms of
channel support, I still have to stick with Patreon, unfortunately, because there are as of
yet no viable alternatives. Let's keep our fingers crossed that we can figure something out. In any
case, I hope to see you guys tonight.
