If high-speed rail should work anywhere in America, it's here.
Below this line lives a population of nearly 20 million people—6.5 million in the Miami
metro area, 3 million in the Tampa metro, and another 2.5 million in the Orlando area.
This massive population is relatively confined, by American standards, meaning it's dense
and centralized enough to coalesce around a few stations.
And with each of these three metro areas sitting within about 200 miles or 320 kilometers from
each other, they're close enough that flying is awkwardly involved, but far enough that
fighting interstate traffic for hours is a pain.
There are also plenty of reasons to move between these areas—there are the beaches along
the east coast, the businesses on the shores of Tampa Bay, the culture emanating out of
Miami, and the entertainment of Orlando that each pull out-of-town tourists, in-state travelers,
and Floridian businesspeople alike from one city to the next.
And finally, geographically speaking, there's really little getting in the way of the rails—no
town ranges, no gaping canyons, no physical impediments that would require any great feat
of engineering.
Of course, none of this is anything new.
As far back as the 80s, Floridians and federal planners alike have been scouring over maps,
calculating projections, and pitching the idea of connecting Tampa to Orlando to Miami
with a train route that wouldn't cost the traveler a day, but a matter of hours.
But no public-private partnership could get it done in the 80s.
Nor could they get it done in the 90s, nor the 2000s, nor, for that matter, the 2010s.
But not long after the most recent public-private partnership died on Governor Rick Scott's
desk in 2011 came another high-speed rail pitch—one equal parts exciting and far off.
It was called All Aboard Florida—it launched in 2012, and projected that, at a cost of
a billion dollars, it'd be running a service from South Florida to Orlando by 2014.
Like those before it, All Aboard Florida blew through its initial cost estimate and
far past its projected opening date, but unlike those before it, All Aboard Florida, now rebranded
as Brightline, actually opened for actual rail passengers in 2018.
Fast and fully private, it was the first of its kind in the US.
The initial service was modest.
Far from the vision of 230 miles or 370 kilometers of track connecting the major metro areas
of Central and South Florida, the deeply discounted $10 and $15 tickets offered on
January 13, 2018 could get a traveler not from Orlando to Miami, but the 40 minutes
from Fort Lauderdale to West Palm Beach.
And while service would soon expand to the 66 miles or 110 kilometers connecting West
Palm Beach and Miami, Brightline still wasn't offering a high-speed rail service, but rather
a higher-speed service—not yet touching the 125-mile or 200-kilometer-per-hour high-speed
criteria, but maxing out at 79 miles or 130 kilometers per hour.
Still only running a 70-mile stretch at pedestrian speeds by the rest of the world's standards,
Brightline opening to real-life customers in 2018 marked an extreme rarity in the US—a
new passenger rail project actually becoming a real-world reality.
High-speed or even higher-speed rail represents the ultimate long-term investment, and Brightline
is no exception.
Of course, Brightline, for its part, had some advantages—most notably the fact that its
parent company, Florida East Coast Industries, just so happened to be the owner of the Florida
East Coast Railway.
While other suitors would have to negotiate and lease a rail corridor, Brightline already
had access to the very railroad that had effectively built South Florida a century prior—but
having access to a rail corridor was only the first step.
To run frequent and fast service, Brightline first had to build an entirely new second
set of rails along more than two-thirds of the 66-mile corridor.
While straightforward enough, double-tracking takes time and money, and making this more
difficult were the rivers and canals the rail had to cross.
While each was already spanned by a bridge, nearly every bridge was only wide enough for
one set of rails, not two, so nearly all had to be replaced.
Then, in the sections where rail could be reused, there was the issue of alignment.
To accommodate passenger trains moving at twice the speed of the freight trains for
which the rails had been designed, crews would need to manually move rail into more
gradual turns and straighter alignments.
Just these rail alterations alone—not to mention all the signaling upgrades and siting
alterations—along just this section of rail represented three years of work by the company.
While readying the rails, Brightline needed stations, too.
It started with these three, building each from the ground up and negotiating agreements
and connections with each municipality and their local mass transit system to connect
its inner-city rails with other intra-city options.
Each was designed to look modern and provide services beyond just a stop.
The crown jewel was the Miami Central Station, spanning some 9 acres or 4 city blocks and
housing elevated platforms, restaurants and shops, some 300 parking spots, and two 38-story
towers holding 800 apartments.
Just to turn this into a serviceable routing, to provide an hour-and-15-minute trip from
Miami to West Palm Beach for somewhere around $20-50 each way, it took Brightline six years
of navigating everything from municipal and federal environmental impact statements to
rail straightenings and multi-million dollar construction projects.
And that was just phase one.
Undaunted by delays or cost in the first place, Brightline began construction on a shining
new station connected to the Orlando International Airport, and in the fall of 2023, service
from Miami to Orlando opened to the public.
And Brightline isn't slowing down, as work on phase 3, from Orlando to Tampa, has already
begun.
But Brightline's biggest hurdle wasn't design, and it wasn't planning, and it wasn't
construction, because Brightline was not just another passenger rail project.
It was an American passenger rail project, and no matter how fiercely private it may
insist it is, it wasn't going to get anywhere without a huge degree of political support,
and that's tough to come by for passenger railways in America these days.
But it tried a new technique.
Publicly, it portrayed itself as a fully private, capitalistic organization developing a service
at the whim of the free market, at no risk to the taxpayer.
Privately, though, it worked closely with the state and federal government to finally
complete what politicians never could.
Buried deep in the 500s of the 4,000 or so pages of the Internal Revenue Service's tax
code is a series of sections setting strict parameters on a very particular financial
mechanism known as private activity bonds, or PABs, and on page 555 in particular, one
line of Part A of Section 142 opens up high-speed intercity rail as eligible issuers of PABs.
PABs are simple in concept.
Companies regularly issue bonds to raise money for big projects that they think will turn
a profit in the long term, but that require a huge amount of upfront investment.
They pay the buyer back in installments, plus interest, so the company will end up paying
more than the bond purchase price in sum, but through this they can reduce what they
need to pay annually to below their expected revenue.
But as with any sort of earnings, the bond buyer has to pay taxes on the income generated
by the bond's interest—unless they buy a government bond.
Governments often issue tax-exempt bonds that still pay interest yet include the right
to not pay tax on that interest.
This allows the government to offer a lower-than-average interest rate, which saves them money, yet
still find bond buyers summing to the total they need since the lack of taxes offsets
the reduced interest income.
They're able to do this, of course, since they're also the authority in charge of
setting tax policy.
PABs, however, are an exceptional instance where non-government bonds qualify as tax-free,
but only if the government says so.
The government will approve the issuance of a certain value's worth of PABs if they
believe a private company is doing something in the public interest that they want to incentivize,
such as passenger rail development.
Following an expansion of eligibility and issuances in 2005, the private sector jumped
on the opportunity.
Centerpoint, for example, raised some $225 million through PABs to build the country's
largest inland port near Chicago, acting as a massive connecting node between America's
truck and rail freight networks.
Using operating and selling intermodal logistics hubs like this is the bread and butter of
what Centerpoint does, but this was an opportunity to do so at a discount and, in the federal
government's eyes, forgoing the tens of millions of dollars of tax revenue was worth
it to strengthen America's freight transportation network, even if it would be a profitable
venture for a private enterprise, since improved freight logistics would likely raise the national
tax base overall.
This is one of the most objectively private PAB-funded projects—others blur the lines.
The greater Louisville, Kentucky area has long had chronic traffic problems, especially
given its geography sitting on the massive Ohio River—there used to be incredible backups
to get to the Indiana side, and vice versa, so the two states and the federal government
decided they needed a bridge to its north to divert through traffic away from the city
by connecting two isolated sections of interstate.
Now, this undertaking was planned and designed by the government, yet when it came time to
actually build and operate this massive, costly bridge, the entire project was essentially
handed over to a consortium formed by Vinci and BBGI—two massive, multinational infrastructure
investment firms.
This consortium then, on the federal government's blessing, went and issued $677 million in
private activity bonds to pay for the construction of the bridge, and now, with it open, they're
paying these bonds back using the toll revenue they collect from a long-term operating agreement
lasting till 2051.
From the public's perspective, though, this isn't anything novel—the bridge looks
and operates just like any other toll bridge in America.
But the private sector's encroachment into American infrastructure gets even more covert.
Two hours to the northwest, a section of state highway was set for an upgrade to meet federal
interstate standards and form a part of the New Mexico to Canada I-69, but the state hired
a private company not only to build the road, but to operate it.
The company issued $244 million in PABs to finance the construction, yet in this case,
there are no tolls.
From the public's perspective, this is an entirely free section of interstate that operates
just like any other, but in the background, Indiana is paying it tens of millions per
year in so-called availability payments for the company's work, allowing it to repay
its bonds.
Brightline is not many steps removed from that interstate or bridge or intermodal center.
It's a private project, technically, but one that had little chance of ever happening
without deep public sector support.
Beyond myriad project approvals, Brightline financed its construction through $3 billion
in tax-exempt private activity bonds.
Now, this is not very different from a straight-up grant.
The government has to approve PAB issuances, and foregone tax revenue costs them the same
as an equivalent grant.
So, in a long spectrum between fully private and fully public, you have a project like
Louisville's new toll bridge sitting just over the line into the public side, and you
have a project like Brightline just over the line into private, but both straddle the center
of the public-private spectrum.
Both are financing construction using tax-advantaged bonds, then recouping costs through user fees.
There are some semantic distinctions that could be made based on who initiated the project
or who owns the underlying infrastructure, but the critical difference, perhaps, is less
so whether a project is or is not a public or private project, but rather what it's
perceived as.
All of recent history has demonstrated that there's no effective political will in America
for passenger rail development.
While it gets talked about constantly, nearly no meaningful progress has actually happened
in the better part of a century.
The common but almost entirely incorrect argument against this development is that there wouldn't
be enough demand for widespread passenger rail in America due to lower population density
and high car ownership rates, and therefore any service would operate at a loss, which
would have to be paid for by the taxpayer.
So, after decades of political gridlock against public rail projects in Florida, Brightline
stepped in and argued that they could do the same, yet at no risk to the taxpayer—the
public would get all the upside without any of the risk.
This is almost true.
Government activity bonds do minimize taxpayer risk, but they don't entirely eliminate
it.
The government only loses tax revenue if Brightline is successful because, in the alternate scenario,
where the project is financed entirely by traditional private sector bonds, the government
would not collect tax revenue if the company failed and investors didn't get repaid—they
wouldn't have any taxable income.
Therefore, on the surface level, this is effectively an ingenious type of grant that only incurs
a cost when a project is successful, yet with essentially no downside risk.
At least, that's what can be argued.
In practice, it does get a bit more complicated than that.
The institutional investors pouring money into Brightline bonds don't have an unlimited
amount of money to invest, and therefore PABs inherently pull money away from traditional
bonds and investments, and lead to reduced tax revenue due to less investment money in
taxable investments.
In addition, in cases when PAB-financed projects have gone wrong, it's not always the risk-free
scenario that the politicians and project leaders promise it'll be.
In the case of that section of I-69 in Indiana, the project failed.
Mismandament led to massive cost overruns that made it clear that the concessionaire
would not be able to pay back its bondholders.
This was a problem to the state of Indiana because the varying interest rates offered
by different bond issuers are essentially a market-defined indicator of risk—if a
bond is issued by a financially trustworthy source, like the United States government,
it'll have quite a low interest rate, while if it's issued by a source where the market
has less confidence in survival through the term of the bond, like an upstart tech company,
the issuer will have to offer a higher interest rate in order to entice investors to buy the
bond.
So, in Indiana's case, if this private company did not pay back their loans, it would get
more expensive for public-private partnerships statewide to get financing, since this was
an indicator that perhaps the state was bad at selecting project partners, and therefore
that there was a higher risk with all public-private partnerships in the state.
Therefore, the state stepped in, took over the project, and paid the bondholders back
in full even though they were not legally responsible for those bonds—the incentives
just made it make financial sense in the long term.
But despite the more muddled reality of private activity bonds and public-private infrastructure
projects more broadly, what matters most when it comes to the successful development of
American passenger rail is perception.
It is no wonder that the promise of a project that at worst would create jobs and pour money
into the state before sputtering out, at best would create a transportation system the envy
of the entire nation, and do either at no risk the taxpayer worked.
And even if that message isn't 100% true, it is mostly true—enough that the nuance
gets ignored.
Increasingly, it appears that the Brightline model of American rail development is replicable.
Elsewhere in the Sunbelt, there's Texas Central Railway.
Its pitch is similar, yet loftier.
It plans to develop a true high-speed line between Dallas and Houston using Japanese
Shinkansen technology, offering 90-minute trips between two massive, wealthy cities
currently separated by four hours of highway.
In their decade or so of existence, they've made meaningful progress towards this, having
raised hundreds of millions in capital, acquired plenty of land on the route, and surpassed
multiple political, legal, and permitting hurdles.
While in their early years Texas Central stayed consistent, insisting that funding would be
100% private, in more recent years this messaging softened to open the door up to quiet public
funding through mechanisms like PABs.
In 2022, the company appeared to implode, with their CEO and key executives quietly
announcing their departure with no notice or justification, and all assumed the ambitious
venture was dead for good, yet in 2023 it showed signs of life through a short and ambiguous
press release by Amtrak.
The government-owned rail operator announced it had partnered with Texas Central to continue
early-stage development, and this partnership has actually started to move forward as the
pair was awarded a modest half-million dollar federal grant to continue their work.
While still incredibly ambitious and far from likely to happen, this is at least a subtle
indication that some in Washington identify the merits of a private-sector face to American
passenger rail projects, no matter how public they may be in practice.
And further west, Brightline itself, or at least an affiliated company with common ownership
and branding, is copy and pasting their business model onto a new geography—Los Angeles to
Las Vegas.
Like their Florida route, this is a massive sunbelt travel corridor buoyed by tourism
with relatively low construction costs, in this case due to the emptiness and flatness
of the desert sitting between the two cities, rather than direct ownership of existing tracks.
In this more progressive region, the company was able to find deeper public support and,
in addition to billions of already approved PAB financing, the company was also awarded
billions worth of state and federal grants, perhaps spurred on by the upcoming 2028 Olympics
in Los Angeles and the company's bafflingly realistic promise to complete the project
by then.
So, Brightline West has become the second private passenger rail project in America
in the 21st century to tilt into likelier-than-not to happen—so much so that the Biden administration
is already taking credit for their role in it.
Yet, the reason why Brightline's audacious claims of building a passenger rail service
in four years, or even building its Florida service in the first place, were believable
is because they're focusing on the absolute lowest-hanging fruit.
They're developing service where there is just that perfect three- or four-hour travel
time between two wealthy, touristy places, leading to high demand, mixed with perfect
geography due to pre-existing rail alignments or its sparse landscape, leading to low construction
costs.
They're putting passenger trains where they have the absolute best chances of profitability,
which is what any well-run private company would and should do.
Perhaps the only problem with this is that that's what Amtrak should be doing.
Effective passenger rail is not a business, but a public service.
Roads are also a public service, meaning they're not built solely where they can turn a profit.
If every road in America was converted to a fee-funded model, where users paid based
on how much they used them, plenty of busy roads would be plenty profitable, yet plenty
more roads would fail to pay for themselves.
America doesn't operate roads on a fee-funded model—rather, taxpayer revenue is collected
together to fund construction and maintenance overall, yet the same discrepancies exist.
Some roads absolutely justify their costs directly, yet many more don't.
The rural road connecting far-flung ranches to the city likely could never fund itself
using a fee model, yet in the public service model the public accepts this loss because
it's considered that this connectivity is worth it for the ranches to be able to deliver
product to processors, for example, and getting product to processors easily is worth it for
everyone as it lowers the cost of food.
Effectively, the taxpayer who only uses the busy urban highway is paying more than their
fair share to subsidize that rural road, and the public generally accepts this because
connectivity is good for all.
Other rail systems should operate under a similar ethos because the exact same principles
arise.
Any effective system should, and globally does, use the profits from high traffic and
less expensive corridors to offset the losses from low traffic and more expensive ones since
that nationwide connectivity does a lot more than just capture demand.
It improves social and economic mobility, it grows the national economy, it does plenty
that is worth it for the passengers that only ever take the high traffic line, justifying
the profits from their trips to transfer to pay for the losses from another's.
So, in a perfect world, Amtrak or another national rail operator would be reaping the
profits from those Miami to Orlando or LA to Vegas trips and using them to run trains
from Idaho Falls to Salt Lake City, but with each corridor that the private sector builds
up, the potential of that perfect world diminishes.
But of course, Amtrak and the government that has held it back have had decades to develop
meaningful service on these routes, and have not, so the time is long past to argue that
we should delay good to get great.
But hopefully this good scenario can till public sentiment in a way that prevents such
potent pushback against national, public sector rail development.
Brightline, by all early measures, is a success—190,000 passengers rode the company's new Miami to
Orlando service in its first 70 days of operation, and the monthly averages continue to climb
as they've upped frequency to 16 trains in each direction each day.
Also, after just a few years of operation, the company's West Palm Beach to Miami segment
attained operational profitability with all indications suggesting that the long-distance
segment to Orlando will follow in the coming years.
This momentum seemingly pushed the affiliate company's western expansion into reality
with far more public support than it received for its initial service.
Now, if this is the start of an American passenger rail renaissance, it's truly just the out-of-the-box
absolute tiniest of starts.
The country has an unbelievably long way to go to catch up with the rest of the wealthy
world, and many dominance need to fall in the right direction for these private sector
projects to lead to widespread public good.
But at the very least, it's a believable start—it's a moment that one could imagine
looking back on as the small start that cascaded into a passenger rail renaissance.
This new era of private passenger rail development is an indication of how powerfully tweaking
the underlying business model of something can lead to different results.
Amtrak and Brightline are both running trains, but Brightline's business model has allowed
it to do it better, faster, and in more places.
We had similar thoughts when we started Nebula.
A bunch of us creators came together and started talking about how we could design a business
model for a streaming site that would lead to the best content possible.
To start with, we got rid of ads.
It incentivized creators to chase clicks over creating the best, most meaningful videos,
and they also lead to highly variable revenue for the creator, which makes it tougher to
plan financially, so instead we went with a subscription model.
This allows us to set aside a portion of our monthly revenue for content development itself,
which is what funds Nebula Originals—big-budget, dream projects for creators that simply would
not work financially on YouTube.
Nebula recently released the Patrick Williams Holiday Special, including a guest appearance
by me, the first couple episodes of Archaeology Quest by Real Science, and another Modern
Conflicts video by RealLifeLore about the Lebanese Civil War.
Nebula Originals are consistently great, and we spent much of 2023 working to develop the
absolute best slate of releases for 2024 as possible, which are starting to come out at
about the highest frequency we've ever had.
In fact, we at Wendover are in production right now for our highest budget and most
ambitious original to date, and for you jetlag fans, as you likely know, you can also watch
every single episode of the show one week early on Nebula.
So, in all, Nebula offers you, the viewer, an ad-free experience watching a curated group
of a few hundred of the best, most thoughtful creators out there, plus big-budget originals
by the same creators, and you get all of this for a surprisingly affordable price.
When you sign up at our link, nebulatv.tv-slash-wendover, you'll get 40% off an annual subscription,
which brings the cost down to the equivalent of just $2.50 a month.
Wendover will even get a portion of that subscription fee for as long as you stay subscribed,
so thanks in advance for signing up using our code.
