This is not a town.
It may look like a town, it may act like a town, but it is not one.
This is the Villages, a massive, sprawling, privately-owned, privately-operated retirement
community in Florida that easily ranks as the world's largest.
Driving from one corner to another would take some half-hour, and in that time one would
pass the suburban-style homes of over 130,000 people—all of whom, with rare exception,
were born before 1967.
Despite the entirely manufactured nature of the area, the 2020 census revealed that it
was the fastest-growing metro area in the US over the preceding decade, as it somehow
managed to manicure some sort of charm for some sort of person.
The Villages is centered by a town, or call it a grandiose strip mall, known as Lake Sumter
Landing.
Although it sits about as inland as one can get in the Sunshine States, it's themed
after a quaint seaside town, and even has plaques plastered throughout conveying the
history of the buildings—each entirely fictional, written to bolster the collective, Disney-world-esque
suspension of disbelief that starts the second one loses sight of the sprawling parking lot
that surrounds.
But once in the square, fanciful, incongruous buildings house a plethora of chain restaurants—Johnny
Rockets, Starbucks, Panera Bread, Haig & Doss—flanking around the central square where each night,
from five till nine, 365 days a year, some form of live entertainment takes place.
Beyond the bounds of Lake Sumter Landing and its parking lots, 71,000 suburban-style homes
are punctuated by 53 golf courses and over 100 recreation centers boasting pools, pickleball
courts, gyms, and other facilities that host a deluge of daily clubs and activities.
The Bone Builders Exercise Class, the Women's Parkinson's Caregiver Support Group, the
Villages Lightsaber Club, the Long Island Couples Club, the Northwest Ohio Club, the
Cleveland and Northeast Ohio Club, the Texas Social Club, the options stack up and up.
And these state-related clubs paint a fairly consistent picture of the places that villages
residents come from.
Overwhelmingly, these are middle-class Americans from middle America looking to upgrade their
quality of life with warm weather, low cost of living, and a lack of state income tax.
Despite having no restrictions on who can move in aside from an age minimum of 55, the
Villages undoubtedly attracts a particular type of person.
68.8% of its residents voted for the Republican presidential candidate in 2020, and according
to the same year's census, 98% of residents are white.
But that's just the villages.
Three and a half hours to the south, Cape Coral perhaps serves as a villages for a younger
generation.
It, too, is predominantly white, predominantly conservative, predominantly Midwestern, but
more mixed in age.
In place of the core superlative status as the world's largest retirement community,
Cape Coral postures as the city with the world's largest system of navigable canals—over
400 miles or 650 kilometers worth, each painstakingly dredged to grant nearly every lot that valuable
waterfront status and, through a zig-zagging path, boat access to the ocean.
But it was not as ingenious a plan as it first may seem.
In fact, little planning at all went into the development of Cape Coral.
The story is more of its developers making an overzealous land purchase than figuring
it out as they went along.
Selling lots to primarily distant buyers, they didn't really need to focus on the
details.
Few services or amenities existed at the start, and still today, these are few and far between.
Certain areas are a full 15-minute drive away from their nearest supermarket.
With few businesses to generate sales tax revenue, the local government's commercial
tax base is abnormally low, and with a predominantly conservative, anti-tax voter base, the city
has often struggled to find the funding for critical infrastructure projects.
Water, both too much and too little of it, has long been the peninsula's most persistent
problem.
In the early days, there was essentially zero plan for how to get freshwater to residents.
Developers just told buyers they could just build a well on their lot to tap into the
groundwater below, but there wasn't enough of it, and there was even less after the development
of the area disrupted the aquifer's natural recharge process.
Eventually, the burgeoning local government recognized the issue and started building
a central supply system, but it too was relying on the same, inadequate underground aquifer,
digging deeper and deeper as the water table dropped further and further.
Eventually, the city invested in a reverse osmosis plant to turn increasingly marginal
groundwater potable and a reclamation system to stretch that supply further, but continued
underinvestment has meant that, despite being located in one of the rainiest regions of
America, Cape Coral regularly encounters water shortages that spur legally enforced watering
restrictions and quality issues that have pushed water safe to drink up to one of the
top Google autocomplete suggestions when one types is Cape Coral.
But still, growth prevails.
Where else can you get a sunny, waterfront lot with an ocean access dock for less than
$50,000?
But there's still an entirely different class of transplant beyond the retirees and
the middle-class Midwesterners.
Directly opposite Cape Coral, three hours away on the Atlantic coast, sits Palm Beach.
A natural, 18-mile, 29-kilometer long barrier island physically separated from the mainland,
but connected to it by four short bridges.
The island is centered around the massive, storied Breakers Resort, and narrows and narrows
until it reaches just one mega-mansion in width.
These homes sell for inconceivable amounts—$47 million, $110 million, $46 million, $43 million—but
their owners likely only spend just six months and one day in them to attain coveted Florida
resident status and the lack of state income tax it conveys.
Palm Beach, as a phenomenon, essentially exists only between Thanksgiving and Easter, which
referred to as the season when temperatures up north stay cold, hurricanes stay away,
and the nuisance of off-season maintenance stays hidden, but during that period, it truly
is a phenomenon.
Over the winter months, this pencil of an island becomes the global center of gravity
for wealthy, conservative Americans.
While increasingly recognized today thanks to the current full-time residency of former
President Trump at his resort on the island, other central figures of his political party
laid roots long before.
Disgraced former Fox News chairman Roger Ailes lived in his $36 million mansion up until
his death, prominent radio host and political commentator Rush Limbaugh owned a mansion
listed for over $100 million after his death, and failed Republican Senate nominee for Pennsylvania
Dr. Mehmet Oz bought an $18 million, 10-bedroom, 14-bathroom beachfront mansion on the island
in 2018.
All controversial figures, they each undoubtedly appreciate the privacy and exclusivity that
have become known as Palm Beach's core competencies.
Little is public on the island.
Saved for a small, rather unremarkable downtown, the Palm Beach experience is defined by visits
within the walls of neighboring megamansions, or nights at the Everglades Club, the Palm
Beach Bath and Tennis Club, Mar-a-Lago, or any one of the other extremely expensive,
extremely exclusive social clubs on the island.
For those without the means, there's truly little to do so they merely come for work,
then commute back over the bridge to West Palm Beach.
This maintains the social bubble around the island and its residents, shielding them from
real-world quarrels stemming from their reputation.
It's a strange spot, an informal, yet remarkably consistent aberration, and it's in a state
full of remarkably consistent aberrations.
Somehow, this massive peninsula has bred a landscape of truly bizarre, individually unique
places.
Beyond the villages, Cape Coral, and Palm Beach, there's an entire city-sized economy
undergirded by theme parks, there's a linear, inter-island community connected by 125 miles
or 200 kilometers of overwater bridges, there are nearly unlimited instances of places that
exist in Florida that have no equivalent anywhere else in the world, and perhaps more bizarrely,
within Florida.
The only consistency in Florida is inconsistency.
There's a common thread of incongruity, which started to get woven through Florida
decades, even centuries ago, during the very first days of American encroachment into the
peninsula.
For Florida to become the oddest of American enclaves, it needed to appeal to Americans.
And to be appealing, it first needed to be built, which required time and, in the era
before automobiles, rails.
In 1900, Florida was 32nd out of 45 states in population, sandwiched between Colorado
and Washington.
Miami's population hadn't yet reached 2,000, the 5,000, resident city of Tampa's
economic driver was cigars, and Jacksonville, the state's most successful tourist destination
to date, had recently been ravaged by yellow fever outbreaks, crushing its appeal as a
health retreat for the wealthy Northerner.
As a swampy, seminal stronghold so late to join the Union, most Americans simply couldn't
see the allure.
That changed with this man—Henry Flagler.
For much of his life, Flagler worked side-by-side with titan of industry John D. Rockefeller
building one of America's mightiest businesses—standard oil.
Then, in the 1880s, after spending some time in the state, Flagler turned all attention
to Florida and began manufacturing one of America's mightiest attractions.
First for Flagler was the hotel here, the Ponce de Leon, an immediate success that hosted
the likes of Theodore Roosevelt and Mark Twain.
Then Flagler, fueled by dreams of an American Riviera, pushed into the swampy, disconnected
south, building a bridge across the St. John's River, establishing the growing network as
the Florida East Coast Railway, and extending the line down to Palm Beach where you would
build the world's largest hotel, the Royal Ponce de Leon.
Soon, the rails reached Miami, allowing fruit produce to go north and well-off tourists
to vacation in the sunny south.
In two decades, Flagler had laid the physical groundwork for coastal Florida to take off.
Equally important, he helped reimagine it.
By beating back mangrove forests and building on beach sides, Florida was no longer the
swampy backwoods—it was a spot to retreat from the cold, to relax, to escape the media
tension that came with extreme wealth, and to rub elbows with the other fortunate few
of similar stature.
Flagler's Florida was intentionally not for everyone.
Effectively a string of jewels, his network of railroad hotels were for the elite and
those who worked for the elite.
Conscripted prison laborers toiled in disease-riddled swamps, building the rails at breakneck pace,
while hotel workers had to move inland and contend with the marshlands.
This divide was especially obvious in Palm Beach where the separation between upper and
working classes was part of its fundamental, foundational design.
West Palm Beach wasn't an outgrowth of Palm Beach's success—rather, it was planned
and plotted beforehand as a commercial town on the other side of Lake Worth for hotel
and estate employees.
While captains of industry meandered around Palm Beach's sleepy, forested walkways,
West Palm Beach functioned like a frontier town bustling with shops on Clemente Street
and notoriously ruckus saloons along Banyan.
While places like this didn't fit the budding narrative around Florida, its workforce made
the dream of a warm winter escape possible for the elite, while the island's natural
separation made its existence bearable.
Turn of the century South Florida was tiny, it was segregated along racial and class lines,
its allure was highly fabricated and problems were thinly veiled, but it had an identity,
and more than anything, it was now tempting.
In the 20s, the state roared to life.
Americans saw how the wealthy were making the most of the area, and they wanted in.
All boards in New York extolled the Florida good life, while Florida real estate ads filled
national newspapers.
In 1925, the Miami Daily News ran 500 pages long, in Ohio, newspapers were banned from
running Florida real estate ads, and each day 7,000 new residents showed up to the state.
To keep them pouring in, the state nixed income and inheritance taxes, loosened real estate
regulation, and left alone spectacles like horse and dog racing.
From 1920 to 1925, Florida went from under a million residents to 1.3 million and became
the vacation spot for Midwestern and East Coast Americans.
Connected by rail then road, and with proof of concept in Miami and Palm Beach, the rest
of the US finally got it.
What Florida offered Americans was that it was so different from America.
The craze reached a point that buying Florida real estate sight unseen became a norm, occasionally
leaving new owners with lots sitting under feet of water.
Often, a simple scam was to blame, but so too was the state's location and topography.
Florida's biggest threat to growth has always been, and will always be, water—first in
the form of tropical storms.
What makes Florida so appealing from the world's richest to a Midwestern retiree, the pleasant
water temperatures, still winds, and warm air, is also what makes it so storm-prone.
At the western end of Hurricane Alley, the peninsula couldn't possibly be more thoroughly
in the bull's eye for tropical storms.
It was a hurricane in 1926, then another in 1928 that stopped the Florida land boom in
its tracks, and the 1935 storm of the century that ripped away Henry Flagler's most audacious
Florida undertaking—the overseas railroad that connected Eastern Florida to Key West.
But storms come and go, water recedes, newspapers and boosters act like they didn't happen,
and federally backed insurance allows people to build back so it doesn't look like it
happened.
This is the case in Miami, as it is Los Angeles, Denver, and Houston.
Florida's other interrelated water problem, however, is a constant—and that's the
fact that South Florida, from just south of Orlando to Biscayne and Florida Bay, is functionally
a big, wide, slow-moving river.
Before the national park, and before development along the coast, the Everglades extended across
almost the entirety of Florida below Lake Okeechobee, and this biodiverse sea of grass,
where water drains so slowly to the ocean it seems stagnant, stood directly in the way
of making true on the Florida Dream.
The problem's pretty simple—for Florida to grow, it needed land.
In the early days of Miami and West Palm Beach, canals and ditches to reclaim land were the
responsibility of local governments and land companies, but by 1948, after record drought
then record flooding, Florida needed a bigger budget to reconfigure its statewide river.
With the creation of the $200 million Central and Southern Florida project, the state and
the Army Corps of Engineers took off on a 20-year project that almost entirely reimagined
the Everglades watershed.
Like Flagler's Railway 50 years prior, the undertaking was exceptionally ambitious.
In cost and scope, it was the most audacious reclamation project taken on by the US.
In principle, it was as bold and self-assured as any other Florida land project or real-estate
development.
It simply aimed to drain an entire state.
And from the perspective of anyone looking to move to the state by mid-century, it worked.
With federal dollars, the 3-mile, 5-kilometer-wide Kissimmee River and its floodplain north of
Lake Okeechobee became C-38—a 58-mile, 93-kilometer-long canal that no longer flooded, seemingly on
a whim.
Below the lake, South Florida water planners built the 105-mile, 169-kilometer East Coast
Protective Levee, along with an assortment of water catchment basins and eastbound canals
that whisked water directly to the ocean without flooding the urbanized East Coast.
By the late 60s, the South Florida Water Management District overseeing the project had drained
half the Everglades with the aid of some 1,700 miles or 2,700 kilometers of canals and levees
and 16 pump stations that carefully monitored and jettisoned water away from urban and agricultural
areas.
Just as the vision of Florida as a dreamy destination was carefully cultivated, so too
was the actual land—painstakingly, expensively dried up and handed over to a wave of real-estate
developers who, in turn, transformed it, divvied it up, and sold it to the hordes of post-war
Americans pouring into the state.
The project was just in time—in two decades, from 1940 to 1960, Florida's population
more than doubled, than from 1960 to 1980, it doubled again.
Since 1980 to now, it has doubled for the third time.
With ample barren land, ambitious master-planned communities like Cape Coral and the villages
breaking ground, and new generations of America's wealthiest making their way to Palm Beach,
Florida is now for the escapist and the elite alike.
In a century, Florida as an idea and Florida as a place has been completely redesigned.
While different sections of reclaimed swamp, slender islands, and former farmland came
to serve Americans of varying age and economic standing, all are bound by the same brash,
brazen disposition of their developers and the complete enchantment of those who fully
latched on to the Florida Dream.
In many ways, Florida mirrors less the development of the South or the East, but rather the West.
Late to statehood, mired by water problems, and lacking the obvious agricultural potential
of Eastern and Midwestern states, Florida languished through much of the 19th century—its
population lagged along with its economic prospects.
But even Florida didn't benefit from the mineral rushes, irrigated agriculture developments,
or ranging economies that buoyed Western states, leaving it uniquely undeveloped and empty.
Florida was America's last frontier.
By the time Henry Flagler first laid eyes on Palm Beach, railroads had stretched coast
to coast for decades, settlers had claimed every worthwhile nook of the Rockies, Alaska
had long been transformed into American, yet none thought to bother with the miserable,
swampy wilds at the country's southeast.
It was effectively an ocean, or at best something in between—hardly an area that one could
think of as land until individuals so audacious, so unrealistic, so confident in the impossible
task of turning nothing into something came along.
There were no homesteads to lay claim to, no rivers around which to centralize, no fertile
valleys to drop people in—every inch of Florida had to be developed.
There were boosters and there were buyers—that is the story of the state.
Differentiation is critical to business.
When an entrepreneur goes into a pitchroom to find funding, they don't say they're
going to make a taxi company or a bookstore or a DVD rental store but better.
They say they're going to do something different—they say they're going to make Uber or Amazon
or Netflix.
Uniqueness is necessary in business.
Investors don't take risks on slightly better, and buyers won't leave the comfort of what's
known for the same proposition—to take the plunge, they need the promise of at least
the potential of a massive leap forward.
Florida is a business.
More so than every other state, it had to sell itself.
With every inch requiring development, land had to be bought, improved, and sold.
The weather was a start, but to convince a far-north buyer to leave the comfort of home,
and especially to end up on their land rather than their competitors, developers had to
do something different.
They had to build a themed, age-restricted wonderland, they had to offer a city of waterfront
lots, they had to turn their island into an inherently ultra-exclusive hideaway.
Weird sells, and weird attracts weird.
Compound that and compound that, and you make Florida.
It's a celebration of the bizarre, an affront to Mother Nature, an encapsulation of the
American experience where supercharged capitalism and an ignorance of the pragmatic can create
impossible wonders unknown to anywhere else on earth.
As many of you all know, I travel constantly.
As I write these very words, I'm sitting in a hotel room in Scotland finishing this
video up, but it would have been pretty tough to write and research this while abroad without
using NordVPN, which happens to be our sponsor.
That's because rather than comply with Europe's new GDPR data protection requirements, a lot
of websites have just decided to block out European users entirely.
I was running into issues getting access to local Florida news websites to get info
about water quality issues in Cape Coral, but then I fired up NordVPN, routed my connection
through one of their servers in the US, and just like that, I could get on the sites.
This is just one instance of many issues that stem from the increasing nationalization of
the internet.
Certain streaming content is geolocked to particular countries, which means you get
access to a ton more if you use a VPN, and some governments have country-wide surveillance
and firewall programs, for example.
So, having a trusted VPN that can essentially transport your connection all around the world
is a really useful tool for any internet user.
Not only that, but the internet is not always a safe place.
I've also been connecting to a bunch of public wifi while traveling to save on data
roaming fees, but I'd be at real risk of a cybersecurity issue if I didn't route
my data through NordVPN's encrypted connection.
NordVPN has earned a fantastic reputation as a trusted, simple-to-use VPN over the years
and that's why we're choosing to promote them.
If you click the button on screen or head to the link in the description, they're
offering Wendover viewers a huge discount on a two-year plan plus four months for free
and you'll be helping support the show while you're at it, so head over and sign up for
NordVPN today.
