Don't get no fight with them.
Don't get no fight with them.
Are you talking to them?
Yeah, I'm eating them.
It's ridiculous.
Yeah, this is ridiculous.
What did they get called for?
Because there were two black guys sitting here meeting me?
Well, what did they do?
What did they do? Someone told me what they did.
They didn't do anything. I saw the entire thing.
What did they do?
The moment says,
for any customer,
they can do anything.
As you've seen at the beginning of this video,
and as you've probably heard about all over the internet by now,
on April 12th, 2018,
two black men were arrested for trespassing within a Starbucks
while waiting for a business associate of theirs to arrive.
The business associate in question
is the white guy in the video
asking the police why the two black men are being arrested.
The manager who called the police
stated in the 911 call
that the two men sat down
and refused to buy anything or leave the premises.
That same manager later quit her job,
presumably due to the blowback received from this event.
On Twitter, Starbucks apologized
for exercising their legal rights
against non-customers trespassing
on their private property.
On April 12th, 2018,
two black men were arrested
for trespassing
while waiting for a business associate
to arrive.
On April 12th, 2018,
two black men were arrested
for trespassing
against non-customers trespassing
on their private property.
The CEO of Starbucks even made the rounds in the morning news,
offering sincere apologies
that one of his employees would dare assert their rights
against a person of color.
Philadelphia's police commissioner released a video
in which he defended the legal actions of his officers.
On Thursday, at about 4.40,
police received a 911 call
for a disturbance
and trespassing.
When the police arrived,
they were met by Starbucks employees
who said that two males were trespassing
and had refused to leave the establishment.
According to employees,
they had seen these two males
come in, they sat down,
and after being seated,
they decided that they needed to use the restroom.
Starbucks said that
according to their company policy,
they do not allow
nonpaying members
or nonpaying people
of the public to come in
and use the restroom.
And so,
they then asked these two males
to leave, these two males
refused to leave,
and the police were called.
Now, when the police were
summoned to the scene,
they get there and they get this story
that I just began to outline.
They then approached the males,
they asked the males to leave
because they're being
asked to leave by Starbucks
employees. In fact,
in an effort to quell the situation,
officers actually called for a
supervisor so that it would not get out
of hand, something that was a good decision.
And three different
occasions, the officers asked the males
politely to leave
the location because they were being asked
to leave by employees because they were trespassing.
Instead,
the males continued to refuse
as they had told the employees previously,
and they told the officers that they were
not leaving. When the
call was initially made, the Starbucks
employees had told the males that they were
going to call police and they said, go ahead and call
police, we don't care. So, police
get there and they're confronted by the same
type of attitude and repeatedly
are told that they're not leaving.
In fact, there's some alleged rhetoric
about you don't know what you're doing, you're only
a $45,000 a year employee
or something to that regard.
And so, because these individuals
refused to leave, because
Starbucks actually called,
the police did not just happen upon this
event. They did not just walk into
Starbucks to get coffee. They were
called there for a service
and that service had to do with quelling a
disturbance, a disturbance that had to do
with trespassing. So,
I need to underscore
the fact that these males were arrested.
When they were arrested, they were taken out
essentially without incident. There was
no harm done to them. But
after being transported to the
police district in the area,
the officers after processing paperwork
discovered that Starbucks no longer
was interested in prosecuting.
And so, at that point, those
males were released from custody.
It is important to emphasize
and underscore that these officers
had legal standing to make this arrest.
Again, they were
called to the scene because employees
said they were trespassing.
It is important for me to say
that, in short, these officers
did absolutely nothing wrong.
They followed policy. They did what
they were supposed to do. They were
professional in all their dealings with
these gentlemen. And instead,
they got the opposite back. I
will say that as an African-American
male, I am very aware of implicit
bias. We are committed
to fair and unbiased policing
and anything less than that will not be
tolerated in this department. Let me
be very clear. I own no stock
in Starbucks. I just happen not to even
ever frequent Starbucks. But I can
tell you that there was a case
involving one of our sergeants
probably a couple years ago who
went to Starbucks in full uniform
and he was also denied access
to the restroom. So they are at least
consistent in their policy. But he
ended up cucking, too, and eventually apologized
for infringing upon these poor
black men's right to infringe upon the
rights of others. These innocent victims
later made an appearance on Good Morning America
telling their side of this heinous event.
Dante, you both walk in.
You get a table.
Rashawn, how long was it
before you asked to use the restroom?
Immediately, as soon as I walked in
and she
stated that they were for paying customers only
and I just left it at that moment.
And the response was, you have
to buy something. Yes.
Then you go and find Dante.
You're at the table. What happened next?
We're at the table.
We sit down. We're just talking amongst each other.
She then
comes from around the register
asks, you know,
walks up to us, asks
if she can help us with anything.
Can we start with some drinks or water
or something like that.
For when we have bottles of water with us,
so we're fine. We're just
waiting for a meeting. We'll be out really quick.
And that was it.
So approximately 4.35
you arrive for a 4.45
business meeting. According to
911 accounts
a call was placed at
4.37
approximately two minutes after you arrived to
911. What did you think
when you saw police arrive
Dante? It can't be
for us. So when they do approach you
what do they say and how do you react?
Well initially
as soon as they approached us
they just said we have to leave.
There was no question of, you know,
was there a problem here
between you guys and the manager.
You know, what happened. When you were arrested
did they tell you what you were being arrested
for? No, not at the time.
We wasn't read any rights.
Nothing. Just double lock
handcuffs behind our back
escorted out and put into a squad car.
Well the video has
been viewed almost 11 million
times and
part of it Dante, you can see that you're talking
to the police officer.
What were you all
saying to one another?
I was just trying to, you know, process
the situation to myself at the time
because I'm thinking about
my family that I have, my
community. So in that moment
I'm trying to process what's going on.
They walk over and they say you have to leave
I say we're here for a meeting.
What is the business meeting about? It's a real estate
meeting. We've been working on
this for months. What do you
say to some people
who say rules are rules, that Starbucks
has a policy, you violated
that policy. The police asked you
repeatedly to leave
and you didn't. How do you respond
to people who say that? What I say is
I understand that. Rules are rules
but what's right is right and what's
wrong is wrong. And that's in any situation.
Whether it's race involved or anything.
Everybody involved in this story
from Starbucks to the police to the media
to the verified armbands to those two
young men themselves are acting like
these two don't have any personal agency.
They're acting like when black people misbehave in public
they aren't responsible for their own actions
and therefore punishing them for those
actions is unjust. It's almost
like they equate black people to unruly
children that need disciplining by their parents.
And when the police chief or the Starbucks CEO
come out and say that it's their fault
this happened, not the two men in question
it's like a parent apologizing to a shopkeep
that their child broke a vase or something.
There's only one word for considering an
entire race of people to lack agency
in this manner. Racism.
And the worst part about it is there actually are
instances in the United States in which black
people are unjustly removed from establishments
solely because of their race. And these
legitimate instances of racism are routinely
overshadowed or underreported
in comparison to this Starbucks-styled
shenanigans. For example, let's look at
this LA Fitness in New Jersey. On April
16th, 2018, two black
men went to the gym together. One was a member
with a membership ID. The other had purchased
a four-day guest pass. After signing
in and beginning to work out, an LA Fitness
employee approached them and told them that
they needed to pay. After explaining that they had both
already paid and signed in properly,
the police were called. One of the black men
recorded four short videos of the event.
We got the police here.
Excuse me, what's your name?
It don't matter, they don't know who you are.
Out here, go ahead and scan that.
I told you I scanned that with your manager, right?
Go ahead and scan that.
I need to call the police for this.
He's right here.
What that say on the screen?
Have a nice day.
Have a nice day.
LA Fitness Secaucus, again.
LA Fitness Secaucus, again.
Dude, you're not allowed to film me.
Why not?
Let's figure this out, alright?
I do want to figure out. We have all these police officers here for what reason?
We're just here, man.
We've been having this
stash for months now.
Several people, not just me. You got several emails from
corporate about this stuff.
You guys don't like cell phones. I get it.
It's not criminal activity. Exactly.
You're kicking me off the gym for no reason?
That's how you call it.
You're kicking me off the gym for no reason?
Ridiculous, man. Working out by myself.
And this lady, too.
For no reason.
For no reason.
Are you with anybody?
We're the only two black people in the gym.
Let's make this a black thing.
We're the only two black people in the gym.
We've been having problems with this stuff for months.
Over nothing. Every time it's something new.
My contract is being terminated.
My contract is being terminated.
Because, um...
Because what?
Because what?
I don't have the answers.
Nobody knows. Nobody knows if my contract is being terminated.
The manager doesn't like me.
So, we're going to write the case on me now for you that we came here for a while.
Absolutely. No problem.
Is this even just plain ol' racism?
It's looking likely.
And for anybody who thinks that we live in a white supremacist society,
in this case of actual racism,
the manager of the LA Fitness and the two employees
involved have been fired,
and the victim's membership has been restored.
So we've got two very similar situations,
both involving black men getting kicked out
from privately owned businesses.
The Starbucks one was legitimate.
The men weren't customers, they were instead trespassers,
and the media jumped all over it.
The LA Fitness one happened at around the same time,
with a very similar structure of events,
and a similar demographic of people involved in all positions.
But it involved an actual instance of racism,
and the media ignored it.
Why?
Why'd one video go viral, but not the other?
Maybe it's because Starbucks is a more well-known brand
than LA Fitness,
and therefore the verification squad could extract
more sympathy clicks from the story.
Maybe it's because Starbucks is already hipster soy boy mecca,
where these ideas naturally have fertile ground.
Maybe it's because gyms are generally avoided
by the radical left,
by low testosterone levels,
and fat oppression theory.
Or maybe it's because ultimately the media is more interested
in fabricated and controlled stories of fake racism
than actual racism.
Maybe it's because the wells of money, outrage,
and viewers are more easily exploited
when the narrative can be controlled,
when the villains are willing to play ball
by kowtowing themselves to social justice principles,
and the heroes are just good boys going to college
never done nothing wrong.
There's a strong strand of belligerence
within the black subculture in America,
I think people have not only a moral right
but a moral obligation to rebel against tyranny.
But was Starbucks acting in a tyrannical manner
when they asked two people
that refused to buy anything to leave?
If you think they were, it's likely because
you don't respect the property rights of Starbucks,
and that actually makes a fair amount of sense
given the people who protested this event.
But there's a gigantic gap between the moral obligation
to rebel against tyranny and the amount of belligerence
within America's black subculture.
I mean, look at it from this point of view.
Let's say you're one of these two black men.
You ask Starbucks for a meeting to be held in 10 minutes time.
The meeting is, as they themselves described,
a real estate meeting that will change your life.
A manager comes over and says
you need to buy something or leave.
Why wouldn't you just buy a coffee?
Why would you just simply be belligerent
both to the manager and to the officers
that arrived in the scene?
Why jeopardize everything?
Some people have already made up their minds about this.
They did it because the whole thing is fake news.
It's a false flag operation.
It was set up by the SJWs to make Starbucks look racist.
They can show how progressive they are or whatever.
There's no evidence for any of this.
And these theories are honestly a little bit out there.
I have no evidence for my theory either.
It's just a hunch.
But I think it's because the subculture these guys were raised in
is one in which belligerence,
whether or not it's justified,
is used as a currency in place of wealth or attractiveness.
We're going down the rabbit hole here a little bit,
but that's okay.
The black population of the US is around 13%.
Despite this, black people commit
significantly more than their share of crime.
They commit 51% of America's murders,
30% of America's rapes,
56% of its robberies,
33% of its aggravated assaults,
and the list goes on.
Overall, 28% of people arrested in the United States are black.
All of these numbers are huge overrepresentations
from the 13% black population.
Some people would say it's because of racism,
that they're more likely to arrest black people
for things that they let white people off with a warning,
that they're more likely to over-police black neighborhoods,
and even that they're more likely to simply
fabricate cases against innocent black people.
I'm not saying this doesn't happen.
Clearly, there are instances of police brutality in the States.
But 100 years ago, Chinese communities
had huge problems with the police,
on par with the black community, and now they don't.
Jewish communities had huge problems with the police,
and now they don't.
Italian communities had massive problems with the police,
and now they don't.
Nowadays, Latino communities have huge problems with the police,
but still not nearly as large as black communities,
despite the cultural stereotype
of the illegal immigrant Mexican cartel member.
If America is a white supremacy,
and every single one of these statistics
is explained by racism,
why is it that of all the immigrant communities,
it's only the black community
that isn't getting any better over time?
The alt-right will say it's genetics.
The alt-right is stupid.
I personally think it's the subculture of belligerence.
32% of all black families with children
live below the poverty line,
and 58% of black children don't live with their biological fathers.
The black community is extremely impoverished,
and in the absence of money,
belligerence becomes the de facto social currency.
This poverty is compounded by a lack of a stable home life,
a lack of a father figure,
and a lack of resources and money that a second parent would provide.
And in the absence of any other resource,
the only form of advancement left to these kids
is belligerence.
Be the meanest, baddest dude around
so nobody would dare fuck with you.
And eventually, that belligerence escalates into violence,
it escalates into crime,
it escalates into gang membership,
it escalates into all the things that we see
black adults overrepresented in.
It's clear to me that what would help the poorest of black people
is a stable nuclear family situation.
Even if these families lived in grinding poverty,
the addition of a second adult to the mix
means a second income,
a second pair of hands to deal with raising kids,
and a second perspective on problems that may arise.
So, now we have to ask,
why aren't black men making an effort
to keep the families that they start intact?
I don't know the answer to this one.
Maybe it's because feminism's advocacy for the destruction of the nuclear family
has actually come to pass in the black community
with devastating intergenerational consequences.
Maybe it's because the echoes of slavery
are still at play culturally,
where black slaves didn't care about their kids
since those kids would just be sold off by their masters.
And that attitude stuck around culturally in a diminished form.
Maybe it's because the black men of today
were raised in the exact type of dysfunctional household
that they're creating
and simply don't know anything other than having kids with women
that they're not interested in building a family with.
What I do know is that this problem
can only be solved by black people.
It can only be solved by black people
making responsible choices about their lives
and not blaming the government or Whitey
or anybody else for the mistakes they make.
I don't know if there's any impoverished
poor black kids listening to this.
There probably isn't.
But just in case there is, it doesn't matter if your friends
think you're white on the inside
or not acting black enough
if you'd rather study or practice instead of fool around.
It doesn't matter if your family thinks it's a betrayal to them
or your people or whatever
if you'd rather leave the ghetto instead of live there your entire life.
They're saying that shit because they don't want you to get better.
They want you to stick around in the hood with them
because you're a part of their social capital.
If you go, they're losing a resource, not a person.
If the choice is to listen to the belligerence of black subculture
or improve your lives
well, I know which one I'd pick.
We're way off topic here
and I know a lot of this is just me shooting the shit
but I really think that the belligerence of black subculture
is what caused this entire Starbucks mess
on some level.
These two young men probably walked into the cafe
with an attitude of entitlement.
The rules didn't apply to them
and they'd tell anybody who challenged them on this to fuck off.
Why not? It's worked for them before.
Oh shit, it's not working for them now. It must be racism, right?
And the worst part is
people who accurately understand all of this
the black prevalence of crime, black poverty
and fatherlessness and so on
and then use this information to assume that all black people
are going to be a problem anytime they encounter one
are actually racists
which is likely what happened at the LA Fitness.
We can use this information to understand
probably, why Rashawn Nelson and Dante Robinson
acted as contrarian as they did
in the Starbucks after the fact
but we cannot use it to assume that any random
black person will be contrarian in the future.
That's the difference between the social justice definition
of racism and racism in the real world.
