Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and YouTubers, although there are certainly a lot of them to choose
from, many would at least say the largest greats on the platform are comparable to the
everyday Hollywood celebrity. This seems increasingly accurate as the platform continues to manifest
and evolve larger and larger channels, headed by figures who have become identifiable to
even those without a passing interest in the video hosting website. YouTube isn't like
the mainstream media though, many figureheads are not handpicked, and many have much more
centralised control of their content and their vision than certain personages who may be
subject to studios and investors. For many, this is what makes YouTube such a good platform
to launch one's career, as success is almost exclusively decided by the audience who watch
it. However, on the other hand, YouTube is still a very small tranche of media as a whole,
and many who achieve the treasured status of mega influencer often begin to look beyond
the realms of the platform to further their career. In many ways, this should be a recipe
for success, the personal relationship that many creators produce with their channel often
gives them a fanbase much more dedicated than that of the average celeb utens. They've
already crafted a multi-million subscriber channel from a very limited set of resources,
imagine what they could do with the sort of financial backing that many of these large
corporations can provide. Think of all the wondrous creations that could be brought into
being. It's strange really, because in spite of the numerous attempts to bring popular
YouTubers into the mainstream sphere, a proportionally low number have actually succeeded. There
are a few large musicians and comedians who had their start on the video sharing platform,
which makes sense in a way as there are also occupations which can command an exceptionally
dedicated fanbase, but besides this, many creators trying to spread their wings have
often been met with limited prosperity outside of their comfort zone. Why is this often the
case?
Well, to be honest, I don't think it's really a problem with the YouTuber themselves.
As a matter of fact, many mainstream celebrities of the younger generations have been revealed
to have possessed YouTube channels at some point, even if they weren't particularly
lucrative in their time. It tells me that the same sort of star power that can drive
a mainstream celebrity can also drive many large YouTubers. I think the main problem
is rooted in the fact that many ventures by popular creators into mainstream media
seek to capitalise on their YouTube success without being sensitive to the format that
it's being adapted to. Although they may not seem particularly different on the surface,
a good comedy on YouTube works for very different reasons than a good comedy film works, and
the sort of five second humour that lands here may well fall flat elsewhere. A lot of
YouTube comedy thrives on spontaneity and randomness. If you want to translate that
into the world of established media, you still need infrastructure that supports it. Additionally,
the contrimences of a lot of entertainment content tend to subdue the appeal of the individual
creator, whose personality is often placed at the forefront of their online work, but
may otherwise fall into the background amongst elevated production values. It's not that
creators can't work in the mainstream world, it's just that the mainstream world often
doesn't know what to do with them, and the medium often isn't supportive of it. But
here's the answer to this quandary right in front of us the whole time. Lay Night
Talk shows one of the leading forms of media, particularly in the United States of America,
where figures like Jimmy Kimmel, David Letterman, and Conan O'Brien have been immortalised
by their eponymous programs. In the past few years, it has also found significant popularity
on YouTube, with clips from the broadcast garnering billions of views between them,
its standalone segments allowing for easy rendering to a site built on that sort of
content. Although the subjects are likely planned, prepared, and researched, there is
an impromptu element that allows the host to rip, which shows integrating sketches,
interviews, and audience interactions, all of which coast off the charisma of the presenter.
Its success on YouTube had already been proven, but what happens if we reverse the formula,
and put a YouTuber in a talk show? This is where we introduce today's title character,
a YouTuber by the name of Lilly Singh. Lilly Singh was one of the most prominent YouTube
cultivated comedians of the 2010s, a sketchy often garnished with commentary, but became
adored by many viewers for its ability to portray everyday experiences in an accurate
yet amusing fashion. She would regularly depict fictionalised figures, including her
overbearing conservative parents, and integrate her experiences as the second generation daughter
of migrants to Canada, contrasting their traditional values with her exposure to western culture.
This resonated with many around the world, and in the space of a few years, racked up
her channel over 10 million subscribers, becoming one of the most subscribed to channels in
the process. With such fame, further opportunities followed, with many of those expected for
some one of her influence. However, probably the most notable and well documented of those
was her role in the pioneering show A Little Late with Lilly Singh, which planned to take
her brand of YouTube comedy to a whole new level. With proven results, and a format that
should nurture her talents, it seemed like a match made in heaven. However, it felt like
as soon as it started, it was over.
Lilly Singh-"I believe in this show, because NBC believes in this show, but most importantly
because you believed in this show."
In spite of the promising premise, the show was nearly immediately marred in criticism,
controversy, and COVID, and after just two seasons, it was dropped from the ever-rotating
roster of late night shows, ending another YouTuber experiment with somewhat disappointing
results and leaving the question of the compatibility of YouTube's success hanging in the balance.
During the show's runtime, many creators and critics alike attempted to point out exactly
what didn't work about this show, but now with its fate sealed, I think we should revisit
it and ask that question one more time, to see if we can work out exactly what went wrong,
and to do that, I suggest we start with the person who made it all happen in the first place,
Lilly Singh. So folks, without further ado, let's jump right into it.
Wow guys, it's summer already. Gee, it's come around fast. Well, call me Nelly because it's hot in here.
All this sun is making me reconsider my life choices, such as my daily routine. Maybe you should reconsider your life too.
And think about ways to spruce it up. Have you noticed that you smell?
You know what also smells? Well, now introducing Scentbird, my new favourite brand of all time,
at least since my last video. When I go shopping looking for all my Gucci and Prada, my gold
chains, cashmere sweaters, and my grey Poupon, I'm always on the lookout for the finest
colognes, and I'm not talking about cities in North Rhine Westphalia, however, all these
bottles are so large. And what to confine you to one long-term relationship? What if
you want to sleep around? Well, Scentbird has you covered. They allow you to try up
to three travel-side designer or niche fragrances for just $17 a month. $17! That's like 0.00056
Bitcoin, or for all you normies out there, 0.0088 Ethereum. Scentbird has all the designer
brands alongside cool other niche perfumes like Salt Air by Skyler, which really captures
the airiness and saltiness of an atmosphere with a degree of salinity. The Amberwood Tinge
Sign You're After You by Mercedes Benz, which captures the flavours of a man who always
lives life in the fast lane, and always keeps 12 points on his license. And the subtle spice
of number one, David's Perfume by David Debrick, for whenever you feel like a number one. I'm
sorry ladies, please control yourselves. Don't mind me friends, I just put some David Debrick
on me, and now everyone's getting excited. Huh, wait, where do they go? Anyhow, I know
I said $17 a month earlier, but I'm going to make you a deal. My friend Mr. Scentbird
has been talking to me, and he said that for the first month, he's going to give you all
55% off. Can you hear him too? Well, all you have to do is use my coupon code RightOpinion
for 55% off at Scentbird and a little over $7 for your first month. Available in the
US and Canada. Because folks, if it don't make dollars, it don't make sense. Scentbird.
They smell good.
Lilly Singh created her channel towards the end of 2010, with the first presently viewable upload being a
tutorial on how to tie a turban. Now it's not the first ever upload on her channel, we'll address that in a bit,
but I think it's understandable why she has left this up as the first upload. Although obviously very different
to the content she would subsequently garner fame from making, it represents a degree of cultural pride,
and integrates Lilly's more outgoing personality into the content, with a description that sets up Lilly's
purpose in the creation of this video, observing that there aren't a lot of tutorials that can deliver
information in a helpful way, and so she decided to fill that gap. When Lilly first launched her channel,
she tried a few avenues of content. There was music, including piano covers and rap remixes,
there was some serious commentary, and there were vlogs. Now, none of these performed particularly badly,
as a matter of fact, viewership was pretty consistent throughout the channel in its early stages.
However, the best performing video was a comedy one Lilly had made titled Stop Punjabi Madness, and not too long after,
she decided to take another shot at the funniest stuff, uploading a video named Official Guide to Brown Girls.
Today I'm going to tell you, welcome to Suboma's official guide of how to deal with brown girls.
So hold on tight, because you know it's going to be quite the emotional rollercoaster.
What's cooking good looking?
Obviously, much of its production value was very apt for that of 2010, but as personality, and even if some of the humor
is very much of its time, it's rooted in that trademark relatability that she'd soon become known for.
Additionally, even if a punchline or an edit didn't always land, there was no lack of comedic ambition,
and it demonstrated that Lilly was prepared to throw the kitchen sink at the wall just to see what stuck,
which can be a real asset to honing in your craft. After its publication, Official Guide to Brown Girls quickly
garnered significantly more views than any other video on her channel at that time, possibly giving Lilly a hint to what
the masses wanted, and so she obliged, uploading more sketch-based comedy to her channel in the coming months, and years.
I swear to God, you have one job, and that's to be sucky. You can't even suck. You make the worst slut ever.
Now in Lilly, there was no overnight success, particularly in the world of sketch comedy, which was already saturated by the
early 2010s. Plenty of channels dominated the airwaves, and it was hard for any creator to put their foot in the door.
But growth was steady, and enough of those who found her channel decided to subscribe and stick around for her content.
Playing the waiting game isn't necessarily a bad option in this case, as it gave Lilly time to improve her skills and creative
direction, improving viewer retention and subscriber conversion. This eventually began to pay dividends, particularly
around the year 2013, where her content began to be treated very favourably by the YouTube algorithm.
Starting the year on approximately 170,000 subscribers, she finished on 1.86 million, the sort of growth that many creators
can only dream of. By then, Lilly was producing highly polished videos that captured the energy of her humour,
or remaining sincere to the subject matter. She had fleshed out characters, running gags and social commentary from a defined
persona that commanded a large fanbase of dedicated viewers. Maybe we'll ask exactly how she did it, well we already spoke
about her appeal as a second generation daughter of migrants, but I think it went a little deeper than that. In the early 21st century,
the age of the internet was dawning in many countries, which were certainly not used to having such contraption at their
disposal. The internet gave young people in their formative years a lot of accessibility to ideas and media that they
would never have had the chance to appreciate without the world wide web. However, a lot of this media came into very
significant conflict with values held by older generations, those whose perspectives had been formed and cemented a long
time ago, and who probably did not interact with that sort of media well. The conflict was the source of tension in a lot of
families, and was very much documented for its time. In Lilly's case, her exposure to western culture was part of growing up in
Canada, but all over the world, with the increasing access to the online world and social media, people were having the exact
same experiences, ones that were encompassed by Lilly's content. In a 2012 interview, when asked about reasons for starting
her channel, Lilly replied, one inspiration was definitely the fact that there was no female doing it, particularly an Indian
female doing it. Lilly was right in way, although it's obviously an exaggeration to an extent. There were female comedians
who uploaded to YouTube, and some who had accrued considerable success doing so, such as Jenna Marbles. Nonetheless, the lion's share
of the market was controlled by male led channels. It's nothing against those channels, but there's only so many people you can
appeal to from that angle that many of those creators were making videos from. If Ian and Anthony from Smosh began to upload
content and wanted to be a brown girl, I think viewers would be understandably confused, but for a long time, people would
interpret that lack of representation as a lack of demand in a certain market. Yet by the end of 2014, Lilly's channel,
iiSuperwomanii, possessed just shy of 5 million subscribers, over 80% of whom were female, with many likely from a diverse
range of ethnic backgrounds. Those sorts of statistics spoke volumes. Nevertheless, Lilly's successes were also being
recognised outside of her subscriber count. 2014 brought her nominations for both the Shorty and Streamy Awards,
collaborations with renowned celebrities, a multitude of interviews where she detailed her background and rise to stardom,
and regular guest spots at popular conventions. Coming off the year, Singh appeared in the 2014 rewind amongst many of the
platform's then largest creators, cementing her status as YouTube royalty. It was clear that on her current trajectory, she was
destined to be one of the website's leading lights. However, some of Lilly's ambition was never going to be merely settled on
what she had, and heading into 2015, it was clear she had greater plans. In her time as a content creator, she had appeared in a few
films and music videos, particularly those in Indian media, which although not major, definitely reflected her desire to expand
into the mainstream industry as a whole. As early uploads on her channel showed, she had always had the hunger for all types of
creative content, and now she was about to fully realise it. Lilly Singh was about to go global.
In the space of a few years, Lilly Singh had built a YouTube empire, but it's clear that she wanted more, and who could blame her?
Lilly Singh- I'm gonna take you all on a trip to Unicorn Island with my first ever world tour!
The thing about YouTube is that success is fleeting for most creators, there are exceptions, and likely people who will remain on
YouTube for a rather long time to come, people who enjoy their work here. But for many who want more from the entertainment
world, YouTube is just the start. This was definitely the case for Lilly Singh. In March 2015, she embarked on a world tour
called A Trip to Unicorn Island, which integrated her various talents and interests into one comprehensive performance.
Now tours are certainly not out of the ordinary for a creator of her size, however, she also decided to chronicle this circuit with a
documentary feature film which shared its name with the tour itself. It was released the following year to mix reviews from
critics and audiences, but was likely well received by her devotees as a raw glimpse into the person behind the entertainer,
including covering the struggles of content creation. Throughout the year, she began to win awards and receive more coverage
from various mainstream media outlets. She won a Streamy and an MTV Fandom Award, and made the top 10 on Forbes' highest
earning YouTube stars of that year. This was the perfect time to eye up Hollywood, which was exactly what she was doing.
In a 2015 LA Times interview, Singh stated that she intended to move to La La Land by November. She doesn't state why, but I think we
can make a reasonable assumption it wasn't for the affordable housing. Come the new year, it's what she had done, and not too
soon after, she began to increasingly appear across the entertainment industry as a whole.
With Lea's success, it wasn't hard to understand why she was so sought after. She commanded a large fanbase who would readily
watch whatever she was credited just to point her out, she had a proven record of being able to hold her own as a performer,
and she was some of the hottest product on the scene at the time. However, Hollywood was a very different can of worms to YouTube,
and whereas Lily was one of the largest influencers at the time on the video sharing platform, she was still a relatively small
fish in Hollywood. Many creatives had pioneered the industry before her, and her experience, although no less inherently
meaningful, was set against an industry full of people who had already broken the ground that she walked on.
YouTube had been around for just over a decade, Hollywood had existed for over a century. With this in mind, although you'd
certainly be impressed to read a repertoire of her media appearances, she never made any performances that felt particularly
memorable. Her roles weren't derisory by any means, but they didn't represent that guarantee of longevity that so many budding
stars aspired for. One of the most promising prospects was an NBC show by the name of Bright Futures, which was set to have
and another YouTube breakout star, Jimmy Tatro, playing young friends all attempting to realise their careers. Unfortunately, this
was scrapped not too long after it was conceived, serving a rather bitter blow to those involved.
We'd seen it before, a YouTuber goes to Hollywood, manages a few minor speaking roles in studio productions, and then mostly
fades away when the novelty of their presence wears off, and after the first few acting roles, there probably were those who
wondered if Lily Singh would be assigned to the same category, but there were signs this wasn't the case.
I love who I am, and that's when I decide I'm a boss.
Yeah, see?
In March 2017, she published her first autobiography, How To Be A Boss, A Guide To Conquering Life.
Going off the synopsis, it looks like a crash course in fulfilling Maslow's pyramids of needs. However, that's not necessarily a bad
thing, and a lot of people seem to agree, boring itself to the number one spot on the New York Times bestseller list.
She hosted a successful world tour to promote the book, all while continuing to work on her projects for her YouTube channel and
Although she hadn't quite defined her career yet, it felt like she was on the right trajectory.
I'd say the most important aspect of her status in Hollywood was that of a public figure in general.
As her old content had layered more social commentary than a lot of her contemporaries, she carried more social clout than a lot of
other YouTube figures who had tried to change lanes. Her history of being outspoken regarding many causes, including mental
health, the treatment of women, and the representation of marginalized groups in media, had garnered her the reputation that
she could be a good ambassador for many noble causes. It meant people often wanted to listen to what she had to say, and her
success only emboldened this observation. In 2017, she became a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, a role occupied by celebrities
such as David Beckham, Katy Perry, and Jackie Chan. Singh's role specialized in advocating for children's rights, and she
addressed the United Nations the following year.
Now getting to where I am today and achieving this level of success was not easy, but when I compare myself to the circumstances
of what the majority of young people face, to be honest, I feel like I practically won the lottery. I got to receive an
education, I got support, I didn't have to face obstacles such as poverty, conflict, or failed institutions.
She also used this authority to represent the online world and their often divisive sense of humor, tickling countries that
weren't necessarily the most free speech oriented. It was clear that Lily meant business. She began to acquire a fair few roles
that didn't necessarily rely on comedy, but more on her own natural self and background. She collaborated with Smashbox Cosmetics,
Calvin Klein, Ardennes, and Pantene just to name a few, and appeared alongside many other famous females in Maroon 5's song
Girls Like You. With creators from the world of YouTube, there was a sense that many just wouldn't translate into being engaging
celebrities, and sometimes that was the case, but Lily was a departure from that. Her roles in film and TV didn't seem like they
were going to make her a star in their own rights, but as she became more ingrained in Hollywood culture, her
status as an outgoing person who could hold a friendly conversation, but also deliver some strong social messaging,
provided her with a different kind of appeal, one that did transcend most fleeting pop culture bullshit, and with that sort of
brand and the proven success that had come with it, there was a genre that seemed like a good fit.
Welcome to the Late Late Show everybody.
Let's talk about it.
Talk shows are a genre that I've addressed before. Although I focus more on the daytime genre rather than nights, they do share a lot of
similarities, so I don't want to repeat myself too much. However, besides the obvious aesthetic differences, I'd say late night
talk shows play off a stricter blueprint than a lot of their daytime counterparts. Now, there is variety, and each late night host
has their own personal flair, but most played a pretty safe game as long as the numbers they pulled were satisfactory enough.
Another key difference I'd say about late night talk show hosts is that many of them leaned into social commentary more
heavily than their daytime counterparts, being able to dispense an opinion on a controversial matter was becoming
increasingly sought after, especially in a world where current affairs were becoming more and more emotionally provocative
subjects. In the past few decades, the media industry in general has increasingly diversified its roster of figureheads,
however with a few exceptions, late night talk shows have mostly remained dominated by a very specific type of person.
It's also important to note that many of these hosts had been on the air for over a decade, and although there's nothing
wrong with the media stalwart, by the end of the 2010s there was a huge untapped demographic, as a majority of younger
generations were consuming content from sources outside of cable TV. Now, late night talk shows had long held
their own on YouTube. As a matter of fact, Lilly Singh's appearances on 2014 and 2015 Rewind were alongside a fair few
late night hosts as well. This is in part because of YouTube's long-standing relationship with late night TV. NBC
partnered with YouTube in 2006, and some credit the variety of late night clips as playing a role in Google's
acquisition of YouTube. To this day, many major networks have contracts with the video sharing platform for monetization
and adsense, with network executives viewing YouTube as a distribution partner, and with some channels scoring up to
250 million views a month, it's hard to see it as anything else. As noted, late night talk shows have always
coasted off the individual personality more than a lot of other broadcasts. The rancors were able to build a rapport
with the live audience and YouTube viewer alike, and although you'd be hard pressed to say they had the sort of
relationship with their subscribers that many content creators did, there were obvious parallels, and their presence
on the YouTube platform was notably greater than other TV programs. However, in spite of its popularity on the
video sharing platform, the genre was still mostly removed from YouTube in its presentation, still playing to what
they knew best. For a lot of late night talk shows, that sort of stability in a highly competitive industry was
something the executive valued, but even after the ratings spike that the election of Donald Trump provided them,
there were still signs that current popularity was waning a little. Late night needed a fresh face on the scene.
YouTube was a good litmus test for what the market enjoyed without the boardrooms and arbitrations.
It was like a mass focus group, if the right kind of figure on YouTube could hold down their entire channel,
then who knows what else they could be capable of.
They don't know you, how giant you are on YouTube. 7.6 million subscribers, over 1 billion views. 1 billion.
You were named in Forbes 30 under 30, and you just did a worldwide tour, 27 cities and 31 shows. Congratulations, pal.
Thank you so much, thank you. Well done.
Lee Singh seemed like the prime candidate for that sort of role. She had a proven record on YouTube and in
Hollywood, not just as an entertainer and a comedian, but also as a person whose words held relative value
in their circles, who would intertwine that social commentary with those amusing anecdotes.
The increasing diversification of the market around her, yet the lack of representation on the late night
circuit left a comfortable niche for her to fill. However, that opening would need to present itself first.
But that was just around the corner. The year is 2019, and NBC were just wrapping up the long-term
talk show Last Call with Carson Daly. Daly wished to focus on his other TV projects more, and felt
that the talk show had run its course after 17 rather fruitful years. The NBC chairman sensed
an opportunity, stating to interviewers that he saw the time slot's potential to become a creative
playground, which would focus more on relevancy in the digital age. The alleged first choice of
the studio was Chrissy Teigen, but she declined, and not too long after, the producer of Conan,
John Irwin, proposed Singh as a possible replacement, citing her ability to balance
comedy and serious commentary. Lilly had previously appeared with Conan, so Irwin seemed like a
reasonable enough source, and with this in mind, NBC approached Singh, and together with her company
Unicorn Island Productions, began to plan out what would become A Little Late with Lilly Singh.
The MO was clear, the political commentary of many talk show hosts had taken up enough space,
so Lilly would supposedly be replicating what had made her YouTube channel such a success,
the comedic portrayal and narrative surrounding her experiences and unique background. On paper,
this made a lot of sense, I said that earlier Ian and Anthony from Smosh couldn't speak about their
experiences as a brown girl, well neither could Jimmy Fallon, Stephen Colbert, or James Corden,
and the fact was that the format of late night shows allowed narratives to be based around the
host, and Singh should have been able to bring some fresh perspectives to what was then a very
tired genre. When news of this broke, it was met with hope, intrigue, and some skepticism, for many
Lilly represented a new generation of talk show hosts, she was the first ever late night presenter
to openly identify as bisexual, hell on announcement she was going to be the only female
heading up a major late night program, and even though she wasn't the first, this news was met
with praise by many who felt that the current register of TV hosts left a fair bit to be
desired. For some, regardless of what she said, Lilly Singh was already going to be a breath of
fresh air in an atmosphere that for some had grown very stale. However, although many welcomed this
news, there was still an air of uncertainty as to whether her signature flair would translate into
such a format. It was true that there were a lot of similarities between being the face of a YouTube
channel and being the face of a talk show, but there was also one key difference, that being
talk shows are just much higher production value, and although that can often be a positive facet,
can sacrifice the homegrown charm and spontaneity of a YouTube channel. Lilly would have a full
camera crew, script writers, producers, and she did obviously have her own studio involved as
well, but there was the lingering question of how much she could make the talk show her own
with so many other hands involved. Lilly showed that she could make it into Hollywood, but she
never did it using the exact same skill set that had garnered her a following on YouTube.
The news that she would be utilising that YouTube basis once more could be for better or for worse,
but at this stage one could only speculate. In this case, the proof of the pudding was
in the eating. But did people have the appetite for it? Well, there was only one way to find out.
On the 12th September, a channel by the name of A Little Late with Lilly Singh posted a YouTube
video titled How Lilly Singh Really Built Her Show. It fabricates a rather far-fetched story
about the origins of A Little Late, but drops the necessary details that would be required to
understand the show. It also provides an impression of the sort of sketches that Lilly might be
performing. It definitely integrates some of her commentary elements from her videos,
but seems to do it more in a running narrative format, whereas in the past her commentary for
content had felt more like a voiceover. This style seemed to aim to assimilate the two more,
and overall viewers seemed to enjoy it with many devotees commenting their appreciation.
It was only a day later that NBC actually released a preview on their own network,
showing that Lilly clearly still valued using YouTube as a platform, and it should have been
a sign of good things to come. A Little Late with Lilly Singh made its debut on the 16th September
with an opening monologue that touched on her heritage, her background, and her status amongst
many other late-night hosts who she was sharing the scene with. Lilly Singh- Look, I get it,
okay? I'm not your traditional talk show host. I mean, the media has mentioned I'm a bisexual
woman of colour so much that I feel like I should just change my name. A little long,
but it has a nice ring to it. Come on, I'm more than just a bisexual woman of colour, okay? It's
a complete coincidence that I chose a network whose logo is also the Pride flag. The set seems
almost designed to create the atmosphere of a late-night comedy club, one which places Lilly
at the forefront of the stand-up scene as she delivers jokes that wouldn't seem out of place
for that sort of environment. Alongside her gags, visual aids appeared on screen for viewers to
provide some additional humour, though sometimes it felt a bit on the nose for what it was trying
to explain. Lilly- I mean, real talk, if you put every network late-night host in one room together,
and then add me and Hasan Minhaj, we look like the IT department at their law firm's customs party.
This format was accompanied by interviews, the first episodes being with writer and actor Mindy
Kaling, though Office co-star Rainn Wilson makes a brief appearance too. Alongside some sketches,
most notably one baptised Lilly Singh Knocks Down the Door of Late Night, which featured Lilly
performing one of her signature raps, explaining why she is not like other late-night talk show
hosts, all while girl-bossing it to the top.
Lilly- Hello my name is Lilly, and I ain't a white man. My skin got some colour, and it ain't a spray tan.
I know you're used to only jimmies in the spotlight, but I'ma throw some melanin up in your late night.
Alongside the release of this first episode was a flurry of promotional campaigns, including
appearances on other late-night TV shows. She could do this as unlike other late-night hosts,
her shows weren't actually broadcast live, and had all been pre-recorded to fit in with her hectic
schedule. Overall, the promotional campaign seemed to work, as the clips on her YouTube
channel appeared to garner significant traction, but what would the reviews say?
Well, many critics seemed to laud her fresh perspective and approach on late-night television,
some going as far as to label it revolutionary. There were some critics who didn't enjoy a
staccato interviewing style of Mindy, never really allowing the conversation to gather
substantial flow, and some weren't a fan of certain YouTubisms that she had brought over.
I start like, I'm being like, yeah, yeah, I was like that in high school too, you know,
which is like not true at all. And even the like dorks in Euphoria would have been Miss America.
They're so hot. No, 100% when I watch a show, I'm like, you're all so hot. You have two eyebrows,
what's that about? I didn't have that in high school. I didn't have that at all.
Now, critics aren't exactly the sort of people Lily was expecting to appease completely,
and maybe some of these professional reviewers were just a bit too old to understand such
aesthetic choices. The most important question pertained to what those on her native platform
thought, the people who she was meant to appeal to. Well, it wasn't exactly unanimous positivity.
Her opening monologue and sketch were the clips that attracted the most criticism,
with many finding the humour too heavy-handed and repetitive.
As you probably noticed, there are a few references to her unique status as a bisexual
minority on the telly, and although that was a breath of fresh air in the current environment,
some felt that it had become the basis for too many jokes, some of which seemed to imply that
people would be offended to see someone of her ethnicity on stage, which doesn't really make
sense given other figures that came before her. With this in mind, commenters seemed to feel that
she was giving herself a bit too much credit, others just found the humour rather cringe,
in particular rap, which despite being based on early YouTube content, didn't seem to land with
the grace that those videos had done so before. It seems that those from mainstream media and
those from YouTube both saw very different issues with Lilly Singh's show. Whereas some from the
mainstream felt that certain technical choices didn't feel in keeping with late night talk shows
at the time, many viewers just felt that the humour fell flat as a whole. Now we know that
critics and audiences often look for different elements in media, that's why the scores can
sometimes be extremely different. However, I think although both sects of the internet had their own
qualms with the show, most would agree that the general critical consensus was far more positive
than the audience one. Now many would argue that critical approach is much more important than the
opinions of those on the internet, as critics do their job professionally, and many look towards
critical reviews before making decisions on what shows to tune into. However, Lilly Singh's decision
to make parts of her show immediately available to viewers online made much of the critical response
redundant, as a YouTube clip could typically encompass an entire sketch, rather than a small
segment from a film per se, a prospective audience member would be able to make a much more holistic
judgement on whether this was something worth watching, and it was clear that for some that
simply wasn't the case. Nonetheless, although YouTube comments and like dislike ratings can
reflect the response of a certain audience, they don't have too much individual bearing on the
well for every TV show. If certain viewers don't like it, they don't have to watch it.
Maybe this show simply wasn't for them. However, that was not enough for some.
I feel like a lot of people may be a little bit upset that the entire four minutes of this is just
random jokes about race.
And maybe Lilly's background was coming back to bite her.
By 2019, there was quite a significant space on YouTube for media criticism in general.
It was particularly popular with the rise of reaction-infused content in this genre,
mainly due to the increasing accessibility of source material as a whole.
Most of this originated from YouTube or other platforms such as TikTok, and normally entailed
a commentator explaining which teen idol couldn't actually sing. However, this had also extended
into the realm of talk shows in the past, particularly with the popularity of shows like
Dr. Phil, who also held a relatively strong YouTube presence. Nevertheless, in spite of
their often considerable view count, late night talk show hosts were never subject to too much
commentary, mainly because of how inoffensive their core content was. Lilly Singh's content
wasn't particularly offensive either, and in many ways, the negative response experienced
to the first episode of her show could have been ephemeral, and yet it wasn't.
In fact, over the following weeks, the widespread lampooning of many of the clips from her opening
show went viral across the platform, mainly because of how many topical debates it seemed to hit.
It's crazy, like it's very groundbreaking because, you know, it's always just been pasty white dudes,
you know, that's always been the trend, it's always been that, and now it's like, finally, finally!
And I don't think there would have been any buzz, I don't think anybody would have a problem with it,
but her and her team made the big mistake of just making it all about that, making it all about her
being a woman of color, like, look at me, and move over, move over, white people! It's the brown
woman's gain now! There were obviously those who had a political angle on it, particularly
with much of the human being identity-based, but videos on these subjects spanned across
all genres. As noted, one of the major criticisms from online viewers was that Lilly's jokes were
rather awkward, or cringe, which I think is a detail worth noting down, because as I'm sure we all know,
as excruciating as it can be to watch, cringe is a great source of views for a lot of creators,
even in a format as basic as cringe compilations, which are accompanied by no commentary whatsoever.
THE VACCINE!
Shut the fuck up.
But let's be honest, a lot of late night shows have their unfunny moments, especially unfunny to
a lot of netizens at least. Cringe comedy is off to the heart of a lot of these shows,
what was so special about Lilly Singh? Well, there are a few reasons this became such a
perfect storm of publicity. The first was simply because it was a new show on the block, whenever
something new happens, there is always a gap in the market for those who react to it, so almost
immediately there were a fair few videos that provided their thoughts on Lilly's new venture,
most of which, as we know now, were not the most praising. From there on, it's a domino effect of
reaction videos. Secondly, Lilly's choice to use YouTube as a platform to prioritize distribution
of her content cut out the risk of certain negative, critical, or word-of-mouth opinions
restricting viewership. However, this backfired because then people's only interest in watching
reviews or reactions to her content was for entertainment purposes, which bolstered content
taking the piss out of her show. Most people don't read critical reviews for entertainment,
they will watch a YouTube video though, and they were available in spades.
It's pretty generally accepted that negative content will attract more views as a whole,
and is often the basis for more effective YouTube comedy, so it's little surprise that many aspiring
comedians saw it as just that. Then you have to consider her status as a large YouTube figure,
one that magnifies such relevance only further. For some mysterious reason, possibly related to
view count, though I couldn't possibly say why, many YouTubers enjoy talking about other YouTubers
more than they do people of other mediums, and a YouTuber trying their hand at something else?
Oh well, that was a goldmine waiting to happen. However, one cannot blame environmental factors
alone for the scrutiny that the show found itself under. Although it's fair to say that certain
missteps would have probably been overlooked if they occurred elsewhere, they weren't here.
So, Lily, for your first episode, we're thinking you enter in a nice grey suit.
Grey? I prefer something a little more colourful, obviously.
Yeah, so do I. I like a pink one. Oh, you mean...
You don't mean it like that, do you?
Lee Sing-e presents herself as a champion for those underrepresented in media. She obviously
didn't explicitly say that, well, not too much, but by highlighting that aspect of her identity
and positioning herself as a figure on social commentary, she placed herself in a role that
was often held to quite rigorous standards. At the same time, she had built a lot of her
success on jokes about her own race. Watching her shows always felt like she was trying to
balance calling out certain stereotypes while also using them as joke fuel in other contexts.
I am so happy to be here, and by the looks of it, a lot of you are happy to be here too.
It's mostly the brown people because this was free to attend.
Probably the most notable incident in the first month of airing was when she made a
passing comment about towers on some children's heads resembling turbans.
Their hair really quickly. So, you know, it's a very practical thing.
I think they definitely had the turvy twist on when they...
This part raised more backlash at the time and Sing-e quickly apologized for this. It's
a sort of comment that probably would have flown under the radar on her YouTube channel,
particularly given her Sikh background. But here, every joke that could be interpreted
somewhat negatively was put under the magnifying glass. Even jokes that weren't necessarily her own,
which caused some controversy in itself.
This wasn't aided by the format of publication. With the traditional presentation of TV shows,
reception would be quite linear, talk shows are a hard craft of effects,
and it would be natural for someone's first episode to have a fair few hiccups.
However, people's attention would quickly move on to the second episode when it's released.
With YouTube, if a clip is notorious enough, it can provide discourse for months,
and therefore YouTube will prioritize it in the algorithm. So even though there were many more
clips uploaded to YouTube in the weeks after the first episode, people were still more likely to
receive an impression from the content that had provoked the greatest reaction earlier,
and although that may not have been representative of her shows, that was what was happening,
and by mid-October discourse had manifested into this incessant dunking on a few select clips that
were nearly a month old, but seemed to find new life every time a creator reacted to the
war Lily made a faux pas. Her content was essentially experiencing a negative variety
of sorts, with figures from all over the content spectrum chiming in on the matter.
YouTube, the platform that had not just launched Lily's illustrious career, but had seemed central
to the marketing of this new late-night venture, had seemingly reacted in the worst way possible,
but Lily herself, a YouTube megastar, would surely understand this scenario,
and know how to react accordingly, at least better than most Hollywood superstars, right?
So, how would she respond?
The reviews are from places like the Atlantic, Variety, CNN, Decider, Cosmopolitan, Deadline,
whereas before there were negative reviews from like, Angry Virgins.
Well.
Now as noted, Lily's show was pre-recorded, therefore it would be fair to question if Lily
could even adjust the objective of her broadcast on the basis of this response. Well you see,
it was pre-recorded as aforementioned, but all in late 2019, so they were still recording after
viewers watched and imparted their opinion of early episodes, and this did give Lily a platform
to respond to those who found her humour cringe, or didn't approve of its messaging.
So, how would she? Well.
At first she didn't appear to be too bothered, mostly ignoring any criticism,
unless it was proper controversy such as the turbo comment, however over time she did appear
to be paying more attention to what people said. At first mocking the comments in the above clip,
but barely a few days after that episode had aired, Lily took to Twitter in a rather sour mood.
Her tweet on October 22nd read,
In a way this statement isn't entirely false, we've seen a lot of creators
consumed by negativity because of the topics of their content, if you deal with the worst people,
sometimes you begin to see the worst in people. However, I think the problem is that this seemed
like a passive aggressive response to the people criticising, or making fun of her show, which
for a lot of people, really was not that deep. Now Lily is entitled to say whatever she wished
to say, but she must have had some grasp on how this would provoke further response,
and just like clockwork it did, because if there's one type of person on the internet
loves to dunk on more than people trying to be funny but being cringe, it's people who can't
take criticism, and Lily seemed like one of those people right then, with many providing
recent responses to distinguishing hate from legitimate criticism.
She goes on a big rant about why drama channels are bad, and she actually finishes the tweet with
a message to the only people who can stand her content. Young kids, don't follow this example,
it's not good for the soul or the longevity of your career, don't make me do it Lily,
you're really tempting me here, don't make me shorten my own career span.
I think her replies annoy people in the way that it almost demonstrated a lack of understanding
in how YouTube operated and thrived, which as a former YouTuber you'd think she would
have an abundance of. Sure, the website had evolved in the years since Lily had pursued
her Hollywood dreams, but it still operated on the same tenets that she had found success with.
Most of the viewers who watched her content and supported her career didn't just disappear from
the platform, they hadn't been consumed by the negativity, they just no longer followed
her with the same enthusiasm they had in the past. This response may have been one that was
rooted in frustration at public response to her content, she clearly didn't feel it was
representative of the show as a whole, and she probably had a point, but rather than just
suggesting that people watch more of the show, it was almost a tit for tat, she had to cherry
pick responses and strawman perspectives to get even with her haters.
But
maybe she did know, maybe she did realise that this was the sort of response that such statements
would provoke. Perhaps in a way she saw the online criticism as potential free promotion for future
episodes. This theory would make sense in a way because every time the coverage on YouTube had
the potential to die a death, Lily would make some sort of public acknowledgement of it, and creators
would feel inclined to issue further responses, probably the most notable one of these coming
from a creator by the name of Drew Gooden, whose video Leaving the YouTube Bubble has amassed over
15 million views, and is the second most viewed video on his channel. That's a lot of people
talking about Lily Singh, I think you could easily look at many of the late night controversies and
think that actually sometimes leaning into the controversial side of you can generate a lot of
views. Hell, it had worked pretty successfully for some late night hosts whose views had stagnated
at points. Some would argue that this was just modern day marketing, that as long as people were
talking about her she had done her job, and for a while it obviously worked. However, I think the
point of farming criticism is that it really depends who you're farming it from. With other late
night hosts, a lot of their content received negative attention from people who were never
going to watch their show anyway, particularly given the fact that they often utilised political
topics that were designed to be divisive. With Lily, some of the criticism was coming
from her own target audience, and much of it wasn't merely based on her political opinions.
Now, a fair few criticisms towards Lily were politically motivated, especially people who
felt her humour was racist, but there were a lot of general criticisms as well relating to
presentation and execution of the show, criticisms that I don't think would have necessarily existed
if they weren't issues to begin with. Additionally, even some politically motivated
criticisms came from audiences who you'd think would appreciate her more progressive sense of
humour, particularly those who felt she was appropriating certain cultures, or that her
self-deprecating humour perpetuated negative stereotypes. I think the problem was that many
of those who were critical were viewers who could have been won over if the show was managed
correctly. In that sense, Lily's response did not invite them to watch further. But what about those
who were invited? I've been an on-camera audience member a couple of times for this similar type of
show, so that's why I felt I was qualified to review the show in this way. I feel I have a
good understanding of what's a normal use of the applause sign, what's a normal use of a warm-up
in the beginning, what's a normal amount of production, crew involvement, taping, etc.
General things that most shows like this need, and I can honestly say that I was surprised by
how overproduced A Little Late with Lily Singh is. A good video on this was published by the
YouTuber Swell Entertainment, named I Was A Little Late with Lily Singh Audience Member.
Swell details the experience of being in the audience on multiple occasions, delivers some
technical criticism of the show, and imparts some anecdotes from her time at the studio.
Riko started talking to me before the taping of the second episode. He was not shy about the fact
that he knew all the crew, and that he was in fact working for the show. He said he had attended so
many tapings that Lily had taken notice, and offered to try and find him a job for the show.
He told me that his job varied, but for the most part it boiled down to him being in fact
a paid audience member. Lily doesn't seem to have a problem with people knowing that Riko
works on the show as an audience member.
Aside from when the show is actually being taped,
however, the most interesting information comes towards the end of the video, when she mentions
the presence of NBC executives, and the tension it caused at the studio, particularly regarding
Lily Singh's monologue subjects.
Lily's monologue became a Twitter moment because she did a whole monologue talking about being
bisexual woman, and how she had come out about a year prior, and how no one should get to dictate
how much she talks about being a bi woman of color, and I'm conflicted on this. If it was
an earlier episode, I would have applauded you for the statement, because then I would have known
that, okay stand your ground, see how it goes over, and then if it doesn't work out, clearly
me standing my ground is not keeping people watching, and it's not helping reviews. People
don't care that I'm standing my ground. They still don't think the jokes are funny. They don't like
the games. They don't like the interviews. They don't want x, y, and z. They think the show should
be canceled. I would have known that you would have had time to adjust, and you know grow as a
show, and grow as a late night host. However, I know that this was the fourth to last episode
that was recorded, and I know that this was one of four episodes that I attended over the span of
three months, and I'll tell you something, Lily. I saw zero growth in that time.
The impression was that Lily wasn't really interested in adjusting her scope on the basis
of the criticism, and on that basis, the show was staring down a rather imminent cancellation.
A Little Late with Lily Singh is not your YouTube channel. You're on the top of the food chain at
your YouTube channel. For your channel, you have people that work for you. You are in charge of
them. Over at Siren Studios where A Little Late with Lily Singh is filmed, sure you are also in
charge over there. The thing is though is that that's not your building. It's NBC's building.
Your show is not on your YouTube channel. It's on NBC's network, and their slot, and they get to
decide whether or not they renew or cancel your show. The fact that they placed you at Siren
Studios away from NBC Studios alone should show you that you are erasable. If you're not making
them stupid amounts of money, they will just get rid of your show. It doesn't matter what
The Atlantic or CNN says about you, because the critics are not the people watching 90%
of the time, and your viewership is dwindling, and I don't know what else to say.
But enough speculative talk. What actually happened?
Lily, I hope NBC gives A Little Late with Lily Singh a second chance. I don't think they will,
but if they do, I think you need to look at the possibility of needing to do a rebrand. But it's
also pointless for me to say that because you getting a second season will just re-establish
in your mind that, oh, what I've been doing is fine, because clearly that's what got me a second
season, so I just need to keep doing what I've been doing. Lily, you're not the first person who
has tried to do something outside of YouTube, and the reason a lot of them are able to start
to try and do that is because they have what can get them in the door. They've got the well-known
face, they've got the numbers, but they don't have what it takes to keep them in the room.
Show me why you deserve to stay here.
As the first season progressed, the ratings were overall reported to be consistent with the final
season of Carson Daly, which some may have cited as reason to consider the show an overall triumph.
However, considering that this was touted as a show that was breaking down walls and tearing
up the late night scene as we know it, considering how much publicity the debut season of this show
received in comparison to the final one of Carson Daly, it would be hard not to find such data
somewhat disappointing for what it was trying to do. This was a person who could command a channel
that would regularly pull in millions of viewers a video, someone who was meant to be going toe to
toe with the late night jimmies, and yet in spite of all the controversy, the performance felt
surprisingly tame. With all this in mind, it felt like Lily's route in addressing all that transpired
had brought attention to the show, but not necessarily the right kind. Although videos
criticising her had brought in plenty of views, much of the content didn't drive people towards
this new network backed venture, likely leaving some to wonder whether this risky project would
be able to maintain such ratings when online coverage died down. Would it even be worth the
second season all things considered? Well, going off what I've said so far, I wouldn't blame you
for being under the impression that this would have been the end of the late night circuit for
Lily Singh. If NBC were hoping that this would be the gambit that paid off, it hadn't really returned
many dividends, and all things considered, in spite of the trailblazing narrative, everybody
else seemed to think that this trail had been run. Given that episodes on made talk shows were
temporarily placed on hold at the start of 2020, people thought it would be a fitting time to put
this experiment to bed. On YouTube in particular, the narrative had mostly been established that
this was likely the end of Lily Singh as we know it. I think the idea that the show would be
cancelled was good clickbait, and played into the predominant outlook on the matter.
Throughout the start of 2020, there didn't appear to be much news on the fate of Lily Singh's late
night show, and this led to more speculation, but there was probably one more piece of important
information that led to hesitancy to decide on its fate. I know it's not the most fun topic to
talk about, and I can't blame anyone for switching their ears off now, but it probably is one of the
most relevant to today's video. As we know, in 2020, the world was deep in the clutches of the
coronavirus, and amidst concern relating to the contagion of the disease, governments in many
countries and American states urged people to socially distance and work from home where
possible. This included the state of California and Los Angeles County, which enforced austere
restrictions on social contact between parties who didn't share the same household. This was bad news
for Hollywood, whose output typically required the input of a large workforce, and made filming
anything safely practically impossible. This was particularly relevant for talk shows, which not
just relied on studio crew, but guest appearances and an audience to provide that necessary
atmosphere. There were serious questions looming as to how they would be able to generate this
environment without many of the seemingly essential elements that these shows demanded.
However, with everyone at home and spending more time than ever in front of their screens,
networks weren't ready to be caught slacking.
Hi guys, this is Jimmy Fallon, and this is the Tonight Show Home Edition, I guess you can call it.
We really don't know what this is, but I wanted to put something out there for you guys so that we
can just have some levity in these bizarre times. It didn't take long for a new format to be
launched, and for many talk show hosts, this encompassed the presenter hosting from their
humble abode. They'd be accompanied by a couple crew members fully masked up, a guest on their
television set, and an audience of people attending remotely. There were many people who
definitely enjoyed this more laid back ambiance, but it's hard to say that some of these hosts felt
completely at home, no pun intended, with the new setting. If only there was someone who could be.
COVID also means that we can't have an audience for your tapings. Are you going to be able to
handle working without the energy of a live audience? Yeah, that sounds a lot like YouTube,
and I don't know if I have enough experience.
Due to its recording schedule, the first season of A Little Late ran into the implementation of
social distancing. However, when the time came around to consider renewal, much to some people's
surprise, NBC decided to do just that. On May 13th, it was announced that A Little Late with
Lilly Singh would be returning for a second season at the start of 2021. There were many
reasons cited for this, although viewership wasn't quite as high as it could be. The show
led all first year shows in the number of social media engagements, with NBC lauding her as an
incredible talent who brought an expanding global audience to the network. I think it's a valid
point, although a cursory view may tell you that ratings weren't the best. If you're bringing
700,000 new viewers to a network, then you're likely doing more than a person who may pull
1 million already existing viewers. In this scenario, the social media response aided the
show. Even if most potential viewers thought it was bad, the debate that it created online
reeled in many individuals who hadn't ever engaged in late night TV as a genre,
at least not to the degree that this discourse did. However, the evolving dominion that talk
shows could exist in was also probably the main cause for consideration. Household names were
being forced to downscale production to maintain it, and whereas some may not have been accustomed
to that style, especially those who were used to a lot of support, it was that style that
established the careers of many online creators on a certain video showing platform.
This was Lilly Singh's moment, and she enthusiastically announced the second
season of her show on its official YouTube channel, inspiring excited responses from
many of her fans. Would she be up to the challenge, and would any criticism directed
towards her previously be heeded? This would all mean very little unless she gave people
reason to watch her. She may finally have a home advantage, but she still had many other
contemporaries to compete with and wrestle viewership from. Well, in a video posted on
her personal blog channel the same day that season two was announced, she promised to do
just that, stating that although she was pleased with her work in season one, she knew there was
still a lot to be done. The truth is it was my season one of doing something brand new,
and season one Lilly reminded me a lot like first YouTube video Lilly, you know, everything takes
time, it takes practice, and the reason I communicate this is really just to say I'm proud
of season one, but I know there's a lot to improve on, and so when you give me feedback like why
doesn't she have this guest on her show? Why isn't she doing this? It's not for lack of trying,
it's just I'm trying to figure it out. But words can only say so much. Would it be done?
There are so many things I have learned, and I feel like going into season two what I'm really
excited about is taking all that knowledge, all the times I've made mistakes and stumbled and
was confused, now I know all that stuff, I still have a lot to learn, but I know some stuff now,
and I can step into season two just that much better. Much of 2020 was pretty quiet on the
announcements front of the TV show at the heart of this humble video, but in December it was
reported that the writing crew behind Little Later had been completely overhauled, with Lilly
revealing in a statement that she intended to bring more creativity to the table, it seemed
that she would have a bit more freedom to pursue her own visions, and on January 11th 2021 the
second season of A Little Late with Lilly Singh made its debut, and we would finally answer the
question, what has changed? Well, to be honest, a lot.
In her video reflecting on season one, Lilly had acknowledged people's desire for more sketch
sequences, and the first upload from the new season onto the program's YouTube channel was just
that, a sketch in which Lilly plays a variety of characters, including the classic YouTube
caricatures of her family and Kamala Harris, whose similarities with Lilly are used as a foundation
of a joke that they are actually related. She also uploaded a version of this onto her personal
YouTube channel, with it amassing 1.7 million views as of today. This is the sort of sketch
where Lilly's nature play multiple characters worked very effectively in a COVID world that
aimed to minimise social contact. Although in the first series Lilly had committed to mostly
refraining from overtly political topics, the second season brought Lilly her rant room,
which would allow her to speak more candidly on subjects that mattered to her. These did include
some political subjects, which isn't surprising given that this was around the time of the
inauguration of then president-elect Joe Biden, and the resistance that such circumstances
precipitated, this being one of the first topics that Lilly addresses in her rant room.
We need all the positivity we can get, especially with the recent news of everything that has gone
down at the Capitol, and I'm gonna be honest, I have lost all patience for anyone that is still
questioning privilege. Additionally, interviews seem far more free-flowing. One of the most
common criticisms, even from established media critics, was that Lilly's nature to try and
interject her own jokes and punchlines seems to detract from the presence of the guest. In the
second season, Lilly still manages to interweave herself into certain questions, but at the same
time so that it doesn't take away from her company. It'd also be fair to say that Lilly's
second season probably did more work in altering the landscape of talk shows than her first one.
Over 20% of her guests on season 2 were making their late night debut, a very significant
percentage considering how many shows often tend to stick with certain safe choices for those spots.
Lilly often went with guests that she felt she'd be comfortable around, and it seemed to work
rather well for her.
You have such a level of confidence that I really love, also low-key want, and I feel like your
season 2, I'm trying to be the iciest version of myself. How can I be my iciest self for season 2?
Give me some pro tips.
So like, I see it's like a mentality, it's your hustle, so you know, maybe setting some
financial goals. I mean, I already know you a boss, you have your own show, so I can tell you
know, you already got your life figured out.
Interviews shortly after the first episode of the new season aired,
Lilly stated that she wanted to bring a degree of imperfection to the show,
and this is also pretty evident. A lot of content that would be typically cut out of
a larger scale production was left in, shots of the crew fully masked up, and the backstage
equipment may seem unprofessional in certain environments, but here it seemed to fit the
casual mise-en-scene rather effectively. Funnily enough, in spite of being restricted to a single
residence, Lilly seemed to find much more use for the set than she had in the first season,
utilising it for a variety of purposes and skits.
Lilly- I just want you to confirm that there is good spirits in here, and if there's bad spirits...
Lilly- Let's go throughout the whole house.
Lilly- I mostly just don't want them in hair and makeup, it's fine if they're in like the edit bay
and stuff like that, I'm just not trying to have them anywhere I am.
Now just because something is different doesn't mean that it's necessarily better,
and for some online it certainly wasn't. Many people who had criticised Lilly's first season
continued into the second, pointing out what they felt were shortcomings in this sort of content.
Yes, this is the way we're used to seeing Lilly Singh and other YouTubers portrayed,
talking directly in front of a camera or sketches where they play more than one person in the same
scene, but it very much feels like an industry plant Lilly Singh instead of actual Lilly Singh,
simply because like any other TV show there are many people working on it,
and the more of Lilly's late show I watch, the less control I feel like she actually has over it.
And it's not like this criticism was without merit, certain aspects of Lilly's show
probably could be perceived as unnecessarily convoluted and lacking focus, the jokes were
hit and miss, and there were some pretty bad misses. However, the best metric to tell if
this sort of content was affected with its target audience was just to read the comments as always,
and in this season's case, the response was much more positive, and it's clear that these
weren't just fans who would say that regardless, there were many viewers who noted its improvement
on the previous season. Now this doesn't mean that negative comments didn't exist elsewhere,
or anywhere, but for the most part they provide the impression that these people would never
really enjoy Lilly Singh anyway, or late night TV as a whole. It's important to remember that
late night shows can be a bit preachy and heavy handed with their humour and messaging,
trying to keep an audience entertained and pushing the envelope while not being crass
is a somewhat delicate art and you will fall short at points. Lilly Singh having some of that
wasn't a deal breaker for most people, and let's face it, she didn't necessarily build her career
on subtlety. As a TV show working within the perimeter of a long established industry,
there would always be some contrivances, but I think this was as close as many were going to get
to Lilly Singh actually being herself in the late night format, and for regular viewers of her,
that was a resounding victory. This appeared to be a resounding victory for Lilly as well,
who spoke about how she felt so much more comfortable in season 2, stating that she had
become tired of monitoring herself and her thoughts, and just chose to speak about whatever
was on her mind, prioritising that authenticity.
Like admittedly in season 1 I thought there were moments where I wasn't completely being myself,
maybe I was nervous or I felt a lot of pressure, and so with season 2 I'm really prioritising
throwing all facades out the window, I want to be completely authentic, you know me and my
producers always have like little mini headbutt sessions because I'll be interviewing a guest
and they'll script something that's like, you know I love doing this movie, and I'll be like
I've never seen that movie, and I insist on being authentic about it because I don't want to lie,
I'd rather make the time to watch all of the things before I interview someone, and if I don't
have the time I'd rather be honest and say like, listen, people online are going crazy about you,
as opposed to like, I loved you in this movie and I'm such a big fan because I just feel like
it doesn't feel like it's real. It seems like the shackles that COVID had placed on society in
general had actually unshackled Lilly from a lot of the customs that late night TV was expected
to conform to, and for the first time Lilly Singh had room to embrace the environment that had
brought her so much prosperity on YouTube. Could this be the future of television talk shows?
Could Lilly Singh be the future of late night TV?
Sometimes there's very little you can do. Next time I hear anyone hating on Gen Z,
I'm just gonna tell them bye bye bye.
What?
Throughout the start of 2021, Lilly Singh's show appeared to be performing well with those who
engaged with it, however unfortunately it's also about the number of people who engaged with the
content in the first place, and in a time when numbers should have been boosted from people
staying at home and watching TV, Lilly Singh's ratings left a lot to be desired. In the extent
of her time on air, her viewership decreased approximately a quarter from her predecessor
Carson Daly, with this continuing to trend downwards in the second season. This was also
the case with YouTube, where views on videos would regularly fall below 100,000. Additionally,
as much as the home setting was pretty unique and well suited to Lilly's style, many shows were
beginning to venture back into the studio, and although it wouldn't have been impossible to
continue the home setting which appeared to be popular with some viewers, it would've been a
gamble as they didn't exactly embody the late night aesthetic that many had become used to.
Although it was true that Lilly brought a fair few new viewers to the network, there were still
a lot of financial factors that NBC needed to consider, and in lieu of this, just under a month
before the second season even concluded, it was announced that a little late with Lilly Singh
would not be returning for a third season, to the disappointment of fans and the joy of detractors.
With that said, it was also announced that this was not the end of Lilly Singh's career at NBC,
and that she would be signing a first look contract with Universal for future unscripted
projects, which shows the network definitely saw the potential in much of her second season.
It was also announced that she would be involved in the development of a comedy series with
Black-ish creator Kenya Barris, not a bad result. Overall, this news was framed by many outlets as
a recalibration rather than a cancellation. Lilly herself released a statement to social
media on the day of the announcement, stating that although they would be saying goodbye to
A Little Late with Lilly Singh, this would allow her to focus more on her production company and
her own projects. Additionally, she was very excited to share the aforementioned upcoming
enterprises that she would be working on, and to be honest, Lilly has every reason to feel optimistic
moving forward. As she had mentioned in an earlier video of hers, regardless of the reception
to her show, it had raised her profile notably, and even during its airing, the number of roles
she secured increased significantly. This included acquiring further voice acting paths for two
animated feature films, an array of TV positions that would eventually lead to her being offered
a spot on the judging panel for Canada's Got Talent, and a host role for this year's Academy
Awards pre-show.
By all intents and purposes, endless doors have been opened due to her position in hosting a
late night talk show, regardless of whether it was good or bad, and the future was looking
quite exciting for her. Lilly expressed optimism in moving forward with these undertakings,
and bringing diversity to the screen in an even bigger way, and she's certainly not wrong. There
was little doubt that this was a great leap forward in her career, and work that would be
turned down by very few people. As much fun as she probably had with the second season of her show,
it was also a very demanding and time-consuming schedule, and this change in pace would probably
give her a bit more breathing room to do what she wanted to, and on her own terms as well. With this
in mind, on the 23rd of July, Lilly returned to her YouTube channel.
Here she spoke about a variety of projects, but also stated that she was excited to be back on
YouTube, and making content that she had control over, promising to be more untamed than ever.
It seems that her enjoyment of sketches have been reignited once more, and over the coming weeks
and months she posted many of these sketches onto her channel. These videos typically involved a
large cast and higher production values than her older content, but still attempted to convey that
same relatable sketch humour that propelled her to stardom. A couple of these videos picked
up on the algorithm, but most performed pretty modestly for a channel of Lilly's size,
scoring a similar count to her network ratings. The truth was that comedy on YouTube had headed
in a different direction in the last few years, either towards more commentary-driven content,
or even shorter, more absurdist sketches like the ones you see on TikTok. The audience was evolving,
and many of Lilly's prospective viewers did lie in places other than YouTube. If one thing was clear,
it was that NBC quite liked Lilly Singh, and although they weren't willing to continue the
talk show, they wanted to retain her abilities for future content, and both parties seemed happy with
that outcome. It's not hard to see why many thought a late night show catered towards a more
millennial audience should have legs. Unfortunately, it just didn't, and although
there'll always be a recurring audience, the numbers have been dwindling for the past few
years, and Lilly's slot was already not considered prime time. Since Lilly's departure, other hosts
who had broadcast at similar time slots had also left their programs, including Trevor Noah and
James Corden. NBC themselves had stated they would not be replenishing the time slot, and subsequently
handed it back to affiliates in the following months, making Lilly the last host of a talk show
in that time slot held since 1988. From NBC's perspective, it was clear that it wasn't just
a Lilly problem, but a systemic one that wouldn't be so easy to resolve. Some presented the
cancellation of Lilly Singh's talk show as a mercy killing, and although a network is seldom
going to admit when something isn't working, the decision to discontinue programs at that specific
time slot after discontinuing Lilly's show probably implies they were struggling with that
period as it was, and Lilly Singh's show was much more a Hail Mary to save a struggling medium which
less and less people were tuning into, rather than the destroyer of NBC bank balances. It seems
evident that really, NBC were trying to ask a greater question. Lilly Singh was a creator with
15 million subscribers on YouTube, could you translate that sort of digital success into a
media-based viewership for a network TV show? The short answer in that case was, no.
Lilly Singh-"It's been an honor to be on your screens for two seasons. Thank you so much for all of your love
and support and for betting on this crazy girl. I can't wait to see what we do together next.
Until then, it's been fun." What's the long answer though?
I think it's very easy to write off a little late with Lilly Singh as something that was doomed to
fail from the start, and in a way I think there are a lot of valid arguments that could be made
to support that. We've already heard some of them. However, is there an alternative reality
where a little late with Lilly Singh was actually an undisputed commercial and critical triumph?
I'd say it was more possible than many might assume. First, we need to talk about the
circumstances that surrounded the creation of a little late with Lilly Singh. Sure, it wasn't a
great time for talk shows, many believed this was in part due to the rise of streaming, and they may
have had a point, but many clips from talk shows still performed well on YouTube, and even if they
were losing their share of the market in one place, they still held down a reasonable audience in
another. Lilly Singh's career was from YouTube, born and raised, and this should have been a
stomping ground. Although times were changing, they hadn't changed that quickly. When reading
comments about her late night show being launched, I noticed a trend of a lot of people saying they
were happy for her, even though they didn't really watch her content anymore. I think that should
have been considered when creating the show. Lilly was someone who didn't quite have the draw she
once had on YouTube, and late night talk shows faced the same problem on TV, but in a way that's
why it should have worked. But sure, people thought they had outgrown Lilly, and they definitely had
on YouTube, but a more mature spin on her content is exactly what the late night world should have
brought her, it should have been an open goal for that much at least. There are obviously a
wide spectrum of opinions on Lilly's technique, and I have to say it's not really my cup of tea
personally, but when you've seen enough late night clips, you tend to gather a mental image for what
is generally considered acceptable content for the genre, and Lilly's content wasn't exactly outside
of that realm. If the second season showed us anything, it's that although there may be some
who would never really enjoy Lilly's style, there definitely was a way to make her YouTube sketch
content compatible with some of the usual traffics of mainstream television. But, I hear you say,
season two was completely different to the first season, and late night television as a whole.
Lilly was in an environment much closer to her original YouTube content, and you my friend are
not wrong, I'll grant you that much. But season two didn't just work the way it did because it
was in a house, it may have littered some pressure off Lilly's shoulders, but she still had to carry
the show in a way that she hadn't done before, and for many people she did just that. But how
would it have translated into a studio environment? Well, I think she should have just taken more of a
homegrown vibe to make it work. Lilly stated that she often felt confined in her sets and suits,
and although there are often foundations of many late night talk shows, I don't think a lot of
people would have cared if she didn't care for them. It was the same reason a lot of people found
the monologue somewhat laboured, it wasn't what was comfortable for her, and although sometimes
it's good to learn new skills and abilities, trying to cram it in multiple recordings in
the space of a few months wasn't going to aid her development on that front, and many people
noted how she did genuinely struggle with those aspects of the show. Drop the suits, drop the
monologues, Lilly worked best when she was surrounded by people who she could bounce her
energy off. In promoting her show, Lilly made a fair few appearances on other people's shows,
and in many comment sections you'd see audience members surprised that actually,
she could have a pretty natural and free-flowing conversation.
Lilly was a talented speaker in many regards, she often seemed the most comfortable when she
was being impromptu, and if that talent was harboured correctly, there was no reason for
it not to work in a talk show environment, it really should have been a slam dunk as well.
The talk shows are still more than that, and as many observed this was a stale genre
that Lilly should have kicked the door in, but a lot of people felt she ultimately didn't manage
to. What could she have done differently to ensure that change? Lilly had made the bold decision to
not necessarily make current affairs the focal point of her content, and to completely avoid
politics as a topic. This was framed as an active production choice, but also would have been
imperative due to the recording schedule as there was no way to predict what subject would be
trending months after recording. It's a challenging objective to set oneself, and many would argue
that it was simply impossible to do, because current affairs is how talk shows make themselves
relevant to their audience. Nevertheless, the movement towards YouTube for a lot of these
programs did provide the potential for more timeless discourse, as content could be accessed
in the months, years and decades after they aired. With that acknowledged, Lilly still needed to
ensure that the subject she lined up could sufficiently propel an episode of her show.
The topic she chose often related to her identity and experiences, and on the surface they weren't
bad subjects to discuss or to channel into one's content, but the traditional monologue style of
late night TV often made the delivery of these subjects somewhat forced and stiff. I think the
show not tell aspect would have aided her here, people felt most empowered when she was able to
express her identity without explicitly stating it, and it clearly held meaning to a lot of people
that shouldn't have been overlooked. There was real potential here to change late night TV for
the better. So yes, for what it's worth, I do think as a cosy late night show that perhaps didn't ask
too much of the viewer, and just featured Lilly shooting the shit with a variety of celebrities
and channeling her energy and background in a unique way could have worked pretty effectively,
even in a studio environment, and it still could have become that in time if a third season had
been greenlighted. The first season was quite the deep end to be thrown into, even as an established
figure amongst Hollywood society. Lilly had never anchored a major talk show, let alone held a
prominent role in one, she'd done a few interviews and proven herself as a decent conversationalist,
but when you introduce so many different features and accrue to a person who is often coasting off
their own spontaneous nature, you're seriously complicating the formula. But it's not that I
don't think it couldn't have worked in the right environment, it's just that in an attempt to
provide Lilly Singh with proverbial stabilisers, the network overlooks what made her such an
effective talker and host in the first place. Those are the teething issues of the first season
that could have been alleviated over time, and in a way they were, yet it wasn't enough. Why?
Well, first impressions are everything.
I'm going to say something fairly uncontroversial right now, the first episode of A Little Late
with Lilly Singh was not very good.
I appreciate that the critics saw something a lot of audiences did, but for an episode that
was meant to take late night into a new era, it fundamentally fell short of what it was trying
to do. It's funny because the whole episode is about the fact that she's breaking new ground,
and yet bar a couple moments it all feels surprisingly interchangeable with the majority
of her peers and competitors. Sometimes it's not just about saying, it's about being,
and there is little debate that Lilly Singh is a person of Indian Punjabi descent raised in Canada,
but if someone put a gun to your head and told you to prove it, you wouldn't just say you are,
or perform a rap about it, you'd show your culture and background. For the number of jokes directed
at white people's expense, it still almost felt catered to white people who were comfortable
laughing at their failure to understand other cultures, but not comfortable in trying to
actually understand them. For a show that should have been directed towards a slightly younger
audience who are far more engaged in that sort of discourse, particularly with the multicultural
aspect of online spaces, it felt like they didn't have a fundamental comprehension or respect for a
fair few of their target viewers. And yet, whereas the first episode could have flown under the
radar and never been spoken about again, many descended on the show to critique,
criticise, and deride Lilly Singh for said failings. And as noted, the YouTube algorithm
favoured these clips as they received the most attention, regardless of whether it was positive
or negative. Modern YouTube comedians and commentators similarly chimed into the matter
that was one of their own trying to fly the coop, yet struggling to spread their wings.
But then the second episode aired, and the third, and the fourth, and the fifth, and the rest, yet,
in the next couple months people still almost seemed to solely focus on the first few episodes,
or just the first episode exclusively. Now Lilly didn't exactly help by making indirect responses
to these videos which showed that she hadn't really watched any of them,
which then promoted more responses to people annoyed at her response, but what if I was to
sit here and tell you that it wasn't just the second season that was fine,
but a large majority of the remainder of the first season was fine as well.
Maybe not. There are still a fair few issues which we've already spoken about,
and I think they were difficult to fully address in the space of a season that was recorded with
the intensity of a little late. To be frank, it still gets pretty dire at points.
Nonetheless, a large majority of the season wasn't video response worthy,
and that's why, simply put, there were very few videos covering those episodes,
and it is a fair bit of a shame that this was the case, and that many had passed judgement
for October had even come around. It was episode one of season one, you go back and watch early
episodes of some of the most prestigious talk shows, and they aren't the best.
Hell, some of the greatest TV shows of all time needed a couple seasons to fully find their feet,
it's easy for people to give books, films, and the rest a negative review because you can
experience it all at once. The episodic nature of a TV series though made that first episode
even more important. A little late with Lilly Singh will be remembered by many for as little
as a line. Hell, some people were still reacting to those first season monologues
over half a year after these episodes were published onto YouTube.
Yeah, girl, I don't know about that one.
Let me make it clear, Lilly stoked the fire by responding the way she did,
because it kept all the focus on these questionable writing decisions. Dismissing
what was otherwise legitimate criticism, she probably felt like she was being unfairly
scrutinised for cherry picked segments of a show that had already aired hours of content
at that point. It's natural to feel defensive, particularly given the amount of effort she
felt she had invested into the show, but the best response would have just been to speak
to audiences and ask them to give it another chance if she really thought it was worth it.
As noted, she alienated her own viewers through her style, and they weren't audiences that could
never be won over, it just felt like she didn't care enough to try and do so, or she thought it
was an effective marketing tool to win new people over, and to an extent it was I guess,
but only as a temporary measure, and not the healthiest measure all things considered.
As we know, at the end of the first season, NBC bragged about how A Little Late with Lilly Singh
received the most social engagements of any debut TV show, and that was a feat of some sorts,
but that was only due to the discourse surrounding her qualities as a late night host in the programme
itself. Problem was, as season 2 improved on season 1, there was less desire for that debate. Lilly
probably could have accrued more short term views by inviting all her internet critics round and
debating them at her house, but instead she actually clearly took some of the feedback
on board and transformed her set and style, and yet because the show was now actually
good or passable at least, she couldn't rely on that debate to spur short term ratings anymore.
The other issue was that there was approximately 8 months between the end of season 1 and the start
of season 2, of which the show was barely mentioned to the press. This interval meant that
by the time the start of the second season came around, many who had previously been engaged in
the debate now were investing their attention elsewhere. When I was speaking to a few friends
about this video, I mentioned that A Little Late with Lilly Singh was actually renewed for a second
season, which provoked surprise from many who assumed it ended with season 1. Humans are
interesting creatures, for a lot of online trends and subjects, we're only really interested in
providing it with attention to a certain threshold, and then unless there is some revelation relating
to the topic, we are unlikely to revisit the matter. Lilly Singh's show could have very
easily had a rocky start, but built up its credo over time, and by the time that it caught the
attention of those who may not be within her core fanbase, had a pretty solid reputation.
Unfortunately, content spreads quickly online, and it was first impressions that defined the
future of the show. You could make the argument that Lilly's show would never have improved if
she hadn't received as much criticism, which is a fair point and possibly true, but the criticism
became bigger than the show itself. People reached their limit for discourse regarding Lilly Singh's
late show on the basis of the first few episodes and the subsequent reactions to them, but weren't
ready to give it another try by the time the second season came around. First impressions
really were everything. The first episode of A Little Late with Lilly Singh was not very good,
but I don't think it was a complete representation of what became of the show. Unfortunately,
the nature of the internet allowed judgement to be passed before she even had the chance to improve,
and probably doomed the show before season 2 had even been conceptualised,
and for that it was a shame. Let's wrap this up now.
There's an episode of Spongebob Squarepants in season 4 called Mrs Puff You're Fired,
in which Mrs Puff is dismissed due to Spongebob's continuous failure of driving tests. Mrs Puff is
replaced by a drill sergeant who surprisingly manages to teach Spongebob how to drive,
but with one small caveat, that our Squarepanted friend has learned to do it blindfolded.
When the test comes around once more, our special little Sponge is told that it's illegal to drive
while blindfolded, and thus the test deteriorates very quickly, causing destruction throughout the
entirety of Bikini Bottom until he's blinded once more by Patrick's slacks and suddenly becomes a
competent driver again, completing the test. Unfortunately, due to the destruction that has
been wrought, he is given a fail again, and Mrs Puff returns, much to her dismay. It's a fun little
anecdote, but there is a lot of truth to it. Sometimes you become so accustomed to doing
something a particular way that a change designed to help you may have the opposite effect.
And you see, this is where the party starts.
Lilly Singh procured a claim on YouTube, a platform designed to allow people to create
content without the large budget and production value. In many ways, Lilly proved her talent as
a creator who could use her experience to attract millions of recurring viewers. On the flipside,
Late Night TV, in spite of their extravagant ambience, had also garnered a strong online
following, with many hosted networks collaborating directly with YouTube to make sure their reach was
optimized on a website that attracted a significantly different audience. Lilly and Late
Night originated from very different parts of the creative world, but they ran parallel to each
other, and bridging that gap seemed like the natural progression for both parties, and both
platforms. Yet it really was the epitome of a misfire by all accounts, that will probably cause
a network to think twice before working with the creator again. It prompts the question we ask at
the start again, are YouTubers really suited to a world outside YouTube? Well, if the two seasons of
A Little Late demonstrate anything, it's that I don't think the potential wasn't there, it's just
Hollywood is struggling to understand YouTubers. NBC had said they intended to turn the time slot
into more of a creative playground primed for the digital era, but I don't think anyone was
committed enough to question what that really meant. From their perspective, it seemed to imply
an integration of sly winks to YouTube, but without the proper understanding of why they
worked on the platform in the first place. Lilly Singh's Late Night show often tried to foster
direct fan support, rather than necessarily marketing it as a separate entity from the mind
of Lilly Singh. It's a strange decision because as noted, by that point she partly left YouTube
behind. This is a problem with a lot of YouTuber based media outside of YouTube, it aids viewers
who have very little familiarity with your content as a whole, yet often doesn't reach as much of
your fanbase who are primarily based on YouTube. Lilly Singh's YouTube content reached all four
corners of the globe, something that very few Late Night shows can successfully do. Whenever
YouTubers do this, it feels like studios are more interested in cashing in off their already
established social media presence, rather than actually considering what made them popular in
the first place. Comedy on YouTube had largely moved on from Lilly's style, and although the
show had potential, it had to mature with the viewers. There was definitely an attempt to do so,
but it more or less consisted of putting Lilly in a colourful suit and making her do stand-up
in front of a live TV audience instead of actually playing into her well-documented strengths. She
was not a stand-up comedian, nor did she wear suits really, she thrived on the spontaneous,
the mess, the chaos, and watching her try to perform within the confines of that first season
of Late Night sometimes felt like watching a person trying to break out of a straitjacket.
Lilly had all these resources at her feet, and many probably thought it should have bolstered
her comedy, but it's not how she learned, nor what she was accustomed to. Just because something
should make it easier, doesn't mean it will make it easier. Sometimes people are used to the lack
of direction because they feel they know themselves best. Combine that with an absolutely brutal
recording schedule, and some ill-timed responses from Lilly herself, and for many the first season
was dead on arrival, and not worth resuscitating. But then season two happened.
Sometimes you gotta do things to fulfil your vision, and just like make it happen,
that's what today is. Today is just living our dream. We're just living, we're just,
Chris, we're just living our dream today. Not if you're with me. Now not the camera.
And even if not everyone enjoyed it, it gave Lilly the breathing room to prove her ability
in a space where many had already written her off. What would have made recording far more
challenging for a variety of established talk show hosts took Lilly back to where she was most
comfortable, and her second season seemed to operate far more smoothly than the first,
with guests, viewers, and Lilly herself all appearing to have much more fun than the season
that had come before. Alas, it had come a little too late for Lilly Singh. The damage had already
been done when the first season hit the screens, and many prospective viewers had switched over
the channel, with others receiving their impressions from content creators which directed
online opinion. Nonetheless, if the result of the second season is just a piece of media that she
and her audience can watch back and enjoy, then maybe it's done the trick. I don't think Lilly
laments it too much, and overall it has brought her far more opportunities than it has cost her,
and if that's the result of any piece of media then you can consider it a victory.
With that said, it's obviously a shame that the show couldn't be something more,
couldn't be the trailblazing shot in the arm that late night TV desperately needed.
Ratings are still struggling, and it's not like there isn't a reality where I don't see shows
that could resemble Lilly's accruing and large viewership. I do think YouTube and Late Night
could have a close relationship, I think there's more opportunity in using a creator's personality
and appeal in these spaces than there are in film and TV, but you have to understand that a lot of
people don't just tune in for a name, you need to work with that personality and identity as well.
Perhaps a little late with Lilly Singh's second season, even if it didn't return the numbers to
maintain its own survival, could provide a few ideas for agonising TV executives all over Hollywood.
Lilly Singh- I'm a big believer that if you have blessings, you don't build a higher fence, you build a longer table.
I quite like Lilly Singh, not in the haha I think she's hilarious way, or even the yas queen slayer way.
I don't think she always knew how to respond to people discussing her show, and I think she interpreted
a lot of the criticism as bad faith, when really they probably had a point. I think she was part of
the why can't everyone just get a long generation, and a lot of newer creators on YouTube just didn't
subscribe to that, which is why I think they clashed heads. I don't find her particularly funny, but
then again I never really watched her content, and to be honest, neither did a lot of the people that
roasted her. However, I don't think it's hard to see why people like her around, and enjoy her presence.
She always seems to convey herself as someone who knows how to communicate with the world, and
develop a strong, unique chemistry with those that were subject to her attention. Unlike other certain
hosts, you didn't need to manufacture a warm aesthetic, because Lilly was a naturally warm person,
and you sometimes wonder if the studio has actually ever dealt with someone like that, who didn't need
the prompts to have conversations. She didn't need to be told what to be interested about, because she
was legitimately interested in things other than herself. She didn't need to be put inside the late
night mould, she was there to break it.
Alas, maybe a little late with Lilly seeing it wasn't meant to be, and it was cursed from the start.
Maybe there was a right way to do it, but it just didn't happen, with networks suddenly failing to
promote its longevity. It's hard for anyone to say if there was a way to turn it into the sensation
it was imagined by some to be, but for a talk show, it did provide everyone with something to talk about,
laugh about, satire, praise, criticise, debate, respond to, engage, and for some, to watch, support,
find comfort in, perhaps find themselves a bit closer to a creator they looked up to.
Even if it didn't turn the late night TV world upside down, and usher in a new era of YouTuber
led shows, it still gave something to YouTube, and maybe that's all it needed to do.
Thank you, and goodnight.
So yeah, that was the video, I hope you all enjoyed it, I hope you all got something from it,
and hopefully it inspires some productive discussion. I want to thank the editors,
they've once again done a fantastic job, as always their credits will be in the pinned comments.
I want to thank the post editors, Grumpy and Vic Grimes, fantastic work as always,
they really came through after the original post editor had to drop out due to a very very sad
situation, and sending my love to him as well, you know who you are. Thanks again for the background
music as well, I assume that'll be Linuski, I'm not sure yet, but he always does a great job.
Thumbnail as always, Starfo, fantastic work. I'd like to thank my Patrons, $10 patrons on the
screen now, but I got some $50 patrons to thank as well, thank you again so much guys, Seri, Tish,
Esther Bedoya, Hypercube, and Laura Woodward. I really appreciate the support and the belief it
clearly represents, so thank you for that. Artists, if your artwork appears in this video,
the credits should be in the pinned comment, but if it's not, just let me know and I'll add it.
I also need to thank the sponsor, Scentbird, as you can tell, it's very hard for me to contain
my enthusiasm. I don't really have much else to add, but I once again hope you enjoyed the video,
and if you're still here, thank you for listening to me ramble.
I'm The Right Opinion, and I will see you in the next one.
