We all know Dlive's a scam at this point, right?
I mean, come on, I've done a couple videos on it, people have been talking about it all
over the place, even PewDiePie abandoned the platform to go back to YouTube.
But there's been some weird stuff happening with it the past few months.
I recommend you go back and actually watch my previous videos if you want context on
this.
But here's the basic idea.
Three years ago, Dlive was part of the Steam blockchain.
It seemed like it was only on that blockchain in order to learn how to build its own blockchain,
and then once the guys behind Dlive basically stole the knowledge, they left to join the
Lino blockchain.
Even though Lino is, or was, its own company, there was a lot of overlapping staff with
Dlive, and it seems like they all just came out of the same graduating year at some west
coast school.
Here's how Lino basically worked.
Viewers could buy Lino, or I think in some instances earn Lino by watching other streamers.
These came in the form of cutesy little tokens like lemons or ice creams or whatever.
Then you could donate those things to the streamers who could then cash them out.
However, streamers were actively encouraged by Dlive not to cash them out, but instead
to stake them.
The idea with staked Lino would be that you can't actually withdraw it for three months,
but it would slowly grow.
You would earn Lino interest.
This was supposed to give the Lino network, and by extension Dlive, some added stability.
The idea that there was still money in the system and there were still people invested
in the growth of the system.
Some people, in fact, put quite a bit of money into Lino and staked it.
It's hard to find information on this at this point, because it's been a little while,
but I think how it used to work would be that you had to lock in your Lino for a set amount
of time, and then when you unlocked it, it would only slowly trickle into your account
plus the interest.
However, streamers could absolutely cash out the Lino using PayPal until PayPal was removed,
and then they could do it through direct deposit into your bank.
And aside from paying for the transfer costs, you would get the entirety of your Lino.
Dlive wasn't taking a cut.
They were, in fact, aiming for massive growth, presumably with the hopes that they would
attract some kind of big investor.
I'm sure signing with PewDiePie was also part of the plan.
And that is exactly what ended up happening at the end of last year.
Dlive joins the BitTorrent ecosystem and begins migration to the Tron blockchain.
Okay, so they went from the Steemit blockchain to the Lino blockchain, and now they're
on the Tron blockchain.
So they were basically bought out by BitTorrent.
Okay, fair enough.
The whole Tron crypto thing is a more known entity than Lino ever was, and there's certainly
a bit more confidence surrounding this.
But then the big question was, what happens to all your Lino?
What happens to all the people who had Lino staked in?
How do they get their money?
Well, here's their migration timeline.
January 15th, 2020, the ACE Protocol Foundation will release a detailed plan to introduce
BTT tokens to all existing Lino and Lino stakeholders.
In quarter one of 2020, Dlive will merge its account systems with BitTorrents.
Late quarter one 2020, the Lemon and Lino Stake systems will be updated to further integrate
with BTT token and the Tron blockchain.
Late quarter two 2020, deep content integration within BitTorrent and uTorrent's desktop
and mobile clients.
This is from the Lino website from back at the end of February 2020.
The BTT conversion gateway is ready.
Thank you for this amazing journey.
Now fasten your seatbelts.
All non-US Lino token holders who choose to exchange their Lino tokens into BitTorrent
tokens, which are BTTs, can choose to convert their Lino tokens to BTT starting at 4 p.m.
PST on the 24th of February, up until 1259 p.m. PST, the 14th of April.
Each day, up until the cutoff date, Lino token holders can choose to convert their Lino tokens
to BTT based off the average 24-hour market price on Poloniex exchange.
So okay, since Lino was just a massively inflated token given value only by Dlive's investors,
and the BitTorrent token is actually a crypto, they were offering some method of exchange
up until the April 14th cutoff.
Fair enough, that actually sounds pretty good.
That was for non-American Lino holders, here it is for the States.
Dlive, the foundation's partner, will accept Lino for the purchase of Lemons on the Dlive
platform.
Lemons is a fixed value platform currency used in Dlive and can only be used to make
purchases and donations on the Dlive platform.
Lemons are basically like the Twitch bits.
On Twitch you can spend money to get bits, donate bits to streamers, and then only streamers
can take donated bits and convert that back into money.
And it's in those conversions between money to bits to money that Twitch takes their cut
off the top.
So if you were a viewer who had a bunch of Lino, your only option if you were an American
was to basically cash out into Lemons and then donate them to somebody.
If you were a streamer and you had a bunch of Lemons, you could still use the get paid
function to convert those Lemons into actual money, but what would you do with your Lino?
It really sounds like here that even as a streamer you could only take those Lino, convert
them into Lemons, and then give them to somebody else.
What happens to the Lino blockchain and Lino coin and stake after the migration on April
15th?
Beginning January 15th at 10pm, Lino blockchain validators will implement an upgrade that
allows all Lino stake to be staked out in one day.
That's better than three months.
This means all stakes that have been processed before this time and after this time will
all be staked out into Lino within one day.
For those Lino account holders who wish to retain their Lino stake, staking rewards are
expected to continue functioning until the cut off time.
There haven't ever been any real staking rewards, by the way.
The Foundation strongly recommends that all Lino stakeholders stake out before the cut
off time.
After the cut off time, the Foundation will no longer support the Lino blockchain and
Lino coin or Lino stake.
There is no assurance that Lino tokens can be transferred or that there is any value
or functionality in the Lino blockchain after the cut off time.
So basically, DLive was dropping Lino and switching over to BitTorrent's ecosystem.
The Lino network and the Lino currency associated with it was going to be completely destroyed.
Something known as, I think, coin burning.
I'm not completely up on the whole crypto thing, but basically it was no longer going
to be a usable currency and they were offering through a crypto exchange known as Poloniex.com
to transfer your Lino into BTT and then presumably you could take that BTT and sell it on Poloniex
and get dollars like you always would.
From what I've been able to find, the exchange rate from Lino to BTT and then from BTT to
dollars is approximately the same as the old exchange rate of directly cashing out
your Lino into dollars using DLive's get paid button.
So really, the only people who got seriously burned here are the people who were like die-hard
DLive fans, the ones that thought that this was the future and Lino was going to be a
big thing.
No, it was just abandoned.
And really, the only way you got hurt is through your ego.
It's not like people are losing tons of money, are they?
Well firstly, even though Lino is now a dead network and a dead currency, the site is still
and you can still create a wallet and give them money for a currency that no longer exists.
Maybe this site should go down, guys.
Although it still has PewDiePie on it, so I guess they're just not paying attention
anymore.
But there were a few big draws of DLive back when they were really pushing it.
One, it was the claim that they were supposedly decentralized.
And two, that somehow through this roundabout Lino system, DLive wasn't taking a cut.
And this fellow named Eric Wilson on his blog ran the math and realized that's no longer
the case now that they're over on Tron.
After BTT staking is enabled on DLive, streamers will get less of a percentage than on Twitch.
And I think on Twitch they already get half or something?
I didn't know anything about Tron, so I literally had to start at the ground floor.
Friends that I greatly respect showed immediate concerns.
I played the wait and see game.
I absolutely believe that DLive would have folded if it weren't for Justin Sun.
Remember that name, Justin Sun.
They called it a partnership, but he bought them out and kept them afloat.
So in a way it is sort of a, what does the community have to lose?
Apparently what they have to lose is 15% more of their donations.
And here's the spreadsheet.
On Twitch, for 100 bits, which is worth $1 to a streamer, you pay $1.40 and it seems
like Twitch gets a cut of 40 cents.
So it's like 33% or 30% or something.
I know Twitch takes a 50% cut when it comes to the sub button via the monthly Twitch subs,
but when it comes to bits, it seems to be a little bit different.
However, over on DLive, 88 lemons, which is worth $1.06, costs $1.53.
There's taxes, but then there's also something called a donation tax, as well as DLive's
cut of 74 cents.
And the streamer only gets to withdraw 79 cents.
So DLive's old claim that they don't take a cut just isn't true anymore.
In fact, the cut they take is bigger.
Initially they ran everything on the lino testnet.
Your lino points could be staked.
It was an easy calculation.
Every time someone donated, 9.9% of the donation went towards the community staked pot.
What you received from stake rewards depended on the daily pot, how much total was staked,
and how much you had staked.
Basically, your percentage of the total staked gets that percentage of the staked pot.
This entire time, lino was available to be purchased and sold through the lino network
only for a flat price of 0.012 US dollars.
I would like to add that they paid for their validators through the inflation.
Part of that inflation was also used as content bonuses based on a bunch of math.
Then they changed it.
They wanted to change it to two different coins.
Lino would be now only used for staking and rewards.
And they added lemons as the stable coin and the donation coin of the platform, keeping
the price the same on that.
How it worked was 9.9% of lemon donations were converted to lino to be distributed to
stakeholders.
What happened then was obvious and very predictable.
This platform was full of streamers.
It is very, very top heavy of streamers compared to viewers, having many content creators without
the large content consumption audience.
The reason this is such a big deal is much of the donations were between stakeholders
who were also getting donations and staked rewards.
People were using their staked rewards to donate to other streamers.
Once they changed it to lino and lemons, however, the liquid lemons used to donate were drying
up because 9.9% of the lemons were essentially burned and converted to lino every time it
was donated, taking the liquidity out of the available donations.
Then the only way you could get more lemons was to be donated them or buy them.
Everyone paying attention could see what was happening.
Donations were slowing down and continued to drop.
I can only assume that when they changed over to lemons, it was their hope that purchases
of lemons would outpace their need to pay for servers and paying out to streamers.
I felt, even then when things were sort of exciting, the end was near.
Several articles from over a year ago where people asked Charles Wayne, one of the guys
behind this whole thing, how he planned for this operation to be profitable, he basically
said that in the short term he didn't.
He wanted to focus on massive short term growth in order to attract an investor that would
hopefully buy his company.
And as we can see, this was the logical end result of that.
They basically started running out of money.
But now that the percentage of donations that went to staking rewards was up from 9.9% to
25%, that is more money for the community.
No it's not.
That's more money for BTT holders, which very likely is mostly Justin's son.
BTT has been available for over a year.
BTT holders are largely outside the platform.
And this next little bit here is from the BTT whitepaper.
BTT token issuance, we will create a total supply of 99 trillion BTT.
Public sale tokens constitute 6% of total token supply.
Private sale tokens constitute 2% of total token supply.
Bittorrent team and the Bittorrent foundation were at 19%, the Tron foundation got 20%,
the Bittorrent ecosystem is allocated 19%, and partnership tokens constitute 4%.
So basically, as the Lino token was being spread around and people were starting to
get more and more of it, they decided to switch to this previously created token system where
a large chunk of the token is owned by some select insiders.
Including Justin's son.
Imagine growing your brand on Dlive, thinking you're a whale and then this happens.
If you were in the United States during the conversion, you had to do KYC verification
and cash out.
If you were outside of the country, you had to use Justin's son's Poloniex exchange
to get your BTT.
And that's the rub, isn't it?
Justin's son owns Poloniex.com, the only exchange that allowed you to transfer your
Lino out into something resembling real currency.
So yeah, if you were a Dlive streamer between January and April of this year, if you were
in the US, you'd do KYC verification and cash out.
If you were outside the US, you had to use Justin's son's exchange site to transfer
your Lino into Justin's son's BTT and then try to cash that out into real money.
And all those people who didn't do it on time, well, that money was just lost.
It was simply kept by Dlive and most likely kept by Justin's son since he's the one
who bought them out.
The amount of Lino converted compared to the amount of BTT already out there is a drop
in the bucket.
There is no way the Dlive community is going to get any sort of majority of rewards with
this.
This is further centralization and protection.
So this blog post is talking more about the centralized versus decentralized part of the
argument when it comes to Dlive.
And fair enough, this is further centralization and protection.
And it completely goes against the Dlive that we were all sold.
However, personally, I'm a bit more interested in the part of the conversation where Justin
sunlines his own pockets.
Here's a testimonial by somebody who, during the actual proper cash out period for Lino,
was trying to do just that.
They forced us to lock our Lino points in.
I literally just put in a request to unlock my Lino a month ago and now suddenly the Lino
isn't worth anything.
It claims on that page you can buy lemons with Lino, but this functionality doesn't
actually exist.
His website was just one giant scam.
No different than a pump and dump.
They got a bunch of people to give them money for worthless Lino by paying off PewDiePie
and using his fanbase.
And they just literally kept all the money and turned Lino into a worthless crypto that
you have to convert into some other crypto now.
And that does sound like what I predicted they would do about a year ago.
They were going to blow smoke up everybody's ass about Lino, get people to drop a whole
bunch of money on it, and then basically run away with it.
Of course, there were ways, at least during the grace period, to turn your Lino into another
usable crypto.
But it was convoluted, and it involved Justin Sun taking multiple cuts and fees every step
of the way.
The thing is, though, this isn't the first time this has happened, and I don't mean
just with Steemit.
October of last year, decentralized streaming platform Dlive partners with the Theta network
to engage users with token rewards.
How many companies and blockchains and ecosystems is Dlive going to go through?
The truth is, this was always going to happen.
At some point, the people behind Dlive were going to pull the rug out from everyone else.
What they did wasn't illegal.
What would be illegal, at least according to current laws regarding crypto, is if they
unilaterally massively devalued Lino, right before their acquisition by BitTorrent, basically
leaving everyone who had money in Lino high and dry.
They didn't quite do that.
That would have been the best way for them to scam the maximum amount of money, but it
also probably would have got them shut down.
So they did the next best thing.
They set it up so that Lino would become valueless.
Oh, and by the way, you can still give them money for their useless token after the value
has been set to zero for some dumb reason.
And everyone who has Lino, well, you just have to transfer over to this new token that
they've got going.
Of course, the transfer will have a minor fee, don't worry about it.
I wonder if in a year or two's time, assuming Dlive is still around, if they transfer away
from the BitTorrent ecosystem to another blockchain, will there be another transfer fee?
Will you once again have to use the owner of the company's proprietary software or something
to make the transfer and there's a charge associated with that as well?
This isn't a scam, but it is like on the very edge of being a scam.
People are still getting paid on this site, even though it's at this point quite dead
now that PewDiePie's off of it.
But you're jumping through hoops, you're losing money along the way, cuts and skims off the
top are coming left, right, and center.
And despite their initial promise of we don't take any of your money, Dlive's actually worse
than the big names when it comes to this sort of stuff.
And you know, I don't think that PewDiePie actually knew about this.
I think he just likes the idea of some kind of streaming service or a video service or
something that's not YouTube, because YouTube is frankly pretty shit nowadays, and he took
a chance on Dlive.
Of course he took a chance because they offered him a big bucket full of money, but nonetheless
he took a chance on Dlive.
I don't think PewDiePie was being malicious, I just think he was being kind of dumb.
No offense to the guy personally, I like his videos.
And I think this because he's done it before.
Here's a video of PewDiePie promoting S-Game Pro, a mobile games platform where users can
mine their crypto by just playing the games on the platform.
It too turned out to be a scam.
So listen up people, PewDiePie is going to tell you about S-Game Pro, a wonderful place
where you can mine crypto tokens just by playing some of the world's most popular mobile games.
Play mine urn.
Players log into the platform to chat, stream and complete PVP games.
Winners get rewarded with highly liquid ERC20 crypto tokens.
You can exchange SGM for other cryptos, use it to shop in the online store, get gift cards
or cash it in for real life money.
Plus the total supply of SGM is capped at 350 million and 139 million is already sold.
So it's pretty popular already.
Play mine urn with S-Game Pro.
You know, I'm not Pewds, obviously.
I'm sure he has a better idea of how to run his business than I ever would.
But as an outsider looking in, as a little guy with no clout whatsoever, it really seems
like unless he's intentionally ripping people off, and I don't think he is, he needs to
pay a little bit more attention to what he promotes.
Because in so far as decentralized platforms are concerned, he's batting zero for two.
A lot of these people, Justin Sun, Charles Wayne, everyone behind Lino and Tron and Dlive,
a lot of them are Chinese nationals who moved to the United States to go to school.
That's not a problem in and of itself, but they've all taken Chinese money.
All of their projects have gone through multiple funding rounds coming from Chinese angel investors
and venture capitalists.
And that means somewhere along the line, the PRC is involved.
And at least to me, that is absolutely unacceptable.
Anyway, with PewDiePie gone, Dlive is dying.
Hopefully I won't have to do another video updating you on all of the Dlive stuff that's
been happening, because frankly, the main social media video and streaming sites are
bad enough.
I don't think we need to be talking about how the tinier ones are even worse, you know?
