I keep seeing posts like these ones floating around.
Housing is a human right.
Healthcare is a human right.
Healthcare is a human right, full stop.
Healthcare is a human right, not a privilege.
Asylum is a human right.
Yes, unconditional basic income is a human right.
I assume he means universal.
Climate justice is a human right.
Contraception is a human right.
Freedom of speech is a human right.
Housing is a human right.
Access to water is a human right.
Migration is a human right.
Good quality internet is a human right.
Tampax is a human right.
Not tampons, but that specific brand.
Protesting is a human right.
Basic income is a human right.
Access to public toilets is a human right.
Self-defense is a human right.
Jesus, it seems like you can declare anything
a human right nowadays with no real argumentation
behind any of it, especially on Twitter
where explaining your ideas in depth
is discouraged by the very nature of the format.
But what is a right?
Well, I'm not exactly sure.
It's been a long time since I read good old John Loki,
but maybe we can formulate a decent idea
of what a right is just by using our own common sense.
I'm not saying this is necessarily correct,
just what seems reasonable to me.
So you've got natural rights, right?
You've heard of that phrase before.
Well, from a layman's point of view,
a natural right seems to be something you're born with.
It's in nature.
Here's a good way to conceptualize it.
Imagine yourself on a deserted island
with nobody else around.
A natural right is anything that you can do
in that situation.
You have the right to speech, obviously.
You can say whatever you like,
unless you're mute or something,
but the exception doesn't discount the rule.
How about this?
The mute person can draw letters in the sand or something.
You have the right to articulate your statement.
Do you have the right to water or food?
No, but you have the right to go and get it.
You can fish or hunt an animal or collect plants to eat.
We could call this something like the right to labor.
You don't have the right to have a fish to eat
because if you did, the natural world
would have a fish fall into your lap
every time you were hungry.
But you do have the right to go out
and try to catch a fish using your own labor.
To me, it would seem that natural rights
include only the right to speak and the right to labor.
And it seems that the right to labor
includes most other possible actions.
The right to gather food, to create clothing,
to build a shelter, to defend yourself
from an attacking animal.
You have the right to do those things, which you can do.
You don't have the right to achieve a positive result
from those actions, but you do have the right
to try and reach that result.
But all of this stuff is a result of living in isolation.
When you add another person to the deserted island,
a person who has the same rights as you,
what do you do when your rights overlap?
Well, you both have the right to speak.
That hasn't changed.
You don't have the right to be heard by the other person,
but you do have the right to say anything you like.
You still have the right to labor,
but what stops the other guy from just rolling in
and stealing that fish after you've caught it?
Well, technically nothing.
You can definitely live in a might makes right society
where there's no negotiation and only force.
After all, the other person's efforts to steal your fish
is still their labor that they have a right to.
But it's also pretty clear why that behavior
doesn't create a stable civilization.
The alternative to this is what I guess
we could call derived rights.
A derived right is the compromise born out of a situation
where the rights of two people conflict.
The new right created from the compromise
solves the conflict.
So for example, a derived right in the fish theft situation
would be the right to the fruits of your labor.
So not only do you have the right to labor,
which would be the right to go out and get the fish,
but you have the right to the produce of your labor,
the right to own, keep, and eat the fish
without having somebody walk up,
club you on the back of the head, and take it from you.
Derived rights are the source of all fruitful cooperation.
So two people can build a net,
go fishing for a much larger haul
than either of them could catch individually,
and agree to split the fruits of their labor.
But derived rights are also the source of individualism.
Let's say we have 10 people on our little island,
and one of them decides to craft himself an ax,
chop down some trees Minecraft style,
and build himself a shelter.
The use of the shelter is the fruits of his labor.
And since he has a right to the fruits of his labor,
he's under no obligation to share his shelter
with anyone else.
He's probably gonna be considered a dick
by the others for not sharing,
but the others don't have the right to his shelter,
only a right to build and enjoy their own.
This is the root of what we call property rights.
It would seem to me that property rights
are simply a more sophisticated form
of the right to the fruits of your labor.
In modern society, money allows us to defer collection
of our labor's fruits to the future.
Back on the island, when we go fishing and catch something,
we get the fish immediately.
But nowadays, a fisherman can fish, get paid for his labor,
then three days later, use that money to buy a fish.
You probably wouldn't buy a fish, obviously,
because he's a fisherman.
He'd likely buy something else.
So money also allows us to labor at a job,
but generate the output of an entirely different job,
using money to make the exchange.
This is why communists are fundamentally wrong, by the way.
Getting paid for your labor is not exploitation
by the CEOs or whatever.
It's simply allowing you to use your labor
to get more stuff than what your job directly produces.
And those CEOs with more money than you,
well, they also perform more labor than you,
whether that's from efficiency born out of experience
or the quality or importance of the work.
So no, communism does not give you the moral high ground
for wanting to steal the richest stuff
just because you're not as rich as they are.
But the derived right is not the only concept generated
when you add a second person to the island.
The other one is responsibility.
When rights play out in reality,
one person's right is everybody else's responsibility.
So for example, you have two people on the island
and one person decides to say something.
Because his speech is a right,
the other person has a responsibility
to not prevent him from speaking.
If you had 10 people on the island and one was speaking,
the other nine have a responsibility
to not prevent him from speaking.
As always, he doesn't have the right to be heard.
The other nine can walk away, ignore him,
counter with their own speech if they like,
but they cannot silence him.
When one person engages in labor,
the other has a responsibility
to not prevent him from doing so.
They have no obligation to assist him
or cooperate with him.
They can even compete with him if they want,
but they can't stop him from working.
And when one person is enjoying the fruits of their labor,
the others have a responsibility to not steal those fruits.
This all sounds pretty good so far, right?
I mean, if you own a house or a car,
everybody else in your society has a responsibility
to not damage it, steal it,
or enter it without your approval.
If you have money or objects,
you have the right to own that stuff
and everybody else has a responsibility to leave it alone.
And you also have those same responsibilities
in regards to everybody else's stuff.
And as we became more advanced,
we began to derive more rights
from our complex interactions.
Freedom of religion, freedom of association,
and freedom of the press are rights derived
from the freedom of speech.
The freedom to be alive, the freedom from slavery
are both derived from the freedom of labor.
You can't work or enjoy the fruits of that work
if you're dead or your property.
As things became more complicated
and we realized that a legal system was necessary
to arbitrate between the many sets
of overlapping rights we all share,
we eventually realized that the functioning
of such a system required the right to a fair trial
and the right to legal counsel.
These are also derived rights, obviously,
and they're fundamentally necessary
because we're fallible creatures dealing
in concepts we still don't fully understand.
I mean, yeah, if you and I are talking
about being on an island,
we can probably map out our overlapping rights
and the resulting compromises pretty quickly.
But can we draw that out
for millions of people simultaneously?
Probably not, that's a huge job.
And it's one of the main reasons
that we even have a court system.
But let's get back to the original point of the video,
all of those relatively new inventions
people are calling rights.
Let's see if they actually are rights.
The most popular one was healthcare is a human right.
Well, it's certainly a human need and nobody denies that,
but does it meet the definition of a right?
Well, let's go back to the island.
Is it a natural right?
Obviously not.
Just like the natural world doesn't plop a fish
into your lap just because you're hungry,
it's also not gonna plop a first aid kit there either.
Is it a derived right,
born out of the interactions between people?
Well, maybe.
But remember, when multiple people are involved,
your rights are everybody else's responsibility.
But remember, when multiple people are involved,
your rights are everybody else's responsibility.
Speech is easy, just don't censor and you're fine.
Property rights are also pretty easy, just don't steal.
But how about a hypothetical right to being cared for?
Remember, this is not a right to go and get healthcare
because that would be a right to the fruits of your labor.
You work, you exchange your labor for healthcare
and you're good.
This is directly the right to healthcare.
That means everybody else has the responsibility
to bring healthcare to you,
regardless of and disconnected from your own labor.
On our little island community,
that might mean if one person is sick or injured,
the other nine people have a responsibility
to care for them.
Well, that seems fine so far.
But because it's their right
and your responsibility to fill it,
you can't have an expectation of compensation.
You don't get a reward for not censoring people.
It's something that you just have to do.
You don't get a reward for not stealing, same thing.
And if healthcare were a human right,
you don't get a reward for providing it.
It's just your responsibility,
one of the many you have to perform
in order to live with other people.
And this is where the objection
to making healthcare a human right comes from.
If healthcare is your human right,
then it's everybody else's responsibility to fulfill, period.
Now, if there's money in the budget
and the doctor can get paid by the state for your care,
then fine.
But if there's no more money, one of two things happens.
Either the government compels the doctor to care for you
under the threat of force,
because if he refuses to care for you,
your rights are violated by his inaction
regardless of his lack of compensation.
Or the healthcare system collapses
because it ends up becoming more profitable
for doctors to go off and labor elsewhere
under a different job.
Since that doctor not getting paid to care for you
still needs to get paid somehow.
In essence, the right to healthcare is incompatible
with the right to the fruit of your own labor.
Because when the chips are down, when the money's run out,
people working in the health services
are obligated to either work without reward or quit working.
Same with the right to housing.
Simply exchange doctor with carpenter, I guess,
and you've got the same argument.
If everybody's got the right to a house,
not to buy one or build one, but to have one,
then workers must labor under state compulsion
to provide them, because failing to do so
would be an abdication of their responsibility
and a violation of other people's rights.
This is again, a major failure of communism.
Communist states would use this justification
to compel people to work,
stating that the people had rights that needed fulfilling
and you had to fulfill them,
regardless of whether you wanted to or not.
People often say that abortion is a human right
and that's a giant can of worms
I'm not prepared to get into in this video.
But if for the sake of argument,
we accept that a woman has a right to seek an abortion,
that does not give her the right to compel
any individual doctor to give it to her.
She doesn't have the right to an abortion,
but the right to try and get one,
like any other right derived from labor.
And I say individual doctor
because that's what it's ultimately all about, individuals.
The healthcare system doesn't exist
beyond the individuals who make it up.
Races, nations, religions, organizations of all types,
they don't exist beyond the individuals within them.
We've only begun to create systems
that exist independently of individuals just recently
with self automated computers and things of that nature.
But we're a long way off before that's relevant.
All collectives are just individuals
and societies that recognize human rights do so
because we recognize that the individual
is the force that rejuvenates the collective.
Every person has the potential to create
or discover something
and bring it back to the collective for everyone to enjoy.
It's why every religious story is at some point
about a single person in the wilderness,
encountering the world itself
and then returning to the city with his new wisdom.
It's why all the most well loved narratives,
the shows, the movies, the books,
follow the hero's journey of childhood,
thrust into adventure, descent into darkness
and the victorious return to civilization.
Human rights are a reflection of that knowledge
that we've figured out the individual
is superordinate to the collective.
Despite the extreme importance of the collective,
because it's the individual
that keeps the collective alive,
every group that has squashed human rights
did so in the name of the collective.
Fascism does it in the name of the state,
Nazism in the name of the race,
communism in the name of the people or the worker,
religions in the name of the believer
and they all inevitably collapse
because the reforming force
that would carry them into the future, the individual,
is crushed along with his rights.
A liberal society recognizes that my rights
are everybody else's responsibility to uphold
and is therefore quite strict
with what actually constitutes a right
so that nobody may have their own rights violated
by their new responsibilities.
The opportunity to go out and get healthcare
like any other labor is absolutely a right
but healthcare itself cannot be a right.
That doesn't mean that I'm against the idea
of a national healthcare system.
I think it's good for people to not just die
because they can't afford the hospital stay
but it's still not a right
and just because you need it doesn't make it a right.
A healthcare service is a privilege
that a wealthy nation can provide its citizens
if and when the books are properly balanced.
It's not a human right
and forcing it to be one
will cause more problems than it will solve.
