Recently, I decided to go back and see what Yahtzee's been doing.
You know, the Zero Punctuation guy.
The only reason The Escapist became a relevant platform due to their signing him on exclusively.
I remember watching ZP religiously for the first couple of years, but I eventually just
fell out of it.
I didn't really turn on him or anything, I never stopped liking his stuff, I just one
day forgot to go check out the new update, and that was that.
But considering how absolutely cucked the game's media is right now, and The Escapist
specifically, with the whole bringing back movie bob thing, and the apologizing to Zoe
Quinn for actually talking about ethics in journalism thing, I predicted that Yahtzee
would have cucked out like the rest of them, that the establishment would have worn his
fine edge into a dull, pathetic, blunted caricature of what he once was.
Thankfully, I was pleasantly surprised.
He still had all of the acid and wit that I remembered from the early days.
He even made a joke at the expense of the Ghostbusters reboot and Hollywood's recent
trend of blaming fans when their shitty movies failed to make any money.
I was actually a little overjoyed, and I spent the rest of the afternoon binge watching
ZP while eating chocolate covered almonds and beef jerky.
It seems like as my viewing habits regressed to an earlier state, so did my eating habits.
Back to a time when I was much, much fatter.
Anyway, the reason I was pleasantly surprised is because most of the internet personalities
from around 2009 have either vanished into obscurity or mutated into social justice infected
variations of their former selves, still living off the viral videos from their glory
days.
Not totally understanding that the reason they're now struggling to keep up is because
everything that made them great back then is exactly what they've sacrificed at the
altar of social justice.
Here's a great example of what I mean.
From Linkara's Twitter.
Okay guys, I know I gave a positive review of the Tomb Raider comic, but it's actually
kind of rude to at creators with reviews of their work.
It doesn't help that since my show is intended to focus on the negative stuff, description
of the video might give them the wrong idea.
I never thought I'd see the day where the angry reviewers of yesteryear cucked out so
fucking hard that they blatantly admit that by their own warped definitions, their own
show, their own body of work is toxic and hateful.
Angry reviewers review bad stuff, they're angry for a reason, it's a part of the gag.
If that's now problematic in the current year, why are you still doing your show Linkara?
And then there's the obvious example, Spoonie.
Six months since a gaming stream from him, two years since a vlog, and what is it, three
years since a review?
But oh boy, he can certainly spend 18 hours a day tweeting about Trump, that's for sure.
In between whining about having no money and all of his various diseases of course.
I honestly don't know how April hasn't dumped him by now.
Maybe it's because she's an SJW herself, and Spoonie has morphed into the perfect soft
boy for her tastes.
This one's actually really sad for me guys, I made a vlog a couple years ago where I describe
how Spoonie was the inspiration for us to start our channel and stuff, and I once considered
him the absolute best YouTuber out there.
The personalities that have blown up in the past 5 years haven't been explicitly anti-SJW,
although those people have had their fair share of successes too, but it's been those
that are largely apolitical.
They have a slight shitlord-y bent, sure, but I honestly think that's just the natural
state of the average person, to recoil at the sight of social justice.
But they, for the most part, keep their shows out of the political sphere, only bringing
it in when it's relevant.
AVGN's channel is still going strong after like 13 years of operation, because regardless
of politics he sticks to what he knows.
Nerd videos are largely apolitical, sure, but when it came time to speak out about the
2016 Ghostbusters reboot, he did so as fairly as he could.
It didn't stop the SJWs from throwing temper tantrums over it, sure, but he wasn't hyperbolic
on the topic.
Aside from JonTron's dumpster fire debate with Destiny, he's stuck to what he knows
too, and his videos have never been better.
These guys are cut from the same cloth as Spoonie and Linkara.
They come from the same era, and yet they're wildly more successful.
Not because they're anti-SJW, but because they ignore SJWs entirely.
And there does seem to be a serious correlation between people that aren't SJWs, and the
amount and quality of work they produce.
This is pretty obvious to me.
Liberals talk about rights, while Conservatives talk about responsibilities, and the proper
balance of those two forces is in the middle.
If things are too right-leaning, then it's all responsibility and no rights, a fascist
right.
If things are too left-leaning, then it's all rights and no responsibility.
And society naturally breaks down, because there are more people owed more things through
the virtue of their rights, than there are people responsible to go out into the world
and actually procure those things that are owed.
So it's no surprise to me that SJW YouTubers lack the work ethic to maintain a successful
career over not just years, but potentially decades.
Too many rights, and not enough responsibility.
And it also makes perfect sense that SJWs would hate people more successful than them.
Because successful people get to enjoy the fruits of their labour.
Fruits that SJWs believe they're owed through the rights they claim to have.
In my video on Why Capitalism is Successful, I stated my belief that upper-middle-class
Socialists and Communists who claim to want to help the poor, don't actually want to
help the poor, but simply hate those who are richer than them.
They clothe their desire to steal from those more successful than they are, in a layer
of false humanitarianism for the working class, confirmed to be false because of how little
resources actually get into the hands of the working class once any socialist government
takes power.
This is just conjecture on my part.
But I think this is related to the Chinese idea of three generations.
Where the grandfather is working class, but understands that he must work hard to build
a better life for his family.
The father is middle class, who watched the grandfather work himself to death, and wants
his son to avoid that fate.
And the son is upper class, has never suffered a day in his life, doesn't understand the
bubble of privilege his family has constructed for him.
And his lack of ability to contend with the harshness of the world leads to the ruin of
his family, and the return to the grandfather stage in the next generation.
In English, this idea is expressed through the similar saying of, hard times create tough
people, tough people create easy times, easy times create soft people, soft people create
hard times.
Things really do seem to work in a cyclical manner like that.
And whenever I see a social justice warrior wearing thousands of dollars of clothing,
stuff that a working class member would never be able to afford, holding a sign saying eat
the rich, what I see is a soft person creating hard times.
I see the son, standing on the precipice of the ruination of his family.
And for these rich kids, the dreaded 1% they're railing against is almost always going to
contain members of their family.
And from my point of view, it seems like these people are so entitled, so ridiculously, monstrously
egotistical, that they're dragging their family conflicts out into the political sphere.
Agitating for the radical restructuring and ultimate downfall of western civilization,
because they can't get along with their fucking dads.
This view has been making itself known recently with an extreme hatred of people with $1 billion,
regardless of any other attributes of the person.
They could be any race or gender, they could be hard working to the point that they legitimately
earned that billion, doesn't matter.
If they've got 10 digits in the old bank account, they deserve to be hated.
Anyone who has a billion dollars either exploited a monopoly that should have been broken up,
got inside information available to other investors, bribed some politicians, or inherited
the money from their parents who did one of the above.
These people don't understand how fucking hard CEOs actually work.
A college kid's perception of a CEO is a fat cat sitting in an office smoking a cigar,
watching the money roll in.
But that's not a person, that's the monopoly man.
A CEO is a CEO because they've worked for 80 hours a week for 50 years with no breaks.
A CEO is a CEO because they get up and work at 3am when their overseas client calls them
at demanding a fix to a problem that's about to cost the company $100 million, and if the
CEO doesn't fix it right now, there are many younger, hungrier competitors that are willing
to snap that contract up and make a fortune for themselves.
CEOs are CEOs because they consist of largely hyper-productive people who are incapable
of taking breaks, and they are an extreme minority of cases in the human condition.
Most women and most men are not these people.
These people are the 1%, not just in terms of their assets, but in terms of how fucking
rare they are.
Why should anyone have a billion dollars?
Why should anyone be proud to brandish their billions when there is so much suffering in
the world?
Because the billionaire likely earned it by working harder than every single employee
at the New York Times by a factor of 10.
And if you're going to remove the extreme rewards from extreme work, then who's going
to do the work?
That's what happens in a socialist country.
The productive class gets wiped out because there's no longer any reason to be productive,
and the economy grinds to a halt.
I know this will sound terrible to SJWs, but it makes sense that old rich people are old
and rich.
If you have any sense, money is something you'll attempt to accumulate across your life.
You trade in your youthful potential for your wealthy old age, but you're still going to
be old.
Would you willingly make that trade with the snap of your fingers and miss out on 50 years
of your life?
The only reason you're not rich yet is because you haven't put in enough hours on this planet
to be rich, you spoiled brats.
This analysis works not just on sub-accounts or dollars in the bank, but in sports, in
video games, in grades at school, in any domain in which there is a relatively objective measurement
of success.
I'd say there's two hard and fast rules.
One, if there's an objective measurement of success, the majority of successes will
be clustered around a small minority of people at the top of the hierarchy, as predicted
by the Pareto Principle.
Two, social justice warriors will object to this distribution of success as being a product
of privilege and oppression, when in reality it's a product of talent, intelligence, and
disproportionate amount of time invested in the pursuit.
And I think on some level the progressives must know this.
If our society truly was nothing but a power struggle, with no hierarchies of competence
involved whatsoever, why is the power on every time you come home?
Why do supply lines keep the food moving from farm to warehouse to grocery store?
Even if there is some corruption, and I'm sure there is, at some point there has to
be competent people doing real work somewhere in the chain.
Things do not run themselves.
In fact, things break themselves down ridiculously quickly without competent intervention.
What's the statistic?
A helicopter needs eight hours of work for one hour of flight, something like that?
Do you really think a society comprised of nothing but power grabs could even keep them
in the air?
It would seem to me that the tendency of both the social justice warrior and the communist
to hate the successful stems from a hatred of themselves and their own inadequacies.
Or maybe it stems from a complete and total ignorance about the inner machinations of
society, something that their rich parents have shielded them from the whole time.
Or maybe it stems from something else.
I started this video talking about failed YouTubers.
Because hating the successful is not something limited to billionaires.
The mainstream media hates PewDiePie because he's a guy who makes silly voices and plays
video games, and he has a larger audience than almost every old media outlet on the
planet.
AVGN and JonTron got flack because they refused to conform to the proper political positions.
These are people that are not only just successful, but are also out of the control of social
justice.
You'll notice that social justice individuals that are also successful get a lot less flack,
right?
Maybe that's because it's never been about hating the successful at all.
Maybe it's because it's been about hating the unbowed.
