Summer, 2017. Who can forget.
It's everyday bro.
Do you want to jump in?
Absolute mayhem.
I'm out of fire right now? She just punched me.
Winter. An unrivalled nightmare.
I'm literally stuck here. There's lines of cars starting with that giant truck.
Careers were launched, reputations were established, and people were once again
falling head over heels for drama that seemed so inconsequential in many of our lives.
Summer 18 was around the corner, and many were anticipating the shenanigans
that all of these characters would be caught up in, or at least we thought we were.
Because as the holidays dawned, there was a distinct lack of interest.
In fact, fellow YouTuber NerdCity released a video in which he documented
all of Jake Paul's antics over the summer, antics that were arguably much worse
than anything originally documented in 2017.
And yet, if it hadn't been for some very ruthless marketing, in spite of its excellency,
it probably wouldn't have even reached its current view count.
700,000, not bad, but hardly the peaks of the drama over the previous year.
So, the only question on our lips is, where had all the views gone?
Here on my channel, I talk about beauty.
I want to talk to you guys in this video, it's been so long.
What's up everybody?
My name is Manny Amiwe for those of you who might not know who I am.
Well.
Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion,
the home of a twat with too much free time,
and I think it's time for a story.
I think we've had enough of those sorts of story times for now.
Anyhow, I have a Twitter, and like most people with a Twitter, I follow people.
When people follow me, I typically check out their account to see what sort of individuals I'm appealing to,
and in some instances, they may be YouTubers for whom I'll check out their channel
and see if their Twitter's worth keeping up with.
And at some point at the start of the summer, a person by the name of T-Spill followed me.
I checked out their channel, around 15,000 subscribers, not a bad amount going on,
so I thought, you know what, I'll follow them back and see what happens with their channel.
They also had their subscriptions public,
and because I have a bit of a vanity project going on,
I often check my most popular subscribers,
see whose attention I have,
and I noticed they were subscribed to me,
but fairly low down on the pecking order.
However, with every passing week, I noticed them climbing,
gradually and then rapidly ascending,
and I thought to myself,
what on earth is going on?
The channel moved from 15k to 13k to 60k to 150k and so much more.
So this is when I found out all about these people.
And if we were going by T-Spill's thumbnails and titles,
this was a non-stop festival of pure drama.
And to be honest, they looked like people who loved a bit of spice.
So what of this new rise to the top of such individuals?
Well, they're members of what is known as the beauty community.
Now, when you're as good looking as me,
you don't really need any makeup to stay beautiful.
However, as implied, these are a set of creators
who are focused on the testing of commercial beauty products.
But this isn't any old beauty community,
we're not talking about Zoella here.
As interesting as that is, we're talking about a community
that has really popularized the nature of spilling tea
and embodied a culture like no other.
And you'll soon see what I mean.
This sort of content seems to have been performing
fairly successfully for a while.
There are a fair few prominent creators in this community,
one of them being Jeffree Star,
who has a fairly hefty 10 million subscribers.
Not the most,
but he's more well known for his outgoing personality.
As said, there are a load of other prominent figures
in this community, a load of people
who are very interested in that little sass.
With the rise of channels like Teaspill
and other content creators reporting
on the shenanigans of these creators,
it seems there must be a lot to discuss.
And really, the question that I want to answer
at the end of all this is why?
Why do people start caring about the drama
of a community that has been functioning
fairly competently for years prior,
and why should people care?
Or, should people care?
These are all questions that many of us here
ask for today, because honestly,
I'm just as confused as the rest of you.
Why did this
talk to you guys
in this video?
It's been so hard.
Why are you crying?
outdo this.
Tonight's the night!
Despite my grades, I knew I was smart.
Are you a Jake Pauler?
Kiss me with a mouth.
You're my mom.
I thought it was sexy, okay?
I just learned about
their most romantic moments.
I think we need to find out.
But first, as I assume many of you will be
unfamiliar with this, given my audience,
I think we should have a rundown of the drama
and see what everyone's freaking out about.
Courtesy of my field correspondent,
J. Aubrey, or Jorbrey, or whatever,
I never really asked him what his preferred
name was, so I'll just do both.
Fuck the system, take it away,
my good man.
If YouTube were a well-oiled machine,
then it would be fueled purely
by tea. So much so
that you now have entire channels
dedicated to the art form of
spilling tea, keeping you up to speed
on who said what today, who made an
apology this week, who dropped
the n-word five years ago, you know,
the usual. But for someone on the outside
looking in, it can understandably
get a bit messy.
I'm not sure if this is the best
way to explain it, but
it can understandably get a bit messy in some areas.
So let's you and me take a little journey
down the rabbit hole here, as we explore
all the succulent drama that has transpired
in the YouTube beauty community
as of late. If we want to get a clear
picture of this saga in its entirety,
then we need to revert back to the beginning.
The year is 2016, the beauty community
has been popping off for a very considerable
amount of time, with the makeup
guru Heavyweight spearheading the
genre. Manny MUA, Laura Lee,
and Jeffree Star were of the notable
characters involved during this
ethereal era of seemingly never-ending
amity and goodwill.
The three were inseparable, collaborating
and helping each other out without a hint
of hesitation that is until things
got a little bit...odd.
Over time, the trio began to grow
more distant, thus a cold blanket
of uncertainty was soon draped
over the community. These figureheads began
shading one another in the eye of the public,
Jeffree going so far as to take to Snapchat
where he would constantly drivel on about
fake friends and backstabbers,
causing more and more speculation
amongst viewers. What had happened
to this group of creators who were once
so close to one another?
Fast forward to August of 2018, and
Shane's docuseries on Jeffree Star
takes the internet by storm.
Being an incredibly extensive look into the
makeup mogul's lifestyle, it obviously
got a lot of people talking. Not just
audiences, but Star's past acquaintances
as well. Didn't take long
for Gabriel Zamora to post
this picture of him, Nikita
Dragon, Manny, and Laura
flipping the camera off with the especially
spicy caption,
This one tweet
ignited a firestorm overnight
with Gabriel then going on an entire
tangent about how racist Jeffree
happened to be. This led to some digging
into Gabriel's past, and imagine
my shock, Jeffree's fans were quick
to turn the tables. But the disconcerting
comments didn't stop at Gabriel Zamora.
In fact, it seemed like a few other
friends had some interesting opinions
on certain races too.
And soon enough, well, Twitter
did its thing.
Seeing as nearly everyone was exposed for being a massive
hypocrite, the outcry amongst fans began
and well, damage control can only
do so much. In fact, Laura Lee's apology
video was really the nail in her coffin
as her channel began bleeding subs
soon after. Laura Lee is now one of the most
unsubscribed to channels on the entire
website, causing a massive
downfall that forced herself and others
into an extended hiatus.
TLDR, no one really knows what happened
amongst the three, everyone has their own theories
of what could have happened, but it doesn't matter
now because everyone hates them regardless due to
their racist and hypocritical pasts.
Hope that sheds some sort of light onto things.
Now to throw it back to Tro before he slanders
my good name again by calling me
Jabri. I mean, come on man, is it that hard?
There's a space right there. It's right there, right
RIGHT FUCKING THERE!
Wow. One exhilarating
rundown. Now we know why people
care about this so much. I feel like
I've been electrified. The tea is
running through my veins. Please
go and check out my boy,
Jabri. He's a great friend of the channel and
an upcoming creator who's obviously
destined for great things.
So in the last few months, we all started using phrases
to do with tea. Honestly, I didn't
know originally where they were sourced.
I assumed they were from the sassy
talk show hosts because of their respective
gifts. However, I realise now
the beauty community has been using it
long before any of us plebs ever
acknowledged its existence.
I just wanna give you guys a quick little
tea that I
am in a hotel room, so the lighting and sound
is gonna be a little different.
This was 11 months ago, yet the cultural
phenomenon only blessed us recently.
Now of course, this series with
Shane and all the following hijinks
has really been the peak of the drama. However,
it's been building up a while before.
Why did people suddenly start caring?
That's what I want to answer first.
Well, let's first establish one
premise. Every community has drama.
There is no community above
this simple fact. When you have a collective people
sharing in the same genre, you will have conflict.
Even in cases where the community seems
benign, like the animation community,
it is unavoidable. However, drama in
most circumstances is trivial.
Even stuff that people make huge long
videos on won't have a huge impact
in our lives. So what really matters
in whether drama has significance
to people? Well, like everything
is the reaction. I think that's the first
important point to remember. Before
all of these charades, the beauty community
definitely demonstrated the potential for the
sort of quarrels that we've witnessed over the last
few months, and that's mainly because
they're melodramatic people. And this
should surprise no one, because it is a
stereotype, and although I'm not necessarily
fond of stereotypes, when it comes to topics
that are based more on human free will and decision,
it may attract a certain sort of
person, and create a group of people with at least
some overlap in traits.
The people today are very camp,
very expressive, and of course, as mentioned,
very dramatic. So when all of these situations
transpired, it was inevitable that no matter
how negligible these predicaments were,
it was going to cause huge ripples
amongst the community. This is all
worth remembering. The next point to remember
is that just because there was an
absence of reported transgressions,
doesn't mean there was an absence of
transgressions. I've said this all before, and I'll
say it again, without the existence of
commentary, many of these individuals would not
be held to account. And let me tell you,
people like Jeffree Star have been causing drama
for ages. It's just a long time
it had its own realms of existence,
and I highly doubt that before all of the
drama channels documenting it popped up,
that there was just this complete
absence of wrongdoings. In fact,
there are a couple channels who have been up for
a bit longer covering this. That would be
my guess anyway, given how quickly all
of these channels had a backlog of content
when they set up, seems like it was something fairly
endemic before. With all of this drama
suddenly erupting, you might think the beauty community
itself has just blown up in 2018,
and if you didn't watch their content,
you may not have even encountered their channels,
so the naivety is completely understandable.
But the truth of the matter is that many of the people
that we'll be talking about today, Jeffree Star
Laura Lee, have been extremely
successful for the last couple years at least,
and in the last Shane Dawson's little series,
which Star has definitely experienced a spike in stardom,
the drama videos didn't actually cause a huge
impact on the traffic these channels
received, within their own fanbases
at least. However, it has definitely led to
a level of accountability that many of these individuals
were not accustomed to. But if the beauty
community aren't exactly experiencing
exponential growth, why is there this influx
of reported drama? So there are a
few things that I believe are worth documenting
here. The beauty community, as I said,
has always had drama, that's important,
it was fairly run-the-mill TMZ-level
stuff, but it was almost an accessory to
the channels. A bit of tea here and there
was normal. This changed for a plethora
of reasons. As I said, the increase of
these drama channels definitely generated a
new level of scrutiny onto these creators.
But on top of this, why did the beauty channel
drama appear to take over from individuals
like Jake and Logan Paul? And I'm not
saying they didn't have any drama, they
had their boxing match, but no one seems to have the
ability to quote, expose them anymore.
Even the boxing match wasn't a particularly
profitable trending topic for many YouTubers.
Well, we have to go back to January to
understand that, back to an event which, as
mentioned earlier, was a defining moment
for many creators, which was Logan
Paul's little excursion. Now, the
whole situation was disastrous for him, yet
at the same time, in hindsight, although
he's not experiencing the views that he
was at the peak of his fame, Logan Paul
and his brother Jake are experiencing
considerable success, minus the criticism,
which is a pretty sound combination,
because although some may argue that any
press is good press, not having YouTube
at your throat is pretty great.
But why did people just lay off?
To understand this, we have to ask
ourselves, how are people being
exposed? Well, some may say, when
you do something bad.
But I disagree. Someone being
exposed is when they're shown as doing something
bad for their own standards, and because
Logan Paul set the bar so low
with his behaviour, he eventually fell out
of interest, because videos documenting
his questionable actions no longer became
questionable for him. The views
fell out, and even though the Paul brothers
are arguably just as egregious as
before, no one seems to care
anymore. Commentators who covered
these topics, realising the subject was
kinda dead, then moved in two different ways.
They either went to more nuanced
commentary, covering topics that were
more timeless, or they went into the whole
reaction commentary trend, which was just emerging
from a very obsessive Dr. Phil phase.
However, not all audiences were
interested in that. They're not the same
genres, after all. Some people still want
to see YouTubers being held to account for
misconduct. This meant there was almost a
leftover audience vying for some sort of
drama, and here they had huge potential
for it. And this is where this
little community of people was almost
roped into this culture, without their
consent, and it was almost custom-made.
Their naturally sassy personalities made
their reactions almost priceless. They had
an audience that was equally susceptible to
being engaged in drama, they had these personas
that were built on the foundations of being
friendly, smiley, to the audience,
and as an audience, your perception of
these people was very precious. They need
to trust these guys when they're going out
to buy their brands. Being a judge is
a role that is built on trust,
and moving away from just beauty products
gave greater potential for this situation.
In fact, I'd argue the relationship
that beauty gurus perpetuate
is even deeper than any genre discussed
on this channel before. They open up about
a lot, in very emotional ways,
which is great, but it also means there is a
level of consistency that they will be
held to account on, and with a
community, there will always be some people
who don't have genuine personas, and
exaggerate or fabricate to try and win over
audiences. So when the drama scene
burst through the door, dying to cover this,
it was going to be raucous, because the
community is a breeding ground for
factions and drama. You had
a load of volatile individuals who are
sassy as hell, and yet, at the same time,
love to share a unique relationship
with the audience. However, what we have
explained was how the market opened up
for these individuals, but why did everything
erupt as perfectly as it did?
So, I was doing my research, and I noticed
a trend. A lot of these drama
channels who were covering it were sourced
approximately a year ago, when some of them
were doing this thing where they would select a clip
and edit it in a way.
In fact, many of them popped up in the window
over a couple months, which is very intriguing
in itself, as although it's natural
for people to create channels covering
something when it's doing relatively
well, there was no clear motive in this
instance that would exactly warrant it.
But whatever, I don't think anything shady
is going on, so who cares? Many of these
channels then diverged in different
directions, realising that there was clearly
a lot more to do, but all while enabling
these foundations, and as a lot of the other drama
became stale to audiences, there was
almost just a slight enough bridge from
what we've seen, like the Paul brothers,
to this community. Arguably,
that bridge was paved by creators such as
Tana Mongeau and Shane Dawson, who had
both roots in commentary and beauty,
although themselves being rather independent.
This probably lent some algorithmic
purpose to permit the sort of
sass that we've observed of recent. All of
these channels are also very well organised
with the sort of content they're creating, in fact
some of them seem pretty synchronised with
their narrative. For example, Teaspill and
HereForTheTea, at the time of writing this,
released trailers for their Jaclyn Hill collab,
and the trailers were identical. Now this
next part is conjecture, however I feel
it is fairly well grounded. A lot of these creators
in the past year have been branching out
their personas, they've been doing more personal
videos, I can't exactly say why,
but if I were to theorise, I'd say that due
to the influx of more scrutiny
from channels that are attempting to analyse
their appeal, they try and create a
third dimension, they try and introduce
another facet to their character that is
more than just makeup, after all, anyone
has access to makeup, anyone can
criticise it, anyone can criticise your
own brands, even. People can judge
it. What they can't necessarily contradict
is your character, and eventually this led
to everyone using deep stories to try and
elevate the perception their audience has
of them, and then when other people witnessed
this, they realised they had to compete in this
market as well, and eventually created
a new culture of deep opening up
emotional videos.
But equally this meant that their persona was
no longer a simple, sassy element of a channel
who could become involved in drama,
it became an issue of actual standards.
But the bigger they are, the harder they
fall, and when the whole situation surrounding
Jeffree Star, digging up the racist comments
from years ago because they didn't like what he was
doing now, it was a perfect example of
when someone's own perception of self
becomes over inflated, and they do
something fucking stupid, which it was,
and in a way, what many of these people
had said in the past years were not
any worse than what Jeffree Star said,
but what really got them were their own crafted
narratives. Firstly, they centred themselves
as this bastion, then they created
an implicit law which told their audience
if you've made racist tweets in the
past, then you should not be supported,
which is subjective, and
many people, justifiably, don't agree
to it, but it is subjective, and that's
important. However, another implicit
law that is pretty universally applied
that is almost assumed, is that you would
apply the standards that you apply to other
people onto yourself. So when it was
revealed that many of the individuals attempting
to bury poor old, or rich
old, or rich young Jeffree Star
over here, had also posted some
fairly questionable content, it essentially
completely backfired, and when their
authenticity was really put in question,
when they had to make everyone's favourite
sincere apology video, it all
fell down for a few of them. Many people
who've dealt with audiences and their judgement
know that they care much more for the
context of what it says about a character
than just barebones, heat of the moment
reactions.
None of these beauty gurus were really
perceptive enough to gauge that, their
engagement with these topics was elementary
and they paid the ultimate price,
and it hit them hard. We're talking
content cop level hard, their
subscribers punished them, because
there was this image, completely shattered,
which had only been made worse by the
fact that they'd attempted to embellish this
in the months prior, and that's what this all
represents, the perfect storm, this was
the perfect type of place for commentary
to settle for the summer, and for some
audiences too, because while Jake
and Logan were arguably behaving much
worse, people much more love to hear about the other
side of a person, that's where the whole
exposed term comes from,
and with the cultivation of all these drama channels
that really relished in the algorithmic
cycles to drive home this notion, it
all cultivated an environment for it to
take the place of the previous generation
of drama, drama is natural,
drama is organic, in many ways drama
is expected, because drama will yield from
conflict, and conflict happens when you interact
with other human beings, and honestly if there
wasn't any drama, you'd feel like it was a bit
insincere, at the same time
forcing drama will naturally make you
susceptible to being labelled as an
instigator, something equally unpopular
with an audience, but that's what these movements
represent, a change in position,
that's what drama does, if you don't
come out of drama at least thinking differently
of one of the people involved, then
chances are the tea was a tad cold,
for some reason, drama in the beauty
community, as seemingly obvious as it should
be, was ignored by many for the reasons
that I believe many perceived it as too
tabloid, drama was an accessory
as I said, however as the creators
in it sought to increase their social
standing and character depth, it gave those
on the outside more to chew on, and
more to judge, and through the facilitation
by other creators, the drama of the
beauty community quickly spread,
and we ended up here, with it arguably
being the most viewed drama of the
summer, and many of you, like me, probably
didn't even know about it. So
what for the future? I think it's difficult to
exactly say how long this will persist
as said drama is typically perpetuated
through the shifting perception between
viewer and creator, this is more possible
when there are more ways for a person's image
to be shifted, which is why a heavy
incident can equally kill potential for drama
as it may stimulate it, it appears
we may have had that huge drama,
though in the grand scheme of things
it's fairly inconsequential, so
there's definitely room for it to manifest,
the simple fact of the matter is that we
viewers like to think that we are holding people
to a moral standard, and we are to an extent,
but we have two sets of standards,
what is acceptable to
society, and what is acceptable
for a person or a community.
Now all of this drama is quite small in the grand
scheme of society, it doesn't change our
lives, Laura Lee hasn't gone out and
assaulted anyone, she's just been a bit of a
dick, but audiences haven't gravitated
to this group of people because
anything particularly egregious is going on,
it's just a new set of fresh
meat for us to get our kicks out of,
because they see themselves as
gurus, and we love to topple
people, when it comes to drama, it's
a fair weather morality, a set of dramatic
people with dramatic audiences
in dramatic situations, trying
to be moral dictators,
but once you become the dictator, the
only way is down, and
that's the tea my friends, that's
the fucking tea, see
I said it.
I want to thank two people
with regards to the creation of this video,
firstly, J Aubrey, J Aubrey,
whatever you wanna bloody call him,
for his absolutely barnstorming
part, he's a great creator, check him out
as I said, and secondly, T Spill herself
for checking my scripts with regards to
the topic and making sure the information
I was basing my judgements off was
accurate, I think that's one of the key
elements of a creator, I'd also like to give
a massive thanks to the editors, who once again,
fantastic work, great job,
definitely check them out, some of these guys
are really up there with the best,
and they will inevitably do
great things with their lives, so definitely go and
send them some love, because without them,
the channel would not be here. Anyhow, I don't think I have
too much else to say, I'd love to hear your thoughts
on the topic, even though I feel like
this is probably something slightly more
unfamiliar with my audiences, so if
this is your first encounter with it, then
honestly, I'd really like to hear your thoughts too actually,
because, you know, first impressions
mean a lot. If this is your first
impression with me, I hope it was a good one too,
if not, well, I'll try and work on that in the future.
Also, if you wanna reach me on Twitter,
at TheRightOpinion, as I said earlier,
Facebook, I use that too, though I haven't used it
as much recently, Discord, another thing
that I love to involve myself in.
All those mediums you can reach me on.
I'm an accessible man, even though I do
tend to be very busy, so
apologies if replies aren't immediate.
Anyhow, until the next one,
I'm TheRightOpinion, and I'll see you then.
Thanks for watching!
