Hello my friends, I was actually gone for a couple days, I don't know if you noticed,
I was getting fiber optic internet installed, so hopefully this video is coming to you at the
speed of light. If not, then maybe I've been had. Anyway, today we're talking about cancel culture,
and more specifically, how I don't really care about it, and I hope you don't mind
indulging me in an old man ramble for at least a couple of minutes.
I've talked about my pre-political past on YouTube a few times now, I think I've done at least two
videos on it. If you're new, this channel only really started getting into politics around
Gamergate, and before that it was Game Playthroughs, which are now over on my Game Boomers channel,
and before that they were anime reviews. That guy with the glasses styled anime reviews,
all the way back in 2009. It was me and two friends, we were a lot younger and we were
just having fun. That's why the channel's name is Short Fat Otaku, because we were all otakus.
But that also means that I have a lot of old friends from other parts of the internet that
aren't political, in fact parts that should be apolitical, like anime, like video games,
let's plays, that kind of stuff. Places where frankly politics really shouldn't be injected,
one way or the other. Now while I was offline getting that internet installed,
I actually got removed from a discord of people that I used to be friends with a long time ago.
And no, I am not asking you to cancel them, that's why I've censored all of their names,
I just want to discuss the topic if you don't mind. I want you to read a little bit with me,
just so we can discuss the nature of places that really should be apolitical,
like non-politic side of YouTube, and how they've become politicized, and how the people
in those spaces believe that that is morally justifiable, okay?
It's been brought to our attention by several members of our community that due to your past
actions and current content, people are uncomfortable with you continuing to be in
the discord. We are aware that you think those people of different political views can coexist,
but unfortunately when your views and actions cause harm and fear in others, that's not the
case. As to what views and actions we're talking about, I'll show you in a bit.
I understand that we have history. When we were just two gaming channels, despite being different,
I appreciated our friendship. However, as much as I respect the ideal of looking past differing
views, there's a line that I can't cross. The history of your words and ideals go against my
own, my friends, and radiate a hatred that I can't tolerate in my community. Apparently,
I radiate hatred, okay? I hope you understand. We're just too different,
and even if you don't think we are, I hope you respect and understand that I do.
And I mean, fair enough. Ultimately, this is their discord, not mine. It is not my place to complain.
They have their rules, and even though I think they're completely ridiculous, it's their place.
It's not mine. I would not do this in my discord. I personally do not tolerate any kind of xenophobia
in the slightest. We are all about creating a safe and caring environment for everyone,
for people to be themselves and feel like they belong. It's actually sad whenever a friendship
ends due to what basically amounts to Trump Derangement Syndrome.
But let me show you my offense, okay? We've been provided with screenshots of both old and recent
SFO comments, content, and remarks, and so we've banned him. If you have interacted with his
content because of this discord, or been offended by his actions, we're deeply sorry. I'm sorry you
had to watch a YouTube video of me, dude. Provided below is one of the screenshots we received that
pushed us to act. Please know that in this community we aim to make all people of all races,
genders, and backgrounds feel welcome and safe. And you know what, frankly, so do I. But I would
also add of political persuasions into that as well. Xenophobia, transphobia, um, I don't know
if you'd accuse me of transphobia knowing my porn history, and any other form of intolerance will
not be tolerated. Please reach out to a mod if you're feeling unsafe. We're here to keep this
community one of acceptance and friendship. So here's the actual thing that got me the boot,
and I think you can recognize what it is just by looking at it, eh? That's right, it's this tweet,
dudes. The one where I found a bunch of people who were proudly undocumented, or proudly illegal
immigrants, as stated in their own fucking bios on Twitter, and then tagged them into a thread with
ice. And I even say in the thread, it's not about xenophobia. If you want to live in a
nation, immigrate properly. I say it right here, and I still feel that way. If you want to live
in a nation, immigrate properly. This is not a race issue. I'm not racist. This is certainly not
a xenophobic issue. I am not afraid of or hateful towards people who come from different places or
have different backgrounds. They are all welcome to immigrate properly to the West. They are all
welcome to follow the rules, contribute to the society that they arrive in, and be a net positive
to those around them. This isn't white nationalism or something nonsense like that. It's, in fact,
the alt-right calls me a civ-nat wet noodle or something. Of course, you can also make the
argument that, hey, despite that, maybe you shouldn't be tagging people in with ice. You
know, it's like siccing the cops on them. It's like the guy who who narcs out. One,
ICE doesn't actually watch their Twitter account, and I knew this when I made this. It was a fucking
troll. And two, if you don't want to be deported, don't put proud illegal immigrant in the bio of
your Twitter, you morons. But of course, that context doesn't really matter when it comes to
smaller groups like this. Like get this, when he said he was centrist, that was a big red flag.
To somebody who is on the radical left, the centrist might as well be the Nazi. They might
as well be the radical right, because the centrist position is actually strong borders
and legal immigration. That's the centrist position. The radical right position is strong
borders, no immigration, and deportation of those they don't want there, even if they were there
legally, like sending black people back to Africa or something. Meanwhile, the radical left position
is no borders, no immigration system at all, pure unfettered movement of people. But to these
people, the centrist position is too radical for them, which shows you how far left they've gone.
And I can already hear their objections, and I understand them. The radical lefty will say that
the centrist person is just like the right, because in practice, they just won't accept
people of color or something. Fair enough, that might actually happen. However, the radical right
person says that the centrist position might as well be the radical left position, because people
will simply refuse to enforce border laws and don't care when illegals come through, which is
kind of what happened under Bill Clinton. So their positions are equal but opposite. They believe the
centrist to not be extreme enough for them, so therefore they must be extreme in the other way.
Fundamentally, they have no idea what nuance is. I always view it as a mark of pride when somebody
who thinks this way, in fact, also thinks my content is hateful and cruel. That's simply part
of speaking the uncomfortable truths. However, it was never going to be about how I could argue my
case, or how I could show them how I'm not actually some kind of hateful bigot for holding these
opinions. And in fact, these opinions not only have their basis in reality, but in some cases
seem to be objectively true regarding certain things about governance. But it was never going
to be about making a convincing argument, it was always going to be ideological. Nothing blatantly
offensive was said in this discord. The ban was entirely decided on because of his actions outside
of the discord. So it's just like Facebook banning you for stuff that you do off platform, or Patreon,
or whoever else. It's the nonsense we've been fighting everywhere just on a much smaller scale,
because this discord had like 50 people in it or something. Now I've actually got I think five
people in there who are who are still like sending me messages and being like, lol have you seen what
they've done now? And they did delete all of my messages, so I can't actually show you the rather
tame political conversations that I had in their channel meant for heavier topics. But I can
show you the reaction of their admins. I'm not having a fun discussion, this has been entirely
unpleasant. This is in retaliation by the way to me saying that at the very least Trump isn't a
fascist because fascists economically like to centralize and control everything happening in
their state. All of the private economic activity is at least in some way regulated by them,
while Trump has been going on a massive deregulatory spree. That is the actions
of like an ANCAP almost, not a fascist. This person also believes that the discord is a safe
space for those who Trump has has oppressed. I don't think he's actually personally grabbed
you by the pussy. My refusal to agree to this statement is actually what got the ball rolling
on this. Can we all agree that Trump is an absolute monster and by far the worst president possible?
He has been openly sexist, he's racist, a pedophile, a rapist, his politics are terrible,
he's an absolute idiot. But in terms of all of it, he is a monster and the worst. We can
debate his garbage politics all day, but in the end hate crimes, assault, and white supremacy
have grown louder and stronger. Human garbage has one of the biggest platforms on earth.
You all know that I am neutral to Trump. He has done some things that I like,
particularly economically. He has done other things that I don't like. For example,
there was some LGBT stuff that Trump recently did that I actually openly oppose. I also oppose
his stance on flag burning. You should be able to burn whatever flag you like. But my neutrality
on him was apparently the big issue. Here's probably the funniest exchange of all. Again,
you can't see my replies here because I've deleted all my messages. Unfortunately, you'll just have
to take me at my word here. The admin, who at this point has always been the person in red,
she says that I'm obviously a white person. And I say, well, no, I'm Métis. Which is like a half
joke. I guess technically I am, but it doesn't really matter, right? For those of you who don't
know, Métis is a Canadian term for people who have a mixture of white and native American
heritage. And the reason that we use that term is because they were basically rejected from both the
white and native communities back in the day. So they formed their own community and they are
distinctly their own thing culturally. However, I am not Métis in any real sense. I don't look
Métis. I don't practice any of the culture. I just happen to have a native ancestor back there
somewhere. So it doesn't really matter. And in response to this, she says, if you look white,
you reap the benefits. That's just a fact. My reply, which is where the white line would be,
would be like, oh, that's actually like bisexual people. And that is in fact the truth. If you are
not white, but you're white passing, you get white privilege. In the same vein, if you're bisexual
and you're straight passing, then you have access to straight privilege. Like if you have an
opposite gender partner and you're walking around outside and you're holding hands with them and
you very clearly appear to be a heterosexual couple, even though you're bi, you have access
to straight privilege. And that offended these people. What the fuck? Excuse me? I'd explain
that ASAP. I didn't really get a chance to honestly explain it all that well because the conversation
moved on. But I actually recall this from a feminist point of view. I think, what was her name?
Dr. Jenny Roth? I got to look it up. Yeah, Dr. Jenny Roth. I don't know why her photo is upside
down on Lakehead University's website, but I took a few of her feminist, a few of her gender
studies classes when I was in university back there. And she is a bisexual woman. And she once
said in her lectures that bisexual people have access to straight privilege and that ultimately
it is a double-edged sword because in some ways your queerness is erased. And that could be
in fact damaging to your identity, at least from the feminist point of view. But at the same time,
you also get access to straight privilege. People who would look down upon flamboyantly gay people,
or people in openly homosexual relationships, they will give you a pass. They won't think
anything of you, even though you're actually bisexual. And she said she experienced as a
bisexual woman both of those events, both gaining access to the privilege and also
losing access to the identity. But these people don't care about that nuance.
Even though the exact same logic is used to say that you have white privilege,
even if you're not actually white, when you apply that same logic to bisexuality,
it's apparently completely offensive. Even though it is not only the same logic,
but confirmed by the real-life feminists that I know.
So far I've kind of been indulging myself here, and I think that's why I made this a
DevTrospective video instead of a main SFO video. Because I'm talking more off the cuff.
And I'm talking about stuff that's closer to me. This is a personal encounter. And by the way,
that is the reason why I censored everyone's names. I do not want you to go after these people.
I certainly do not want cancer culture to descend upon them. Although, as an aside,
would it surprise you to know that the person speaking in red, that this is who they are?
Yeah, I had a feeling like five years ago, the minute that that relationship started,
the friendship was over, unfortunately. It just took us this long to get there.
Okay, that was a little blow, I know, but that one was just for me personally.
And besides, we all know somebody like this, don't we? With the dyed hair and the glasses attempting
to appear unique, who talks about how progressive and moral they are, who talks about having the
right politics, but ultimately is just a cover for them being fundamentally a nasty person.
And believe it or not, this is not a video about me ranting about old friends. It's not. Because
I realized something while this was happening to me, that if these people had any actual power,
they would have wielded it against me. Because in this tiny space, where it's a discord of only a
few dozen people, they still couldn't resist doing what every single person does whenever
they engage in some kind of cancel culture nonsense. And I'm guilty of this too. I jumped
on the ProJared bandwagon last year, and I was wrong. I should not have done that. And that's
the main reason I'm refusing to jump on the Angry Joe bandwagon and the Twitch blackout people,
and all this stuff, all these accusations coming out right now. I will not. I will not make the
same mistake again. It was a moral failing on my part that I did that. And frankly,
but for the grace of God, go I. If these people who had thrown me out of their discord actually
had, say, millions of followers instead of a couple thousand or something, if they actually
had the ability to do so, if they actually had a presence, I do believe that there would have been
an attempt, partially organic and grassroots and partially not, to have me canceled over those old
ICE tweets. And then I had to ask myself, like, why do I care about being canceled so much? And
after thinking it through, I realized that I just don't anymore. It's as simple as that. I'm tired
of it. I'm tired of cancel culture. I'm tired of knee jerk reacting to everything. It's emotionally
draining. I'm tired of baselessly accusing people or adding to other people's accusations when
there's no solid proof behind them. It makes me feel immoral. I'm tired of being pressured to care
about stuff. Maybe it sounds selfish of me, but like, I have two people in my life who are very
close to me, who on some level, I am at least partially caring for. I'm working as hard as I
can, oftentimes more than 12 hours a day, every day at the YouTube thing, the streaming thing.
I know for some of you, it's your dream job. It's my dream job, too. I wouldn't trade it for the
world, but that's not to say that it's not work. Maybe I'm just a weakling, but it is somewhat
draining just to get through life sometimes. And I'm tired of being pressured to care about stuff
that on some level I just don't care about. And now I'm going to be canceled and called a bad
person, a racist, a Nazi, an alt writer, whatever, because I'm not caring in the right way. Because
I'm not posting hashtag black lives matter in my tweets. I'm not flying an LGBTQ flag. I'm not
changing my avatar to a black square or a COVID awareness banner or whatever the most recent social
media nonsense is. I'm tired of being forced to give a shit. I'm tired of it. I'm tired of being
told that my sense of humor is now no longer valid when those same people engaged in it 5 or
10 years ago. I'm tired of being told that my view on Islam is hateful and bigoted and xenophobic.
When the exact same people said the exact same thing about Christianity back during the Bush
and Obama years. I guess it's okay to discriminate against gay people if your skin is brown or
something. I still think edgy 4chan Newgrounds style humor is funny. And I'm tired of pretending
that I don't. I'm tired of being told that the mainstream center left positions that I
hold politically now make me a white nationalist and a Nazi. And the on the ground effect of all
of this stuff is cancel culture. For example, when the riots heated up in the United States,
Jon Tron posted this variant of the I just want to grill meme. The accompanying tweet said these
last few days along with everyone else have made me feel incredibly sad. Through these uncertain
times, I hope to bring laughter to your lives through my continued videos. Please stay safe
out there peace, a completely reasonable reaction, and the internet tried to cancel him over it
because he was not explicitly endorsing one point of view over another. Even though that's not his
job. He's an entertainer. He's not a political pundit. And here's his response to getting
canceled. What we're doing the COVID sequel already. Man, they're really just starting
to recycle ideas at this point. I'm just gonna go watch reruns of Occupy Wall Street.
And I get it. It's funny, but this is what he says to people trying to cancel him over being
politically neutral over staying in the center over not publicly grandstanding over not virtue
signaling. We all think virtue signaling is cringy as fuck. But when you don't do it,
they cancel you. This is a much politer version of that. That one Twitter video of the Joker getting
ready to say the N word and how much of a ridiculous build up it was to that same energy.
And it's the same energy because it is a complete and total disregard for the social norm. The new
social norm now is social justice oriented stuff. But it's a complete and total disregard for it.
In fact, back before the social justice warriors held political power, they got a kick out of
breaking the old social norm that was religious Christianity, you know, the the resurgent
religious Christian right that kind of ran things back in the 90s. The proto leftist back then
really reveled in being edgy and you know, tipping their four doors and stuff. This is the exact same
kind of thing. And it's why they hate john Trump. But this stuff is everywhere, man. And I'm just
tired of it. Nebraska Democrats renounced their Senate pick over his previous comments. Audio
emerges of Jimmy Kimmel allegedly using the N word back from 1996. Lana del Rey doja cat and
Jimmy Fallon have all been canceled in the past month. The account brother nature has a history
of racist tweets. It turns out those tweets happened when the person running the account
was 12 years old. Connor daily a NASCAR driver lost a sponsorship because of a racially insensitive
remark made not by him but by his father in the 1980s. And the left participates in it with glee.
Sometimes they even call for it to happen themselves. I'm sure this attempt here by
Christie winters didn't really go anywhere because Christie winters is a nobody, but they know exactly
what kind of power they wield. And it's not just grassroots. We also know that this sort of thing
is organized and corporate TV networks have enlisted p eyes to scour stars social media
for racism. They get clicks and therefore revenue when someone gets canceled. So of course they want
to push that shit. The left also knows to pick its targets. Well, here's Owen Jones, the UK's
resident bumbling idiot on the whole Yorkshire tea thing that was happening a little while ago.
Um, you're clearly all having fun, but this hashtag Sue you're shouting at tea thing is
really disturbing. I realize this will all make Yorkshire tea a lot of money, but picking on a
random member of the public being silly on Twitter, who we know nothing about and who sounds vulnerable.
Um, Oh, so you're against cancel culture then Owen? It sounds like it sounds like this random person
just made a weird tweet and now everyone is descending on them. Sounds bad. Yorkshire tea
have told a far right vlogger not to buy their tea again and enraged right wing extremists are
throwing theirs in the bin. You absolutely love to see it. Oh, so cancel culture is only valid
if you go after the right targets then Owen, is that it? I don't even know which far right vlogger
you're talking about, but I do not trust your opinion on what the far right actually is. But
more to the point of this video, cancel culture is valid if the target of cancel culture has the
wrong politics. From Dave Chappelle and Joe Rogan to Andy Ngo and Laura Loomer to Sargon and the
Ralph retort, cancel culture is wrong every single time it happens. Cancel culture is the tool of the
person who wants to hurt someone else, but they have no actual reason to do so. They have no
grievance, they haven't actually been harmed in any way. They can't bring something before a court,
they have no receipts to show, but they hate you. Maybe they're jealous of you. Maybe they think
you're a disgusting member of society and therefore you have to be purged, regardless of
the truth on that. Maybe it makes themself feel better to think they've done some good in the
world and frankly they don't feel good all that often so they're just going to take what they can
get. Maybe it just gives them that cathartic release that they've been searching for, just to
hate on somebody. Whatever it is, it's illegitimate. And worst of all, this is something that the left
actually fought against back when I was younger. It was the religious right that would employ a
variant of cancel culture. Did you know that you have a gay person working for you? Maybe you
should fire them. Maybe the children shouldn't be around them. Do you think it's appropriate after
9-11 to have a Muslim working in your shop? But nowadays cancel culture comes from the left,
as do those people that are now defending it. Critics of cancel culture really just hate
democracy. You are technically correct if we're talking about the mob rule style of democracy,
but there is no real justice in that. While our society rightly values protest and free expression,
the critics of cancel culture turn this virtue into a vice, contemptuously dismissing those
who collectively express their disapproval. This is not what's happening right now. People
are free to cancel whoever they like. That is the power of the consumer boycott. In essence,
Gamergate itself, back in the day, was cancel culture. And we can see just how badly the
progressives reacted to being cancelled back then. But the consumer boycott is one of the
only things that regular people can do to effect change in the marketplace. But I'm not talking
about that. I'm talking about what happens to people who have a neutral opinion, or who refuse
to act. The people who choose not to virtue signal. They get cancelled as well. I know I
keep resorting to the old well of horseshoe theory in this video, but it is very much like George
Bush saying you're either with us or against us. I remember very vividly the left decrying that when
it happened. But now that Bush is out of mind, they're doing the exact same thing. One of the
artists who works on my channel drew a gender-bent variant of PewDiePie. Yikes! It looks like I'm
taking a break from your shopping page. Of course you are. Sad, because I like their stuff, but
right along with you, how come you're ignoring everyone who has a good reason to be angry? No
one has a good reason to be angry. You're all stupid if you do. But liking everyone who supports
this awful person. There was no reply, so I believe I asked why you're ignoring people.
There is no legitimate reason to hate PewDiePie. He's not a Nazi. He's not an alt-rider. He's not
a white supremacist. Your real problem with Pewds is that he's edgier. He still behaves in some ways
like it's 2012 internet, just like I do. And because he won't take you and your politics 100%
seriously, he's evil. I kept frantically hoping she would like, catch every blatant hint people
were throwing that this shit is bad, but she's actively ignoring. I don't want to speak for her.
I would assume she just disagrees with you and thinks you are stupid. I'm really sad you are
supporting a racist anti-semitic alt-right edgelord. That's not kawaii at all. Please do
some research into this guy's history and even current news. Why do you support a neo-nazi who
not only backs the alt-right, but is anti-semitic, uses racial slurs against black people, and
inspired a large massacre against innocent brown Muslims? I thought this was a joke comment, but
it's actually real. Yes, he's a goddamn neo-nazi. This is the kind of content he's promoted. He
followed prominent members of the alt-right on Twitter and then unfollowed them to hide the
fact right after the massacre. You can't go around saying racist derogatory comments and jokes
against racial and religious groups and expect anything bad to come of it. This artist of mine
sent me a few more funny things. My mutuals, if you're following Shadbase or Sledbox, I'm
unfollowing. I adore y'all, but you have no reason to be following these toxic artists.
Of course it had to be fucking Shadbase, dude. This is a study from Cambridge titled Does
Apologizing Work? An Empirical Test of Conventional Wisdom. Let's read the abstract. Public figures
often apologize after making controversial statements. There are reasons to believe,
however, that apologizing makes public figures appear weak and risk-averse, which may make them
less likable and lead members of the public to actually want to punish them.
When presented with two versions of the controversy surrounding Larry Summers,
liberals and females were more likely to say that he should have faced negative consequences
for his statement when presented with his apology. The effects on other groups were smaller or
neutral. This suggests that when a prominent figure apologizes for a controversial statement,
individuals are either unaffected or become more likely to desire that the individual be punished.
It's a crazy study. It basically implies that apologizing for your edgy past doesn't
actually do anything. And in fact, to the exact demographic of people who are demanding your
apology, it lowers their opinion of you. I would like you to combine your knowledge of that study
now with this exchange on Twitter. This verified lefty decides to draw a comic about cancel culture
and very clearly he is disdainful of the idea that cancel culture is bad because he draws a comic
about a guy who he gets canceled and then he ends up kind of spinning his canceling into a career
and makes a whole bunch of money. The reply to that is, shouldn't this make you want to not
cancel people given that it's effectively amplifying their voices through channels that
take joy from their cancellation? And he simply replies, no. Cancel culture is not about doing
good. It is not about righting wrongs. It is not about making the world a better place. It's not
about education. It is about that cathartic release that a lefty feels when they've identified
somebody that they view to be impure and when they have, with their righteous indignation,
purged them for the good of their community. I can only assume that the Christians of old who
killed witches felt the exact same way when they did it. They had the perfect outlet for their
impotent hate and rage. They had a way to oppress other people within a framework that makes them
the victim. And they had the perfect moral cover to indulge in harming those around them.
See, I told you at the beginning, this wasn't just going to be a video about a personal event
that happened to me. It's really not about that. That was just my springboard into the larger
topic. My point with that was to show if those people had a large community and not a small one,
which is what they have, you might see an attempt to cancel me right now. And you know what? Here,
I'll just, I'll just make it easy for you. Take this and clip it. Maybe I'll even clip it on my
own channel just for convenience sake. If cancel culture ever comes for me, here in one little
package are all the hateful, terrible, racist, bigoted, misogynist, transphobic, xenophobic
things that I believe all in one go. Okay, here they are. I believe that gay people, trans people,
people of any race, of any ethnicity, of any religion deserve the same equal rights as anyone
else. That also means they have the same responsibility to uphold others' rights as
everyone else. Meaning that if you are a fanatic Muslim, no, you cannot simply kill gay people
because they have a right to life. I believe that trans people should be allowed to do whatever they
want. If they want to transition as adults, that's their business. They are legal adults.
They can do what they like. However, I believe that children should not be allowed to medically
transition with hormones until they turn 18, or at least the age of majority in your country.
We don't let kids make serious decisions until they're adults. I think the same standard should
apply with transitioning, and that does not make me transphobic. I believe that a liberal, free
society requires a strong border. I believe that illegal immigrants flooding into a country
depresses the value of labor in the market. Because why should a company pay you minimum wage
when they can hire an illegal for half that price? Therefore, I believe one of the best ways to help
the working class is to end illegal immigration, and enforce border laws. However, I don't want
those border laws enforced on a racial or ethnic basis. I am happy for any race, or any ethnicity,
or even any religion of person to come to the West and live in a Western country, as long as they do
so legally, and they do so with the intention of upholding our values. And probably most importantly
of all, I don't believe that hate speech should be censored. I believe that hate speech is properly
countered with more speech, with better speech, with competent debate. I believe that if you
censor hate speech, it's because you have no actual argument against it. And that means that
either you're shit at debating, which is possible, or that your ideas are even worse than the hate
speech that you're listening to. The leftists of my era understood that sunlight was the best
disinfectant, meaning that when you engage people with radical ideas rather than isolate them and
ban them from places, you end up de-radicalizing them, as long as your own ideas are actually sound.
In banning people from discords, in banning them from social media platforms, in canceling them
whenever something even minor happens, you are only serving to radicalize more people, not
de-radicalize them. Now, if everything that I've just said to the progressives in five or ten years
make me equal to Hitler himself, because things have just gone that crazy in the future,
then go ahead, cancel me. I don't fucking care anymore. But never, for the rest of my natural
life, will I walk back any of the things that I just said. The natural impulse is to do so,
you know, when you have a thousand people telling you that you fucked up, that you're the wrong one,
you know, the natural impulse is to say, oh man, with that many people, maybe I did,
maybe I did make a big mistake, like am I wrong here? I don't want to be wrong,
I don't want to be acting immoral, did I actually hurt somebody? Nobody wants to be the person that
hurt an innocent. I understand that, but we're past that point now. We are at the point where
if you don't have the right politics, if you are neutral to what they consider to be evil,
if you even simply stay silent and don't virtue signal, they consider you to be as evil as the
original evil that they claim to fight. That is unacceptable, and I will not be a part of it.
