Oh my god, you guys gotta see this. Bone smashing trend takes over TikTok. What is it?
According to Forbes, videos with the phrase bone smashing tutorial have already garnered over 267.7
million views on TikTok. However, there is no evidence that hitting your face with blunt objects
will do any good. What the, what the fuck am I looking at here? Are these people actually hitting
themselves in the head with hammers to get like Gigachad jaw lines? The strange trend that started
on TikTok has people hitting their faces with blunt objects like hammers, bottles, or massagers.
Oh my god, I feel like hitting my face right fucking now after reading that.
They're justifying this baffling practice by citing Wolff's law. Formulated by German
anatomist and surgeon Julius Wolff, it is based on the observation that you and your bones are
constantly undergoing remodeling with old or damaged bones continuously being resorbed and
replaced by new ones. According to the law, applying mechanical force or physical stress
to your bones can actually increase the rate that such remodeling occurs and in the process
results in stronger and thicker bones. There's no fucking way this is real, guys.
Okay, we're on TikTok. If you choose center first and-
Wait, shut up! Why is Taftage on my front page on TikTok? Bone smashing tutorial, let's go.
Glow up tips. No way people are doing this. Oh god, there's some music.
Okay, but it does seem like- I can't read this, but are people doing this? Someone in the comments
says these people are being genuine. I still don't know. I can't believe this, guys. I can't
fucking believe this. Nope, I'm doing it. I hate TikTok music, guys. Jesus. Okay, what are you
doing? Are you just punching your- Okay, these people have to be memeing. There's no way. How
about you, dude? How about you? Bone smashing tutorial, what are you doing? What are you doing?
I mean, he's lightly tapping himself with- was like a rock or something or some kind of brush?
I don't know. Okay, this is from an incel form from 2018. Serious. The serious tag is here,
guys. Bone smashing general. This dude right here got kicked max by a horse and he lived 20 more
years. Look at his growth. I'm not saying we should all horse kick max, but this level of
power can cause such swelling. Why not less power and more reasonable and controlled increments?
You know, more than anything else I've looked at on this channel, I think this might be the thing
that finally black pills me. Okay, according to Know Your Meme, this is the TikTok that kicked
it all off. Oh, they took it down. TikTok's already jumped on this trend. RIP. Yep, they've
all been taken down. They've all been taken down. Let's move on to something else, I guess. Welcome
to TikTok Tuesday, by the way. I hit the record button. I was getting everything together real
quick and then someone immediately DM'd me and I was like, Dev, you got to see this. I was like,
oh my God, I completely lost like all sense of what I was doing. Welcome to TikTok Tuesday.
The old man infiltrated the criminal syndicate and whipped its kingpin 5,000 times. Is he talking
in the actual elevator? He took control of the organization and launched an oppressive regime.
Dude, what are you doing? He had impermeable power that would only get stronger by the hour.
They were just like, what the fuck? All right, dude, if this is how you want to go viral,
I guess, I guess that's your way. Oh my God. Happy national plus size day, everyone. Finally a day
for me. Oh God, there's music. I'm muting it. All right. Jesus. Listen, there should be no
happy national plus size day. All right, guys, this isn't something to be proud of. The fact
that you allowed yourself to get that bad. Like I'm not even anywhere close to that, but I know
I'm fat guy, but like, no, like she weighs, I think like triple that I do. If you let anyone
get, like if you let yourself get that fucking bad, like no, there's no, there's no celebration
here. It should not be a national fucking holiday that your body looks like a stack of pancakes.
Oh my God. Stop with the music in your TikToks guys. Okay. The simplest way to remove excess
fat when cooking ground meat is, oh, you put tampons? Use two tampons in the ground meat.
They will absorb all the fat. I don't know how I feel about this. And I guess it works. They're
not used tampons, right? It's kind of weird though, isn't it? I mean, generally what I do,
like I know there are some assholes who just like pour the fat down the drain, which is like
terrible. I get like a, like a tin, like an old tin can or something that I've already used.
I'll just pour excess fat into that. And I'll just like build that up. And then when it gets
time to throw it out, I'll just freeze it. I'll freeze it in the, in the freezer and I'll throw
it out for garbage day. But tampons, huh? It seems like they get expensive. The tampons are kind of
pricey. As much as I hate this comment, I also love this comment because it offers a great...
Let's see the comment. I wonder how gay leftists will feel when they go to Palestine and get
thrown off roofs. Okay. Okay. Let's see, dude. As much as I hate this comment, I also love this
comment because it offers a great opportunity for learning for people who are watching this video on
TikTok. Okay. One of the most insidious tactics that Israel uses to gain legitimacy is pink
washing. Israel employs pink washing by portraying itself as the beacon of queer hope and liberation
in the Middle East in an area that is often known for violence perpetuated against queer people.
Listen, listen. I know like gay people. I know trannies who live in Israel. Okay. I don't know
any of those people who live in the Middle East. All right. Why? Because they are actually getting
thrown off rooftops. This is some bullshit. Including people like myself. This rhetoric
is insidious for several reasons. One, by emphasizing homophobia and transphobia in
the Palestinian community, it becomes easier to paint them as barbaric savages that do not deserve
freedom and a life free of apartheid. They are barbaric savages. I'm not going to sit here and
justify the apartheid, if that's the word that you want to use to describe what's going on.
But if the Palestinians had control over Israel, it would be another Islamic shithole, just like
every other Middle Eastern nation and people like you would be killed. So yes, this is fucking
retarded. Two, pink washing distracts people from the fact that Israel blackmails queer Palestinian
people to work as informants against their own communities. Is that true? I haven't heard that
before. I mean, it's not exactly outside of their own possibility. It's pretty bad if it happens,
but this is news to me. Hmm. I don't know. I got to think about that one. Finally, queerphobia,
homophobia, transphobia is a universal construct that every country in the world participates in.
Just because people aren't being thrown off of roofs in the West does not mean they are
not struggling as queer and trans people. What's your struggle? You're obviously not
being thrown off a rooftop. You seem to live in like a Western liberal capitalist democratic
country. You have all the freedoms that you need. Like where's the struggle? Moreover,
none of that was even an argument against Palestinian homophobia and transphobia.
It is the case that Westernized countries are better when it comes to gay and trans people
than Islamic shitholes. And I'm very proud of that. There was an old comic, was it Penny Arcade
or something? And it was like a human holding up a sign saying orc rights while it was actually
like a human's corpse and an orc was in the middle of eating him. Like that's basically
what's going on here when it comes to gay people in Palestine. These retards are cheering for their
own oppressors. Let me just get the door for you. First date. She refused to get out the car
because she took her to the Cheesecake Factory. Try the Cheesecake Factory. You got me at the
Cheesecake Factory. You don't like cheesecake? Yes. What's going on? Open the door for you.
You're recording me? Yeah. This is the Cheesecake Factory. Yeah. This is the Cheesecake Factory.
What's the problem with that? This is a chain restaurant. So? Who takes someone that looks
like this to a chain restaurant? You want to talk about it? I'm fine with talking about it.
Even in front of them? Oh yeah. I want to talk about it. Yeah. Come on, get on in the car.
You know, we're going to talk about it. What the f- the fucking entitlement! Oh my god, I wish I
could see that conversation. I don't have any more videos from this person so I guess this is the
only one they sent. Who takes a person looking like this to a chain restaurant? Bitch, you're
going straight to Applebee's! Sargon's gonna be our fucking server! Fuck you! Oh! Oh, I'm not-
I'm pissed now. What an entitled fucking asshole, dude. Alright, let's see this here. Drag queen
dressed in blood throws tampons at children at a family-friendly pride festival in- no fucking way.
No fucking way.
Yeah, those are blood stains. And she's throwing tampons at kids.
Well, at least some of the kids know to leave. But like- what do you do- what the fuck? I like
how a few years ago it was like drag queen story hour, right? And everyone was like-
to be honest, there were definitely some rightoids who were overreacting to the drag queen story hour
thing. But then, after the rightoids overreacted, they're like- soon they're gonna be- oh my god,
they're gonna be like naked in front of children and twerking, or they're gonna be like bringing-
they're gonna be making kids like put- put money in the thongs of strippers, or they're gonna be
doing like weird sexual shit with periods or with like dildos or whatever. It's gonna be- oh my god!
And then like all the leftoids are like, you guys are just losing your mind. That's never gonna
happen. It's happening. It's there, you know? We're- we're now at that point. We now have- we
now have the drag queen covered in period blood, or at least like fake period blood, throwing
tampons at little children. Welcome to 2023, guys. Alright, that's more than enough TikTok nonsense
for me today. Thanks for tuning in yet again. I appreciate it, my friends. Just like last week,
if you want to hear more from me, Naomi and I went to go see the movie The Creator,
and we did a midnight screening video of that over on the DevKit channel, so
click on the link on screen and check that shit out. I will see you there, guys. Have a good one.
I love you.
