So there's one thing that the intersectionalists generally have right. There is usually no
functional difference between an individual who is a member of a traditionally oppressed group
and an individual who is a member of a traditionally dominant group.
Here's what I mean. The simplified intersectionalist view on race
has white people as the oppressor class and people of color as the oppressed class. The term
people of color is itself rather nebulous, considering that Jewish self-identification
seems to flip-flop between them being whites or POCs depending on what is useful at the moment,
almost like Jews are a type of Schrodinger's minority. Meanwhile, Asians and Indians often
outperform whites on several metrics, meaning that it's quite strange for whites to somehow
be oppressing them. But okay, regardless of the obvious problems with this point of view,
let's just accept it at face value for the purposes of this conversation.
While there may be biological differences between the races when it comes to, say,
the prevalence of certain diseases or whatever in terms of human rights,
of equality of opportunity, of justice and fairness, we can all agree that race should
play no part. Black people can and should have the same set of rights as white people,
that's why they're universal human rights. The justice system should be blind to race.
People should be given the opportunity to get ahead in life on their own merits,
regardless of their race. It's the same with gender, although that one's a bit shakier because
the biological differences between men and women are a lot huger than the biological differences
between various racial groups. But nonetheless, the intersectionalists view men as a dominating
class and women as an oppressed class. Their objection to the state of affairs is rooted in
that same appeal to individualism. In terms of human rights, of equality of opportunity,
of justice and fairness, gender should play no factor. Women should have the same set of rights
as men. The justice system should be blind to gender, and individuals should be given
the opportunity to get ahead in life on their own merits. Ultimately, the intersectionalists
don't want to apply their own standards to every possible fractionated identity,
either out of laziness or for ideological reasons. Here's why. Say you've got women,
then black women, then black lesbian women, then black trans lesbian women,
then black trans lesbian Muslim women, then black trans lesbian Muslim immigrant women,
and so on and so on. The various identities intersect to create an ever smaller, ever more
oppressed minority, and each combination of intersections is itself its own minute category.
However, they don't want every possible identity to be included in this calculation.
Let's consider an obvious meme, the whole gamers are an oppressed minority thing. Yeah,
it was purposely created to make fun of intersectionalists, but let's take it
seriously for a bit. Why can't gamers be considered oppressed? If you're around my age,
that means you were in school when gamers were routinely bullied simply for playing games.
Gamer as an identity is maligned in popular culture and the media as being comprised of
either violent, dangerous, incel terrorists or loser nerd man babies who never left their
parents' basement. I know this is a dumb argument, but it's also the natural end result
of intersectionalism. Every iota of your personality becomes its own identity, a rallying
point around which your lived experiences may classify you as oppressor or oppressed due to
how it interacts with the larger culture. But this would mean that a whole bunch of identities that
social justice warriors like to vilify, including, but not limited to, gamers and incels, are
actually oppressed according to intersectional theory, so some identities have to be explained
away as simply not counting. But more importantly, when some identities are disqualified from
intersectionality for political reasons, you also avoid addressing the fundamental flaw of
intersectionality. When you fractionate every single tiniest data point of your life as its
own unique identity, everybody ends up as a minority of one. Because nobody's life is exactly
the same. Just because you've got two black disabled trans lesbian Muslim immigrant women
who are victims of abusive alcoholic husbands and have a child with down syndrome, eventually
you're going to come across a point where their lives differ. That difference will create another
identity point around which oppressions and privileges flow, and you ultimately end up with
each human being having their own personal fractionated spot within the intersectional
framework. In other words, the tiniest, most vulnerable, most maligned and oppressed minority
in all of human history is the individual. And individualism gets you to that end point a lot
quicker and a lot less tyrannically than intersectionalism. But because intersectionality
is the natural end point is the individual. Intersectionalists basically refuse to do the
math on their own ideology, and simply check off the most popular minority statuses. It's
why you keep seeing quote unquote badass girls in movies and games nowadays who have the same ugly
face and shaved side head and boring personality. Because if checking a box is all that's required
to write a character nowadays, that's all they're going to do. However, ableism is routinely included
on that list of boxes to tick off. And it's a bit different than all the rest because unlike race or
gender or whatever, disability is, practically speaking, a uniquely negative thing. The innate
differences between white and black people don't include any difference to their total potential.
The innate differences between men and women also don't include any differences to their
total potential, at least outside of the realm of athletics. If any barriers still existed along
those lines, there's actually an okay chance they might be structural, as the SJWs say.
But a disabled person is a whole different ballgame. The problem isn't structural,
it's in the fact that the innate ability of the person is reduced along some lines.
I mean, yeah, a blind person or a paraplegic might learn to live with their issues,
but if a wizard appeared and offered to restore their bodies to their full functionality,
you don't think they'd take it? Hell, even just to see what it's like?
Disability is routinely shuffled into the intersectional soup,
like it's somehow not radically different. And that's why you see constant memes or
comics or jokes now of trans LGBT wheelchair bound superheroes or soldiers or whatever,
because we all know that mainstream media is happy to tick boxes regardless of how little sense it
makes. And for the most part, the rank and file progressives on the ground eat that shit up in
the name of representation and diversity and inclusion. Except there's one subset of disability
that even the progressives refuse to adopt in their grand crusade for social equalization,
and their rejection of it throws a much bigger wrench into the problem of intersectionality
than anything I've described so far. And no, it's not being a gamer, though it's pretty close.
It's autism. Here's my theory. The stability of social justice is directly related to the refusal
to shoulder your burdens. The moment when you decide to start personally taking responsibility
is when a lot of progressives will begin to call you problematic or oppressive. This applies to
everybody, not just the autistic, but their uniquely despicable treatment of the autistic
is our window into this discussion. The hashtag you might be ableist if seems to trend locally
for me on twitter like once a month. A lot of the tweets talk about physical disabilities,
a lot of them talk about anxiety, depression, or other disabilities that explicitly affect
your ability to be productive. They're all written from the point of view of somebody who's being
pushed beyond the limits of their disability and how that's oppressive to them specifically
because of that disability. And rarely is autism ever brought up. And if it is, it's generally from
some lonely person getting no traction on the platform on how autism isn't something to be
cured and how they wish people would stop trying because autism is simply a different way of viewing
the world. With the exception of the extreme low functioning cases, that's actually correct.
High functioning autism is certainly less of a disability and more of a radical difference in
personality, and it's this difference that causes social justice types to explicitly leave autism
out of the intersectional equation. When it comes to disabilities that change people's ability to
work, whether they're physical or mental, the intersectionalists are just fine with advocating
for their liberation from the ableists of the world. But when it's a disability that changes
their behavior, especially if it changes their behavior in such a way that the individuals
afflicted will never be acceptable to social justice standards, suddenly those same disabled
people are thrown under the short bus. Take sweet Anita for example. I know she's not autistic, but
the same mechanism that determines the negative SJW reaction to autism is also at play here.
Sweet Anita has Tourette's syndrome, and a clip of her went viral a few months ago where her Tourette's
forced her to say, kill the Jews live on Twitch. Any reasonable person knew this wasn't her fault,
but believe it or not, the progressive intersectional types on social media were
divided on the topic. Some of them believed that it was ableist for people to want to see
Sweet Anita cancelled. Others believed her disability was no excuse because the things she
said were considered by social justice theory to be objectively evil, even if she doesn't actually
hold those opinions herself. Despite the fact that she's disabled, because it's a disability
that affects her behavior, there's a strong social justice argument against her, because
social justice ideology is largely interpersonal and performative in nature, and if a person's
disability prevents them from playing along, they're more oppressive than they are oppressed.
It's the same with autism, essentially. Again, because social justice ideology is interpersonal
and performative, it's a game that autistic people can't really play. Let's stake encountering a
trans person as an example. Assume that you're a polite individual who will use a trans person's
preferred pronouns and treat them like the gender of their choice when interacting with them. When
you see a man, a woman, or a trans person that passes well, your social sense kicks in, and you
have a general idea of how to treat the person you're dealing with insofar as their gender is
concerned. But what if you bump into a trans woman who doesn't really pass? Like, it's not that
they're not putting in effort, but just due to their body type or whatever, it's not working,
and you can clearly tell. The polite person would likely treat them as a woman, even if they look
more masculine, because they recognize that at least they're putting the effort in. But the
autistic person doesn't have a social sense that kicks in. They're genuinely perceiving the person
in front of them as a man dressing up as a woman, not out of any kind of bigotry, but because their
autism prevents them from having any of those internal smoothing over processes that would
occur in the polite person's brain. Here's another example of disability running counter to
intersectionality. Why do you think the Joker movie was so widely maligned? It wasn't because
of gamers or incels or impotent male violence or whatever else they wanted to tar and feather it
with. It's because the existence of people like Joaquin Phoenix's Joker character destroy any
high ground the intersectionalists claim they hold, simply by existing. In the movie, the Joker
is an oppressed member of the working class who is assaulted by capitalist fat cats, has his
medication denied due to social program cuts, is abused by his mother, hallucinates repeatedly
throughout the movie, and eventually descends into murderous madness due to factors entirely outside
of his control. He is an intersectionalist poster boy, if not a Marxist one, for the systemic damage
that the white heterosexist capitalist patriarchy inflicts. And yet the movie, the character, and
even the actor himself in real life, was vilified. He was considered the patron saint of incels,
and his movie was going to further radicalize young men. None of these scathing far-left
criticisms of the film ever mentioned the Joker's disability in detail, because if they did,
they'd have to confront the specter of ableism excusing all of his actions as simply punching
up within the intersectionalist framework. In a more general sense, if your disability prevents
you from taking your proper place as a social justice drone within the intersectional framework,
then you're no longer allowed to cry ableism because of it.
Autistic people don't have the ability to pick up on the social cues necessary to make social
justice function. People with Tourette's can't stop themselves from performing in a way that
progressivism finds uniquely and objectively immoral. Abuse victims, depressed people,
people with anxiety, psychopathic or sociopathic people, and many other types of mental disorders,
all include the possibility that somebody might behave in a way that the radical left sees as
oppressive. So the get-out-of-jail-free card that is calling your detractors bigots
has to be revoked from all of them. I'm not saying that the negative behaviors of these
people should be blanket ignored because of their mental health. Far from it. In the end,
what they do is still their responsibility. But the general, apolitical, unideological public
tends to view those people who suffer while still not relinquishing that responsibility as heroes.
The Joker is a tragic villain, but he's still the villain, not because of his condition,
but because of the violence he chooses to cause at the end of the movie. Meanwhile,
when sweet Anita says terrible things on stream, she routinely apologizes or makes jokes out of it
rather than cursing fate. She doesn't start blaming Twitch or her audience or her condition
or her parents or whatever. She lifts her burdens properly. And maybe that's the key to all this.
We already know that the natural conclusion to intersectionality is people playing Oppression
Olympics, pulling the victim card, getting offended at everything, and doing whatever it is
they can to avoid lifting their burdens properly. But that specific subset of disabilities that the
SJWs reject are disabilities where living with them properly can only be done by lifting their
burdens properly. Maybe it is that seeing sweet Anita be humble rather than triggered,
seeing an incel self-improve rather than descend into hatred, seeing an autistic person speak
freely rather than self-censor are all revolutionary acts against intersectionality itself.
It would seem to be the case. Intersectionalists react very similarly when Blair White says tranny
or when Kanye West says he wants a white guy to play him in a biopic. If social justice is a
performative act, then the radical leftists will always attack those people who refuse to play
their roles. However, when it's a disability that prevents people from playing their roles,
the mask slips. They show that they don't actually care about ableism. It's just a tool for them to
gain power. And they end up acting like the biggest ableists out there in their attempts
to force their ideology. It seems to be the same way for racism and sexism too. You know,
nobody thinks that a person is racist for telling a racist joke, but the progressive who gets
offended is a racist because they actually think the contents of the joke are true rather than
simply said for shock value. And they've got a guilty conscience about their own feelings on it.
It would seem to me that intersectionality is a structure set up by bigots of the highest order,
solely because they feel guilty about their own bigotry, and they have this overwhelming need
to restructure the entirety of society in order to repent. It doesn't matter to them how much more
bigoted they have to act to reach the end goal, because once they reach it, it is written that
bigotry will disappear from the collective human conscience. It's kind of like how communists will
kill millions of people to reach the ideal communist paradise where suffering disappears.
It's the same damn thing. So regardless of who you are, regardless of your race, or your sex,
or your gender, or your trans status, or your disability, or anything else, do you want to
destroy intersectionality? It's easy. Be a responsible person. Be humble. Lift your burdens.
And the thing will die on its own.
