Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and I have a thoroughly diverse audience.
And in a way that some would expect, but because I'm so integrated with many commentators
I can occasionally lose sight of this, despite the fact that I know I have people who don't
even follow what's going on with people like Fouseytube, despite it being spoken about
non-stop in my circles.
In fact, I clearly have a significant amount of people who are more interested in today's
topic, which is also interesting to me, because although admittedly I am fairly familiar with
the individual in question, it kind of falls outside the typical content that I would turn
to.
However, with that said, my Doug Walker video did very well, and that was, in a way, in
the same vein, so I only think it's justified to discuss this person, who once again, some
of you will be very familiar with, and some of you will probably have never heard of.
Some of you might be big fans of him, others may despise him.
One thing I know is that these less commentary, more niche topics provoke strong feelings
within individuals, to the point where they may yield rather strong opinions.
So I don't expect this to go down fantastically with everyone, but I don't do it to please
everyone.
I do it for the people who want to enjoy my content, and if you want to come along for
the ride, then you're more than welcome to join me on this lovely little road trip.
And many people have asked me to do a video on this chap, so it clearly does have an appeal,
and hopefully today I can provide a more impartial look at everything he's said and done, and
give some thoughts and opinions.
It's in the name.
Also, once again, I know this will be a late coverage of the topic, but I prefer to wait
until all the dust has settled before pulling out the duster, if you know what I mean.
It also allows me to have a look at what more can be said, rather than just observing the
current drama that is going down.
So let's briefly have a rundown of why Butch Hartman is of interest, because on the surface,
if you were just scrolling through his Wikipedia page, Butch Hartman has no right to be involved
in the YouTube community.
If you're an internet casual, like most people, you wouldn't be able to tell him apart from
any other TV producer or animator.
But as we're going to find out today, there's a lot to distinguish him beneath the surface.
So to people who are unfamiliar with this gentleman, Butch Hartman is a multi-talented
individual in children's cartoons, he has produced many popular TV shows, the one that
you lot are probably most conversant with is The Fairly Odd Parents, a show that I used
to adore growing up.
It's the sort of thing that, in spite of its rather ostentatious attitude, just has
the plots to really inspire the imagination with all these possibilities of a fantastical
world that it creates.
Given where I lived and the sort of TV service that we used to receive, I never really had
the opportunity to watch it on a regular basis, so any time I did was a real luxury.
However, that is merely a ripple in the ocean that is his career, and he has helped produce
many other children's television shows including Danny Phantom, Tough Puppy, and Dexter's
Laboratory, which although it's something that we wouldn't think about too much as kids,
it's easy to see the striking stylistic similarities.
Ooh, that was some nice alliteration.
Anyhow, before I become too caught up in my own language, let me make it clear, it's no
criticism that you have consistency in your animations, plenty of franchises have a lot
of overlap in their technique, if you can evolve storylines and characters in a compelling
fashion then having a formula for animation is merely an unchanging cog in a greater machine.
But anyway, Butch Hartman, through this signature flair, created a real following, typically
when you have something unique and defining like that is what happens, much alike to Doug
Walker, that whether you personally loved him or hated him, there was an undeniable
appeal to what he created.
He also really involved himself online, particularly using his Twitter, as means to create a relationship
with his fans, and often involving himself in many online trends and memes, leading to
the same interesting results, although they were mildly entertaining.
He'd also provide his daily dose of wisdom, which typically inspired people to go and,
well, retweet it, can't knock the impressions, but Hartman clearly made good impressions.
So why are we here today?
Well, there have been numerous controversies surrounding some of his recent projects and
also comments that he's made, people DM'd me and tweeted me about it, and eventually
after working on two other videos that I hope are out by now, I contacted one of these
people and said, hit me with your best shot.
It is only fair to credit them as they have provided me with an extensive backlog of information,
some of which I have used, some of which I have not.
Their Twitter page should be up on the screen right now, so feel free to follow them.
I'll also leave a link in the pinned comment.
I knew about a lot of these situations on the surface because I saw a lot of discourse,
and of course, any drama takes my interest.
However, it is important that you feel fully informed on what's happening before you make
such comments.
So without further ado, let's discuss everything that has inspired such a sudden turn on a
person, and ask ourselves what can be drawn from it.
Now it's hard to document this in a clear chronological order because a lot of things
were revealed at different times as to when they happened.
However, it all seemed to snowball when he created a Kickstarter for something known
as Oaxis.
You see, in February Butch Hartman announced that he had departed Nickelodeon.
The video was mostly him just fondly reflecting on his career with the company, with the notion
that he left because he felt it was time.
He had been working there 20 years, and as fun as something can be, sometimes you do
need a change, so nothing seemed particularly out of the ordinary here.
He made a lot of vague, open comments that kind of gave him the option to go anywhere,
while still remaining consistent with some sort of trajectory.
So June came around, and he finally decided to make a serious announcement, one that would
finally serve as a sufficient follow-on for his fans, as to where his work was going.
What was it, I hear you ask?
Well, it was his own network.
In a video titled I'm Starting a New Network, all in big, sexy capital letters, to really
give it that emphatic vibe, he announced that he was, believe it or not, starting a new
network.
Now this was presented as a competitor to all the other large networks, however there
was a spin.
He was going to be, in vain of many of the other recent initiatives, consumer-oriented.
He rightfully points out that a lot of corporations have no deeper relationship with their audience,
and says that he can present that himself.
This is followed by a very interesting advert, where he really talks about key values being
eroded away by modern life, and then presenting the network as the solution.
It was also announced that this was going to be a Kickstarter, with his initial goal
being set at $250,000.
This would cover the costs of producers, and aid the creation of family-friendly shows
about positive subject matters.
I have to admit, it is an intriguing initiative, in spite of the meme baits.
This initially reminded me of DeFranco's fundraising project to support his own independent
news network, and generally as long as someone's transparent with the distribution of such
funds then I don't think you can really complain, and although I think it is necessary
to talk about the worst things going on in the world, we can't constantly hide in the
bubble of pseudo-family positive values.
However, as a brief refuge for wholesome family time, it's not a bad idea, given the race
to the bottom of sensationalism that a lot of the media do tend to be participating in
currently.
So although there was a possible discussion to be had about the sort of values that Hartman
would be adopting, it was mostly calm at this point, but there is always calm before the
storm.
This is where it begins to become quite suspicious, after setting up the Kickstarter, he hit the
target surprisingly quickly, with a number of donors from certain locations.
Although it's completely reasonable to suggest that maybe he just had a devoted fanbase with
a few individuals who are fairly stacked, many felt there were some strings being pulled
behind the scenes.
Well why on earth would that be?
Well Hartman himself has always been fairly well intertwined with deep core Christian
values.
And let us be clear here, there is nothing wrong with having religious beliefs, if it
makes you a better person then more power to you for it, however in the video it is
fairly safe to say he does not present the network as a religious venture.
And as a donor I'd say knowing the endorsements and vested interests of a possible recipient
is key, and that he did actively omit it.
But is this active deception, or just a failure to disclose details that he deemed unnecessary?
Well that would depend on how much this religious agenda was involved in the platform, it shouldn't
have really come as a surprise to anyone that this was going to involve Christian values,
the idea that society is being eroded by media and there's a necessity to return to core
family principles is inherently religious.
Why were things like homosexuality for example absolutely abhorred by a lot of religious
figures, and still are to an extent?
Because they upset their social order.
Now the more modern approach is that there are more disruptive elements than homosexuality
and you can still have a warm, healthy family with that.
And threats like exposure to violence, explicit content and so on are more troublesome to
today's youth than what adults do with their sex life.
However you can still see where it is rooted, what Butch is presenting is just a more modern
version of Christian values, given how much he utilised the Christian community he probably
should have disclosed this, he knows that he also has a young fanbase of animators who
probably don't know that much history to put the dots together on what Butch's values
represent.
He's made it no secret that he's a devout Christian, but I still think it's worth
talking about, especially given how deeply associated it turned out to be.
So how deeply associated was it?
I mean in all the seminars he didn't necessarily present it as an exclusively Christian streaming
service, however it was clear from the advertisers, from the fundraisers, from the comments that
he made that he was trying to appeal to the Christian audience and I think this created
a justified concern within the more animation oriented fans, because the whole hook of this
network presented in the original YouTube video was that this was going to be a streaming
site that is oriented for the viewer.
Which on principle is a pretty good idea, however there were a unique set of circumstances
that makes this unassailable, and thus rather unfair to not include.
We're going to speak to them in parables, guys I am not picking TBN, this is not TBN,
this is not the church channel, it's not Golden Eagle Broadcasting or Daystar, God bless
those people, it's amazing, my stuff has got to be today, it's got to be hip, it's
got to be cool, it's got to reach the secular people.
If I put a Christian network out there, no problem, I've got Christians, that's cool,
but I'm missing the entire other spectrum of the world.
You see, he is directly trying to appeal to two demographics that are pretty diametrically
opposed to each other.
Now I'm not best friends with every animator and artist out there, but one thing that I
will tell you is that in that community there is a proportionally high population made up
by people who would be labelled by a fundamental Christian society as deviants, and many who
have had overwhelmingly negative experiences with Christian values.
How do you cater to people who want to impose them, while still catering to people who want
to oppose them?
Listen, maybe there is a way, maybe you can find a compromise that brings everyone together
regardless of their background, however you have to lay out how you're going to do that,
what values you're going to promote.
By omitting this information completely, it appears Hartman knew that this would create
a conflict, and instead of addressing it, he decided that it would be better to deceive
both parties into thinking that he could cater to both of them.
And maybe he could, but he shouldn't have had the hubris to think that he could deceive
them too, and that was one of the biggest mistakes he made.
Remember Hartman probably had a vision, and two core fanbases that he could appeal to,
and maybe he thought that it was for the greater good, but sometimes not everyone is going
to see your ends, and at the same time you have to acknowledge that your visions may
be wrong.
However let's talk about his little vision, shall we?
When I was speaking about Fusi, I referred to his fallacious appeal to celestial powers,
and I have to admit the last person I was expecting to compare Butch Hartman to was
Mr. Erekat here.
However like Erekat, Hartman is clearly under the impression that God has some greater plan
for him, and God brought him to this situation.
When things have worked out with the level of perseverance they have with Hartman, it
is easy to believe that a consistent level of motivation will continue to turn up results,
but many of us, particularly people who may be considering investment, need more faith
to turn up results.
Saying God's plan is all very well and good, but many people do not see it that way, and
this was well expressed in the many videos criticising him, and many incriminating clips
showing the conflict of demographics that he was attempting to appeal to behind the
others back.
So what do you do when others post videos that do seem to show a side of you that you
don't want them to see?
Well in many instances, it seems the response has been to take them down.
Generally what was incriminating about this particular appearance was that it was somewhere
called the Warnau Wealth Builder Conference.
This is based around Lance Warnau.
Now I'm not going to criticise the conferences you talk at, however, if something seems credible,
you have to address it.
What do I mean exactly?
Well many people pointed out that Lance Warnau has some interesting beliefs that fit in far
too nicely with Butch Hartman's little escapade.
You see there's this doctrine called the Seven Mountains, which, well, is a whole different
barrel of fish really.
It basically proposes that Christianity is losing its grip on modern culture, and proposes
techniques of working how to modernise its appeal while having the traditionalist grip
on the values that they view as moral.
However, here's where it becomes trippy.
You see here, good old Dr. Lance, the host of this convention, is the person who was
also very prominent in the creation of the Seven Mountain Theory.
One of the Seven Mountains is the arts and entertainment industry, and in Butch Hartman's
speech he gave, he makes some very suspicious comments that seem consistent with the dogma
the ideology seems to be supporting.
If you want a more in-depth look at all this, there's a very interesting document that
I'll leave in the description below which sets up a little more of the mere circumstantial
evidence.
So what people created now was a different story.
Butch not being an idiot, knows that if he presents this as a Christian network, no one
will support it, after all, do many people here ever watch openly Christian channels?
So many came to this conclusion that this was no longer a platform merely inspired by
Christian values, it was a Trojan Horse presented under the guise of family values, but actually
implicitly smuggling in Christian ideas, without any of the backers appeal or knowledge.
Which although certainly by no means a proven theory, does seem somewhat credible.
When presented with a lot of this footage, including footage of him with other seedy
Christian figures, it was swiftly removed, in fact there have been multiple allegations
of him removing content that incriminates him, which is obviously not a good look.
When confronted with evidence against you, you have a few options, you can accept it,
you can dispel it, you can deny it, but you sure as hell should not remove it, it only
implicates you further, and at the same time other people will just re-upload it.
And as soon as you remove one, people will begin downloading and saving content that
implies you have committed wrongdoings.
So eventually this just made him look worse, and many commentators rightfully called him
out, whether he wasn't thinking, or saw it as the only way to save his bacon, it was
a very poor decision.
And when he decided to respond…
That's one thing, but if someone doesn't do anything, and they wanna like, you know,
I don't know, criticise, then I have no time for them.
No time for them.
So the person that asked that question, whose name will not be mentioned, ever, by my lips,
I just wanna tell all people like that, as I get back to safety here, that if you guys
can't do it yourselves, you shouldn't criticise anybody else.
What was the question?
Was someone attacking his animation skills?
Was someone challenging the years that the veteran animator had under his belt?
Oh, in a way it may seem like a trivial moment, but it does imply a lot about how Butch responds
to these criticisms.
The only time you can ever appeal to such an authority is when the authority is relevant
to the question.
If someone came up to me and said, the shirt you're wearing doesn't match your jeans,
I can't turn around to them and say, well you're not a semi-famous commentator, so
I shan't listen to your opinions.
It doesn't make logical sense.
On top of that, in my opinion, it's always a bad argument to use, it's incredibly arrogant,
and although experience sometimes can aid credibility, it's not an argument in itself.
All in all though, it's kind of worrying that someone of Butch's age, and I would
hope wisdom, would make such a redundant point, and both these scenarios that seek to justify
a comment tell a rather worrying story about him.
Either he genuinely thinks that's a legitimate retort, or he does not.
Whatever he does, it means that he's going to have serious issues listening to those
who call his judgement into question, because not everyone's going to be an expert, but
people will still have valid points, like the ones we've discussed in this video.
I'm nowhere near as experienced in many of the areas that Butch has spent decades
specialising in, but it doesn't delegitimize any of the points that are being made.
However, if he's going to genuinely dismiss criticism like that, then there is no scope
on Oaxis, because it won't go away.
However, I feel he is smarter than that, and he's more over attempting to appeal to the
easily satisfied sect of his fans through reasoning that positions him above his critics,
which inspires the fact that it antagonises a lot of people, and emboldens his status
as this sort of messiah to his die-hard fans, the ones that he, as a creator, benefits of
the most.
Either he views himself as a messiah which is a recipe for disaster, or he wants to benefit
off those who view him as a messiah, which is honestly worse.
Delusion or deception.
Even if his judgement was better, he has to sell that to people, and he seems so disinterested
that the critics keep coming back, and they were working harder to convince people that
he was wrong, that he was to convince them he was right.
There was no escape.
There were a couple other scandals that I haven't discussed, not because they're not
worth discussing, but mainly because they're kind of more independent to what we're talking
about today.
However, they definitely contributed to the shift in perception, from this well-liked
inspiring animator, to this rather suspect shady character who favoured his own visions
over the well-being of his supporters, and as the pressure finally piled on, he responded
more gracefully.
So bearing in mind that this criticism has been layering on pretty badly, Hartman had
no other option than to address the highly justified suspicions surrounding this channel
and the related ventures that he might be pursuing.
It may have occurred to him that these undertakings are in jeopardy, or maybe he just thought
a more in-depth reply would shut up the detractors, or maybe he genuinely wanted to clear the
air.
So he posted this letter.
The letter itself is eloquent, and in a way, it does really all it can do, decline the
claims.
He can't deny the conventions he spoke at, he can't deny the way he behaved, and he
can't deny any of the mishaps that occurred, however, he can deny the further conclusions
that many people claim about a possible agenda, because that is theoretical.
I'll leave a link in the description for you lads to go and read it and judge for yourself,
but as responses go, it's fairly rudimentary, nothing to write home about.
Nothing you would throw him in too deep for either, though I always feel like starting
off by sending love when you're in the depth of scandal is a rather contrived move, check
out my Greg Paul video explaining why exactly that is.
Best to save the pleasantries until after you've dealt with the allegations.
That's just a pet peeve in this instance though, it's not exactly the same situation.
What do I think this says about the greatest situation?
So in my opinion, there are two plausible scenarios with this little charade.
Because something's happening, it's just hard to necessarily label what degree it's happening
to.
On the one hand, Butch Hartman's idea of Oaxis was merely an innocent-minded venture with
Butch's values at the heart.
Now Butch makes it no secret that his religious roots are highly influential on his values,
and with this in mind, he thought he'd be able to reach his monetary targets by appealing
to church associations as well.
However, he didn't think that many people would care, or knew people would care, and
decided to try and keep the appeal separate.
This was a poor decision, as when you're making content that is being marketed and catered
to the audience, if a significant proportion of the audience is Christians who may perhaps
lean more fundamentally, then it doesn't matter which values you may have, because they might
have values that clash with your more artistic supporters.
And that's the thing, even with the most modest intentions, Butch has made a clear error,
because the donors could really affect the direction the platform moves in, he had to
disclose that, and failing to has really galvanised the wave of criticism against him.
That's his own fault unfortunately.
With regards to the more advanced theories, they do line up well.
Although it is possible that it is coincidental, his response of pulling footage that implicated
him was unbelievably myopic, and only made the idea that this was some sort of conspiracy
more credible.
Whether it was a conspiracy or not, I feel rather confident saying that it would have
failed.
Even if you try and insert subliminal messages, it still means sacrificing part of the appeal
of modern media.
I'm hard pressed to honestly believe that he genuinely thought that such a plan could
exert Christianity onto modern culture, it seems so ridiculous that I'm almost inclined
to give him the benefit of the doubt.
But on the other hand, if someone is motivated by a cause, especially ones that appeal to
a higher power like religion, it can often override a lot of logical reasoning.
Celestial beings do not need justification because they transcend existence, which is
why I'm always sceptical.
Though I'd hope that with his experience, Hartman would be able to recognise such ideas
as lost causes.
However, if I gave Fousey shit for his approach, Butch Hartman doesn't get a pass just because
he speaks with more authority or wisdom than our good mate Yusuf.
Hartman not only behaved childishly himself, he promoted a way of thinking that is designed
to push people who challenged him down, and telling those to trust him because of his
accolades.
Let me tell you something, the moment that you decide to trust authority because of the
fact that it is authority, is the moment that someone will seek to take advantage of
that authority.
And on the internet, we're more aware of that than ever, and many people clearly felt that
they were being justifiably taken advantage of.
And whether Hartman had greater plans or not, he was still asking people to trust his judgement,
and it would just turn out fine, even with the vague language and the lack of details
that he provided.
No.
All it takes is one bad actor to fuck that up, and people were right to expect more,
and he paid the price for not delivering it.
However, plenty of people aren't that skeptical, and plenty of people will continue to look
up to him, so he really needs to harness that responsibility, he has to try and hold himself
accountable, because he can't guarantee that we always will.
Anyhow, what do you think about Butch Hartman?
Let me know in the comments down below, I will do my best to reply to them in the first
few hours, though I am really busy at time recording, and a lot is happening in my life.
I would love to give a huge shoutout to the editors who have done another stellar job,
I'm gonna leave their links in the pinned comment, if you could check them out, it would
be fantastic, without them, this channel would not be where it is, I know I say that a lot,
but it really does make a huge difference in my life, and I can't show my appreciation
enough to them.
Also, if you wanna talk to me, and I'm not replying to comments, then you can hit me
up on Twitter, at the right opinion, hit me up on Facebook, I'll leave links to all those
in the description below, and I also have a Discord that I should be using more regularly
now I'm back at university.
Anyhow, I don't think I have too much else to say, once again, thanks for the support
of recent, I hope everyone's having a wonderful day, and continues to have a wonderful day,
or maybe the day is coming to an end, and I hope you've had a wonderful day.
But until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
I'll see you in the next one.
