The United States Department of Defense is the world's largest employer, full stop.
Between active-duty troops, civilian staffers, and National Guard personnel, nearly three
million employees sit on this roster, but uniquely, these staff work all around the
world on a rotating basis.
The global nature of the world's best-funded military necessitates a transportation network
rivaling legitimate well-known airlines and ocean shipping companies, yet exclusively
used and experienced by those three million or so individuals employed by the US DoD.
The core of the passenger system is based here—BWI Airport between Baltimore, Maryland,
and the nation's capital, Washington, DC.
This is the busiest hub for the military's so-called Patriot Express airline.
Nearly nightly, a flight leads to either Thule Air Base Greenland, Ramstein Air Base Germany,
and Cirlik Air Base Turkey, Kuwait International Airport, or Al Udeid Air Base Qatar.
Passengers, typically DoD personnel or, if relocating to a base that allows families,
their spouses and children, check in at desks just as they do flying United, Delta, or American,
but with an extra-early cutoff of two hours and twenty minutes before departure.
They then head through regular security and go to a regular gate in Terminal E.
Next, they board through a regular jet bridge onto an aircraft operated by a member of a
unique collection of airlines.
The scale of air passenger demand by the DoD is significant enough that whole charter airlines
have arisen that are significantly, if not entirely financially reliant on operating
Patriot Express flights on behalf of the government—Alice Air, National Airlines, and Omni Air International
among them.
With a goal of minimizing travel costs for the DoD, but also enabling staff outside of
combat zones to travel home more frequently on a discretionary basis, the Patriot Express
program lowers the relative distance between American military bases and the mainland United
States and vice versa, even to the extent of allowing a wider range of pets on board
than commercial airlines.
The military enables this relative connectivity by operating a space-available system.
People who need to travel to get to or from their deployments get guaranteed seats booked
in advance.
But for staff who just want to travel for non-job reasons, they can have any seat left
on a flight for free just by adding their name to a list via website or app, then showing
up to the airport on the day of its departure hoping for the best.
A priority system is used to rank house hunting trips, for example, as more important than
the travel of retired but still Space A eligible veterans, and any available seats are allocated
based on this order.
The system is regularly used for discretionary travel originating both from staff stationed
abroad and vice versa.
There are entire blogs and YouTube channels dedicated to advising eligible Space A travelers
as to the best techniques and strategies for using the system for vacations.
Military families regularly start their summer Europe trips by taking a Southwest flight
to BWI, then hoping for the best while waiting to see if they cleared the list for the evening's
flight to Ramstein Air Base.
And once they successfully make it to the other side of the Atlantic, another surprisingly
accommodating venture of the DoD awaits them—the Ramstein Inn.
Sitting directly opposite the Air Base's polished glass passenger terminal, the towering
hotel, operated by the DoD's Air Force Services Agency, offers hundreds of rooms
at reasonable rates only to eligible current or former DoD personnel and invited guests.
It's part of a large, global collection of hospitality sites offered by the United
States Department of Defense.
Each branch of the military operates a network of similar hotels on their bases, and some
purely recreational sites even exist to offer personnel at home, but especially abroad,
low-cost and American-styled rest and relaxation opportunities.
Nestled in the outskirts of Naples, Italy, for example, a mere 30-minute drive from the
8,000 personnel-strong Naval Support Activity Complex sits a recreation wonderland nestled
in the hollow of a dormant volcano.
Upon driving through the narrow gates, the view opens up to an approximate recreation
of a well-appointed American park, featuring an Olympic-sized swimming pool, a spattering
of picnic pavilions, camping sites, and rental cabins, a collection of softball, baseball,
football, soccer, basketball, volleyball, tennis, and paintball fields and courts, and
a wooden nine-hole golf course with a pro shop and clubhouse—a picturesque slice of
Italy available exclusively to military-aligned Americans.
But the Patriot Express is just one aspect of the massive, global, U.S. defense transportation
system.
The DoD ties its assets and systems together with the United States Transport Command,
headquartered at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois.
Under its banner, and co-located on the same base, is Air Mobility Command, a major command
of the U.S. Air Force.
Now, Air Mobility Command does hold a massive fleet of hundreds of C-5, C-17, and C-130s,
and while these aircraft and their crew regularly train, provide humanitarian assistance, and
move some cargo through the U.S.'s global network of bases during peacetime, they primarily
exist for the eventuality of battlefield use.
They're not there to move regular pallets from Dover to Ramstein—they're there to
move critical, life-or-death supplies into a war zone.
For the more day-to-day job of supplying the DoD's global footprint, the military mostly
relies on commercial cargo airlines, some of which, such as Atlas Air, are the exact
same as those operating Patriot Express flights.
But to earn the right to this business, U.S.-flagged airlines sign up to participate in the Civil
Reserve Air Fleet.
Dozens of the country's largest airlines have committed 40% of their fleets to the
program, meaning should the need arise, these aircraft and four crews each would be fully
dedicated to military service.
While the bulk of the 450 aircraft would only ever be called up in a rare, full-scale mobilization
of the U.S. military, smaller capacity crunches have arisen throughout the years that have
necessitated the use of the air fleet.
The fleet was first activated to transport massive numbers of troops to and from theater
during the opening of the Gulf and Iraq Wars, and then was used for a third time to accommodate
the massive numbers of refugees airlifted out of Kabul during the final days of America's
withdrawal from Afghanistan.
The very aircraft that carried the general public each and every day to, from, and within
the U.S. were sent as far as Al-Udeid Air Base in Qatar to transport evacuees to intermediary
stops at American bases in Europe, and eventually the U.S. where other, short-haul Civil Reserve
Air Fleet aircraft shuttle them to their final destinations within the country.
In exchange for prioritizing their fleet for whatever the DoD deems necessary, these
same airlines get priority in receiving a portion of the hundreds of millions of dollars
in annual DoD passenger and cargo transportation contracts.
But air cargo needs in peacetime are relatively minimal, because little is regularly time-sensitive
enough to justify its additional cost over more traditional means of freight transport.
The key with this system, and nearly all aspects of the defense transportation system, is that
it's designed around the recognition that, at any moment, the world could change in a
way that necessitates, or at least leads to, a massive mobilization of the U.S. military,
and therefore a massive mobilization of its people and supplies.
When that does occur, the DoD largely leans on the full capacity of its Patriot Express
operators, the Civil Reserve Air Fleet, and its own aircraft to get fighters to the front
lines.
But getting soldiers to far-flung conflict areas is only half the battle—they need
supplies, and moving everything from trucks and ammunition to bedrolls and toilet paper
across the world by air is anything but efficient.
So rather than shipping an armored Humvee from South Bend, Indiana to Kabul, Afghanistan,
or a tank part from Lima, Ohio to Camp Carroll, South Korea, members of the armed forces simply
pull them from a regional stockpile that has been carefully built up and positioned years
in advance.
One of the earliest advantages a country can gain in a conflict is control of the skies,
as this can help protect and optimize operations on the ground.
Therefore, setting up a functional in-theater airbase is high in the order of operations,
which is why the Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources Program exists.
An airbase involves a lot more than a runway, but thanks to the BEAR program, the U.S. Air
Force can quickly build one out of just a runway.
Once that's acquired, either peacefully or through force, the military can start flying
in BEAR resources from their storage locations around the world on standard C-17 cargo planes.
These resources are all pre-packaged and ready for transport so they can go out at a moment's
notice, and are specifically designed for rapid aircraft transport.
Each package of resources is roughly designed to accommodate 250 people so that if the base
is going to accommodate around 1,000 personnel, for example, they just have to multiply the
basic configuration by four.
These are organized into Unit Type Codes, or UTCs, that group individual supplies based
on their intended use.
For example, a BEAR deployment's foundational configuration includes the XFA-14 Combat Air
Force's initial UTC, which is composed of eight small shelters, eight medium shelters,
eight 25-kilowatt power distribution panels, 16 fire extinguishers, two sets of miscellaneous
spare parts, one generator, and one set of generator wheels.
Other foundational UTCs would also get sent out first, like XFA-17 Water Distribution
Initial, XFA-3C Mobility Air Forces Initial, and XFA-LS Self-Help Laundry, which includes
two small shelters, ten washers, ten dryers, four water heaters, four fire extinguishers,
and all the necessary plumbing and electrical supplies.
But others are designed to augment the base kit and only go out when needed, like XFA-CW,
which acts as a cold weather kit, including twelve 103k heaters, twelve exhaust pipes,
and twenty-four air ducts.
Each individual BEAR resource is designed to be assembled quickly—then offer building
a permanent airbase, therefore quickly cobbling one together when the need is most pressing.
For example, the small shelter system is rated for 90-minute assembly by a team of six, the
massive cavernous large area maintenance shelter can go up with ten people in 30 hours, while
the single-pallet expeditionary kitchen can start cooking for hundreds after just 90 minutes
of assembly by four people.
By adding on more and more UTCs, the military can build out an airbase with functions like
postal service, firefighting, chaplain services, water treatment, mortuary services, maintenance
operations, and more within a matter of days.
But the Air Force's advanced bases-in-a-box are only one example of how the military prepares
for transport constraints on the day a war breaks out.
In order to project power, supply fighting forces in days rather than weeks, and rapidly
set a theater, the US Army has stashed thousands of vehicles, weapons, and general supplies
in seven separate Army Prepositioned Stocks, or APSs, and these stocks are massive.
Take for example, APS-5, located at Camp Arifjan, Kuwait.
Overseen by the 401st Army Field Support Brigade and a cog in American conflicts in the Middle
East since the 1990s, the stockpile effectively allows the US to enter a regional battlefield
in a matter of days, and sustain the battle for a matter of months.
One of the Army's largest physical operations, APS-5 stocks equipment for strategic abilities,
reserve vehicles and munitions to replace those broken and consumed on the battlefront,
and the supplies required to outfit an armored brigade combat team, an infantry brigade combat
team, a sustainment brigade, a fires brigade, a medical support element set, and an army
watercraft set—effectively, $5.5 billion worth of materials just in brigade sets.
With so much gear, the 401st Army Field Support Brigade's time is entirely occupied by the
regular maintenance on the thousands of Abrams tanks, Bradley Fighting Vehicles, and the
rest of the fleet stored in the 120-degree heat along with testing and repairing weapons
stashed in climate-controlled warehouses to ensure their effectiveness should the need
arise.
If something were to boil over in the Middle East, it's expected that APS-5 can mobilize
an entire armored brigade combat team, a fighting force made up of 5,000 people, and a staggering
302 vehicles in just 96 hours.
But the Army's APSs aren't only impressive in their sheer scale and organization—they're
also impressive in their flexibility and adaptability, as one of their most critical preposition
stock operations isn't even land-based—it floats.
Bolstering APS-5 during Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom in the 2000s,
and increasingly visible in the Pacific today, is the Army's APS-3—an assortment of 10-16
cargo-carrying ships.
At the core of APS-3 are two container ships—the MV Staff Sergeant Edward A. Carter Jr., an
MV LTC John U.D. Page, and five large government-owned cargo ships with roll-on-roll-off capabilities
that simplify unloading large, oversized vehicles and downloading in ports with limited infrastructure.
With the size and organization of this fleet changes based on need and location, APS-3
carries much of what land-based prepositioning stocks would—20,000 tons of munitions are
stored on container ships and up to two brigades or over 1,000 tracked and wheeled vehicles
worth of combat equipment are spread across the rest of the fleet.
Yet, while the Army's floating preposition stock proved invaluable in past conflicts
and helps project power in the Pacific today, it's the outlier in terms of its mobility,
as the Army has prioritized size in its prepositioning strategy.
The Navy, on the other hand, whose role in conflict is more expeditionary than sustained,
has leaned heavily into the flexibility afforded by prepositioning through floating stockpiles.
The Navy's prepositioning program is all about readiness, and to be closest to potential
conflict zones, their 14 maritime prepositioning ships are spread across three squadrons in
the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean, and the Western Pacific.
Like the Army, the Navy relies on large, medium-speed roll-on-roll-off ships, and each of the three
squadrons is designed to supply and sustain a Marine Expeditionary Brigade for 30 days,
which is no small task considering its size as a 17,000 person unit with ground, sea,
and air capabilities.
In a service that's built around rapid response, this maritime prepositioning force is able
to mobilize at a moment's notice, and provide supplies and operational support to amphibious
units already on the ground, while also kitting out Marines and Sailors being flown in from
around the world.
These capabilities are of increasing value to the DoD, as modern warfare has pivoted
away from massive ground wars, and at the same time the Pacific, with its tiny islands
and massive expanses of open water, has become an area of increasing concern for the US.
Prepositioning is incredibly valuable to the Air Force, Army, and Navy for its ability
to position each and remote battlefields quicker than any other fighting force.
It's also incredibly valuable in what it doesn't do—necessitate the immediate mobilization
of America's shipping power the second a conflict arises.
This helps protect against, or at least soften a surge in seal of demand when the US goes
to war.
And that only lasts so long.
For longer, drawn-out conflicts, armed forces need sealift to keep the supplies coming for
months and years.
This responsibility falls directly on the shoulders of US Transcom's Military Sealift
Command.
Of the roughly 120 vessels either owned or contracted by Sealift Command, these 32 provide
direct fleet support for deployed Navy forces, whether it be tankers replenishing fuel reserves
or cargo ships providing foodstuffs.
Now, in the event that more vessels are needed in a shipping surge, Sealift Command will
activate the 40-Plus Ready Reserve Force—a collection of old, government-owned ships
sitting inactive across American ports—some of which are so old they're actually steam-powered.
In addition to the emergency capacity available through the RRF, the US military also has
the Merchant Marine—a fleet of American-flagged private merchant ships that serve as auxiliary
cargo and people-moving resources along commercial trade routes for the Navy during peacetime
and war.
And it's directly here where some of the most pressing limitations to the US military's
transportation systems lie—in the inability to handle the surge and move major troop numbers
and supplies far afield.
Today, the ocean-going, privately-owned merchant fleet in the US is only 181 ships—a far
cry from the 565 in 1982.
Though design advances have increased storage capacity, the available deadweight tonnage
is only a fraction of what it was in the 80s and 90s.
And making things worse, in a 2019 test of preparedness of the Ready Reserve Force, only
41% of the available seal of capacity was actually ocean-ready—the expectation prior
had been that some 85% of the vessels would be fit for sea.
But despite those challenges, the United States military is commonly and objectively recognized
as the world's greatest fighting force, and while that does relate to its massive
budget, global presence, and the actual skill of its fighting forces, nothing can happen
without the system that moves its people and equipment to where they're used.
Logistics power is military power, and so it's no wonder why the US DoD has put so
much funding and focus into its transportation system—it's a practical necessity during
peacetime and the very foundation of American military power abroad.
Another logistics marvel is the system behind grocery stores, but it's rather antiquated.
Distributors ship goods to a grocery store, then you search through to hopefully find
roughly the right amount of what you need.
HelloFresh innovates upon that model, shipping what you need, in the exact quantity you need,
directly to you.
You use their app or website to select one of 30 different meal options each week, then
all their ingredients show up on your doorstep in an insulated ice-packed box—they even
change the amount of ice and type of insulation depending on the temperature of the shipping
route and destination.
Next you get cooking with the instructions on the provided recipe card, but the cooking
goes quicker than average since you don't have to deal with measuring and certain ingredients
are pre-prepared.
That way you can make a delicious home-cooked meal in 30 or so minutes without shopping
time.
Personally, it really allows me to fit more cooking into my busy schedule, and avoid ordering
expensive delivery food or eating unhealthy frozen meals.
That's why I've been using them for the better part of three years now, since long
before they became a sponsor, and regularly order my favorites like these firecracker
meatballs.
All around, HelloFresh is a better way to eat, and it's often cheaper too, especially
since you can click the button on screen or go to HelloFresh.com and use code WENDOVER65
for 65% off plus free shipping.
