I've spoken at length about Black Lives Matter on this channel before.
In August of 2020, I made a video called Where Does the BLM Money Go, tracing the financials
of the various donations from the website, BlackLivesMatter.org.
Most of those donations went to ActBlue, a Democrat slush fund, though some of them obviously
found their way into the hands of the people who run the various Black Lives Matter groups.
We know this because I put out another video in April of 2021 called Living Your Principles,
where we talked about the fact that the BLM organization leader Patrisse Khan-Cullors
is a trained Marxist.
A video clip of her talking about Marxism went viral that everyone on the internet has
been using in their videos.
Yeah, that one.
Don't worry though.
For variety's sake, I found another.
It came out in the spring of last year that Khan-Cullors used the BLM money to buy multiple
homes, including a secluded compound in Topanga Canyon.
I did a few other BLM videos over the years, mainly talking about various individual acts
of violence, both committed by and committed to black people, and how those events related
or didn't relate, contrary to popular opinion, to Black Lives Matter as a movement.
But we're talking about the financial side of things again today.
The reason why?
Well, because I came across this tweet, BLM is missing $60 million.
The headquarters doesn't exist, and the leaders have disappeared.
Where is the money?
Also, as a side note, nice job, Dr. Evil.
First time I've ever seen a double looting.
Oof.
Jokes aside, what the hell is actually going on here?
Well, let's start with this article from the Washington Examiner.
BLM's millions unaccounted for after leaders quietly jump ship.
No one appears to have been in charge of Black Lives Matter for months.
The address it lists on tax forms is wrong, and the charity's two board members won't
say who controls its $60 million bankroll.
BLM's shocking lack of transparency surrounding its finances and operations raises major legal
and ethical red flags, multiple charity experts told the Washington Examiner.
Like a giant ghost ship full of treasure, drifting in the night with no captain, no
discernible crew, and no clear direction, charity watch executive director Laurie Stritten
said of BLM.
BLM co-founder Patrice Kahn-Cullors appointed two activists to serve as the group's senior
directors following her resignation in May amid scrutiny over her personal finances.
That's right, I didn't do a video on this.
This went down after it went viral that Kahn-Cullors was buying so many houses with the BLM money.
So she decided to fade from public view, taking a deal with Warner Brothers to work
on BLM-related productions to the widespread laughter everybody's smart enough to know
it was all a scam early on.
BLM denied allegations that Kahn-Cullors spent BLM funds on her personal properties.
However, BLM and other activist organizations under Kahn-Cullors' control offered contracts
to an art company led by the father of her only child.
I mean, I guess that's one way to launder money.
Have your wealthy charity activist organization spend all of its cash buying your relatives
overpriced African artwork that you can display around various cities calling it representation,
and then peace out with your cut.
The story here is that Damon Turner, head of a group that does music and art-based black
activism called Trap Heels, went on a progressive podcast with like 20 views called What We
Gon' Do, yes that's actually the name of it, where he talks about the professional
connection between his organization and Black Lives Matter through Patrice Kahn-Cullors.
But, later in the podcast, he describes a birthday celebration and how Kahn-Cullors
was a major part of it, sounding more like a romantic partner.
And like that was the thing, then like, you know, Patrice organized like my family and
friends to like send like some videos, like my, you know, head of cinematography, Giovanni
cut this really beautiful 20 minute like video of people just like loving me and all these
things.
And then after that, like she organized a fucking like a birthday, like quarantine birthday
party in the parking lot of her gallery with like all the homies pulled up and like, you
know, it just felt really, just like felt really beautiful man.
And on Kahn-Cullors' Instagram in 2019, she said,
In other words, this guy is out here talking about Kahn-Cullors as if she's a business
associate where there are two organizations, BLM and Trap Heels, are just entering into
normal business deals, but in actuality, he's the father of her kid, they were in a relationship
together and now they are close friends and she's funneling BLM money to her family through
his organization.
Also on her Instagram, I found an interview that she did as the head of a different charity
organization called Dignity and Power Now, a prisoner activist group.
Patrice Kahn-Cullors started that group in 2013.
And public IRS records of the organization, unearthed in June of 2021, showed that they
told the IRS they made less than $50,000 in 2016.
But the public records of two other groups, the Resnick Foundation and the California
Initiative, show that those two organizations donated $225,000 to Dignity and Power Now
in 2016.
Nobody knows where that money went, but I think we can take a guess.
Aside from BLM and Dignity and Power Now, Patrice Kahn-Cullors also founded Justice
LA and the Justice Teams Network, groups that hosted Bernie Sanders in 2018, as well
as Talcum X.
All of these groups seem to be fronts established to shuffle money around.
For example, in 2018, the Justice Teams Network received a $400,000 grant to give to Justice
LA, where it turned out that Justice LA's fund was the same fund as Dignity and Power
Now.
Another group connected to all of this is Reform LA Jails, which received more than
$1.4 million in donations in 2019.
Over half of that money was paid out to just four entities, and remember their names for
later.
$270,000 went to a consulting company owned by Shalomia Bowers, a person who works with
Patrice Kahn-Cullors on Dignity and Power Now.
$211,000 went to Asha Bandele as payment for services rendered for writing Kahn-Cullors'
memoir.
$205,000 to a consulting company called Janaya and Patrice Consulting, which Patrice Kahn-Cullors
likely owns one half of.
And $86,000 went to Trap Heels, that company run by Damon Turner, the father of Kahn-Cullors'
child.
Trap Heels also received $150,000 from BLM directly for running an election night livestream.
So what I see happening here is that Patrice Kahn-Cullors and her colleagues and family
all own these various LLCs and charity organizations and use them to obscure the shuffling around
of money, the vast majority of which comes from people who are donating to Black Lives
Matter thinking they're helping with racial injustice.
There's been the BLM Global Network Foundation, the BLM Global Network, the BLM Action Fund,
BLM Grassroots, the BLM Political Action Committee, the BLM Global Network Project, the BLM Support
Fund, all of which are different organizations that these people have their hands in, as
well as Dignity and Power Now, the Justice Teams Network, and Justice LA, all run by
the same clique, all of them shuffling money around.
In fact, there's even a completely unrelated organization called the Black Lives Matter
Foundation which Google, Apple, and Microsoft all donated $4 million to without looking.
And it turns out it wasn't owned by anybody in this group and in fact was a pro-police
organization.
Whoops.
The point is though, after the money has been laundered, after it's been shuffled through
all of these fronts, it doesn't actually go into helping actual real charities that provide
for the poor.
It instead goes into the pockets of the people running the organizations.
Now that we know a few more of the players, let's keep reading that Washington Examiner
article and see if any familiar names pop up.
Ann Cullors announced in May she was stepping down and that activists Makani Themba and
Monifa Bandele would lead the organization as senior executives.
But Themba and Bandele revealed in September that they never actually took the job because
of disagreements with BLM's Acting Leadership Council.
Monifa Bandele, by the way, is the sister of Asha Bandele, the memoir writer who got
$211,000.
When an investigative reporter from The Intelligencer, who by the way was a black man, asked Bandele
about the spending of Reform LA jails, he was called racist and sexist for daring to
question them.
Both Themba and Bandele told the Washington Examiner they do not know who took over as
BLM's top executive after their departure, and neither would say who served on the council.
The two remaining BLM board members, Shalomia Bowers and Raymond Howard, did not return
numerous requests for comment asking who has been in charge of BLM and its money since
Cullors left the charity in May.
Bowers served as the treasurer for multiple activist organizations run by Khan Cullors,
including a BLM PAC and a Los Angeles-based jail reform group that paid Cullors $20,000
a month and dropped nearly $26,000 for meetings at a luxury Malibu beach resort in 2019.
Bowers declined to comment when reached by phone on Monday.
Oh, there's another name we recognize.
Shalomia Bowers, the person who got $270,000 from Reform LA jails.
Howard has spoken openly on Facebook about his work with BLM and his close relationship
with Khan Cullors, but he appears to have recently taken steps to conceal his role within
the charity.
As recently as last Friday, his page was modified after the Washington Examiner contacted Howard
for comment and now states he serves as the director of operations for a non-profit.
A reference to Howard's position as the finance and operations manager of New Impact
Partners, a Dayton, Ohio-based consulting firm owned by his sister, was also removed
from his LinkedIn profile.
Also as recently as last Friday, a website for New Impact Partners attributed a quote
to Raymond from Black Lives Matter Global Network Foundation thanking the consulting
firm for its help solving BLM's organizational challenges.
The attribution was removed from the website after the Washington Examiner asked Howard
how much BLM has paid his sister's firm.
On Tuesday, a Washington Examiner reporter attempted to request BLM's 2020 tax form
990 in person at the charity's office in Los Angeles, which the group disclosed as
the location its books are stored in in previous filings submitted to the IRS, only to be told
by a security guard at that location there has never been a BLM office there.
An unidentified BLM spokesperson informed the Washington Examiner on Thursday that the
group does not currently maintain a permanent office and offered to mail a copy of its 990
within two weeks.
It seems to me that as soon as the public began to realize what was going on, these
people began to bail out of the BLM organization.
Khan Cullors and her huge home purchases went viral and then she quietly slipped away.
Two other people that Cullors put in charge decided not to be the ones left holding the
hot potato and so they declined the offer.
And then the final two, Bowers and Howard, were left holding the BLM bag, which they
promptly emptied and then tried to conceal their involvement from the rest of the world.
By the way, another of those properties that Khan Cullors has bought up?
It's a historic building in Toronto, notably once home to the Canadian Communist Party.
The $6.3 million used to buy the building, which was previously the Wild Seed Centre
for Art and Activism, was transferred from the Black Lives Matter charity to the Canadian
charity M4BJ, which is run by Khan Cullors' wife, Janaya Khan.
And that name, Janaya Khan, that certainly sounds familiar as well.
Perhaps that's the Janaya from Janaya and Patrice Consulting, the organization that
received $205,000 from LA jails.
I think there's a pretty good chance of it.
Vice ran a story on these two in 2017.
It's a fluff piece talking about their relationship with institutional oppression, with obvious
appeals to slavery and their ancestry and all this other garbage, but fuck me, look
at them.
Do these people look poor to you?
Do they look like they're living in a crack den in the ghetto?
Obviously regarding the ethics behind Black Lives Matter, nobody can object.
Black people matter just as much as any other race of people, and if the point is that race-based
injustices may still exist, that's obviously unacceptable.
But at this point, it should be pretty clear what's going on here.
Everyone who donated to BLM, the organization, the charity, the legal entity, got fucking
played.
I'm really sorry for all those poor people out there who might have gotten suckered into
this, thinking that five extra bucks they had left over from their minimum wage job
went to actually helping anybody, but instead it just lined the pockets of these grifters.
There are many stories of Patrice Con Cullors shafting other people through BLM.
Tori Johnson began a group called BLM Huntington Beach after the death of George Floyd.
He wanted to lead a counter-protest in response to a planned White Lives Matter event.
Con Cullors used her platform to denounce Johnson's event and demanded the movement
focus on her own event happening at the same time instead.
That public statement caused widespread support to be pulled from Johnson's event, basically
leaving him high and dry.
His counter-protest was overrun with violence from the White Lives Matter protest, and he
was forced to flee from the scene by jumping into the car of another protester.
All of the large activist groups had abandoned him after Con Cullors made her statement,
and he was basically left with no people or funds.
Johnson later said, I don't tell people what I'm actually going through.
I don't tell people how stressed I actually am.
But you know, I actually have to live through all this.
They got rich off my back.
Regardless of how you feel about the BLN-WLM dynamic here, it's clear that this guy is
somebody on the ground who got fucked by the larger figures of his own movement because
those larger figures wanted their paycheck.
In the same vein, on July 25th, 2016, LA cops killed 18-year-old Richard Rishner.
His mother, Lisa Simpson, no not that one, got involved with the LA chapter of BLM.
This time, the chapter was an official one, connected to Con Cullors' larger BLM empire.
The LA regional director, Melina Abdullah, asked for people to donate to BLM because
Simpson needed $5,000 for her son's funeral.
After the spotlight moved on, though, Simpson received nothing from the organization.
BLM took the donations and cut ties with her.
Simpson went public with her story, joining other people who feel like they've been
used by BLM, with Simpson herself saying, The activists have events in our cities and
have not given us anything substantial for using our loved ones images and names on their
flyers.
Abdullah's response to that was to post a video on her Instagram saying that BLM was
under threat and that part of that threat was the mainstream media using black voices
to discredit BLM activists like her.
I want us to just be really thoughtful and be students of history and to dig deep and
not believe everything that you read or see, no matter who it's coming from.
So you know, there are people who are motivated by ego.
There's people who are motivated by whoever they might be working for, and sometimes they're
working for folks other than the people.
But then there's also people who are manipulated, who have very real pain and are manipulated
by systems.
And so it's important that we do our own research, that we do our own digging.
So I don't want to repeat some of the accusations that have been made, but I want you to be
clear.
Is that my goddaughter?
Is that Erica?
Which one am I?
What are you talking about?
Melina Abdullah has her own history within the socialist space.
Her grandfather was Gunter Reitman, a member of Germany's Communist Party and part of
the underground resistance to the Nazi regime.
Notably, he wrote the book Vampire Economy, a critique of national socialist economics
and politics from an international socialist position.
Her father was an open Trotskyist in the United States, and Melina herself is also involved
in the money-go-round escapades of con colors and friends, operating front organizations
to obscure payments.
She's assaulted police at protests, she stood up for Jussie Smollett's ridiculous
con and she's an open supporter of Louis Farrakhan and his black supremacy movement.
My name is Melina Abdullah, I'm an organizer with Black Lives Matter.
I want to thank the Honorable Minister Farrakhan for having us.
We are under siege, all of us, pulling our pants up won't save us.
Our college degrees won't save us.
Middle class status won't save us.
They've declared war on us.
And the worst thing that we can do is to act as if we're at peace when we're really
at war.
Black Lives Matter is a rallying cry.
It is not for us, for them, it is for us.
Black Lives Matter is a recognition that we have all we need within us to win.
We will commit ourselves to the war that will dismantle the system of white supremacist
patriarchal capitalism.
That is what or else means.
These are the people that the BLM money went to, professional activists and revolutionaries
who provide nothing to society but racial supremacy and communist agitation.
Meanwhile, the majority of white leftists who helped BLM, they did so because it's
an easy way to virtue signal.
You drop a donation, you publish it on Twitter or Facebook, and now everyone knows that you're
one of the good ones.
You see, you're not racist.
You're giving money to BLM.
You've accepted that historic, that genetic sin that comes with your white skin.
To the progressives, BLM functions as a Catholic indulgence.
Pay enough money and your crimes are washed away.
And the corrupt Marxist leaders of the whole organization ran off with the whole pot as
Marxists always do.
There is not a single Marxist out there that truly cares about the people, the workers,
the lower class, whatever you want to call it.
They don't want to abolish hierarchy.
They don't want the stateless, moneyless, classless society.
They simply want to build their own power.
That's how it is.
That's how it always will be.
And I know how these people justify it in their heads.
They get a taste of the money.
They see how it affects their life.
They say, hey, now that I'm not worrying about making ends meet so much, I can do more activism.
I can help more people.
More of my time and energy is freed up for the cause.
That's how it begins.
They believe that helping themselves through the organization's bank account is helping
others.
To a limited extent, it actually is as long as they use that freed up time and energy
as well as most of the money to actually help others.
But they don't.
They don't have the willpower to resist the corruption.
They don't have the strength of character to take a fair cut for their work and then
continue to labor for the betterment of the people they claim to speak for.
Instead, they take and then take and then take, getting fatter and richer like the capitalist
class they claim to hate while being a part of it, contributing no labor for their taking
because they started this story by telling themselves that if they're better off, then
that leads to other people also being better off.
But they're not actually doing the work to make that connection valid.
They're just enriching themselves.
There actually is an entire underclass of black people who legitimately could use some
help in the United States.
You didn't actually think that the corpos and their bought and paid for Uncle Toms were
going to assist them, did you?
I don't know if it's worth us talking about communism because it just has such a bad rap.
Because it's failed every time, that's why it has a bad rap.
But so has capitalism.
Absolutely.
Because the U.S. is so good at propaganda and being like, it has sold the idea of the
American dream and that's tied into capitalism and wealth, it's much harder to sell communism
given that so much of the experiment has failed around the world.
