People of YouTube, it is I, everyone's favorite YouTuber Killer Keemstar and today we have some
killer news, some breaking news to discuss that's definitely not two months old. Now what I'm going
to talk about today is something that many of you might not even know about at all or even if you
did you probably forgot about it by now but on January 29, 2019 the YouTube Creator Insider
channel uploaded a video where they kind of sort of entertained the idea of possibly removing the
dislike button on YouTube. Another option is just to remove dislikes entirely from YouTube. That's
a very extreme option. That one seems like kind of not super democratic in my opinion. Now this
is something that YouTube has foreshadowed for a while and it's something that I've been fearing
happening for a long time. This is something, the prospect of YouTube removing the dislike button,
this is something I've been theorizing for years. Even back when I made YouTube poops I thought of
this idea back when they changed the colors of the dislikes. It used to be green and red and then
all of a sudden they changed it to blue and gray. It's just blue and not a color. With the constant
updates to the UI they've been minimizing the dislike bar. Now obviously in this video they
don't say anything definitive. They really just kind of throw the idea out there and treat it as
sort of a last resort for dealing with what they refer to as the dislike mob which we'll get into
later. But I'd also like to mention that for every massively unpopular feature that nobody likes and
YouTube rolls out anyway they all begin the same way with YouTube teasing it and treating it like
a non-committal optional thing and then it becomes default for the whole site. And the fact of the
matter is that YouTube has presented this idea on the table officially. I was always under the
impression that YouTube was foreshadowing this because with seemingly every major update they
make to the site's user interface the dislike bar appears less and less prominent. There have
also been these bizarre cases of select videos where YouTube seems to be inexplicably removing
dislikes or hiding the accurate dislike number from the public. It seems like something fishy
is going on behind the scenes at YouTube and they are actively looking to either tweak or tamper
with the dislike metric on the website as a whole. Now just like almost all of YouTube's major
proposed changes for the site the idea of removing dislikes is very unpopular. A lot of people seem
to intuitively understand that dislikes matter but I really don't think enough people realize
just how important dislikes are on YouTube. But for as much as most people would like to keep
dislikes around there's a certain camp that actually believes it's a good idea to remove
dislikes from YouTube entirely. So in this video I'm going to do my best to explain why removing
dislikes is not a great idea. But first what exactly is the argument for removing dislikes?
First of all the camp who wants to remove dislikes rely heavily on this idea of a dislike mob which
is terminology that's been used and validated by YouTube itself. Dislike mobs so this is where
a group of people will go to a video not even watch the video and just purposely hit the thumbs
down. And the fear is that by intentionally driving down the ratings of a video it will
negatively affect the perceptions of the audience watching and predispose them to unfairly hate the
video. Additionally they argue that dislikes negatively affect a video's performance in the
algorithm and that enabling the dislike button makes it too easy for opponents to silence your
videos. And finally the dislike function is binary and non-descriptive and user criticism can be
easily supplemented by the comment section therefore making dislikes a redundant feature.
So these are the main arguments for removing dislikes on YouTube. But before we can get into
this discussion we have to first understand the role of dislikes on YouTube. You each have a knob
in front of you when you like what you see turn the knob to the right when you don't like what you
see turn it left. The origin of the dislike dates back to 2010 when YouTube retconned the original
star rating system. It's the simplest and most accessible method that people use to determine
the overall quality of a video. But how exactly do you measure whether a video is good or bad?
I took a sample of 24 recommended videos on my home page. Yeah it's not a perfect sample or
completely generalizable to all of YouTube but it should provide us with a decent enough estimate.
So the 24 videos had a mean rating of 94% and a median rating of 96%. When you click on a YouTube
video there's a good chance that at least 19 out of 20 people liked it. People tend to like YouTube
videos a lot so we have to adjust our standards accordingly. So based on my personal observations
from many years of watching videos on YouTube I've arranged video ratings into seven tiers.
If your video has 99% likes or more you're probably looking at a pretty great video.
98 to 97% is not good enough to be the best but still a good video. Most of the videos you watch
on YouTube will probably fall between 96 and 94% which indicates that the video is pretty average.
At 93 to 90% you're entering the territory where you start to notice that the video has an above
average amount of dislikes. You'll usually see this on videos where the audience disagrees with
the creator on one or two points in the video but otherwise the video is pretty average. At 89 to
80% you're starting to enter controversial territory. You'll typically see this rating on
videos that deal with highly opinionated hot button issues like politics or any review of
The Last Jedi. If your ratings dip below 80% then there is probably something seriously wrong with
your video. Either the video or audio quality is really bad or you made a big mistake in your
research or if you just had a really controversial opinion. This is a stage where the quantity of
dislikes is so abnormal that people actually really start paying attention to it. And finally
if your video ratings drop below 50% then there isn't just something wrong with your video there's
probably something wrong with you. If your ratings drop below this level then you probably said
something so wrong or so out of touch that a huge part of your audience has lost respect for you.
And you may have done irreparable damage to your online reputation. So that's generally how I
categorize ratings on YouTube videos. It's not going to be perfect. You're going to be able to
find non-examples but by and large this list is going to be fairly accurate. And you can generally
use YouTube ratings to heuristically predict the nature of a video. But before we go any further
I have a few more important things to explain about dislikes. First of all I see a lot of people
under the impression that YouTube video ratings imply quality. That's not exactly true. You can
have a very high quality video production wise but if people disagree with the core message then
they're going to press dislike. More accurately ratings on YouTube represent a measure of
controversiality. Second when videos are uploaded ratings tend to start high then gradually regress
to the mean as the video becomes more widely circulated. Generally older videos with high
view counts will have lower overall ratings because they've been exposed to a greater number
of people. And finally older YouTubers with large dedicated followings tend to have better overall
ratings than newer YouTubers. This is simply because the longer you watch a YouTuber the more
you tend to trust them and the more likely you are to engage with their content. So naturally
YouTubers that have been around for a while and have a huge core audience are going to get a lot
more likes on each video as opposed to an unproven guy who nobody knows about. Therefore
older YouTubers tend to get a lot more likes per video which skews their overall ratings in their
favor. So if dislikes aren't an indicator of quality then what exactly is the function of
dislikes on YouTube? Well at a fundamental level dislikes are a reflection of the extent to which
people disagree with the core message of a video. Like I said earlier you could have the most
expensive production with the slickest editing possible but if people don't like what you're
saying and how you're saying it you're gonna wind up with a lot of dislikes on YouTube.
I have to reiterate that dislikes are not a measure of objective quality rather it measures
a difference in opinion. And with that being said it's the single most important line of
communication between an audience and a creator. Your success as a creator on YouTube will almost
inevitably depend on how you respond to dislikes. Now if you're someone like Dan Olson who believes
that dislikes shouldn't exist on YouTube then you'd probably also be the same type of person
to disable ratings on your own videos. Ah shit here we go again. Trust me when I say that this
is one of the worst things you can do as a YouTuber. Seriously in all my days on this
site I've never encountered a single successful and respected YouTuber who frequently disables
their ratings. To understand why you have to realize why most people watch YouTube in the first
place and that's to express their interests and opinions. Whether that be through their uploads,
watch history, comments, and yes their ratings. When you choose to disable ratings on a video
you are deliberately depriving your audience of one of their expressive outlets and you're
consequently degrading their experience as a viewer. Even if they agree with you if your goal
on YouTube is to not be hated by your audience then you probably shouldn't disable ratings.
And yet here we see Dan Olson committing the cardinal sin. If you know anything about how
YouTube works you'd have to realize that this is a boneheaded decision. I mean really anybody
who expects people to support them after disabling ratings on their YouTube videos must be completely
irrational. But let's assume that he is rational. Clearly something has led poor Danny boy here to
intentionally degrade the experience of all his viewers. Well if you asked him he'd probably
tell you that he disabled his ratings to protect himself from the nefarious dislike mobs. So let's
talk about dislike mobs. You were 100% convinced that those negative reviews were part of a
conspiracy. I feel like I'm in a rather privileged position to talk about this since I literally
started one in 2017 when I encouraged people to go dislike the YouTube Rewind and make it the most
disliked video of all time. It didn't work. Kind of. I guess it was a year too early. Now the vernacular
of a dislike mob conjures up images of a torch-wielding horde of deranged maniacs who
mindlessly spam dislike on whatever unfortunate video gets in their way. In reality what you may
perceive as a dislike mob is almost certainly just a large group of people who simply disagreed with
the fundamental message of your video. Why did the YouTube Rewind 2018 become the most disliked
video of all time? Could it possibly be because a racist bigoted dislike mob conspired against the
video's diversity message? No. I think we should read the comments. People dislike the Rewind
because most people don't like the slick corporate brand friendly image that the site is trying to
create for itself by excluding grassroots YouTubers like PewDiePie and MrBeast. People
don't like being lectured about the importance of tolerating gay people by a company that has
repeatedly demonstrated that they don't actually care about gay people. People don't like the idea
of Hollywood celebrities, Twitch streamers, and Instagram models populating a video that is
supposedly about celebrating YouTubers. Do you kind of see where I'm going with this?
If your YouTube videos are getting a lot of dislikes and your initial reaction is that
there's an evil mob of radicals conspiring against you, then there's probably a more
reasonable explanation. Chef Ramsay had the absolute nerve to reach out to Yelpers.
They are deliberately attacking my restaurant. Every Yelper lies. They hurt and damage
restaurants by doing this. It is front page news across the country. As one would imagine,
Mueller found collusion between President Trump, his campaign in Russia. The president obstructed
justice. There will be new indictments to conservatives. If there's indictments, then
clearly this has ended with Russian collusion. All indictments have been related to conspiring
with Russians. It cost more than 25 million cocks and about 500 penises over 9,000 penises.
There was obstruction. So, Mr. Drumpf, you admit you conspired with Russians.
What do you have to say in your defense? Coincidence? I think not super democratic.
Now, the Dan Olson type might counter this by saying that the dislike mob is a legitimate
threat because the rating system potentially allows large and powerful groups to harass small,
independent YouTubers whom they view as... Next, we're bullying me!
I mean, look what happened when iDubbbz sent his army of fans to attack Leafy.
Oh, wait. iDubbbz had a smaller channel at the time. But what about that time when I,
the devilish butthole Emperor Lemon, sent all of my fans to go harass behind the meme?
Ooh, yeah, um... Bullying!
Yeah, it turns out that on YouTube, people tend to support the underdog.
But I'm sure these are just two anecdotal examples that I cherry-picked, and they certainly don't
reflect the true threat of dislike mobs like, oh say, the list of the most disliked YouTube
videos ever. Welcome to WatchMojo.com and still be counting down number one.
Coming in at number one is, once again, the 2018 YouTube Rewind, which saw an unprecedented volume
of dislikes on a video. But it's clearly just a dislike mob who hates diversity.
Can we also give a moment to Asian representation in entertainment this year?
Number two...
Number two is a music video called Baby by independent,
small-time music artist Justin Bieber. Looks like the dislike mob here is just
discriminating against Canadians. Number three...
Number three is It's Everyday Bro by small underground YouTuber Jake Paul.
Obviously, the lyrical and melodic content of this renaissance masterpiece deserves the highest
of praise, and all these dislikes are just from a mob of haters whom we should dab on.
Make sure you're dabbing on them haters, baby!
Dab. Dab. Dab.
Number four...
Number four is a video from the small YouTuber PewDiePie in a video where he literally asks
his fans to dislike it, but I'm sure some of those came from a mob.
The racist, sexist, homophobic...
Worldview.
Worldview.
Society.
Number five...
Enough is enough.
Make sure you dabbing on them haters.
Make sure you dabbing on them haters.
Institutions.
Dabbing on them haters.
But what if we took the same list and ordered it by highest percentage of dislikes?
Man, it's gonna take a real evil and dedicated mob to do that kind of damage.
Well, organized in this order, the most disliked videos feature the targeted harassment of frail
victims such as YouTube, Call of Duty, the NFL, PewDiePie, RiceGum, YouTube again, and
the number one spot, coming in with over 98% dislikes, a video so hated that the creator
had to issue a copyright claim against herself to take it down.
It's some Brazilian celebrity who was encouraging her fans to vote against a political candidate.
No matter how you slice it, the aggregate power of the dislike is used
overwhelmingly against big corporate entities.
Do we really want to give nuclear weapons to a man whose signature move is firing?
Firing.
Firing things?
Yes!
The true dislike mob is often just the common YouTuber pushing back against their corporate
overlords.
Since the very beginning of the feature, YouTubers have used the dislike as a spiritual veto
against slimy manipulation by politicians and corporations, not the other way around.
Now tell me, does Dan Olson look like the type of guy who wants to put more power in
the hands of wealthy corporations?
Well, that's exactly what would happen if he got his wish of YouTube removing dislikes.
You don't need to be in the pew every Sunday to know that there's something wrong in this
country when gays can serve openly in the military.
But I mean, clearly just because the dislike is frequently used by the common people to
hashtag resist the evil corporations, it can still happen the other way around.
I mean, big powerful groups have the incentive to do so because dislikes negatively affect
your videos in the algorithm.
Except there's absolutely no evidence of this.
At all.
According to my YouTube analytics, my Jimmy Kimmel video received a huge spike in dislikes
on April 20th, 2018.
Uh oh, looks like the dislike mob got to me.
Better disable my ratings before my views drop.
Except I didn't.
And the video still gets plenty of views, even though the proportion of dislikes has
continued to increase over time.
You may write this off as just circumstantial evidence, but if you ask any YouTuber out
there who isn't terrified of the dislike mob boogeyman, they'll tell you the same thing
that dislikes have no direct effect on viewership.
The only YouTube feature that has been demonstrably proven to reduce viewership is demonetization.
Well, whatever.
I guess you could still somehow justify disabling ratings because at least the comments give
better feedback.
Because it's not like the YouTube comment system is notorious for being a cesspool of
knuckleheads impulsively spewing their uninformed opinions.
And it's also widely understood that comments are certainly not populated by a vocal minority
of more radical viewers who will inevitably form a cult of personality around you if you
cater to them.
Are you saying my money's all gone?
But I made all the right moves, didn't I?
Oh, yes, sir.
Every move a right one.
Yep, comments are definitely a better feedback system than dislikes.
I'm really glad I disabled them.
So glad, in fact, that I believe YouTube should disable dislikes for the entire platform.
I think it's a great idea.
And for that reason, other people should, too.
I'm so smart and correct about everything.
Just look at all these comments agreeing with me.
Man, I can picture it now.
The dislike free utopian future of YouTube.
Wait a minute.
That's just Facebook, a site where people act like machines, corporations act like people
and machines act like CEOs.
A very utopian place indeed.
But hey, at least there's no dislikes.
And we all know that the lack of dislikes promotes great content and discussion on Facebook.
Or how about Twitter?
No dislikes to be found here without a dislike button to weaponize.
There are certainly no angry mobs wreaking havoc in this place.
Oh, man, I'm about to contradict myself here.
But Reddit has a dislike feature and the discussion sucks here, too.
You ignorant, self-serving, killjoy, nitpicking, burger cutting bitch.
I guess that's bad news for dislikes on YouTube.
Except dislikes on YouTube don't affect the visibility of your posts.
But maybe there's a better and more fair comment system than Reddit, like this one.
Oh, wait, this is the YouTube comment system
where dislikes have been disabled for almost five years now and it's still a cesspool.
Well, if we're talking about cesspools, let's throw in 4chan.
No dislikes here or even likes for that matter.
Surely this is the pinnacle of utopian mob free discourse.
Now tell me, does Dan Olson look like the type of guy who would prefer 4chan over Reddit?
I think not.
Am I so out of touch?
No, it's the children who are wrong.
Here's the thing.
People like classifying and ranking things in a hierarchy.
We do this intuitively.
It's based on how our brains organize and categorize information.
There's a reason why WatchMojo, one of the most bland and boring channels ever,
can forge a 20 million subscriber empire from making nothing but top 10 lists.
People have a natural fascination with ranking things in some kind of order
and they do the same thing with likes and dislikes.
People want to know what's good and what's bad
and sweeping your ratings under the rug won't change that.
Every website that doesn't have a dislike function
has users who try to supplement it through some other means.
On Facebook, you have the angry react.
On Twitter, people get ratioed.
On 4chan, people try to get used.
And that brings me to the main point of this video.
Just because you can't see the dislikes doesn't mean they don't exist.
It's childish and you're starting to see this mentality everywhere.
Oh no, people didn't like this movie with a woman in it?
I guess it's just a dislike mob who supports the patriarchy.
Oh no, you disagree with my impeccable opinion?
I guess I have no choice but to block you,
since I can't see anyone who disagrees with me.
That must mean everyone agrees with me.
You could put half of Trump supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables.
Now having said all this, why aren't I 50 points ahead, you might ask?
I swear some people online are so averse to basic discourse
that they unlearn object permanence.
Except it's not object permanence, it's dislike permanence.
Let's face it, you can say anything online
and a small fraction of people will hate you for it.
That much is inevitable.
As any sort of content creator online,
you will almost certainly encounter a moment
when you're faced with an unprecedented amount of backlash.
I always go back to the example of my Behind the Meme video.
Do you know how easy it would have been for me to simply write off all the criticism
as a bunch of pissed off Behind the Meme fanboys?
But I didn't do that because it simply wasn't true.
I had to swallow my pride and acknowledge that a lot of the criticism was fair
and I used that criticism to gradually improve my approaches.
And guess what?
I don't get as many dislikes on my newer videos.
I made the dislikes go away without having to shamelessly hide them.
IT'S TIME FOR THE PILL!
YouTubers tend to fear dislikes.
Even though as a YouTuber, dislikes are one of your most valuable assets.
It's easy to preach to your own choir.
It's difficult to preach to strangers who have never seen you before in their lives.
YouTube is all about appealing to niche audiences.
But the more you grow, the harder it becomes to have all of your audience on the same page.
If you're starting to see more dislikes,
well it probably just means that your channel is starting to grow outside of its comfort zone.
And that's okay.
Dislikes are just a natural part of growing on YouTube.
They're a sign that new people are watching your videos.
You can either accommodate the new viewers or stick to your niche.
The choice is yours.
But if you so choose to treat dislikes as a germ that must be eradicated,
don't be surprised when eventually the new people stop showing up.
Dislikes are one of the only lines of communication between you,
the creator, and the audience member who is discovering you for the very first time.
Most people won't spend the effort to type up a comment or click on any link you have in the description.
But at the very least, they will press dislike on your video.
And yes, some of the critics are going to be unreasonable.
And you can never please everybody and you shouldn't try to please everybody.
But critics will give you something that your fans won't.
And that's honest, unfiltered feedback.
Truth is one of the most valuable resources no matter where you go.
From the looks of last year's Rewind,
it would seem that the YouTube community is really trying to tell YouTube the truth.
Let's hope they listen.
...unexpectedly broke a record with Rewind,
creating the most disliked video on the internet.
Even at home, my kids told me it was cringey.
We hear you that it didn't accurately show...
A dislike on a YouTube video has never harmed a person.
They only harm egos.
There's a reason why YouTube only suddenly decided to start talking about dislikes
after their video became the most disliked in history.
It's not a coincidence.
Dislikes make people pay attention and yank them back down to earth.
There's no bigger wake-up call as a YouTuber than seeing that ratings bar dip below 80%.
Or in YouTube's case, below 20%.
It gets to you.
You remember that.
It's a big fat slap on the wrist.
It forces you to stop and re-evaluate what you're doing.
It makes you wonder that maybe you're not as good as you think you are.
Critics will tell you the truth and won't sugarcoat it.
You can argue about how they're wrong all you want, but they don't think they're wrong.
And there are many people who probably agree with them and not you.
Are they all wrong?
Or are you just out of touch?
One of these is far more likely than the other.
But once again, whichever one you want to believe is your choice.
So choose wisely.
You know, sometimes you get dislikes on YouTube videos because people meant to press like,
but they accidentally pressed the wrong button.
And obviously it's not that big of a deal because
at least they didn't press the wrong button on something more important.
Like, say, deciding the future of internet regulation for an entire continent.
We interrupt this program to bring you downward spiral.
That's right, Europe.
You had elected officials literally press the wrong button while voting for some of
the most influential internet regulation in your lifetime.
Oh, you stupid son of a-
I'm sorry I'm not good.
Please forgive me.
I'm just European.
If your elected officials can't even be trusted to press the right button,
maybe it's time to take matters into your own hands.
NordVPN will not only protect your privacy,
but it will also protect you from the stupidity of your world leaders.
NordVPN lets you change your IP to over 50 countries around the world
and over 30 countries outside of the EU's jurisdiction.
Use NordVPN to anonymously launch a dislike mob against your enemies
and use code EMPLEMON to get 75% off the three-year plan.
Check out the link below or visit nordvpn.com slash EMPLEMON.
Do it!
Hey everyone, Post Video Emp here.
I just wanted to thank NordVPN again for sponsoring this video.
And my patrons.
But most notably,
Internet Historian,
hmaxbstc811b34,
Hank Love Smith,
TheRealG,
Sean Collins,
Jack the Whacked Out Cuck.
If you're still watching at this point after the video has ended and after the ad has ended,
then I gotta give you props.
You have some patience.
My next video is going to come as a bit of surprise to a lot of you,
and it's going to be very different from anything I've made over the past year and a half.
So stay tuned.
Hopefully this one won't take two months.
