Welcome to the channel Generation Hope, making the world a better place, one story at a time.
New videos Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 314,000 subscribers, and their videos regularly get
more views than that.
And jeez, look at these thumbnails, like, that's an awful Photoshop job.
What's with that guy's mouth?
Oh my God.
It almost seems like it's AI-generated, caught-on-footage videos with these titles and the way that
it looks.
Well, in any case, you can see exactly what kind of channel this is.
You have Bully Tells Kid Meet Me Outside, Plumber Scams Wife, Wife Fakes Cancer, etc.
etc.
These are all videos that seem to talk about real-life events where somebody's being ridiculous
and then they get their comeuppance at the end.
And videos like this are kind of cathartic, you know?
When you see a viral TikTok where a person is raging and they get thrown out of a store
and everyone clapped.
Of course they did.
They all clapped.
But it kind of feels good.
It hits a certain spot in our monkey brains.
And this seems to be a channel that just manufactures those videos repeatedly.
But if you were to actually look over the various dates that these videos were uploaded,
you'll notice that there's one that's missing.
And in fact, I have the missing video right here.
It's currently set to private.
Video unavailable.
What happened here?
I got that URL because the video is linked on various forums and websites, including
mainstream social media.
And as we can see, the title of the video is racist Karen whips black boys for playing
basketball.
What happens next is shocking.
Oh my fucking God.
Thankfully the internet never forgets.
So somebody uploaded a copy of it because of course they did.
All right, let's watch this shit guys.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
Oh my fucking...
Like, I know the title.
I know the title told us, but I didn't expect that out the fucking gate.
Oh my God, okay, okay, okay, hold on, let's, let's try that again.
Hey
What did I tell you criminals about coming back to my name Jesus Christ get out of here no Vince
I won't let her ruin our fun
Listen lady. We aren't breaking any laws by having fun here at the park. I won't let you intimidate us anymore
Are you talking back to me boy? I?
Guess you forgot who used to own your car
Right now
Oh
Don't you touch him or I will knock your teeth out Roy. Hang on. I'll get some help
He just fucking bails out. Holy shit. Okay, um
All right, all right that was a lucky shot man if I had legs I'd still score on you I got skills son
Don't play me my bad. Kobe. Okay. Are you supposed to be these guys supposed to be playing like
Teenagers cuz they're like in there. They're in there like late 20s or early 30s. Hey
By the way, man, I'm sorry to hear about your dad
Yeah, I heard about the car accident in the news Jesus
Okay, this guy's this guy's black and he's in a wheelchair and he just lost his dad
How many fucking depression points does this guy get is gonna be trans too? Hey, man, it's okay
I know I'm in a wheelchair now and I won't be able to live my dream of playing in the NBA
But he's me. My mom is still alive
grateful for that
Exposition for sure. I'm glad you're allowed to bro
That way I can keep trying to dunk on you
All right, all right, all right, okay get their feet work there I'm not quite Kobe, I'm sorry
I'm practicing. I'm practicing every day. Listen, I'd show you how the feet supposed to go
Is that a cripple joke?
No, you can make the jokes I can't
Was that how it works? You can't do it. Look at these hood rats and fasting my neighborhood Jesus. I
Wish they all just went away
That way we could keep it pure like the good old days
Jesus good sure even talking to anybody just by herself
Hey
There are no criminals here. You know that loitering is illegal, right?
Not that your kind of people like to follow the rules, but as long as I'm here
I'm gonna make sure that this neighborhood is safe. Oh my god care being so rude lady. Yeah
We're not criminals for people just like you we live here
You do not live here. You filthy rat. Oh now give me that ball and get out of my neighborhood
Man, we're not giving you our ball. That's stealing. It's our ball
If you don't give me that ball right now, I'm gonna call the police and tell them that you assaulted me
Why would you lie like that? I've done nothing wrong to you. Who do you think they're gonna believe, huh?
Oh my god, like you or a sweet scared little white lady like me
Roy just give her the ball. Let's get out. You fucking cuck. It's not worth the trouble. Yeah
Listen to your friend Tyrone
Jesus
Oh
Okay, hold on this is like this is like if you asked Twitter to
Create a racist woman. This is who they would create
Now that's a good little slave
Wait, is this like a BDSM thing? Oh my god my ball you got issues lady get out
Get out
Come on
Don't fucking drop a man don't don't tip him over that's what I thought. I hope I never see those thugs running around my neighborhood again
Jesus Christ
Everybody get up. It's now okay
Hey baby, how was your day?
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa slow down there champ. Is everything okay?
It's fine
It's nothing. I'm just tired
Roy some awful acting, you know, I'm your mother and mothers always know when their children are lying to them
Talk to me. Yes Queen. What's the matter?
This racist white lady was calling me name
Wait a second, wait a second
This racist white hold on he he fucks the line up
He says racy instead of racist and they they put it in the subtitle. Well, I just reshoot the scene dude
Calling me names and Brendan to call the cops if I didn't leave the basketball court. I didn't do nothing
When did this happen just now? Yes me and Vince were playing and she just gave it to us screaming at us
Dude you're like 35 Roy. I
Know that you miss your father and that everything has been crazy since the accident. I miss him, too
He always knew what to say when something bad happened. But unfortunately, he's his music dude
Roy
You might be disabled, but you can still stand up for yourself
If somebody is pushing you around and trying to intimidate you don't let them do that
You should let them know that they shouldn't be doing that. You got it
You tell them I know they don't attack all of this is scary
I get scared you get scared, but that doesn't mean you don't stand up for yourself. Okay?
Even your father got scared
Yes, really
Look
These two are like the same age. You may be too young to remember
But your father and I used to have a crazy white neighbor who used to always bother us just because we were black
America he tried to get us evicted
He lied and said that we would play our music too loud and that we damaged his property
But you know what your father and I never let him win
Weren't you scared? We had black lives matter on our side. It's terrifying having a crazy white neighbor trying to mess up your life
But it's not about being scared. It's about standing up for yourself while being scared
But it's a hard model, I don't know if I can do it. I'm stuck in this room. Sure Roy
You're not these people need the paycheck. You're capable
Someone do you like that?
Crazy white lady anymore. Oh my god, but you have a right to be outside
Don't let her take that from you. You got that
Yes, ma and call me right away the next time something like this happens
Nobody is gonna be out there messing with my boy. You're my baby
now
Go ahead. Get some rest
You've had a long day. All right
Ma I shit my pants. Can you help me out first?
Thanks so much for cheering me on
Let me just get in here
Oh
Good morning, sweetie the next day. Hold on. We're at 707. Okay
Here's the whip cracking scene which we haven't seen yet
Earlier that day
Did they fuck up their own timeline?
Cuz it seems like this scene is gonna happen the next day
In fact, she's wearing different clothes like look at her. She has like this clothes and then in the previous day
She's wearing these clothes
So they have like they have the continuity right but they didn't put in the proper title card. Morning, sweetie
You passed out like a rock. How did you sleep?
Good, I guess I was tired
well, I
Guess don't be too tired because I need you to give this a try. Oh my gosh
Bob you bought me a new basketball. Yes, I did and I want you to go down to the basketball court and have some fun
But mom, what about?
Remember what we talked about don't live in fear, honey
I think he's actually older than her just a phone call away
The basketball court is five minutes down the street
And if you call me, I'll be there to go and have some fun. Okay. Okay, I'll go. Thanks so much mom. I love you
Oh
I'm on my way out now benches text me. He'll be there. Oh
Okay, I gotta go. Okay. Have fun
Hey Vince
New ball is what took you so long slowpoke, dude. Remember wheelchair. Okay
Okay, I see you got a new basketball
Want to play a game let's do it. All right, show me what you got
Here we go
She just has a fucking whip oh
My god
What did I tell you criminals about coming back to my neighborhood what the fuck just get out of here no Vince
I won't let her ruin our fun
Listen lady, we aren't breaking any laws by having fun here at the park. I won't let you intimidate us anymore
Are you talking back to me?
Holy shit, okay
Listen, I don't know if you guys know but us white people we just walk around with whips, you know
Just in case slavery comes back. We're always prepared for that shit. Okay
We tuck them away in our in our pockets in our purses Jesus
I don't know what in the fuck the person who made this video is thinking it was even a person
That did a human aside from the actors even touch this or is it all like AI generated like the scripts?
There's like a drone camera going around just like okay time to record with that right now
Don't you touch him or I will knock your teeth out if you're hitting his legs
Help he just bails
You disabled crippled piece of trash
No one's coming for you you're not worth it you and your kind
Now it's been what 180 years since slavery was abolished
And I'm gonna give you a lash for every year
That that god-given right was taken away got me I don't care
I wonder what how that the actress files were saying the shoes won't break my spirit
My mom told me not to be afraid of evil people like you and where's your mama now, huh?
It's just you and me
So let's have a little fun. She is having fun with this role
Here's my oh, yeah
Nobody messes with my boy like that lady
You ought to be ashamed of yourself Vince call the cops and tell them that there's a lunatic at the park going around whipping people
I'm gonna punch this this bitch
Yeah, we have a hate crime at Greensboro Park. I hate crime one to be fair. Yes, it is this time
Baby, are you okay? Yes, mom. She me a few times, but I didn't let her break my spirit or scare me away
Just like you told me to do. Yeah good
I'm glad you didn't let evil win. Your father would be so proud that thing has a father. Shut it
I'm not through with you yet. I'm gonna make sure you go to jail for a long time
Who do you think they're gonna believe huh a criminal or an innocent white lady? Don't worry about that
I was recording the entire time you were attacking Roy now. We have all the evidence. We need to lock you up. Yeah
She
Ain't even fighting man. She's just
You know, even with that video against me, you're not winning a trial. They're gonna rule in my favor. They always do
Okay, they know that you people are criminals and liars and crack dealers lady
I don't know why you have so much hate in your heart, but good will always win over because the script says so
Quite I'm running out of patience with you. Trust me. You don't want her to run out of patience
Oh
Hey the cops are here
Once the cops arrived Vince showed them the video evidence of Mallory whipping Roy
Mallory was arrested and sent to jail everyone claps
However, Roy and Vince continued to enjoy playing basketball without anyone bothering them again
It's good to treat everyone with what you standing up. It was all fake
It's okay to stand up for yourself when someone treats you bad, even if it's scary
Hmm
Like
That feels like it should have been a a cartoon PSA
For like six year olds or something, you know
but no someone actually filmed that and
Edited it and put it up with the music and the acting and and the script now this video has been taken down off the channel
Um, probably because it's even for a channel like this
It's just too over-the-top and I get it if you're gonna make a PSA for kids
I don't even know who the fuck is the same for let's assume it's kids
If you're making PSA for kids, you have to make the conflict very exaggerated because this is not how
Real racism in 2022 operates. You're not gonna get an angry white lady with a whip
Attacking black people on the basketball court. It's the most distilled form of all of the various like viral tik-toks of
Crazy people screaming slurs and getting recorded and then getting arrested or like starting fights in restaurants or whatever
That's what this channel basically is and I guess what what this is is these people here generation
Hope they figured out that there is an audience for these kind of viral videos. So they're like fuck it
We'll just make them
What does make?
Videos that are like aped off of actual real-life viral videos and will turn them into public service
Announcements and we'll write them for five-year-olds with brain damage
Racist cops arrest black family what happens next is shocking wait cop mistreats black mother
What happens next is shocking evil son?
Poisons mother for her money. What happens next is shocking
They're just they're using the same title for each one of these dude
I did decide to look this up and last summer on The New York Times
There was an article done on this channel the internet demands uplifting videos
So he stages them dar mon and other wholesome channels combine the high-definition
Slickness of today's at YouTube content with the feel of a corporate training video
It's all people being assholes simulated assholes and they're getting their simulated co-op
Watch enough of man's videos and you can't help noticing how ruthlessly and tactically they employ up-to-the-minute caricatures and stereotypes
Fine-tuned to soar within YouTube's algorithm numerous videos rip off the theme of white Karen's accusing black men of crimes
These are stories we already know having watched the real-life versions go viral man recognizing our appetite for more
Obliges by staging it but he also comforts us by ensuring that the antagonists always get their comeuppance the smooth conclusion
We're denied in the real world and he flatters us by making the problematic character
So obviously wrong that we have no choice but to identify with goodness and often to feel bizarrely
Moved by the uplifting outcome. We always knew was coming like this has been kind of fun and goofy
That video was fucking ridiculous and I understand now why they took it down because holy shit
I don't think you can make the claim that we live in this
perpetually terminally racist society where the white patriarchy rules over everyone and all white people are just
Fucking devils when there is so little
Racism that people have to stage it for YouTube videos to satisfy that demand of bad people getting their comeuppance
I do think it says something about the state of our world if you have to stage
Racism for racism to be relevant and also that there is such an appetite for anti-racism that channels like this can
Survive and thrive on the internet. No, I'm gonna do here. I'm gonna start a Kickstarter
I want you guys all to donate to the Kickstarter. I'm gonna do a series of
PSA is like this but it's gonna be for gamers
Okay
how gamers are oppressed and we're gonna do like
Gamer kids sitting down playing games and then like mean girls come up and beat the shit out of them
I'm gonna do it. I can hear the music in my head already
You have like the slow piano when the kid goes home with like a black eye and is that his Super Nintendo cartridge is broken
This is gonna go gangbusters guys. All right, that's what I've got for you today. Hope you enjoyed it
Hope you enjoyed the ridiculousness
That is generation
Hope as always I'm on the gaming channel tonight to game boomers and I will see you there or I'll see you next time
Have a good one. I love you
