This meme kind of felt like the end of an era.
There was once a time when Shrek and Cringe Culture were apex contenders of dankness.
Now they're just like all the rest.
The Shrek camera meme basically closed the book on that chapter of meme history.
When a boilerplate Impact font image macro meme manages to one-up your entire genre,
you know it's probably time to move on.
Who knows, maybe Impact text is the new dank.
Uh oh, it's a trendy sports image which is usually a death sentence for any meme.
So is it bad that I kinda like it?
Maybe it's because this image can so accurately depict how I feel about some of the other
memes on this list.
As soon as this thing came out, I told you all that this meme sucked, and you all jumped
down my throat calling me the fun police.
Well guess what morons, this shitty meme died after three days and was never heard from
again.
Snap, that one's going in my told you so compilation.
Sucks!
What's even the point of this meme?
You're just stating a preference.
Why waste all this useless rigamarole at the top when all you're saying is, duh this thing
is the best.
What a worthless excuse for a meme.
What are you possibly doing?
This meme is eh, pretty interchangeable, not too innovative, not really even that funny,
and I'm pretty sure the only reason this got popular was because there was pretty much
nothing else going on in the meme world at the time.
This is a meme specifically engineered by Roasty Thought Whores in an attempt to socially
engineer the normie population.
Do not share this meme under any circumstances.
This is not a drill.
I am officially putting this meme under quarantine.
Uh oh, a four panel webcomic meme template.
Is this Lost 2?
Sadly no, it's just a marginally funny meme.
It's just ALMAO 2.
But that was from three years ago and this meme is different enough to stand on its own.
I guess we're starting to run out of original meme archetypes and recycling old memes is
just easier.
I guess Despacito 2 may have been onto something.
It's been done.
Ah now this is the real Lost 2.
Finally we seem to have a new minimalist template to carry the torch from Lost.
These types of memes are really solid and unlike most memes these days they actually
last a while.
I hope to see more like them in the future.
From the creators of the Spongebob title card meme comes playing a random sound over
a scene from Regular Show.
Seriously this is so bland and unoriginal.
YouTube poopers were making these memes back in 2010.
And yeah I get that it's hard to make an original meme these days but if you're gonna shamelessly
recycle ideas you could at least make it funny like Howard the Alien.
This Regular Show meme is so lame that I think it gave me ligma.
Lick my balls!
Well that's all the memes for June and July.
Some good some not so good.
Why call the series memes of the month if you're just gonna arbitrarily skip months
whenever you feel like it?
That's a good question.
