I'm back. I'm back. Kinda. Naomi brought home COVID from work. This is my third time having
it. Jesus. Maybe I should have gotten vaxxed after all. Her and I, we've both been sick
for like at least a week. Her longer than me. My editor Dave, he was sick for like two
or three days. He got vaccinated. So if you're out there doubting if the vaccine works, there's
a living experiment for you. And I've been hitting it with all the over-the-counter stuff
that I can. I hit it with Buckley's. Actually, I don't think Americans know what Buckley's
is. It's a Canadian medicine. I even had some Nyquil. And oh my god, I hate Nyquil at this
point. God. No more. But at least I didn't do this with it. Have you guys seen this?
Using Nyquil chicken? I've done this in the past and usually I use about, you know, four
thirds of the bottle. And if it's your first time doing this, you can get away with using
about a fifth. Season that Nyquil in there just at the right temperature. You're gonna
want to let it sit there and sizzle for about, you know, five to 30 minutes. Make sure you're
constantly flipping over the chicken. You don't want to give one side more attention
than the other. Sometimes this steam really makes you sleepy. Oh fuck. What you're looking
for is that blue color right there. Alright, then you can go ahead and turn it off. Ooh
yeah, that steam baby. Drain the unused right back into the Nyquil can just like so. And
boom, Nyquil chicken. My god. How, how fucking dumb do you have to be? This apparently actually
got its start over on 4chan. Like all other memes, they eventually go from the chans down
onto TikTok or onto 9gag or whatever, or whatever sites you kids use nowadays. Well,
when the Nyquil chicken challenge went viral, the internet was quick to point out that boiling
a medication can make it much more concentrated and change its properties in other ways. Even
if you don't eat the chicken, inhaling the medications vapors while cooking could cause
high levels of the drugs to enter your body. It could also hurt your lungs. And it got
to the point that the FDA had to issue a warning against a TikTok trend of kids cooking chicken
with Nyquil. And it's about at this point in the story that I realized I hate TikTok.
I hate TikTok trends. I think I even hate internet trends at this point, though I didn't
used to. Like what were the big deal internet challenges back in the day? You had like the,
you had the ice bucket challenge, you know, where people dump ice and water on their heads
and you had like videos of celebrities doing it and it was some kind of good charitable
cause. It was kind of goofy. It was kind of stupid, but everyone had a good laugh out
of it or stuff like Gangnam Style or the Harlem Shake. This is all just the challenges of
the past were just funny dances that you could do and take a video of and post them online.
There's a bunch of not safe for work type challenges where girls tried to do sexy poses
that are kind of unrealistic. Oh, there was that one, the one finger challenge that came
out of Japan where a girl has to like use one finger to block both her tits and her
vag using a mirror. You know, they get, they get a bit risque sometimes, but they were
ultimately still like safe challenges. They weren't like incredibly stupid. You know,
I know that I'm a child of the, of the two thousands. So I recall people watching jackass
and stuff and wanting to do like crazy jumps on their skateboards and they break their
legs or they jump off things and they hurt themselves. Like, yeah, okay. There, there
was stuff like that, but those always had at least a chance of success. If you land
with a jump, then you're a hero. What possible success is there in eating NyQuil chicken?
And it's not just NyQuil chicken. Online challenges have become like purely fucking
retarded. Remember the whole tide pod thing where you had zoomers who were eating tide
pods like tide pod challenge? Why? Why? Or the coronavirus challenge where you had people
licking toilet, like public toilet seats. Why? Are you that desperate to go viral? Maybe
I'm just getting too old for this shit, but like, fuck. Here's one challenge that I missed
from a 2021 called devious licks or a, or a diabolical lick as the, as the Wikipedia
page says, it was a viral TikTok challenge in which American middle or high school students
posted videos of themselves stealing, vandalizing or showing off one or more items they stole
in their school. They look at some of this shit. People stealing the fire alarms or stealing
the clocks out of their schools. This is wild. I mean, it's funny if I were still in school,
I'd be laughing like hell at this, but Jesus TikTok fame was leading people to do some
crazy stuff. This motherfucker stole a sign from subway. Look at this. Can you, can you
fucking imagine like your dad walks into the room, son, why is there a subway sign hanging
in your fucking bedroom? To be fair, you know, back in the day we're talking like the seventies
in the eighties, uh, kids would steal stop signs all the time. They'd take a stop sign
down from a, from a corner than paying up in their room. You know, I have, um, an older
cousin. I was, I was visiting his parents with my parents and he had since moved out,
but his stuff was still there and you had a stop sign and I was like, oh, that's cool.
You know, being like a seven year old. So this is not exactly unique to the zoomers,
but holy fuck. Here's the thing though. You can't actually find any of these videos anymore
because if you go to TikTok and search a devious licks, you get this page. There's
nothing here. There's no videos. There's a view resources. Assess challenges and warnings.
Stop. Yeah. So this trend got so big on TikTok and it was so illegal. TikTok had to be like,
no, you can't post this anymore. But Oh man, we haven't even started going down the rabbit
hole. Y'all remember this? The Holocaust TikTok challenge where girls would, would
dress up in makeup as Holocaust victims and pretend to be like talking from beyond the
grave. Like what the fuck? What could possibly be going through your head that you thought
this was a good idea. This is how you want to be known. Here's how I'll get internet
famous guys. I'll cosplay as Anne fucking Frank. But at least those people know that
they're playing a part. They're not actually spirits of reincarnated Holocaust victims
or something. This next group of people. Oh my God. Everyone that I'm about to show you,
they actually believe this stuff. It seems to be the case that every 10 year old alternative
or emo girl goes through a, you know, a, a wiccan phase. They're casting spells in
their, in their basement, hoping that their Christian parents don't notice. They grow
out of that when they hit high school, usually, you know, maybe when they hit college. But
uh, some of these people, they actually believe this shit and they have spell tutorials on
TikTok. You want to know how to cast your own black magic spells, Manifex manifesting
and magic. 350,000 fucking followers. Who are the, who are the absolute rubes? The idiots
who believe in this shit. Oh my God. An energy session. We gotta, we gotta see this.
It sounds like she's speaking Valerian from game of thrones. God, look at this stuff.
What is this? A sacred release. What the fuck is this?
Oh my God.
Yeah, this is me on a day one or day two of my coronavirus infection.
What we're currently watching are called light language frequencies,
where the guy is drastically humping the air because he really wants to fuck this chick.
This feels vaguely racist.
I don't know why, but this is how you do it guys. This is how you cure cancer, whatever
else it ails you. Just have some chick go over you and go, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me. This
bitch makes money doing this. This is a more useless job than mine. This one's doing like
tuning fork magic. 800,000 followers. What the fuck? How the fuck is this is what's popular on
the internet nowadays. Am I just an old man? Did I, did I miss, did I miss things? What's basically
going on here is as soon as the millennial hipster woman aged out of their twenties and became Karens,
their internet trends also changed to accommodate that new life status. Meet the modern hipster
witches making a fortune from casting spells. I'm in the wrong fucking profession dude. Fuck.
Georgia Burns and Harmony Nice, two young Wiccan witches. Like these were the girls that back in
high school you would hang out with them because they might not be quite as bitchy as the blondes
and you could get into their pants pretty easily just by like sharing some weed with them.
But now Jesus Christ, they're alternating between working in HR departments and getting you fired
during the day and then at night on TikTok they're doing shit like this. But it gets even crazier
dude. You think we're done? Allow me to introduce you to the hashtag shift talk. These are people,
these are people who believe that using magic spells you can find on TikTok, you can shift
towards alternate universes like like Berenstain, Berenstain kind of thing. You can jump between
realities where the world is just slightly different and you can inhabit a different self,
a different you that exists in that other reality. Why is it always white women doing
this shit man? Oh my god this chick looks like someone I went to high school with. I hope it's
not her. Part of the whole shift talk thing are these codes. You see these numbers? Look at this,
shifting realities. Shut up. Okay look cheat codes for manifestations. Write them down,
say them aloud, write them in the air. You can use this code to lucid dream, this code to shift
realities, this code for good health. You just write these numbers in the air. These are these
are zoomer cheat codes guys and if you put these codes down somewhere the universe will manifest
what you want. Look at this person, look at this person. The money one definitely works. My grandma
keeps giving me money for no reason. It's because she's your grandma dude. Now believe it or not
these codes actually have um a basis outside of TikTok and they're called Grabavoy codes
and if you search Grabavoy codes on TikTok you're gonna see oh my god how to use you what is this
like this dude is involved in it too are you are you that desperate buddy? But anyway how to use
the Grabavoy numbers all right and everyone's talking about Grabavoy numbers. Oh my god guys
here's how you hack the universe. What's actually going on here is that these Grabavoy codes that
zoomers are trying to input into reality. God I can't believe this is what we're doing today.
The Grabavoy codes were invented by mathematician Grigory Grabavoy who is from Russia. He was
convicted of fraud in 2008 for promising the parents of children killed in a school shooting
that he could resurrect their kids and it's basically just his old scam from 2008 given
new life on TikTok. Hopefully it's clear at this point that TikTok is full of retardation right?
Nothing of value is found on this fucking hell site and despite that I'm probably going to have
to start doing like SFO clips on there because it's the place where all the eyeballs are nowadays
and these are the people that the Biden administration is using to reach out
and hype the democrats accomplishments. These are the people these are the ones we're going
to outreach to the youth of today. I'm sure y'all remember this with this whoever the fuck this guy
is. One sec democracy's calling see you daddy bye. Hi my name is Cooper and this is a day in my life
as a white house intern. I'm just going to pause it I'm not going to make you watch the whole thing
Jesus Christ. This was cringy enough back back when it went viral we don't got to do it again
do we? Do you really want to see it? You can go find it again. Fuck I hated this video it was on
twitter everywhere when it went viral last year but it's not just this fella you have fashion
TikTokers like this right? Clearly she's just here to look good she gets hits for being hot putting
on pretty clothes you know there's I don't I don't consider this content I can just go fucking whack
off on pornhub I don't care about this shit right but for some reason everyone loves stuff like this
okay so she's uh clearly good looking and she has she has her thing going for her but the Biden
administration paid her to do this. Why is gas so expensive and why is the United States inflation
rate at a four-time decade high? I had the opportunity to ask the White House why gas down
the street is seven dollars and here's what they said the obvious reason we're getting out of a
two-year pandemic you know I don't I don't actually care to listen to all of the obviously fed
lines from the Biden White House that she's just reading off because there's no way that she is
intelligent enough to understand any of this shit that's happening but the point is why this chick
why are they getting thirst trap girls to do this it's just it reeks of desperation this is maybe
this is just me showing my age right but when I was younger going viral meant you hit like the
front page new grounds maybe maybe it meant you actually did something really interesting like
like the epic mealtime guys when they went viral back in like 2006 or 2007 whatever it was
they actually were making really cool interesting videos I mean they were ridiculous they were
eating like a hundred thousand calories of food but still it was it was actually a thing that was
happening it took effort it hadn't it took an idea and then them executing the idea even as
viral videos moved on from ridiculous feats and into things like stupid dances
or even just thirst traps like like the whole um the okay boomer girl nico lol right or the gorilla
glue girl who like just did dumb shit with her hair like I think that was kind of the moment
where it started to hit when we saw viral videos and tik tok trends and internet challenges
go from do this ridiculous thing that you're amazing if you pull off to
do this absolutely brain dead fucking loser thing it just makes everyone hate you and think that
you're a retard because after that we got shit like the tide pods and people licking ice cream
and putting it back into onto the shelves it just seems to me like the internet and going viral and
making content was a lot more interesting when it wasn't just pure fucking retards doing like the
most brain dead dumbest lowest denomination shit to desperately try and go viral back when it was
like produced videos or reviews or even just like let's plays and streams that's better than the
garbage we're seeing nowadays jesus tik tok and its consequences have been a disaster for the
human race i kind of wish that covid had fucking taken me finally
