Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time.
And boy, don't we have a topic that everyone was anticipating me to cover.
Well looky here, now you get your wish.
I had a few topics to pick out of the hat, but I found such a fascinating one today that
I couldn't possibly ignore it, and it's obviously in part about the titular character,
Mr Shane Dawson here.
Shane Dawson, like a lot of people we talk about on this channel, is a YouTuber, I'm
sure many of you are already aware of this, but if you somehow just discovered this platform
and you've had the pleasure of this beautiful accent introducing you, that's what he is,
a YouTuber.
But he's not just any old YouTuber, he's not a geek off the street, he is one of the first
YouTubers to gain prominence on the platform.
This was mainly through his channel, Shane Dawson TV, the TV there clearly making it
sound nice and professional.
He uploaded these comedy sketch star videos, an iconic classic being Fred is Dead, in which
Shane Dawson appropriately kills Fred so he can establish himself as the most popular
YouTuber on the platform, which you know, I'm not complaining about.
Anyhow that was a simpler time, but as a creator it is necessary that you evolve with the times,
so as charming as these sketches and short films were, it appears that they were brought
to an end on that channel at the close of 2016.
What took its place though?
Well his third channel, Shane, yes he had three channels, busy bloke.
Now Shane was originally set up as a vlog channel, in the day it was almost like a back
up for him letting his followers know what's up and what's going down, with little jokes
and memes.
Nonetheless still with some pretty saucy clickbait, there was no throwaway thumbnail to Shane
it seems.
Anyhow in case you haven't noticed, with the increasing accessibility to high quality
equipment, vlogging has emerged in the past few years as a huge genre, along with this
other genres that crept into the public eye are mystery genres, list genres, and commentary.
Therefore Shane did what any person with a level head would do in those situations, and
made this Shane channel dedicated to morphing all of those genres together, which is pretty
damn genius.
Although as a creator, Shane was definitely aware of the consequences of mixing a range
of genres that are too diverse from each other, and something that his associate Bobby Burns
would soon find out.
And so he tended to mesh them, in a very similar style that would bring back the audience for
each video, allowing organic views to turn into suggested views, and this would grow
out some great content that had mass appeal to the multitudes of audiences, dedicated
and casual.
Bobby chose this channel probably because it had the best potential fanbase, and as
said, if you tried to mix these views with already established content in a rather distinctly
incompatible style, the algorithms loathe it.
So I believe this was a smart move.
On top of this, he would make some more personal videos that would branch out his character
and the relationship that he had with the audience, in a way he was building an empire.
The Shane brand not just being an interesting expansion of content for him, but also branching
out on the elements of his character, dissecting his childhood, relationships, and asking
a lot of questions with no clear answers.
It's emotionally riveting stuff, it really is.
I feel therefore it was an appropriate succession to continue into these documentary style videos,
that deal with many of the components that Shane had dealt with in the past, just in
a more bombastic fashion, and under the guise of an individual problem or person which is
then branched out to implicitly deal with other questions, that's typically what any
video that's not just a basic reaction video will do, but obviously there are tiers to
this, and Dawson Clear wanted to do top tier.
Now I recently covered the Tea Spilling saga, of which one of the people I covered was Jeffree
Star.
Jeffree Star has been in the public eye for a while, in fact he's a very prominent individual
clearly, however given the sort of brewing tea in that community, it made sense that
Shane would be interested in covering such controversial figures, however in my video
I note that this whole beauty community kind of dominated the summer and pushed other figures
like the Pauls into the background, even though they were arguably behaving much worse than
any of the beauty commentators in question.
So when Shane announced his next set of videos were going to be on Jake Paul, people were
a tad surprised, here is this topic that in a way is kinda dead and buried, and if Shane
was going to pull out his shovel, he was going to have to dig deep to find some interesting
content.
Now there was a natural air of hype surrounding this, following the success of both his previous
series, and this gave it a natural boost, but the first episode was rather low key for
him, and the second one came out, and although no one could deny it was fantastic production
value, there were some critics who felt that what he was discussing was fairly unnecessary.
Why is that?
Well, for a multitude of reasons, but we'll try and break them down, the first one being
that Jake Paul is a dead topic, everyone has an opinion, love him, hate him, and although
Shane can bring the melodrama, which he did without a doubt, we weren't going to be filled
in with any new narratives.
The one that Shane has taken on is whether Jake Paul is a sociopath, which is an interesting
narrative but one he kind of abandoned by the final episode.
Jake Paul definitely displays certain traits of a sociopath, and Dawson cleverly leaves
each part very open ended on that question, at the end of the day we shouldn't be going
around diagnosing someone formally, and that is implicitly assumed, that nothing is being
factually defined here.
However, even with that noted, many people question the point and the implications, at
the end of the day, what Jake Paul does, whether Jake Paul himself is a sociopath or not, is
kind of besides the point, he behaves terribly.
I don't make videos that are out to defend people, in fact I think I criticise more regularly
than most gents, and that gets under some people's skins, and then they get annoyed
and tell me to make original content as if using a topic that exists is somehow unoriginal,
but that's just me being bitchy.
What I found quite interesting this time around was that many approached Shane's series
with a highly critical eye, I think this was in part due to its size, and the ambitions,
I think there are a lot of levels that we can analyse this on, but this time I'm going
to discuss why I believe that the choice of Jake Paul was the correct decision, however
the subsequent handling was a mixed bag, while also attempting to be sympathetic towards
the criticisms.
I think however to understand the weight of the Jake Paul series, you have to understand
Shane first, so that's what I want to do today.
There are a lot of discussions about the original series, so in an attempt to give my video
more of an original spin, I'll be looking at Shane Dawson as much as we look at Jake
Paul, however to understand this we have to take a closer look at Shane's content, and
Shane himself, so without further ado, I suggest we have a little chat.
We've already discussed briefly how Shane Dawson's content really is the goldmine
in many different ways, and in 2018 that has really cemented him as a force to be reckoned
with, but there's a lot more to break down within the content that explores how it's
brought us to this moment, so I'm going to split this part into three separate points,
purpose, tone, and production.
So the first question is, a very broad one, what is the purpose of his content?
What does Shane set out to do when he makes a video, other than to make some sweet dollar?
After all, if the answer was just that, this video would be over a lot sooner, so he does
a fairly tight job of that.
I'd say the most important word that comes to mind is exploration, and this is reflected
within all forms of content, he explores conspiracy theories, he explores haunted mansions, he
explores himself.
The last one is exceptionally important, after all the channel is Shane, a lot of the channels
tend to explore these topics, some are merely structured as list channels, with some anonymous
hosts like Brightside, you know, the channel with that guy who sounds like he smoked some
crack before recording, to be fair a lot of them sound like that.
I assume it's a more focus tested measure, and it works, the clickbait is disgustingly
good.
On the other hand, you have a mix, with someone like Matthew Santoro, who definitely integrates
his personality into his content, but still leaves it secondary.
Shane is a different kind of worm, because his personality is often integrated into his
content as a facet that runs alongside the topic of his video, and there's this mystery
perpetuated around his life, whether it's one of his friends who was sent to prison,
whether it's the relationship between him and his parents, Shane Dawson is an inherently
interesting person, who has built up a persona, and as mentioned in my animators video, we're
arguably in YouTube's most introspective era, people wanted creators who weren't
going to put on a facade, and for someone like Shane this was the perfect time to go
and explore himself.
I think another important point is that these explorations of self were not just limited
to Shane, as I've said before, the art of an endearing on-screen character in this
day and age is that you can take something that is specific to yourself and make other
people feel that, and this is where the tone comes into play, because it is an equally
important element of content creation that you can project a message, or a theme through
a tonally consistent presentation.
Shane covers topics with a lot of sympathy, and always seeks to discover someone else's
perspective, for example, for a long time he had a lot of animosity towards his father,
someone who had caused him a lot of emotional turmoil, in a way he had communicated a lot
of his emotions through that old content.
The new Shane took the established portrait that he had painted of his father, and peeled
it away in arguably one of his most sympathetic videos, it was an attempt to understand the
pain, he often asks a lot of open, general questions, which I think really allows people
to put themselves in his shoes, and it definitely reaches others who may have a similar experience.
I had a problem connecting with you, I felt like you didn't know how to talk to me, or
maybe you would get annoyed with me, or maybe I was too much, or I remember I used to put
towels on my head and pretend like it was a wig, and just like a lot of crazy things
and I felt like maybe, I don't know, I just felt like maybe you didn't get it.
The title of the video is Confronting My Dad, and I think confronting is probably the most
appropriate word, not just the double meaning which makes a pretty damn great clickbait,
but also because that double meaning means he could have taken that confrontation in
a hostile environment, but actually sees it as attempting to resolve an incredibly
difficult situation.
Now we talk a lot about his production, which is obviously very dramatic and will reach
that bridge in a moment, but in my opinion the tone is equally aided by a lot of energy
within the interactions held between the people within these videos.
One video that stood out to me was Shane's video I'm Done, which really might seem
to many just to be a pointless video of Shane going round trying to do things, but being
thwarted at pretty much every turn, it really could have just been a throwaway set of deep
thoughts.
Yet the interaction between Shane, those around him, and particularly the cameraman carries
this unique energy that can honestly make anything interesting, equally as we'll see
in the Jake Paul series, the chemistry that Dawson and the cameraman have is definitely
helped by the production value that often makes situations rather tense, and then cutting
the tension with a joke or a burst of laughter that can often evoke laughter from the audience
too, as when we're nervous we tend to be more prone to such mechanisms.
And this is important because we come to these documentaries and we typically see them as
this picture of other people, Tana Mongeau, Jeffree Star, and they're equally as much
about Shane as they are about the people in the documentaries, and that simple fact
makes these stories all the more compelling because Shane has this presence like very
few other people, and even if as a fan you're not necessarily interested in the subject
of his video, the fact that you have someone like Shane on screen almost taking you personally
through it dissolves that potential boredom that you might feel, so I think a lot of people
tend to give too much credit to the production, because although it's excellent, and once
again we'll delve into the details of that in a moment, you still need something to hold
it down. There have been some movies with fantastic production value, but the characters
are just so shit that no flashy visual is gonna work, so here equally Shane's persona
is important, what about that persona? Well as mentioned I could really switch persona
out for personality, because he wants people to see this as him, the sort of guy next door
who is almost overwhelmed by the way that things have played out and put him in this
position, and I'm not sceptical that this may be the case, and because of this it creates
a connection to the viewer to see someone react in a way that they would in these situations.
I find Shane's content to be attempting to balance formula with individuality, if you
lean too much into the former, you'll come across as inauthentic and end up with that
bright side style content, which although successful right now, will be forgotten, if
you lean too much towards individuality, you'll end up with shapeless videos, so his persona
is an excellent mediator, and with production, well we have to discuss that too because it
has been the attraction of acclaim, and stigma in the past few weeks, we've had countless
videos on YouTube of manipulation in the last year, the sort of stuff that Prince EA does,
you play the emotional music and it gets to people, and suddenly they believe you're
a messiah, but in the last year people have become increasingly aware of that, and although
inspirational speakers are by no means off the platform, I'd say the audience is more
soccer mum suffering a mid-life crisis, people on the commentary side have a more critical
eye, and that means that he has to have a dramatic tone that suits, but doesn't feel
like it's trying to manipulate the framing.
Now we as people have weird standards, we don't mind certain emotions being manipulated,
but we do get annoyed if others are, the one we'd probably like to keep most protected
is that of pity, everyone knows that a sad, emotional YouTuber turning on the camera to
stare at you, take a deep breath, and then let the emotional piano music play.
So with Shane in a way, although we do get a lot of dramatic moments, arguably the best
of his content is when he lets all that production value go, and carries the moment with his
personality, and that's what in a way makes him more endearing than a lot of creators.
On the other hand, we have some ideas of the unknown, mystery, we love them to be blown
out of proportion because it fascinates and stimulates us, and that's what Shane does,
he knows what people are most skeptical of being dramatised and feigned, and grips those
moments with his personality, and then takes what people enjoy and makes the most significant
thing happening in their lives.
We don't like our perception of people manipulated, but when dealing with concepts like conspiracy
theories, we kinda crave it.
Dawson does a good job of making each video a visceral experience, while at the same time
never appearing like he's set on taking advantage of it, finding that balance of person
and production.
Which brings us to his latest venture of content.
So going back to Jake Paul, with all this in mind, people did give Dawson some stick
for his second episode, particularly in how he dramatised the nature of being a sociopath.
You see, this was an interesting concept, as the notion of sociopathy is kinda scary,
is kinda dramatic, is kinda mysterious, is kinda out there, sociopaths may appear to
be a bit threatening.
Shane did what he normally did with these concepts, and played it off in this huge way,
even down to the minor details, like synchronising winks with intense percussion, however in
doing that he also annoyed a few people who felt humanity within the subject.
At the end of the day, whether we like it or not, sociopaths are people, and kinda framing
it to be this awful, world-ending nature, well, some people felt that this was insensitive.
I think in this instance it is a case of separating the sociopathy from the sociopath, and maybe
Shane treated it with a bit too much overlap which rubbed people the wrong way, but I also
think that I understood where he was coming from, and at the end of the day he had to
include some people, because it is an inherently human problem.
The problem is that some people see sociopaths as people suffering from conditions beyond
their control, and attempt to brand the condition in such a way kinda puts Jake Paul's questionable
actions under a shallow explanation, as not every sociopath behaves like Jake Paul.
The whole episode's point was kinda lost because at the end of the day, even though
sociopathy is a serious thing that can cause a threat to those around you, it doesn't
really change the fact that people are individuals, and so what if Jake Paul's a sociopath or
not?
Some actions still shouldn't have been committed regardless of the actor's mental state,
I think many people don't want an explanation, they want action.
But on the other hand, I kinda liked the tone, even though it was more theoretical
than anything else.
I think within the context of Shane's channel, and Shane's journey, it was the right thing
to do.
Why is that?
Well, his first documentary series was about TanaCon, this famous little disaster, and
at the centre of TanaCon was the titular character, Tana Moncho.
Tana is a very curious and polarising character on the platform, many have claimed that she
is disingenuous, and after the whole iDubbb situation, you can kinda see why, and so when
Shane came in from this angle, we all knew that he was going to give it his treatment
of providing it from a sympathetic perspective.
But even with that said, what we got was a series with a very emotional ending, and a
very riveting last episode with an emotional Tana Moncho, and many people were won over
by this.
However, many people also said, well honestly I think Shane was a bit too soft on Tana,
because at the end of the day, regardless of the remorse that she might feel, it still
happened, and she shouldn't just be able to cry her way into a position of sanctity.
So this is how Shane's always been, finding the other person's perspective and hearing
them out, however this is what leads us to the necessity of the Jake Paul series.
Firstly Jake Paul is hated, he has been the recipient of countless amounts of criticism
by commentators, he's insensitive, obnoxious, and frankly rather unlikable, and personality
aside he has been called out for multiple wrongdoings and major mishaps, while frequently
showing little regard or remorse or motivation to reconcile these problems or criticisms.
After all it might just be the formula that made him famous, why would he change it?
Shane's outlook on this situation is ambitious to say the least, but as with anything you
have to raise the stakes or else the audience becomes disinterested.
Secondly Shane Dawson has gone around, met a lot of people, many of these people who
have done very questionable things, yet have come off in the moment as kind, thoughtful,
outgoing positive people, and the Jake Paul series represents not just an analysis of
Jake Paul, but a double take at all the previous people that he has covered, and he even mentions
and shows some of them there.
Everything that Shane Dawson has constructed is now being questioned by himself, what if
the Empire is a lie, after all sociopaths come in many shapes and sizes, and if one
of these people that Shane has covered wasn't actually genuine in how they feel, why would
we want to transmit such a message to the audience?
What if all of Tana's tears were an act to maintain a subscriber base, if she frames
it as an honest mistake, but actually she doesn't really care about the consequences,
then should she really be supported?
If a tree falls in a forest and no one is there to hear it, did it ever make a sound?
Yes, but you wouldn't know that.
So when we have that final arc in episode 8, this very sympathetic installment where
Jake is arguably at his most vulnerable, emotional, it tugs on the heartstrings, the question
still looms of whether this all was a very finely tuned act.
Whether this was Shane's intention with the whole sociopath narrative is another question,
and the fact that it's barely mentioned in the last couple episodes moves the discussion
to the background, but if you keep it in mind, it does still work.
And that's the thing, being a sociopath is slightly disjunct from the actions, without
a doubt, obviously it's a causal factor, but being a sociopath doesn't predispose
you to do something, nor does it mean that you won't do something, but it's definitely
a lot more closely tied to the motives, and honestly I'd say, dependent on the actions,
sometimes motives are more important to people, even if it's not practical, the problem
with people who are fake is not what has happened, it's what could happen.
We like to know the people around us, we like to know their intentions, at the end of the
day when someone's an unknown capacity, when they may be behaving in a fake manner,
what are they gonna do?
I want to be able to trust people around me, don't you?
You can never have a clear answer on who's what, a sociopath is not necessarily going
to admit they are one, and mostly you will have to judge from actions, but Shane's
series definitely throws these concepts that we thought we knew up in the air, and I guess
it gives us a more in-depth look at working out how to define these individuals, what
we've seen is that people are starting to like Jake Paul throughout these episodes,
but equally, no matter how likeable he is, we don't know if it's all an excellent
act or not, because that's one of the traits of the best sociopaths, he's on camera,
of course he's gonna behave in a specific way, if he's a sociopath, our own belief
is all we have to judge, and that's the thing, looking at it from just a sociopath
basics perspective is pointless, does the fact that he's a sociopath change what he's
done and the damage he's inflicted? No, but it could definitely influence how his
future mentality is, when approaching these situations, if he doesn't feel remorse
for these things and has no drive to do better, then it's hard to support, and no, we'll
never be able to tell, but you have to be able to pass judgement on a person, these
things aren't provable, a sociopath is a formal term, but we all judge people, and
we don't want people who are gonna be frauds and lie in our lives because at the end of
the day, whether that's in our control or not, it still has a negative effect on those
around them, and we've got enough negativity to deal with already, we can't deny that.
However, with all that said, this doesn't mean that he nor the series are above criticism.
What can make the series its most appealing is equally what can make the series its weakest,
which ultimately comes down to Shane's lack of knowledge on Jake Paul specifically. In
one way this is a positive, as the first few episodes take us through the journey without
the assumption that the viewer will be as knowledgeable of Jake's antics. This maximises
the appeal of the content that he crafts, if you know nothing about Jake, then the series
will bring you up to a relatively reasonable pace, but equally the pace is only reasonable,
and really if you want to break Jake Paul down, you have to up a few gears.
And that's one of Shane's weaknesses, he seems so driven on building a connection
to understand the target of a series that he tended to avoid asking the really hard
questions, and in a way I understand. He says multiple times during the series that
he doesn't want to upset Jake Paul and those around him, but the truth of the matter is
that sometimes we need to crack a few eggs to make an omelette, and that doesn't mean
being unnecessarily aggressive, but it does mean being assertive and addressing the actual
points, where there are many examples where Jake gets off lightly, and there are many
videos that cover this, but I'll pick out an example that demonstrates this the most.
One of the important points that Shane addresses in his episode with Nick Crompton is that
if Jake Paul is caught being dishonest, Shane will just leave.
Now this sounds like Shane is taking a hard stance, but the question is, how can you tell
when Jake is lying? And the truth is, you can't, and therefore the audience have to
be the jurist to an extent on such a presentation, and Shane as the documentarian cannot say
with certainty when Jake is lying or not. With that said, Shane can decide the questions
to ask, and asking the right questions is a position that comes with significant power,
especially in an environment where you could be dictating someone's image on such a platform.
One of the narratives that came to the forefront following Nick Crompton's episode was that
an extremely high majority of the Team 10 tomfoolery was fake.
This as a defence was relatively resolute against the claims being made by former members
such as the Martinez Twins, who cited such pranks as reference to Jake's abuse of power.
However on the other hand, this did not undermine the criticism that had been presented against
him with regards to the involvement of children in the Team 10 house, and Jake's treatment
of them, which could be summarised as rather dubious.
The
problem is that you can't provide a disclaimer to toddlers, they haven't developed a mental
stage where they can distinguish between simulated entertainment and reality. Some of the clips
shown are incredibly uncomfortable, and show children in legitimate distress, and really
do remind me of a more notorious YouTube couple. Although I won't say that he's that bad,
it is still something that should be brought up, and I thought they were going to do this
when they decide to discuss Nerd City's video which amplified these concerns significantly.
Yet despite clearly watching the video, Shane merely brought up the criticism of merchandising
to younger children, which is another legitimate point but doesn't encompass the numerous
problems that video brought up. On top of that, during that discussion it was quickly
diverted to how the messages he spreads towards impressionable children on topics such as
education can damage their mentality, which although once again is another point worth
considering, it means that we never received a proper answer on the problem of coercive
merchandising because they don't have exactly the same implications. That's the thing,
in many instances Shane Dawson delivered the most softball form of criticism to Jake, and
I believe this was done in the notion of not causing disruption, but I think there were
times when the conviction of finding the truth trumped that, because people would deserve
an honest portrayal, and by choosing the easiest criticisms it allowed Jake to sidestep a lot
of it and come out unscarred. Which is a shame, because really it seemed like Jake was willing
to own up to a lot of his misconduct, and with the right wording it may have given him
more possibility to reflect on his behaviour, for me it makes the series feel like a missed
opportunity in some ways. There's no doubting that there are some strong insights, but equally
because Shane is the one asking the questions, his naivety on the topics undermine the true
reality of what is going on or what has gone on in the Team 10 house. The lack of knowledge
also surfaced when dealing with the situation regarding FaZe Banks, publicised by Jake yet
with very little visible evidence. In the sixth episode Jake seemed to dismiss all these
claims and then make comments about those, such as Max Beaumont and their behaviour,
basically setting everyone else up as liars.
This was mildly amended by the eighth episode, but it was still hard to obtain any closure
as he kinda just turned it into the ignorance narrative, and with all these arguments being
pushed towards him, I feel like Shane then reinforced that narrative by making comments
about lack of accountability, and even if this was partially true, it would have been
better to let Jake explain it himself, rather than having explanations presented by other
people and then him going, yes I agree.
And I do admit, the overarching narrative of accountability for actions and being aware
for consequences is present, and that can't be taken away, credit where it's due.
Naivety however can only explain so much, and I feel if some more hard hitting criticisms
have been pushed, we would have seen elaborate explanations that tell us about this character,
other than just, well, Jake Paul's an impulsive fool.
I don't think Jake Paul's an awful person, I do think there is a legitimately sympathetic
take on it, but as someone who is extremely sceptical, these little omissions mean that
it's hard to take his responses as a reasonable explanation, and although the mystery is a
part of it, mystery should come from desire, not doubt.
And this really comes down to Shane and his framing, as said, this series could have equally
been about Shane as it is about Jake, and I think it just says that Shane could have
really taken that extra step, but his lack of knowledge and lack of confidence in that
knowledge subsequently caused a lack of conviction in some harsher criticisms of Mr Paul here.
You have to ask the hard questions sometimes, and I'm sure from this, some people felt
sold short on the series, myself included, there was more criticism than just my own criticism.
As said, I do believe there can be motivations attributed towards the Jake Paul series, however
if you're a new viewer to it, or someone who has different priorities in what they
think should be the intention, it's very possible that the theme that Dawson crafted
isn't one that's going to work for you.
You could come out of the second episode thinking, what the hell was the point of that, I mean
it's visually exciting and well presented and great and all that entertaining content,
what the fuck does it matter whether Jake Paul's a sociopath or not?
And Dawson, in spite of what I believe were fair justifications and offences, although
as said, I believe the idea of sociopathy was a component of a greater narrative revealed
later on, at the time he kinda had no reply, I think there were people who watched the
video at the time and just saw this guy asking whether Jake Paul was a sociopath, the whole
notion of sociopath encompassing this episode, and I completely understand that, it's clear
that he didn't define each feature well enough, it's also clear that he may have rubbed some
people the wrong way, although I don't see any problem with dramatising a transcendent
condition that stands independently, he may have failed to draw the line clearly enough,
and I do agree there.
Now, do I think it was worth becoming angry about it like some people did? Of course not,
it seemed more like a tonal mishandling rather than actual malice or purposeful insensitivity.
One thing you have to accept when making these videos for exceptionally large audiences is
that you're going to receive substantial criticism from one side or the other, many
of this may just be Jake Paul is irrationally complaining that you're making a video on
someone they like, but there will be some legitimate criticisms which is why you have
to walk a very thin line, because on one hand if you move too far in one direction you'll
risk using a condition as a way to attack a person's character, thus weaponising
the condition, and if you move too far in the other way, you risk validating their heinous
actions. At the end of the day, someone like Jake Paul may have sociopathic tendencies,
but there has to be some level of awareness if he wants to take on the responsibilities
of a public figure because his actions have consequences. However, understanding this
means that there is a spectrum that this can be on, and if you lean a bit one way or the
other it might still be acceptable, because every single element when you create content
has a minor effect on which way something might be interpreted, even if it comes down
to just feelings that are evoked by people. You have to understand that a true neutral
is pretty much impossible, even though we try our goddamn best. With the levels that
Dawson is using, not just in his narratives but also in his production and his interaction,
and everything we've discussed today, it means that it is exceptionally tough, and
the only way to begin to find that neutral point of view is to completely alienate yourself
from the situation, and that is something that Dawson cannot afford to do. Equally this
means that whichever way you lean, there are going to be people who are quite pedantic
who are going to pick up on that. Obviously the less you lean the harder it will be for
someone to interpret it that way, but it is inevitability, especially with Shane's expansive
audience, and further to this he's under pressure from those around him with how he
frames Jake Paul. As said earlier, Shane has a habit of being very friendly and sympathetic
towards the subjects of his videos, however, whereas on one hand you have people like Tana
who although definitely have their enemies, still have a reasonable reputation, many people
believe that the manipulation that Jake was conducting as documented by videos like Nerd
Cities giving him almost a quote redemption arc is a step too far, it gives him a sympathetic
explanation of this established reputation, to them it's not a case of explanation,
it is a case of cancellation, these actions still have impacts. Like Fousey, even though
he may have his issues, does it mean it can continue? Then you have a set of people who
just feel uncomfortable with you talking on the topic or having opinions on topics because
you're seen as this huge influencer, and these fans who watch your videos are too easily
coerced by your opinions and then they adopt it themselves, and some people would rather
individuals watch just Jake Paul rather than watch someone having opinions on it, and this
extends all over it. Now obviously I have various opinions on these individual criticisms,
some are well grounded, others not as much, I don't think it's useful to the purpose
of the video to provide my individual opinions on each individual critique, the problem is
that Shane has attempted to stay neutral, that every time he's veered one way or the
other there have been piranhas on either side waiting to have a good nash at his posterior,
and even then the interpretive overlap will mean that there will be people who see him
as being too harsh on one thing and not harsh enough on another. Now in those instances
you can't agree with every single piece of criticism without ending up contradicting
yourself to an extent, having an opinion on these things will typically ensue some disagreements
with how someone's interpreted it, if we all agreed on the interpretation, chances
are the criticism would be pretty uniform, if you want to decide how to respond you need
to consider multiple things, how your response is going to make you look, how your response
is going to make the original criticism look. I have to be careful, because for every fuck
you comment from some 12 year old Jake Pauler you'll have someone else come in with an
eloquently worded but nonetheless questionable statement. Now I said I wouldn't respond,
but to make an example I find this one rather silly, at the end of the day he shouldn't
have to exclude the parents in the discussion of whether they influenced Jake Paul, he wasn't
outly accusing anything, nor was he saying that it invalidated the idea that Jake Paul
may be a bad person, but to have opinions on these matters is a natural, yet at the
same time many people thought these made complete sense because it was based on the assumption
that Shane Dawson was outly accusing someone, so he needs to respond in a diplomatic fashion
and identify that false premise, and that's where it becomes problematic.
Shane Dawson wants to please people, that is a basic analysis I would give of how he
Now in my opinion, given the many sensitive topics he's covered and hype provided, this
was always going to be his most controversial series, however I think he went into it with
a slightly wishful mindset, and the belief that his sympathetic, often impartial framing
would offset some of the criticism, and the criticism isn't exactly harsh proportionally
for his series, but there was no way he was going to compromise it due to people's differing
views on mental health, and how it should be dealt with, you can never eradicate that.
However Shane Dawson is a sensitive person, and you could tell that he was really trying
to keep up with every single individual criticism of his series, and that's something that
when you're Shane Dawson's side you just can't do, you can't just pick out every
single criticism and respond to it, because it's going to be on such an extensive spectrum
that you just end up burning yourself out. And I'm someone who loves to respond to
criticism and debate things about myself, and justify myself, because I want people
to know exactly what I mean, and what my intentions are, a discussion with a perception of you
that you feel has been misconstrued, and your points have fallen to the wayside, however
dealing with all these negative perceptions of you and your content is one of the most
draining things ever. One of the many pieces of advice that a large YouTuber will give
you is, don't read the comments, I used to read and reply to every single comment because
it's good to do if you can, however as you grow to a considerable size you'll realise
that dealing with mass amounts of negativity, even when it's well expressed, and having
to deal with so many conflicting criticisms, some that will completely contradict themselves,
takes a toll on your position. Now I became used to this as I make opinionated content,
but I piss people off, that's who I am, I do my best to be polite, but you can't
please everyone, and equally I can express myself poorly on the occasion, and if you
slip up, they are on you. Now I still look at a few comments, particularly on uploads
and often see what's being said in the top, but I know to try not to respond to every
single comment. Shane Dawson is doing the equivalent of that on his Twitter, he's
being added by swathes of people who have their opinions, and although it's definitely
worth paying attention to the criticism, responding to every individual tweet where you're going
to end up repeating yourself to a lot of these comments isn't good for you. At the
end of the day, you have to get a feel of where the main criticism may lie, try to avoid
catering to too many outliers, and then address them at the start of a video or something,
and although he did do the latter eventually, he definitely had trouble being dragged back
into the fray, which eventually became so stressful he ended up taking a break. You
spend a lot of time and work creating something that is exceptionally precious to you, and
you see someone challenging exactly what you thought it stood for, and you want to defend
that work while simultaneously quieting them down. Confronting them out of the open is
often the most direct way to deal with criticism, however equally it can bring about more attention
to it, and although criticism shouldn't just be hidden away, responding in such a
fashion can do more harm than good to you, even if it's fully debunked.
But that's the thing about Shane, you can always tell that he wants the validation and
the positive energy from his audience, and that always comes down to an image, whereas
on one side you have someone like Jay Pool who has set up such an antagonistic character
who is well hated and just plays into it, you have Shane who wants to be this arbiter,
this guy who can provide an impartial, sympathetic look at people. So this hits him hard, and
this hits even worse because of who Shane is, this person who is really ready to seek
the approval of those viewers, and he knows that a slip up could undermine a squeaky clean
image, so he goes all out to protect it, responding to countless people. But this mentality and
this philosophy can say a lot about Shane himself, and that's where we'll go now.
Shane has shown he is someone who has had a lot of difficulty in his life, whether
it was bullying, domestic abuse, or weight, I think these are all things that drive many
people towards the internet, and when Shane Dawson set up his channel, he probably saw
it as an outlet in a way, it is a place for many outcasts, and slowly through interactions
you start working out how to really channel whatever creative energy you have into something
much better and much more productive. Shane is someone who has had the chance to explore
many creative elements of himself, but I really feel this is an automaton for him, and that
really what this content represents is an opportunity, an opportunity to search for
closure of his issues, and it's one of the things when you have to deal with these problems
it is extremely difficult to find that closure. And in a way, you can tell by the attention
to detail that Shane pays, especially with his production, that he is a perfectionist,
and I think that equally reflects in himself, as simple as it sounds, he wants to work
out what is wrong with people, and how to make it right, himself included, it's just
where as someone else you can talk to them, and you can give them advice on issues, Shane
is the sort of person who has answered a lot of these questions, but knows there are a
lot of deeper things within himself that he's not sure how to fully resolve, in a way many
of us give the best advice, but we seldom take it.
And by looking back at his content, past and present, that's what we see, the one thing
that doesn't change is Shane, Shane is a person who audiences can resonate with,
he's someone who understands that life is shit sometimes, and when you experience turmoil,
there is seldom a one way solution that will make your life just all rosy, because life
isn't like that, and I think that these videos represent an expression of that search,
a series of existential questions looking for explanations of why someone would behave
in the way they do, and equally asking how much control we have over our own instincts
and behaviour.
With Jake Paul, we see Shane looking into the more troubled minds, not just to understand
them, but to understand himself, we're discussing issues like parental influence, personal accountability,
mental illness, all these factors being very prevalent in Shane's own life, and he even
says it.
Shane- Even for me, like why do I want to get so deep with people and talk to people
and like try to help them and fix them, why do I want to cry with them, why, like what
is that?
For him, these not dissimilar factors send us down different paths, maybe Shane sees
a bit of himself in everyone.
I don't know if Shane's ever gonna find what he's looking for, because it clearly
feels like these videos represent a look inside himself, for him to understand why he has
these mental struggles, and if he can, how he can rewire it, equally I'd say with the
criticism in mind, he's gonna have to ask some harder questions, because even though
he may not want to upset others, if he wants to find the truth within himself, he may have
to put the questions out there, I can't speak exactly for why he cares so much about
the responses and the people and justifying himself, but as someone who feels the same
way, a lot of it I'd say comes down to the anxiety of an incorrect interpretation of
the message being spread, and the wrong image with you.
As a creator being presented, it's just important to remember that it's actually
a very small proportion of people who've watched your video who are actually criticising
it.
That's what I see with regards to Jake Paul, a character study, the search for an explanation,
and not just works as an excellent succession and reflection of his previous videos, asking
the hard questions about what isn't real, it equally asks about his life, what if the
elements he has constructed so finely isn't real, and the empathy and sympathy that he
covers with it, gives a universal appeal to audiences that will leave people questioning
their friends and families for days, we're witnessing the story of characters who we
thought we knew, but are always questioning.
So what about the future, the future of his content, the future of Shane Dawson, I think
we'll likely see more of these documentaries that investigate human nature in the way that
Jake Paul represents, I think that even though it's kind of a dead topic, the overarching
nature that he addresses them with always has a timeless appeal, and that is something
that is simply undeniable.
Maybe this new series won't be on the nose like Jake Paul is, it may deal with it from
a more third person perspective like the Jeffree Star series, but it will still be posing these
questions to the audiences, and I'm glad he's made the series, as it may help some
people understand themselves, and therefore although maybe turning sociopathy into a bit
of a dazzling jumped up dramatised talking point, he kinda contradicted the normal humanism
and represented a tough compromise between two very constraining elements that he's
been trying to balance, and inevitably that attracted some criticism.
With regards to Shane, from what I've watched, he'll often put himself in the centre of
the documentaries, even though they're on other people, he's arguably just as much
the focus as them, and he'll often ask the questions placing himself in those situations
and try to work out who he is.
Even in his Jake Paul video, which spent a lot of time asking about sociopathy, he would
equally ask about himself and his state, and how he would be classed under these prerequisites.
I think that is like, when I was a kid, you know, my mom was going through a lot, and
I felt like I had to be strong, because she was like, having trouble, so it was always
like, oh Shane's my rock, he's my support system, oh he's always strong.
So I like-
Do that for other people in your life now, too?
Are you like a fixer?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because you were like a parentified child, so you've been like an adult since you were
whatever age.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think, now I'm just at the point where I'm like, I like stay up all night, and I'm
just lost, and I'm just like, oh.
Which is why I started falling down the holes of like, sociopaths and this and that, because
I'm like, what's wrong with me, like, why am I so lost, if I can help all these people
why can't I help myself, why am I still depressed, why am I all these things?
I look at my channel, and I'm like, oh, the more I'm helping people, the worse I'm getting.
My prediction is that these videos, as great as they are, will have to come to an end eventually,
and may come to an end with Shane Dawson having built up the character throughout the whole
series, finally confronting himself.
That would be the most poetic way to conclude this whole saga, at least.
I don't think I'll ever be fully able to answer the questions he poses to himself,
and implies to us, through this series, because they're ones that no one can ever fully answer,
but I hope that he finds some closure, and through that, inspire others to find their
own.
So yeah, Shane Dawson, net positive, with a few flaws, I think that's fair enough.
Alright, I want to give a massive shoutout to the editors, they've done a stellar job,
go and check them out if you can, I'm gonna leave their links in the pinned comments,
they're brilliant people, brilliantly talented people, definitely go and check them out.
On the other hand, I wanna say that if you wanna reach me, if you wanna talk about this
topic, leave a comment below, but also you can reach me through Twitter, which is just
as productive, or Facebook, or Discord, links in the pinned comment below.
Anyhow, because I'm really tired, and a mess, I might go and get some sleep now.
I appreciate you guys being here, it really does make a difference, and I hope that this
video makes a difference too.
So until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one, love you guys.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
