Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time.
And wow, do we have a great mess to cover today, because my my my, did it all not go down in the last few weeks.
And you know it's going to kick off when we have business to discuss.
And boy, do I love business, so you better grab your briefcases and suits and whatever you think you need to do to be in a business.
I don't know, maybe you're one of those progressive businesses and you get to wear jeans to work and do lines of coke.
Apologies, had a case of projection there. Anyhow, we were talking about business.
When we watch a YouTube channel, we enjoy their content, we are involved with them, we create a bond with them,
we don't tend to think about what goes on behind the scenes too much.
It's kinda strange to think that some of our favourite creators, as authentic as they may seem to us on screen, may just be well focused puppets.
But equally, being part of a business doesn't mean you're a puppet either.
Many relationships are forged on very mutual terms, and there are many benefits that come from business relationships.
But as viewers, either way, we don't really think about it.
We don't look for the exact ingredients for what creates the content we watch.
We just enjoy the recipe. Unless the recipe is for pineapple on pizza, then it's disgusting and you should never eat it, you cretins.
Anyways, back to the point, we don't speak about businesses like Defy Media because no one cares about them.
They're faceless corporations.
However, in many situations, they play a fundamental part in being the fabric of many of our favourite, most popular channels on the website.
One of those channels is Smosh, the channel founded by duo Ian Hecox and Anthony Padilla.
Now, there isn't too much to say about them otherwise.
They've been going on this platform for years now, and Smosh is a huge brand.
If you know YouTube, there is a high chance you know Smosh, even if it's just from the namesake.
Contrast that to Defy Media, well, they have less Twitter followers than me.
Irrelevant twats.
So it was only natural that many people's reaction when they heard the digital corporation Defy Media was shutting down was who?
Well, let me explain. Defy Media are firstly a multi-channel network, abbreviated to MCN,
and essentially that means they host creators for at least some financial cut of the channel's earnings.
So why on earth would you sign up to an MCN when all they're doing is reducing your profits?
Well, in the right environment, signing up to an MCN can really come with its perks.
If you're a creator who makes reviews, commentaries, and all sorts of content,
which often includes other people's material, you'll know how much of a nightmare the copyright system is.
Many networks claim to be able to alleviate that.
They have inside links to YouTube, and they will sort you out.
Another great example is monetisation.
We all know Susan Wojcicki struts around like Thanos, clicking her fingers and turning that green money tag to a yellow.
I know people who just give their network a buzz, and suddenly Susan's frosty grip has rescinded.
Praise those multi-channel networks for all the good charitable work they do.
They can also assist with sponsorships, finance, and merchandising, and pretty much anything to do with your channel.
Though, as we'll soon find, Defy Media definitely took a very hands-on approach.
And I'm not talking about Andy Signall.
Typically, the people who benefit most from the channel partnerships are large creators,
mainly because they can make the network more money, and thus they are seen as a more valuable financial asset.
Which is why, if you go on YouTube, search up networks like Freedom, and then look for rants on that network,
you'll find loads of angry, smaller YouTubers who felt completely neglected,
signed up under the premise that they would be offered something better than they actually received,
and then they were basically scammed out of 40% of their earnings.
That's not loose change if your videos blow up.
However, as a larger channel, typically you'll find more purpose,
and there are many benefits, which is probably why, like many networks,
Defy Media accumulated numerous clients who would seek their benefits.
On one hand, some of their relationships were merely normal partnerships,
where a creator would sign a contract and they would enter into a classic business association,
like most network creator contracts.
On the other hand, with Smosh, who will be one of the key topics today,
Ian and Anthony actually sold their channel to Defy Media, for the grand total of nothing.
Sold Smosh for zero dollars.
This essentially made Ian and Anthony employees of Defy Media, who then received a salary.
Now, an anonymous source told me that the salary that Ian and Anthony received
was actually rather small, especially when compared to the person who signed them.
That's just hearsay. But either way, these were the sorts of dynamics that Defy had with its creators.
It varied a lot. This meant that when this situation that we'll be discussing today transpired,
you had a load of differing accounts from multiple people, with none of them necessarily being false,
but each of them being different. However, each of these portraits can paint a picture of a company,
a brand, and channels that eventually succumb to a changing environment,
and one that there can definitely be cause for criticism, and perhaps a little more.
The thing about YouTube is that these things are always negotiated on an individual basis.
There isn't a level of wage equality when you sign a contract,
so everyone's experiences are gonna be different,
particularly when you suffer from the sort of business naivety like those we're going to discuss today.
In the wake of Defy Media's shutdown, a couple of its former creators, Chris Stutman and Smosh's Anthony Padilla,
came forward to voice their somewhat negative experiences.
Theirs will be the focus of today, along with other research outside of this sphere.
We'll be going the full mile to make sure there is no stone left unturned.
With light of this, creators like Shane Dawson have also been vocal in their criticism of Defy Media,
prompting many other creators to come forward with their individual experiences.
It's certainly interesting to read without a doubt.
It is clear from the lawyers who threatened Rylan Adams to the numerous unpaid creators,
that there was a significant lack of dignity in this business.
I've never been a fan of companies, so when all this occurred,
there was no possibility I was not going to use my platform to bash twats who I've never been fond of anyway.
And frankly, this definitely deserves a dissection dealt by the Doctor himself.
So today I'll be discussing Defy, Smosh, their relationship,
and many of the criticisms that can be wagered in the direction of the parties involved,
but equally harp on the ignorance of certain individuals,
and hopefully deal out some important life lessons for all of us to take forward.
I'll be using the story of Smosh to shape the narrative around Defy Media,
and then hone in on some key points.
Because the more of this is public, and the more people know about this,
the more people won't make the same mistakes.
As we'll soon find out, this is avoidable.
So, I suggest we dive straight in.
The original Smosh is the epitome of the YouTube dream.
Two creators, with nothing but an idea and a camera,
being able to chase something that in a way seems so impossible.
That's what I've always liked about YouTube, it's the ideal market in many ways.
Sure, there are certain setbacks that some people will always face when trying to access the market,
and there are still outside factors that make some people more likely to excel on the platform than others.
However, as a standalone platform, it is accessible to a diverse range of individuals looking to express themselves,
and it was through those early days of YouTube that Smosh really established themselves with a name that would inevitably last forever.
A bunch of punks screwing around in their dormitory or whatever room they could find,
and just running that sort of humour.
It was scrappy, it was messy, but it was organic.
And I guess that's what people liked.
Back then, YouTube didn't have to be a substitute for anything like TV,
like many allege it is trying to be now, because you go home, you check out a three minute video that someone uploaded,
and then you go and continue existing, maybe do some homework if you're a kid,
maybe watch the TV and cry about existence if you're an adult.
Either way, back then, there was no huge incentive to do anything particularly revolutionary with their content.
However, as said in the past, the platform became more competitive,
but Smosh did actually have a knack of keeping up.
They improved, and this was not just relative for the site, this was relative to their channel.
You could see the progression in quality, this is something that they had clearly invested in,
they were setting themselves up to be huge, as Defy Media or Alloy Digital soon noticed.
However, they were human beings, they had a knack for the comedy that captured the moment,
and they're clearly incredibly talented to have accumulated such an audience,
many of whom are around to this day, but they weren't business masterminds.
In 2018, YouTube is much more business oriented.
You can see that through someone like Jake Paul, and how ruthless, how ruthless his marketing is.
That was never the case for Smosh, they never had that huge financial interest,
but equally, this was what made them rather monetarily naive, which is where Defy Media entered the picture.
Now, I do not know the exact details of what happened in the negotiation stage.
I've heard things, as said, I can't confirm, it sounds pretty unfair on Smosh's side, but there's no necessary proof.
But through articles and Anthony's video, we can calculate that Defy Media, at that point named Alloy Digital,
prior to their merging with Break Media, obtained Smosh, with Ian and Anthony's consent,
in approximately July 2011, for the grand total of nothing.
Now, this isn't entirely accurate, as Anthony and Ian both received stock in the company in return.
However, this came with a catch, a pretty fucking significant catch, as any entrepreneur will tell you,
stock ain't worth jack shit if you don't go public.
And unfortunately for Anthony and Ian, you can see exactly why they feel a little mugged off,
they were taken advantage of, and that's because Ian and Anthony are just guys.
Jake Paul probably would have had five lawyers around the table to pick apart the contract word for word,
but this is 2011, some of the leading creators were just people who found themselves in that position,
rather than many of the manufactured public figures of today, they were normal people, in an exceptional position,
and a huge organisation comes forward and says they can do all these things for you,
and they'll give you a tonne of resources in the process, and probably a whole team, like they have now,
like this ownership would.
Who wouldn't want to take you up on that offer? Well, Harley Morenstein of Epic Meal Time wouldn't,
he disclosed to me that Alloy Digital also approached him, this time offering him $3 million on top of the proposed stock.
But in their meeting, the person who Morenstein regarded as the top dog,
posed the question of what Morenstein's channel actually did,
the sort of question you'd expect after responding to one of those stock emails of companies trying to sign your 4,000 subscriber channel.
You see, Defy or Alloy are a company, a business, trying to have a piece of the pie,
and once they have your channel, they're gonna get their money's worth.
Smosh were Ian and Anthony, you go around in 2011 and ask a Smosh fan who Smosh were,
and they'd say those two names, at that point, mostly making mere comedy videos on the internet.
Now, they weren't the most defined characters, but people knew them, no doubt about it.
But times change, and once Alloy had their hands on the business, they had a vision, a vision that changed entertainment.
But at what cost? To discuss that cost, I brought in my longtime friend and Smosh scholar, Pinely,
to lay out the influence of Defy, Alloy, or whatever they want to call themselves, on the beloved Ian and Anthony. Take it away.
Thanks babycakes. Hello, my name is Pinely the Box Boy, and as James mentioned earlier, I am in fact, a Smosh scholar.
For the past year, I've been sitting in my dark room, watching Smosh videos, studying every single frame. Mmm, yeah.
Not really, but I did make a video about them about a year ago. In the video, I brought out my problems with the, quote unquote, new Smosh.
I miss the old Smosh, a low blow fun Smosh, two people skit Smosh, good jokes and song Smosh.
I miss the old Smosh, four years ago, no, new Smosh, damn I miss the old Smosh.
Mainly focusing on the changes in their content. Now I was quite the genius, since I said almost exactly the same things Anthony brought up in his video,
only that I didn't know that Defy Media were the ones behind the problems in their content.
The last few months that I worked there, they started hiring new cast members.
The cast Anthony's talking about is the Smosh Crew, a group of ex-Viners and funny guys, Defy casted for Smosh a bit before Anthony left.
Now, do I want to be nice or nah, hey, I really don't like these guys. They suck. Like this guy, take a look at him.
Man, who farted in here? No one, I'm cooking dinner. What are you making? Fart lasagna?
What are you doing? Their jokes just fall flat. They're not the greatest actors and they're a bunch of uncharismatic losers.
Nah, that's way too mean. I'm just not a fan, what can I say? And why do we need so many of them? I can't even keep track of what's going on.
If you want to be number one, stop playing games just for fun. Give up your life so you can win and be the best at how it is.
I also kind of miss the charm old Smosh videos had. Where was this Ian and Anthony? They were just two homies having a good time, broing it out, fighting against Pokemon and stuff.
Hell yeah. Right now their videos just kind of feel like a not so great version of SNL for kids. And I'm a big boy.
And starting and stopping shows without consulting me first, which, you know, they had every right to. They owned the company, I was just an employee, but it hurt a little bit.
I felt like I, you know, I created this thing with my buddy and we should kind of be consulted about these things, but it was just a company.
That's another point both Anthony and I brought up in our videos, because we're so in sync. The two of us are actually soulmates. Give me a kiss, Padilla.
Since Smosh and Defy became homies, you can see a bunch of these bullshit series popping up. Like at the point of time when I made my old video last year, they had like four series going on constantly.
And I just found the whole thing a bit pointless. But now they managed to minimize it, so hey, that's cool.
Recently what they've been posting is either made out of every blank ever or sketches. We all love sketches.
Every blank ever is the most simple concept in the world. I don't know how they managed to make so many episodes of it.
It makes sense when it's about this kind of relatable thing like every dad ever. Dads are relatable, you know dads.
But now they're making every Harry Potter ever. Is that relatable?
Harry, you look tired.
Are you doing that mind connection thing with Voldemort again?
Maybe.
Well don't you see that that puts us in danger?
Yeah.
Oh, so it's just a Harry Potter parody. I see. Can't you just call it like Harry Potter parody or something like that?
Another thing they do is their good old sketches. Some of them are honestly not that awful.
I do have certain issues with them that I will discuss in my next bit, but some of them are actually scripted by the Smosh cast members.
So I think that's pretty cool. Keeps it authentic. No, they still made this.
Screw those dudes!
You just killed some art!
Ooh, that is... that is not so great.
Now my last problem in Smosh's change of content is that it all feels kind of... plastic.
And I'll explain exactly what I mean.
Smosh used to have that very homey kind of feeling. It was very authentic.
And at the beginning of them joining Defy, they still did some really cool stuff. Like all those hard ass songs.
Mmm, yeah bitch, that's my jam.
And that's the positive part of being bought by such a huge company. You have more money to do cool stuff.
But as you go on and on and on, you see that they kind of lost the original Smosh touch.
They opened all these random ass channels and kept posting more and more shit until they eventually just became a factory for skits for kids.
Which pretty much meant that they were... not fun.
Smosh used to mean Ian and Anthony.
But you can notice that the brand attached so far away from the two, that the fact that Anthony left wasn't even noticeable.
Watch a Smosh video from a week before Anthony left, and a Smosh video that was uploaded a few weeks ago.
And you'll get the completely same kind of vibe.
I'm gonna show you two clips and you'll have to tell me which one was made before and after Anthony left.
Check this shit out.
Before we open those doors, let us take a moment to remember the hardworking employees that lost their lives on Black Friday Past.
Hey, don't be nervous. You look so great.
I just, I really want your friends to like me.
Ah, yeah, you'll probably never guess it. No point in going on with this game.
It just kind of feels like a wet slice of bread.
It's not really interesting, it's not fun, and it's absolutely not tasty.
But since it's the Christmas-y, snowflake-y kind of time, I'm gonna be a really nice guy.
And I'm gonna finish this on a positive note.
I'm kind of optimistic about the future of Smosh.
Now that they're out of the Defy chains, they're finally free.
And looking at the way Anthony described it, Defy kind of screwed them over.
But now they can do whatever their smoshy heart desires.
Hopefully now, since this big bad corporation isn't behind them, that'll lead to them doing good stuff.
I was, um, given access to all the channels, so...
So we're just gonna...
Ian hacked the main frame.
So, we're just gonna be putting out some stuff.
It's gonna do it.
It's gonna be, uh, old school.
Yeah, it's...
I gotta say, this is, like, really fun.
Wow, that is truly inspiring.
Good job.
Anyways, I'm done for the day.
Let's go back to James.
Subscribe to me.
Thank you, Pinely.
I'll leave his link in the pinned comment.
Go and check him out.
He makes fantastically unique content, which is definitely what we need more of on this platform.
Let's hope corporations don't get to him as well.
However, jokes aside, this is business in many ways.
Nothing more, nothing less.
But the control exercise over Smosh was not just a message of the relationships between the creator and the audience and the business,
but also what happens when you relinquish a control of an idea to people who may not have your own reputation at the heart of their concerns.
The thing is that a combination of a business and Smosh is probably not the worst combination possible.
As mentioned, Ian and Anthony weren't the most defiant people.
Alloy and subsequently Defy probably benefited greatly on the revenue from these creators.
However, the problem was, although Smosh was by no means a dead channel,
and in fact, in the months running up to the closure of Defy Media they were having some of their most successful months in a significant while,
there was no way to fully recapture that magic and the success of peak Smosh.
Even if Smosh was pulling in the revenue, their other projects owned by Defy Media just weren't.
Screen Junkies and The Escapists were both sold off for reasons that we'll probably cover very soon.
And Clevver TV, despite having four different channels with struggling with uploads and views alike,
there is still a market for the sort of middle-of-the-road content that many of these channels do.
But the clickbait is one of the main factors, and it is so competitive these days that you're competing with other businesses
who are more ruthless and know their audiences better and have corporation channels built from scratch,
not just ones that have undergone the treatments and have had to sacrifice something in the process.
Defy Media had confined their content to a streamlined business model, which wasn't really a good idea.
But Smosh, in spite of all this, as said, was still relatively successful.
It's hard to see how a media corporation would be losing revenue with something like Smosh.
At the end of the day, they were in control. They also had partnerships with other YouTubers like Chris Stutman,
who should have turned in money at no cost to them whatsoever.
They were probably making bank. How on earth could you be making a net negative income with so many ventures
and so much outreach? They should have had every exit covered, but they didn't.
Now I just criticised Defy Media for their business model that was set up for their content creators,
mainly because I felt it sacrificed a lot of the identity, and on top of that, it was very singular
and therefore made it fragile if the tides became rough. However, they did have some backup models
that they were utilising throughout their few years of operation, one of which was known as programmatic advertising.
Now, programmatic advertising is a very broad subject, so it becomes extremely hard to explain the model
that Defy may have been using. Typically, it's online advertising. It's a bit more targeted, basically.
They also had their foot in licensing and quote, video syndication operations, which is basically pushing content
on various sites. Basically, to summarise, they had additional business in promoting other people's content.
Not necessarily YouTube content, it could have been anything, but advertising.
Now, I'm not suggesting that there is anything wrong with that, but it appears that they weren't entirely happy
with the business it brought, and neither were their clients. Around the start to mid-2018,
they decided to close down that branch of their business, thus being able to focus on their content.
In a way, this should have given them more power to be able to focus on the content that may have been stagnating a tad,
but unfortunately, it brought new issues. As I mentioned, it's hard to see why a company like Defy Media,
with all its outlets and history of making great income, should ever be struggling with finance.
And anyhow, why is the fact that they had other businesses remotely relevant for discussing their failure?
Well, you see, after they decided to withdraw from these businesses, there were compadres who came after them,
for unpaid debt. Now, it's hard to say whether this debt was merely a symptom of their financial troubles,
however, whatever businesses they were involved in, they clearly hadn't ended well.
Despite the fact that they had basically swindled one of the largest YouTube channels in the world,
out of its creators for absolutely nothing, they were too incompetent to keep their head above water,
and their business dealings had clearly failed them.
There were even the targets of a lawsuit fired by some disgruntled partners for ads run on their website.
It was reaching that stage where people needed to abandon ship. Wherever the money was, no one out there knew,
or at least there was no transparency. In his video, Stutman detailed how he was made aware of the difficulties.
I saw a lot of behind the scenes things at Defy that just seemed wishy-washy.
On the other hand, Anthony and the clever TV host, Jocelyn Davis, seem to be fairly oblivious to the issues surrounding the company.
Did you know this was going to happen? Absolutely not.
Anthony was even under the impression that they were hiring people weeks before they closed their doors.
They were hiring people weeks ago.
It's quite sensational how in the dark many of these people seem to be, and I don't think they have any motivation to feign ignorance,
so I have no reason to disbelieve them.
And you know what? Maybe, just maybe, if the crime of non-informing their employees to their careers were going to be taken away from them
instantaneously, with no chance, no chance for a person to perhaps preemptively look up new occupations to fill so that they can pay their rent for next month.
Maybe, just maybe, I would have been able to say, you're not shitty people.
But, in the words of the philosopher, great philosopher Billy Mays, there's more, and I'm not happy about this, not one bit.
Firstly, given the company have had their assets frozen and their doors closed, as far as I can tell, no employee will be receiving substantial severance pay.
And to add to this, many creators who have been earning money for months through their videos received zilch from the last couple months of AdSense.
So, my entire Halloween special, all those massive videos I worked on, everything I worked on in September and October, I will probably not receive a dime for.
This is where the difference between Smosh and Chris Stutman comes into play.
With regards to Chris, when we partner with a multi-channel network, they become the prime beneficiaries of our AdSense revenue.
However, we typically sign a contract that will allocate the money predominantly back to us.
In Chris's case, the contract that he signed was so that he would receive 100% of the AdSense revenue, with the only income going to Defy through required sponsorships.
This changed when at the start of 2018, Defy approached Chris and requested that they change the AdSense split so that they can receive a 10% portion as they had hit financial difficulties.
Chris reluctantly agreed. This worsened when they carried on deferring its monthly ad revenue payments week after week after week.
This was an experience a lot of creators in Defy Media appeared to be having.
Creators just being completely ignored, despite the fact that they had earned that money.
We, as creators, work damn hard to accumulate any dollar we can, and when they're not obstructed by copyright claims, demonetisation, and various other obstacles, creators should be able to rely on receiving the money that they have earned.
Now, I haven't read a Defy Media contract. I don't know if they were legally allowed to do this.
However, whether legal or not, I'm making a moral call here and saying that it was shitty.
What you have here is a classic case of corporate denial. They have a problem where they think they're in debt and they don't know how to traverse it.
What they do is they think, well, we can invest some of our own creators' money into it and we'll reimburse them when we're out of this dark spell.
After all, how bad can it get? It gets bad. Worse and worse and worse.
Suddenly, you've left disenfranchised creators out of pocket for money that they earned through the creation of their content that has generated profits that you have claimed and subsequently refused to return, and you're in the grand total of $10 million of debt.
How the hell do you manage that?
This is what you have. A mess. An absolute mess in which Defy have completely screwed over their creators and their employees alike.
So what is the situation now? Where is the money? Well, many allege it is now with the bank who froze the assets.
No one knows what's gonna happen with it now. People might file disputes or claims against various parties, but if there's no money left, then there's a chance that no one will see any of it.
It's bloody annoying. The companies can do that. But at the end of the day, if the money isn't there, it isn't there.
It's clear that Defy Media were not ready for the changing environment, whether it was on YouTube or off YouTube.
They could not keep up, and when their investments caught up to them, they didn't know what to do.
And sometimes businesses fail. Sometimes people lose out. It is an inevitability in the society that we live in, because we do live in a society.
However, equally, when you're dealing with people's livelihoods, there can be no doubt in the irresponsibility in the handling of this company's demise.
If your company is failing, you shouldn't play such a gamble of other people's lives in some vain hope that it might just recover.
It was clear that this company was a dead business walking months ago, and the fact that the business appeared to refuse acknowledgement of these problems to people who relied on the business,
and then basically stole from the creators who had taken the plunge to share their income with them in the first place, it is disgusting.
They've taken so much and wasted it all. However, that is the system, and on that day, many established creators were subjected to the system.
Now we can try and change the system with regards to it, but that's much more deeply rooted in legality that is exceptionally complex and difficult.
What we can do is respond to this more astutely in the future with acknowledgement and awareness of the current system.
They've devoted so much of their life to making Smosh what it is, and they just completely betrayed it.
There are lessons that can be taken away for everyone. The business, the creator, and perhaps even the viewer.
When you're dealing with content, you're still dealing with people. Although Defy slash Alloy weren't necessarily lying,
it was still rather disingenuous that the business sold proverbial stock to the Smosh founders, which was basically useless.
It was useless. Selling away your own brainchild for nothing would have to be one of the worst experiences to me.
I don't think I'd ever be able to do something like that, so I do legitimately feel bad for Anthony and Ian, even if they should have known better.
It doesn't make it right their ignorance was exploited by people who did know better.
In whatever interactions I'm involved in, if someone's trying to make a decision that requires information they may not be aware of,
and additional context, then I will work to make sure that they are informed to the best of their ability before they make that decision.
I think that's something that we should all work with, especially in high state situations like this.
However, going forward, we should also acknowledge our responsibility to be better informed, to avoid exploitation.
Sure, if someone takes advantage of it, then they're still somewhat in the wrong.
But if you leave your door open to the house and someone burgles it, there has to be some sort of responsibility.
You can still think of ways to be better prepared. Does it vindicate the burglar?
No, of course not. He should be arrested and dealt with sufficiently.
However, you can see why these things are always a sign of mutual responsibility, because we're better off for it.
From this, you also have to acknowledge that if you're selling away a brand, then you're selling away its foreseeable future.
As Anthony acknowledged, they were essentially made employees of the company.
I felt like I created this thing with my buddy, and we should kind of be consulted about these things, but it was just a company.
Nothing more than that, and I was nothing more than an employee.
Employees can be fired. Part of the reason that Anthony and Ian weren't were because they were viewed as somewhat integral to the brand.
But it did mean that they were messed around a lot, completely left out of some decision making processes,
and then had their reputation smeared because of it.
The fact that Smosh was able to continue as a separate brand after Anthony left was a clear indication that Anthony was completely correct
in the fact that the brand had turned into something alien from him.
If one of them had left in 2010, then I'm sure the reaction would have been very different.
But I'm gonna put a pin in that, because I think that's a really interesting discussion for another time.
Point being, that if you're someone with a product that you care about, it's so easy to see what you love being gradually eroded into something you don't recognise,
and by then it's too late. If that's okay with you, then that's okay with you.
Sometimes we do need that extra backing to move forward as creators, but you have to anticipate the consequences.
As an employer, you need to be upfront with your employees. Businesses don't work out sometimes,
we've all had projects that just fall apart in front of our eyes,
but if it's not working, don't smile in people's face while you empty their pockets,
under the premise that you won't be reprimanded for it anyway.
They're just as human as you, and be ready for content that you make to lose its audiences,
especially when you change it in a way that its original audience no longer identify it as.
In a way, Defy Media were bound to go extinct because the way they acquired these little ventures in the first place was no longer viable.
The modern day and up and coming YouTubers would laugh in your face if you tried to do to them what Defy did to Smosh,
and they'd also probably make a 10 minute video on it so they can cash in on how low and pathetic you are,
with a few juicy mid-rolls in there too, insult to injury.
Still, there was no attempt to adapt, no attempt to reconcile the content, no attempt to grow out that money tree,
all while it was being uprooted elsewhere because your other business partakings had failed, miserably.
The whole demeanour of the company in dealing with its financial woes can be summarised as pathetic.
For any budding creators, do not partner unless you're confident that they can stay committed to your interests,
and aren't just gonna take the money and run. Equally, read the contract.
It's very easy for many of us to overlook terms and conditions when signing various things,
because 99% of terms and conditions are 100% trivial.
But this is the 1%. Being in a contract can be a huge step forward.
I'm not saying it doesn't have its benefits, but unless there's an element of trust, then you're risking it all.
One of the huge benefits for being in a network is the fact that given the current monetisation setup,
many people aren't eligible, and being eligible often takes months to apply for if you're not in the network.
And so, there is the notion of something being better than nothing, but I would really emphasise,
if they don't care enough to cater the contract at least somewhat to your preferences,
then they don't care enough to not exploit you. Even established creators have been fucked over here.
It may not always be the case, but in this instance I believe that patience is a virtue,
and that working hard and waiting for the right deal can pay off.
Equally, I think one of the most prominent problems with creators are those who sign themselves up to contracts
that they are bound to for a set amount of time. If you can obtain some sort of escape clause so you're not dragged down,
if the company nosedives, then do it. I honestly can't see myself signing up to a contract
that would not give me the option to leave if the circumstances change,
and I am no longer happy with the company's treatment of me as a creator.
It is a case of supply and demand. If people adopt that philosophy,
then companies will at least have to alter their approach to certain contracts.
We all know the nightmares of copyright, demonetisation, and algorithms,
but not every response is a solution. Don't just go from the oven into the frying pan.
You'll get burned either way. Obviously, I doubt any of this will have a huge impact,
but I hope the whole saga at least does influence people's perspective.
Companies are going to take advantage of people. I can call it shitty all I like,
but it's also a part of the competitive business that they take what they can get.
I guess what annoys me the most about Defy Media, then, is that in spite of all the conniving conduct
they participated in, in spite of all the business, in spite of all the shaking down of creators,
they still failed astronomically, and they went down dragging every other person down with them,
people who had worked for them, who had given them their time and money and creative energy.
It is shambolic, and everyone affected deserved better than that.
The business hides amongst the tall grass of content creators.
Very few people will know what Defy Media was in a few months time, nor will they care,
and yet their influence is just as, or even more powerful than the smiling host who is presented to you.
Just because they seem insignificant when they approach you, doesn't mean you should underestimate their power,
because the facelessness of an MCN arguably just makes them more powerful,
due to the lesser levels of accountability. It is unlikely that any of Defy Media will face consequences.
That's the way it is sometimes, but we can equip ourselves to know better,
and hopefully we will know better in the future.
So, that was the video. It was a passionate one, I tell you, but I care about these topics.
Please, once again, go and check out Pinely, he is a fantastic creator, and I love him very much.
We've known each other since we were whippersnappers, YouTube whippersnappers at least,
and he's still here, and he's still making content, and that's strong commitment.
I love him a lot, please check him out, and he's really attractive too.
No homo? I'm going to leave Pinely's link in the pinned comment below.
Also, I want to give a huge shoutout to the editors, they have once again done a great job,
please go and check them out, I'm going to leave their links in the pinned comment.
Alongside Pinely, it's like a little hall of fame down there.
The exceedingly generous Patreons are up on screen now, I cannot thank them enough,
and I would also like to personally thank Ryan, who once again, donating $100, amazing, sensational, beautiful man.
I give him a round of applause for that. However, if you're still here, if you're still listening to this lovely British voice,
make sure you go and check all those lads out, they're great, they do a top notch job, and I can't thank them enough.
And if you have any thoughts on this video, leave them in the comments below, it's always welcome.
I love discussion, and I'm proud to say that I'd say The Right Opinion has one of the most civil fan bases in modern history,
which is quite a positive thing. I don't really know what else to say, I love you guys, I'm really tired,
I'm really hot, the sun is shining down on my little makeshift studio, but hopefully by the time this video comes out,
we'll be living the high life. Thanks again for the support, it means a hell of a lot, I love you guys.
And until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching!
