Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and 50,000, a fantastic feat, and to be honest, I was going to continue
on my normal schedule, I'm a guy with plenty of ideas, and I already have 10 other video
ideas written down, how am I going to get to them if I waste time with these sorts of
ceremonials? Well, honestly, I think I just need a break. In case you didn't know, I'm
a student of Politics, Philosophy, and International Law with a minor in Psychology, and those
courses definitely take their toll, especially when you're bashing out a ten page script
every week. It's about time management, and so having a script that I can hopefully handle
more efficiently this week will give me less stress, because a huge part of scripting is
also research and watching through these videos to see what sort of spicy takes we can formulate
on these topics. I have a twitter, and on that twitter I put out a tweet asking for
questions for that video, if you don't have a twitter, I apologise, next time I'll put
it on my community tab as well, so you can all pose questions, though I'm not sure when
I'll do something like this next. The Q&A is going to be done in an interesting way,
as I received over 200 questions, there will be some that I won't be able to respond to,
especially more meme-y ones, however I will be cataloguing the questions into a general
topic and will just walk through them, hopefully addressing various questions and knocking
them out of the park in a fairly efficient manner. There's a lot to discuss, and I don't
know how long this will take, but there are a few things that I want to get out of the
way that I'd normally put at the end, however as it's a special occasion, we'll run with
a special structure. I really want to thank my visual editors, without them I just would
never have the time nor the patience to make these videos, they do such a sensational job,
and if you do have the chance I'm going to leave links in the pinned comments below to
anyone who has edited for me in the last couple months, please go and send them some love.
I also want to thank anyone who has sought out my Patreon and donated, I barely ever
mention it, so the fact that people do actually see the kind of meme at the end of the video
and click on it is kind of impressive, however I do want to take this time out on that to
make an announcement. I am going to be conducting a serious reform of rewards, firstly because
barely anyone claims them, most people just insist they want to donate for the content,
secondly because as always mentioned, most people can attain these rewards without paying
regardless, I do my best to be an open person, and I thought that might come under siege
as I've grown, but I've handled it pretty alright to be honest. Thirdly because of my
current setup it makes it significantly harder to follow through on many of the rewards and
I don't want to make commitments that I can't keep, it's never fun letting people down,
if you've donated before this video then you're still entitled to the rewards committed prior
and will sort something out. They're the only two special announcements that I have to make,
obviously all my mates and YouTube colleagues know how much love I have for them and that
will never change, I'm not going to list them out here but keep hustling boys. Anyhow, with
the pleasantries out the way I want to cut into the crux of this video because there
is a lot to discuss, a lot of things about me to discuss. I had a lot of questions on
my identity, either from people who wanted to know more about me or people who were just
confused that I'd appeared on their timeline. My name is James, I'm a British individual
enrolled in a Dutch university currently studying in America, South Carolina to be exact, though
I do have to return to the Netherlands to complete my degree, I don't know where I'll
go after that, probably to London and then eventually hopefully back to the US. In real
life I dress like most people dress, with clothes, so I do not seek to wear formal attire
in the South Carolina environment, that would be rather foolish, although I have seen a
couple people wearing black blazers and do wonder if they were right. A lot of people
question the legitimacy of my accent, but I promise you it is completely who I am, and
you can ask anyone who's had the pleasure of meeting me in person. People also compare
my accent to Colossal's, we're both from the same general area with a similar upbringing
so it's understandable that we may have a similar accent. To anyone wondering about
how to have this accent themselves, I'm really sorry, I do not know what the specific
settings on the vocal chords are, but if I do find out I'll definitely inform you. A
lot of people also ask me about my persona. I really don't know what made me go with
the style, but eventually it just stuck. It's appropriate for my character because of how
I speak and how I behave when dealing with these topics in an academic manner, which
is definitely something. I deal with YouTube drama not in a dissimilar way in my videos
than I would deal with a spoken dissertation, plus some more jokes and colloquialisms thrown
in there, and in a way that's what I think sets myself apart. Another person asked how
much my persona and my personality are different, and that's where I wanted to precursor this
sentence. When I'm writing out a script, I'm obviously going to be approaching it with
a different attitude than if I dealt with these things spontaneously. There are many
elements and interests pertaining to me that are fairly regular, but I guess I'm just
a more quirky and brooding person, which is what sets me apart in a way. I'm not socially
awkward, though I'm not a fan of large groups of strangers. Some people have asked me about
my music career, as I have said in the past that I am actually a trained singer. I've
also done songwriting and even released a few singles under an alias. The songs didn't
do anything because I didn't have any access to promotional materials, but one day I hope
that I will and I will be able to pursue a career in it. I love music, that's the one
thing that I can never have too much of. I can't think of too many other things to
say about myself apart from an elephant in the room that will be receiving its own part
once I've dealt with another hot topic.
Let me make one thing clear, this is my first proper channel. I have not had any projects
prior to this one. I used to make political content, I think most people know that. I
still integrate levels of political logic into my videos, but I do not comment on specific
political events often, unless I really do have a strong feeling. There are many reasons
to that, and given that some people were here while I was still covering those topics, I
thought I'd explain. Politically, I'm left-wing. I'm not really left-wing, but I'm left-wing.
Now, that has been the case for years, since the inception of my YouTube channel, and when
I first started up, my channel bashed a lot of politicians of the British Conservative
Party, and dealt with issues that were extremely niche in a way. Now, I've gone to three
universities, I won't say too much else, but the first university was not good, and
there were a fair few people who were the sort of stereotype that you see in the sort
of cringe compilations that were the rage on YouTuber, I had a situation where I received
verbal abuse. It's the sort of thing where you just react, you see these people who are
such a piss-take of everything that you want to stand for, and you see them running things
that you even might believe in, into the ground, and it pissed me off. I made a set of videos
based off that reaction, and so to the people who asked me if there was a specific video
I regret or dislike the most, no, but there are videos that I certainly don't feel the
same way about now, and were made on a whim of emotions, feelings that felt justified
at the time, but really could have used a second voice to ask me if I really wanted
to upload that content. How helpful is that to the conversation? If you want to watch
my old videos, then be my guest. At the end of the day, arguments don't have an identity,
but if you want to know if I still endorse those beliefs, it might be best to speak to
me personally. I left political content for a load of reasons, partly because I wanted
some more time to find myself on the political spectrum, a lot of my views are still evolving,
and I definitely took the plunge very early originally. Political YouTube was also going
in a direction that seemed very questionable, you were either with them, or against them.
I'd started to grow tired of the rhetoric employed by a lot of creators, and it began
to show. After a run-in with fanboys over Tom McDonald's White Boy, a song that I still
personally think is really bad, I decided that I needed to re-evaluate what I wanted
to do with my channel. Generally, I don't like to say that someone is bad from their
opinion, I want to make content that I can have fun doing, I just didn't receive that
pleasure from continuing down the route I was taking. It was toxic, it was very toxic,
that won't mean I won't address the political things in the future, but they won't be
the centre of the video. I want to be the best I can be, and I think that results from
a level of information, and I don't think anyone's really nailed it yet, even though
there are some creators that I do respect in what they're doing, there is none that
I do not find fault with. On top of this, there are a lot of reactionaries, and people
with pre-aligned agendas, I look forward to the day when we can all tackle topics with
a bit more nuance. With the current topics that I'm choosing, I will very rarely avoid
something just because I believe it's too controversial, and that's my ethos, I decide
to take things on, on my interest and my confidence in handling it. Controversy doesn't really
factor in, if there's a controversial incident that I think I can handle well, then I'll
do it. With regards to my best video, it is a hard one, because I feel that all of my
newest videos are a step up from my old ones. I'd probably lean towards the animators
video with regards to presentation, maybe Lil Tay with the level of information that
was revealed, but it's difficult, I'll admit that. Really, I only plan to grow my content
and keep working on the imperfections, which there are. I'm very comfortable with certain
elements, but I definitely look forward to a time when I have more opportunity to research
and be involved in the process, because at that point, you won't be able to save the
subjects of my videos. And I'm in my last year of uni, so a lot longer to go now my
friends. I'm hoping that by this time next year, we'll have opportunities all round really.
With regards to the lengths of my videos and whether I'll return to making shorter videos,
I feel that the problem with my shorter videos was that they just didn't carry an impact,
they didn't possess the same weight that my longer videos do. My longer videos just allow
me to do more, to create a convincing environment, or allow me to make a piece reflective, or
whatever. I want people to have a reason to watch my videos, I feel that was lacking in
A lot of people also asked me what inspired me to originally create content, and honestly,
although I was vaguely familiar with many YouTubers who I did greatly enjoy, the main
reason was boredom. I was still coming from a pretty emotionally dark place of January
2016, and one of my friends had a channel where he made gaming content, and I thought
that I might be able to do something with that, and I thought, well, maybe he can give
me some advice. I knew that I had some talent with regards to creating scripts and such,
I just wasn't technically quite there. However, at the time, Vanilla Rice, a friend
of mine who I'll also link in the description below, offered to help me with editing free
of charge, so I guess I should thank him, because without him, the channel would never
have left the ground in the first place. He's really important to my life, and I don't
think I can ever deny that. It was probably also a part investment, as he assumed if I
blew up, I'd help him out too, and he's right about that. We'll definitely collaborate
again soon. I want to do something more with my life, I wanted to go to a market that wasn't
impossible to access and inspire me, YouTube did that, and I hope it doesn't go away
too soon, because I love it, and I love everyone who's supported me through it. But what
about the future? Will I ever return to politics? Will I move towards other content? I don't
know if I'll ever return to hardcore politics, even if the landscape significantly changes,
mainly because if I want to make my political change in the world, which I do actually care
about, I think it'll be beyond YouTube. With regards to music, and film, and so on,
yes, I will almost definitely move towards that, and I was speaking to some other popular
film channels about a possible collaboration project, but I want to think of a proper spicy
take before I move in on it. I love music, and it's also very possible I'll return
to that, I almost did recently, but just didn't quite feel happy with the material. When it
comes to my career goals, if my YouTube failed tomorrow, then my life would go on. I'm
working hard beyond to try and make sure that I can support myself whatever the circumstances,
because YouTube is very unpredictable. My ideal scenario is that this all takes off,
and in five years time, I'm living in the commentary equivalent of FaZe House with the
boys. But life is strange, and sometimes things don't turn out that way. At the end of the
day, I'm making content that firstly I care about, and secondly my audience cares about.
I do my best to strike the balance, because I don't know how long this will last, but
I'm glad I've had the opportunity. I really do hope I reach 100k. When people ask me how
I stay motivated in these scenarios, my reply is really, I just think about how good the
finished product will be. I never want to miss an opportunity, and even though it might
not feel like high stakes at the time, you don't know what you may be passing up on.
Another big question I receive about my channel is my name. Why the right opinion? I genuinely
can't remember the backstory behind it. I think it was a fairly spontaneous decision,
and it's not something that was given too much thought at the time. Honestly, I'm really
bad with names typically, and so the fact that it just popped into my head, I've never
had a second thought about it. You know, you just gotta take all you can get in those positions.
It is of course ironic, and when people are tapping me over it, it is quite amusing. As
for my opinions on other content, I do like to take the idea that content is generally
quite subjective, however, there is definitely a warring level of low-effort culture, clickbait
over content, and really, I do not care about clickbait too much if your content is worth
the click, but you see some people whose videos are completely coasting on the thumbnails
and the titles, and it's rather sad. Do not fear though, I'll make sure everyone gets
their just desserts. With regards to what I watch, I don't really have many channels
that I consider guilty pleasures. As said before, I watch a lot of review channels.
Typically, my go-to channel at the moment is I Hate Everything. On top of this, I also
watch a lot of my friends' channels because I want to support their content. Currently,
university is really pushing time against me, and therefore I do not have the time to
watch content that I do not consider necessary to my life, and I have to watch videos for
research purposes anyway. I have enough to sort out. With regards to my favourite content
creators, Colossal is crazy when he uploads, and Nerd City are definitely up there, especially
with the level of detail that they tend to go into. With regards to smaller creators,
my favourite channel under 1,000 subs is Average Pixel. Trouble is, he's suffering
from a bout of Colossal Syndrome. I'm trying to encourage him to have another video out,
but I think the lack of reception has previously made him slightly cautious, but he is a fantastic
guy, and if any of you can go and show him some love, it might just motivate him. I'll
leave his links in the pinned comment below. And yes, it is true, I have scrapped many
many videos in my time, either because I didn't think I was ready to tackle it yet, or I was
mildly worried at the time whether I'd thought it through. But recently, that concern
has gone to the wind, and I've realised that sometimes you just gotta run with it.
But I'd say I've scrapped around 20 videos in my time, and as mentioned earlier, I have
10 videos lined up, and probably more when I think about it. The only other question
I think I received on this topic was about when I thought I'd stop growing, and honestly,
you want my honest opinion? When I first started up this channel, I thought I'd stop at 3,000,
so the fact that we made it to 50 is something else, really. I think that sums up questions
about my content, so now we have to address one of the most popular types of question.
I'm an open person. I'm open about my struggles, my hardships, and things that other people
may not be so forward about. There are obviously things that are off limits, but I still think
if I'm open about these topics, it might help others. That's important. I'd say around
maybe 30% of my fans know this, maybe more, but yes, I am gay. I don't feel the need to
make a coming out video, because I'm already out pretty publicly, and at the end of the
day, it doesn't factor into my content usually. I am who I am. If it's ever necessary to
bring up as a point of interest, then I shout, but I've seldom encountered the topics.
I really began coming to terms with it when I was 18, so I'm a bit behind in many ways.
It was weird, because I was constantly used to environments where it was never really
considered a possibility. I was just waiting to be attracted to females, and it never happened,
which is something that does still affect me to this day. I think if I had been able
to acknowledge it, at least as a possibility earlier, it may have been easier growing into.
As a person, I'm slightly fragile in that area, and I'm still trying to work myself out.
A lot of people used to ask, so I put it in my Twitter bio. However, since I put it in
my Twitter bio, a lot of people seem to think it's an ironic joke, probably referring to
the other meaning of gay. And yes, I understand that, but I am homosexual. Got it? Good.
Some people have asked me how gay I behave outside of my videos. I guess when they refer
to gay, they are talking about these stereotypes, and the sort of flamboyant, very camp behaviours.
And I am definitely by no means masculine, I do have a bit of an exuberant personality
when I choose to, but I'd say my brand is probably more subdued, so on a gay scale of
1-10, I'd say typically around a 4, with the mild acknowledgement that it may have
a tendency to increase in situations in which I'm excited. I might make the occasional
self-referential joke about it, and that's fine, I make jokes, I'm someone who enjoys
a bit of banter, I think it actually makes me more comfortable with who I am, but I will
not overdo it. Also I received this very interesting question which was put forward, why do I wear
a coat, which is in reference to the time I went to Insomnia gaming festival, and was
only seen in a coat at all times. Firstly, at Insomnia, every night I did not have a
good sleep, and when I'm sleep deprived, I typically feel colder. And secondly, one
of the more unstable things about me is my weight, it has a tendency to increase and
decrease, and honestly, I don't think I've been happy with it for a while. It's funny
because I know that it's far from bad or anything, but the coat just makes me more
comfortable in such environments. This might cause you to hypothesise, it's why I hide
myself from the camera. Although partly true, I'm still unaware of how to balance face
cam with non-face cam, whereas face cam works in a more casual environment with less structure,
scripted content kinda contradicts that, and it's hard to do that with the camera. I
don't always wear a coat, and in fact, in VidCon 2018, I had no other option but to
brace the Californian heat, and I hated every single photo of me. It seems so easy to identify
the little things that you want to correct about yourself. As I said, I have one more
year in university, and then I expect to have more of an opportunity to get into shape.
It does not help that university and YouTube both pile a fair amount of stress onto me
that I don't really have time to stay in great form, but that time will come afterwards,
I have plans to sort it all out and finish it all this coming summer, and then I won't
have to think about it again, but if you do see me before then, just know that I will
have everything under control one day. If I was to see my younger self, I don't know
if I'd give him any advice, mainly because in spite of his numerous flaws, errors, and
every single imperfection that he hated about himself, the desperate longing for socialist
acceptance mixed with a whirlwind of volatile sentiments, he turned into this person, which
once again, is still a work in progress, but is pretty unique in many ways, and is still
striving to be better. Sometimes, those things are so fragile that you wouldn't want to
intervene with a younger version of you because you don't know what you might change, and
even if you give good advice, it may not go the way you want it to. I think the best
advice I'd always give to my younger self is that it's important to put the moments
of childhood into perspective, and although it was a fairly turbulent time and plagued
with a lot of problems, that you'll emerge as a stronger person from it, because you
have to believe you can do better. With regards to advice to a more recent version of myself,
notably a version of me with less subscribers, I'd just tell him to always keep on working
on improving, and to keep working on perfecting it. That's a philosophy that I always keep
up, stay on that grind my friends, stay on that grind.
And the last question I wanted to get out about this personal moment was my most controversial
opinion. We all have them, it's okay, you're allowed to have controversial opinions. My
one is probably about the European Union, given context. As a left-wing student living
in the international world, it seems stereotypical for many to assume that I'd love the European
project. But out of all my opinions that have changed over the years, the one that
has remained steadfast is that the European Union are not to be trusted, and if we outsource
sovereignty to them, it will make it much easier for corporations to influence how laws
are made that affect our lives, and our influence as civilians will be further diluted. I could
go on forever about how much I do to test the European Union. Does it mean I enjoy Brexit?
No, far from it, but it's such a catch-22, it's one of the things that I've never really
budged on, and have convinced a few people on it too. I think that's the personal questions
done about me. Once again, if you have anything else you want to throw in my way, then I'm
always open. Let's talk about the questions that were harder to categorise.
I do have a lot of questions about my relationship with editors, how I've accumulated so many
why I appear to have such a sound working relationship with them. There are a lot of
responses that I can make to this, but the first thing is none of my editors are just
random strangers, a high majority of my editors have approached me, and the few that I approached
were either people who followed me and I'd heard good things about, or mutual friends
already. This immediately elevates the alliance, I love all of them really, they're all really
sound people, which is why I always try and push them out there without bothering my audience
too much. For so many creators it seems almost taboo to give credit to your videos to anyone
else, but I want to let people know that this is not just me, this is a great collaboration
of fantastic people, it's such a mutual energy, and if they're good content creators
then I might even offer them parts in my videos in the future. I try and make their experience
editing my videos enjoyable ones, I try and organise it well at the end of the day, some
of them might see this as an investment because although I can't throw copious amounts of
money at them right now, they might see me as the sort of person who'll pay them back
if I make it, and once again, they're kinda right on that. I am someone who wants to help
out those who've looked out for me, because if you're rich and successful, a lot of fair
weather friends tend to materialise. These people have been here from the start, they
had faith in me when I didn't have faith in myself. You don't want to reach the top
and start searching for friends, that's never a good philosophy, so these lads will
always get enough of the true love.
I wanted to address some of the more slightly spontaneous questions here, ones that just
came out of nowhere, and topics that were a bit more casual and lacking specificity
to me exactly. With regards to music, my favourite artist is Elton John, up there is Queen,
the Electric Light Orchestra, and Robbie Williams. It's an interesting combination of musicians
I'm aware, but my music taste is extremely eclectic, and as I'm writing this script
currently, it just transitioned from Miss Right by Anderson Park to We Built This City
by Starship. Any music that can invoke an emotion from me, which isn't discussed of
course, normally receives a thumbs up, even if it's cheesy and goofy at points. With
regards to films, my favourite film if you haven't worked it out already is Hot Fuzz,
and I make numerous subtle and not-so-subtle references in my videos alluding to it. I
think it's a brilliant film, and nothing can ever touch it, like, it just spoils me
with how wonderful it is. A lot of films don't have rewatch value to me, so any film that
can do that as a first is already a cut above the rest, and boy, I've watched that damn
masterpiece so many times, and will regularly show my friends just to see their reaction.
I also received questions about whether I'm interested in anime. Unfortunately, I haven't
had the time to invest myself in the particular genre too much, but it is the sort of thing
that I could see myself enjoying. I've watched a couple of anime films, and they are just
beautiful, like unbelievable art. I do really think it's kinda magical. With regards to
video games, I'm a sucker for GTA V. I played that game for so much time when I was younger,
I missed the times when I didn't have to worry about an exam every two weeks, and actually
could use the leisure time to sit back and crack out a game like GTA V. It was just so
cathartic. I made a ton of money, bought a ton of weaponry, vehicles, everything. If
it was available at the time, I bought it. It was a game that invested my ambition into
a new energy. It was just so immensely fun. I didn't play many other games, admittedly,
so if I haven't responded to your specific questions about video games, then that's
probably why. I haven't played it. I also played the Call of Duty series, and a bit
of Fortnite, but honestly, I'm mainly anticipating the Call of Duty Royale. I can never really
acclimatise to the building on Fortnite, so I'm looking forward to having the controller
at the helm, and a more classic style. Someone also asked my opinion on furries, and to be
honest, I have noticed that I do have a fairly prominent furry fanbase. I don't mind. At
the end of the day, we're all individuals, I do not care if you're a furry or not,
as long as you're a lovely person, and I know people who are furries who are really
friendly to me. The person who made my channel banner is a furry, so I don't really care
what you do with the anthropomorphic personas. The fursuits though, they do intimidate me
a bit, like for real, like look at those eyes. It's like they're staring into my soul.
Another person also asked how I respond to people when they ask me how much I earn. I
tend to throw out a vague amount of money for the month with a precondition that it
does vary, depending on my upload schedule, and also depending on how well the videos
do. Some videos also have better CPM than others, sometimes YouTube loves me, sometimes
YouTube hates me. Someone who I really have to answer to also asked what my top 5 Taylor
Swift songs are, and I'd say Wildest Dreams, Begin Again, Call It What You Want, Style,
and Getaway Car. I admit, I actually don't mind country music, but I'm not really crazy
about Taylor Swift's country phase, I think it's just aged rather badly on me. Also, I
like bananas, I like beans, and I certainly do not like fucking pineapple on pizza, and
do not ask me about that shit again. Good night.
This was PRPLPRNCH, and I'm out!
