This video serves partially as a reply to Sargon of Akkad's video,
The False Narrative of the Working Poor, and also to a lesser extent,
the video from which it sprang, what the Conservative Party did next.
However I also have some other related topics to throw in as well. I do
recommend you go back and watch those videos if you haven't already because
they're quite good. But for those of you who don't know,
in The False Narrative of the Working Poor, Sargon outlines exactly how much
somebody would make in the UK with a minimum wage paying job working 40 hours
a week, and then subtracts various expenses from
that sum in order to discover the total amount one would have left over,
in order to dispute the idea that the working poor are just lazy bums taking
benefits. Now I don't have any concrete numbers
like Sargon did, but let me tell you about my status as one of Canada's
working poor. I understand that this example is going to be quite subjective,
but I still think there's some truth to it. At the very least it's realistic and
possible to live this way, considering that I'm actually doing it. I
live in a decent-sized urban centre in Canada.
Not one of the big three of Vancouver, Montreal, or the GTA,
where upper-class hipsters have gentrified large portions of the city,
driving up prices massively, similar to America's own Trust Fund
Baby Centres of Southern California and the Northwest Corridor.
But the city in which I live is still a medium-sized city. It's still considered
a regional centre for industry, culture, education, and healthcare. I live in a
middle-class area of the city. Older houses, lots of rentals, lots of
students, not much in the way of crime, no big lakeside mansions, but also not a
ghetto. Here's a bit of math off the top of my head. To live here I pay $400 a
month, including water and hydro. Internet comes out to $35 a month,
and I budget my food at around $25 a week. Again, I'm not eating
gourmet food, but I'm also not eating poorly. It's
nutritious, if not boring, fair. The minimum wage right now is $11.25 an
hour, and I get an average of 20 hours a week at my boring,
soul-crushing grocery store job. Taking out things like union fees and Canada
pension, I can expect to make around $200 a week and $800 a month.
Depending on various factors, I've seen that go as low as $600 a month and as
high as $1200. On an average $800 a month, rent consumes $400 of that money,
food takes another $100, and internet takes $35. That leaves $365 to handle
other expenses. I don't have a phone, I don't find myself needing much in the
way of new clothing or shoes, I don't pay for a city bus pass because I ride
my bicycle everywhere I go. Yes, including during the winter. Learning
how to winter bike ultimately became a godsend when it comes to transportation
around the city. Nonetheless, I don't save much of my
extra money. I usually end up putting the money into some of my hobbies or
passions, or picking up something for the YouTube channel like games or anime or
equipment or props, or sometimes we'll need something new for the house like
kitchen supplies or toiletries or whatever.
And yes, once in a while I'll spend on a social event or a gift or eat out with
friends or order a pizza for a movie night or something. I don't come out of
the month with much in the way of saved money, but I live a pretty comfortable
average working class bachelor existence. Somebody living where I am, who is
working a full 40 hours a week, full time, even at minimum wage, would find
themselves in a position to save up enough to purchase a vehicle in just a
couple of years. Yes, it would require them living a Spartan life for a period
of time, but it's not impossible. Upward mobility is possible even on
minimum wage, at least where I am. I think it's reasonable to say, not
simply because of my example, but just in general, that Canada's welfare state
system is a bit stronger than the UK's. Make all the jokes you want about
Canadian healthcare, for example, but my sister would be dead without it. Her
birth defect was something my family simply wouldn't have been able to fix if
we were living in the US. But let's talk about the stereotype of the welfare
queen. The welfare queen is somebody who refuses to work or works just long
enough only to renew their benefits status, and purposefully stays
unemployed to take advantage of the system. While I'm sure people like this
exist, I don't think they exist to the extent that American and British
conservatives think they exist. Simply because in those two countries, it's
almost impossible to live on the minimum wage, let alone on unemployment insurance.
But what about Canada? Well, up here, we have what's known as employment
insurance, or EI. On the Canadian government's website, the amount of EI
any one individual receives is stated to be 55% of your average weekly
earnings from back when you had a job up to a maximum of $49,500 a year, or
$524 a week. Keep in mind that most people won't actually be earning $524 a
week on EI. In order to actually do so, a person would have had to have made
around $100,000 a year when they lost their job. For example, if I lost my
current job and went on EI, I would probably get around $100 a week, maybe a
little bit more. EI lasts for between 14 to 45 weeks, and that length of time is
dependent on multiple factors, including rate of employment for your riding, and
the number of hours you work before losing your job. To put this in practical
terms, based on the ballpark figures I gave about my own life earlier in this
video, if I went on EI, I might have enough money to stay in my current place
and eat the same quality of food, for the most part, but everything else would go.
The social stuff, the frivolous purchases, the birthday or Christmas contributions,
and so on. I would have the same basic quality of life, but I would lose
virtually every single trimming, and even then it's really a 50-50 split on whether
or not I'd be able to make ends meet at the end of the month. However, if I lived
in the absolute cheapest, scummiest location in the city, and ate the cheapest,
most unhealthy food imaginable, I'd have to tighten my belt a bit, but I'd be more
or less fine. So, it may be slightly more feasible for people to exploit the
system here in Canada, but that comes with the trade-off of having a stronger
system all around. In regards to any given nation's social safety net, there
seems to be a loose correlation between the strength of the system and the
amount the system is exploited by the population. If you cannot live on the
minimum wage in a given nation, you're certainly not going to be able to live
on the vastly inferior sum that is unemployment benefits. Meanwhile, in a
nation with a very strong safety net, you're also going to see a number of
other benefits with it. A higher minimum wage, a greater ability for a worker to
re-enter the workforce after sickness, injury, or a spell of unemployment, and
yes, more exploitation of the system. The judgment must be made. Is it preferable
to have a stronger system where people who need help get it but exploitation is
more common, or a weaker system where deserving people get less help but
exploitation is less common? In order to answer that, we need to recognize that
while humans use money as their primary currencies, society in fact does not. The
best way to explain this phenomenon is to reveal myself as the true video game
nerd that I am and talk about the Civilization series for a second. In
Civilization, your nation operates on three primary currencies, food, gold, and
hammers. Food is fairly straightforward. It keeps your population fed and allows
your cities to grow. Gold is money. You use it to pay for your maintenance costs
and buildings and units. Hammers are a measurement of how much labor your
citizens actually perform. It's more abstract than food or gold, but things
like workshops, water mills, lumber mills, and mines all produce hammers. A city
with an abundance of hammers can build new buildings and train new units more
quickly. I know Civ is a video game, but it is an accurate, if not very simplistic
view of society. If we look at the work that you or I or anybody else produces
at our day jobs as a tangible, tradable currency may be represented by hammers,
it becomes significantly more clear why a strong welfare state is a net good for
society. In essence, humans desire gold and have an excess number of hammers for
trade, while society desires hammers and has an excess amount of gold for trade.
And this exchange of gold for hammers is called the economy. If this sounds
familiar to you, it should. Karl Marx wrote about the nature of
production as a tradable currency in its own right in the Communist Manifesto.
And any educated capitalist will tell you that Karl Marx was correct when he
described the relationship between the worker and society. They just don't like
the conclusions he came to. Anyway, society values hammers over gold. It
wants people to work, to produce goods and services, and it is willing to trade
money to incentivize people to do so. Therefore, when a person is unable to
work, it's in society's best interest to try and get that person back to work as
quickly as possible. It's not just a moral imperative to ensure that people
don't simply die when they hit a rut of bad luck, but also the production that a
worker provides society with very quickly pays for the money society gives
to a worker through the social safety net when a worker finds themselves
unable to work. Another good way to look at the issue is through the eyes of an
investor. Society can invest, say, $10,000 into a worker and get another 20 years
of production from them, or society can save $10,000 and lose 20 years of
production. The big criticism towards a society that functions in this way is
that there's always going to be people who try and find ways to exploit the
system to do as little work as possible in order to qualify for the next round
of benefits or, where possible, simply not work at all. And even though the math
shows that this is almost impossible to achieve, let's take the criticism at face
value and assume that welfare queens are, in fact, a sizable problem. In the
investor example, society invested $10,000 to help a worker when that worker
couldn't find a job and got 20 years of production in return when that worker
finally did find a job. What if it takes three rounds of investment from society
in order to get a worker back to work instead of just one? What if it takes
five? Ten. At what point does it simply become not worth it to continue
investing in a worker that cannot offer return in the investment in the form of
production? I don't know. A moralist would say that we should never reach that
point, that our society is prosperous enough that we should be able to
indefinitely support a citizen that can't find work for their entire lives.
But if you ever wanted to open the door wide to potential abuse of the system,
that seems like the way to do it. At the same time, there is likely a turning
point where the cost of investing in a worker that cannot find work becomes too
high, where you pay so much to get them back on their feet that the amount of
production they provide will never make up for the money spent. I don't know
where that turning point is, but what do we do with citizens that cross that
point? Do we simply cut them free and let them die? That doesn't seem like an
acceptable solution either. I don't even know if it's a feasible solution because
it's very hard to predict whether or not a worker is going to begin producing
again before we make the investment into them. There are some people who believe
that cutting benefits to the working class is a good way to responsibly save
taxpayer money, and it might put a small dent in the nation's debt in the short
term, but the long-term impact will be the nation chopping itself off at the
knees. If a society that relies on production from its citizens would rather
hold on to money instead of trade it, it will end up gutting its own workforce in
exchange for some tiny amount of financial savings. This is personally my
biggest problem with libertarianism as a political philosophy. I think I'll do a
more in-depth video on the subject of libertarians in the future, but for now
this will have to do. A core tenant of libertarianism is privatization, meaning
services provided by the state should be provided by the economy, and the free
marketplace will naturally self-regulate as customers choose the best
quality goods and services, allowing the lesser quality to be weeded out via a
lack of business. It's cutthroat and Darwinian to be sure, but there's a
certain appeal to the idea, especially if you're the person currently on top.
Competition, after all, does breed innovation, but a libertarian society is
also very easily exploited. What if the largest provider of any good or service
is actually hideously subpar, even dangerous to the consumer, but because of
their monopoly and a lack of government regulation, they are able to push any
competitors out of the marketplace, even the quality ones, and control the media
message so that the knowledge of these competitors never even reaches the
consumer base. If this sounds ridiculous to you, then you're probably somebody who
doesn't remember what the world was like before the internet arrived and did a
lot to equalize the power of speech, because what I just described was
commonplace before consumers had the ability to congregate online and offer
their opinions counter to any approved narrative. Somebody within the ideal
libertarian marketplace would have to live by a very specific code in order to
thrive, and that code isn't without merit. Work hard, extremely hard, harder than the
other guy, because if you don't secure your cut of the pie, they're going to
take it from you. Competition above all else, and to the victor go the spoils. I
say this with no exaggeration or sarcasm. That value system is a good way to order
your life on a personal level. You can never have too much work ethic, and it's
always good to push yourself beyond comfortable plateaus and into new areas
of self-improvement, and that applies to your job, your health, your relationships,
your goals and dreams, your schooling, whatever. Tenacity is a quality that can
overcome almost any other obstacle. However, as a philosophy for running an
entire society, pure libertarianism seems to be self-destructive. You can't run a
nation solely on the principle of may the best man win without laying a lot of
dead bodies down as the foundation. When everyone fends for themselves, that means
public schooling is gone, public health care is gone, police and fire services
are gone, unemployment insurance is gone. There's a lot of libertarians who
consider that to be a straw man, but I don't think it is. If the rich pay for
their kids to go to school, or the hospital, and the poor cannot pay, that
leads to a strictly defined class system, multi-generational poverty, and an
unending nightmare for most of the human population. And I think this speaks to a
much larger point, that effective personal solutions are not always going
to translate to being effective social solutions. Personal libertarianism can be
admirable as a framework through which you order your life. You value hard work,
you understand the nature of competition, and you never ever give up because what
you want is more important than the obstacles you face. You temper yourself
through hardship, but this philosophy applied society-wide leads to widespread
death and a return to the dark ages. There are other examples of personal
solutions not working as social solutions, some of which I intend to make
future videos on. Safe spaces, as defined by social justice, fall into this
category. Another simpler example of this rule of thumb is diet. Those of you who
have watched the other videos on this channel know that I'm a fatty. I'm
currently on a ketosis diet where you eat little to no carbs, that means
cutting out corn, bread, pasta, potatoes, and rice. It's a very effective personal
solution. However, I wouldn't advocate this as a universal solution. Rice, wheat,
and corn are the three biggest food staples in the world, easy to grow, cheap
at the marketplace. If everybody stopped eating these sources of cheap calories,
millions would starve and the food industry would collapse because we simply
don't have the capability to replace those staples on our farms with other
foods at the rate that 7.4 billion people would require. Enough about food
though. When somebody talks about the working poor as if they're simply lazy
and spending all their money on junk without saving it and trying to better
themselves, like this fellow on one of Sargon's videos saying,
as to minimum wage, if you're stupid and irresponsible, then you will not save a
penny. If you have that kind of job and want kids, big house, new TV, etc., it's
your selfish choices, not survival. I think their core lack of understanding
comes from not knowing that personal solutions do not function as social
solutions. When the libertarian social solution is to dismantle a safety net, to
remove the ability of a worker to get back on their feet and contribute again
and improve their standing again, all in the name of allowing the best to rise to
the top and letting the rest sink to the bottom, the libertarian personal
solutions of tenacity and work ethic will not help a worker who has no chance
of ever recovering from the poverty that sickness or injury will leave them in.
Society needs all workers contributing production, not just the best, but the
best and everybody else. And the libertarian philosophy of rewarding the
best and abandoning everybody else just isn't going to cut it.
Hey guys, I hope you enjoyed the first SF opinions. I would like to do more of
these in the future and I do have some topic ideas, so if you guys think this is
a series worth continuing, please let me know in the comments. And if there's
something you'd like me to chat about for a while, let me know about that too.
I'd like to try to do one of these twice a week, but it really just depends on how
much interest there is. The next one I put out is either going to be on the
nature of pedophilia in the light of Sarah Butts, or alternatively the state of
World of Warcraft as we go into the next expansion. I hope you enjoyed this sort
of thing though, and make sure to come back and check it out.
