What is the point of making movies?
There are many answers to this question,
ranging from the creative to the persuasive.
But in this day and age,
the motivations of the film industry at large come down to something far more cynical.
The truth is that the average movie only sees the light of day for one reason.
Another five-letter word that starts with M.
Uh-oh, looks like we just ran out of funding.
Well, I guess we better queue up some coming attractions.
Do you remember Opera?
What, that web browser we used to use as kids?
They're back.
Check it out, they got this new integrated AI called ARIA.
It's so smart, I can physically feel my IQ rising by using this thing!
ARIA, give me tomorrow's lottery numbers.
One browser is more secure than the rest.
I don't know, he locked himself in his room.
Kind of like how Opera locks down their users' privacy.
One browser is more lucid than the rest.
Looks like they added this thing called Lucid Mode.
It makes digital experiences more lifelike, almost as if they're real.
One browser will reign supreme.
I'm starting to get concerned about Rusty.
He hasn't left his house in three days,
and the last thing he mentioned to me was something about becoming one with Opera.
This winter...
Open the studio doors, ARIA.
It ain't over.
I'm hiding in the woods right now.
It's the only place it can't get me.
Oh my god.
What is that?
To the Virtual Lady Sings.
What is happening?
They put me in the computer!
Starring...
Built-in VPN, ad blocker, sidebar music player, and inorganizable tabs.
At last, I have found her.
Introducing Opera.
Coming soon to you.
Download today using the link below.
It's easy to get carried away by the stardom and spectacle that Hollywood blockbusters provide,
but make no mistake about it.
These things exist to serve a very specific purpose.
No different from that of a McDonald's cheeseburger or a can of Coke.
The vast majority of movies are designed to be consumer products.
They are a tool used by corporations to generate profit.
The most fundamental aspect of business is being able to make more than you spend.
And before a single frame of film is shot,
its investors must have confidence that whatever their funding is an asset and not a liability.
Despite fulfilling the same general economic function,
the way in which films make their money is unique to most other consumer goods.
A single successful movie is potentially more valuable than
selling 10,000 cars or 10 million sandwiches.
With so much revenue tied up in just one product,
it completely changes the way in which producers have to approach risk.
The dreaded box office bomb can be as destructive as its name suggests.
The industry's biggest flops have ruined careers,
bankrupted companies and have even led to the extinction of entire genres of storytelling.
Most Hollywood studios hesitate to swing for the fences
because the risk of striking out is often catastrophic.
Keeping the playbook safe and predictable is usually what's best for business,
even if it comes at the cost of artistic integrity.
There's no need to reinvent the wheel when the formula for success is already set in stone.
The highest grossing films in history tend to have a few things in common.
As it turns out, 2023 has seen not one but two new entries to the coveted list.
The Mario movie featuring the most recognizable video game mascot of all time
and the Barbie movie featuring the most recognizable toy mascot of all time.
When you add in Harry Potter, the most recognizable literary mascot of the 21st century,
you may start to notice a pattern.
The most profitable films don't tend to be very original.
While it's somewhat amusing to see adaptations
reproduce their source material with varying degrees of faithfulness,
it's tough to ignore that most of the heavy lifting
to establish these brands had already been done long ago.
In general, audiences are drawn to what's familiar.
This logic applies to adaptations as well as sequels,
which over time have become even bigger cash cows.
The original Top Gun is not among the top 20 highest earners, but the 2022 sequel is.
The same is true for Jurassic Park, Fast and the Furious,
and even the uncanny live-action Lion King reboot which nobody likes
but everyone paid to go see apparently.
Of course, Disney are the kings of getting value out of their properties.
They were the first studio to embrace the newest money-making strategy in Hollywood.
String together enough sequels and spin-offs and you get a cinematic universe
where each release induces demand on the others.
And with that, we've pretty much filled out the whole list, except for the very top.
As of 2023, the highest grossing film of all time is James Cameron's Avatar,
which reclaimed the number one spot from the Avengers after its re-release last year.
In fact, Cameron was in the director's seat for three of the top five box office milestones
For a list otherwise dominated by recycled concepts,
Avatar was unique in being a totally new experience when it debuted in theaters.
Business-wise, it was by far the most ambitious, spanning 15 years from concept to execution
and making the absolute most of the technology at its disposal.
Sometimes a little risk is necessary to earn the greatest reward.
So far, Avatar has grossed just under three billion dollars,
with an official budget of 237 million.
It produced returns of about 12 to 1,
meaning that if for whatever reason you had invested a hundred dollars into the project,
you would have gotten back about 1200.
Here we find a different way of looking at a movie's profitability.
While Avatar made the most total money of any film,
it was far from the highest return on investment.
Exploring the top of this metric puts us in an entirely different ballgame.
For years, the biggest profit margin in cinema was attributed to the 1972 pornographic film Deep Throat.
On just a $47,000 budget, the project at one point reported earnings of up to 600 million,
which would have put it in the same league as Star Wars in terms of ticket sales.
However, historical consensus has shed serious doubt on this claim.
It turns out that the movie was distributed primarily through mafia-controlled theaters.
Meaning that its revenue was more than likely propped up by various other streams of income.
Experts now estimate that the film made just 50 million,
which still equates to an impressive return of a thousand to one.
As for more conventional films,
the rest of the 70s marked a golden age for hyper-profitable projects.
Rocky turned a budget of a million dollars into a 225 million dollar box office.
The original Mad Max earned 100 million off 400,000.
Bruce Lee's Way of the Dragon made 130 million off just 130,000.
But out of all the low-budget heroes, by far the greatest number could be found in the horror genre.
The remarkable success of films like Halloween, Friday the 13th,
and Texas Chainsaw Massacre cemented horror as the format to do more with less.
And starting in 1993, a pair of students from the University of Central Florida
hashed a plan to make the next sleeper hit.
An endeavor that would eventually be known as the Blair Witch Project.
It's the story of three amateur filmmakers investigating a local superstition in the
Maryland wilderness. After venturing too far off course, their situation rapidly deteriorates.
Before long, it's clear that they've stumbled into unwelcome territory.
Miles away from civilization, they make the disturbing discovery that they're not alone
in the woods. These days, Blair Witch is known as one of the defining horror sensations of its time.
Far less known, however, are the incredible lengths its creators
went through to keep its production as inexpensive as possible.
When making a movie, there are three extenuating variables that will tend to eat up most of your
budget. The first and most obvious is manpower. Every aspect of production, from lighting to
wardrobe to set design, often requires its own specialized team of artists and technicians.
It's not uncommon for even small-scale projects to require a headcount in the hundreds.
As filming drags on, all those names in the credits quickly drive up the bill.
And if that wasn't enough, every one of those people are probably working with some kind of
expensive technology that also has to be factored into the budget. Modern films are expected to
look a certain way and adhere to strict standards of technical proficiency. If the pictures, sound,
or special effects come off as too sloppy, the audience may end up dismissing the project
entirely. Therefore, respectable films practically need sophisticated equipment before they can be
taken seriously, which doesn't come cheap. But even if a movie meets all the technical
specifications, audiences can still end up rejecting it when the creative aspects fall flat.
It's easy to scoff at how much money A-list actors rake in, but as is the case with any industry,
the best of the best tend to come at a premium. If you want a job done well, you need to invest
in high-end talent. Altogether, these are the most inescapable roadblocks to any film's
profitability. A production can consider itself lucky if it can manage to dodge just one of them.
Remarkably, Blair Witch figured out a way to circumvent all three. To accomplish this,
they would tap into the dark arts of found footage. The technique can be traced back to
the infamous Italian horror film Cannibal Holocaust. It's a film that's been used for
It presents an unorthodox method of storytelling in which the events of the plot are shot by the
on-screen characters. For years, the style was mostly limited to niche experimental films,
but Blair Witch would be the first to utilize it in a strategic way. Because when it comes
to profitability, found footage is a cinematic cheat code. When Merrick and Sanchez began the
casting process in 1996, they were only interested in two criteria, improvisational skill
and basic experience with operating cameras. Eventually, they narrowed down their search to
three candidates, Heather Donohue, Michael Williams, and Joshua Leonard. The trio were
given a rather unique responsibility. They weren't just the stars of the show. They were basically in
charge of creating everything we saw on screen. During principal photography, pretty much the
only manpower working on the film were these three people. In fact, the directors were not
even present while most of the filming took place. While working under no supervision,
the actors' performances were entirely spontaneous. The script for the project contained no dialogue,
as every conversation was intended to be improvised on the spot. Giving the actors so much
liberty over the production process drastically cut down on labor costs, but where the found
footage method really shines is its flexibility with inexpensive equipment. The very premise of
the genre provides a diegetic excuse for a lo-fi presentation. The picture quality can look
unprofessional because that's how the characters within the story shot it. Most of Blair Witch was
filmed on a Hi8 camcorder, which retailed for only $300 at the time. Although it was far below the
standard expected from feature films, it works within the specific context of found footage.
With the cost of labor and equipment now taken care of, the filmmakers had only one problem left
to worry about. They had to elicit convincing performances out of the inexperienced cast.
For such a low-budget project, they could only really draw from a pool of unknowns. With the
skill of the actors being a major question mark, the directors came up with an ingenious solution.
While there were no guarantees that the cast would bring realism to the film, the film could
bring realism to the cast. During most of the shoot, the actors were placed in the same environment
that their characters were intended to experience. To simulate the real impression of being alone in
the woods, the filmmakers decided to limit their interactions with the cast as much as possible.
Most of the communication was done through written directions that were placed at pre-arranged
locations in the woods. The actors were often instructed to traverse long distances in real
time, which led to actual instances of them getting lost. Furthermore, the actors were not
informed of upcoming plot points. Many of the most pivotal scenes truly showed them reacting to
unnerving events for the first time. Needless to say, several straight days of sleeping in the
woods and getting legitimately spooked by the directors left the cast quite exhausted. By the
end of it all, they really were desperate to return home. While it was far from the most
comfortable experience, the strategy certainly made the performances more convincing. And with
that, pretty much all the footage that would appear in the final product was complete.
At this point, the total budget was estimated to be less than $25,000. In the following months,
the directors gradually whittled down 20 hours of raw footage into the 81-minute final cut.
After more than five years since its initial conception,
The Blair Witch Project was finished. Now all it needed was an audience.
In the film industry, making the movie itself is only half the battle. Before any production
can turn a profit, people need to have a reason to go see it. Throughout the history of cinema,
there are countless examples of excellent products that ultimately flopped because of
poor marketing. It's a process made even more challenging with a limited budget,
as conventional venues for advertising become inaccessible. Without backing from major studios,
independent films often have to rely on guerrilla tactics to generate interest,
and Blair Witch was no different. While approaching the marketing problem,
the filmmakers would stumble upon their greatest stroke of genius yet.
Ordinarily, a sluggish production is not ideal, but in the case of Blair Witch, it happened to
work precisely in their favor. The film's lengthy development time allowed its release to coincide
perfectly with the rise of the internet, and as luck would have it, this radical grassroots
project would be the first to harness its true power. In earlier drafts of the film,
the directors had planned to present the story through a pseudo-documentary format.
The angle was eventually scrapped for pacing reasons, but the documentary segments would
find far greater use elsewhere. They ended up being repurposed and reformatted for television.
More than a year ahead of its release, the myth of the Blair Witch would be quietly introduced
over the American airwaves. The promotional material would appear just twice, first as a
10-minute segment on the Bravo series split screen, then as an hour-long standalone special
on the sci-fi network. While the spotlight was short-lived, it was still incredibly effective.
Overnight, the filmmakers had succeeded in turning the fictional Blair Witch into a real-life urban
legend. At a time when rumors ran wild on online message boards, the premise of the film became the
subject of intense speculation. The American public had no concept of found footage at this
point, leading many to believe that the events of the documentaries were real. The scale of the
campaign became clear when the film opened its own website and received 160 million visitors,
the majority of which truly believed they had uncovered an actual missing persons case.
Out of basically nothing, the filmmakers had transformed a totally unknown brand into one of
the most highly anticipated prospects in cinema. Following its premiere at Sundance, the Blair Witch
project was immediately picked up for theatrical release. In August of 1999, the film would play in
thousands of theaters around the nation and many more around the world. By the end of its run,
Blair Witch had grossed just shy of a quarter billion dollars. Off of an official budget of
just 60,000, it produced an astounding return of 4,144 to one. If you had invested a hundred
dollars into this movie, it would have paid out the value of a new house. Upon release,
The Blair Witch Project was by far the most profitable film ever made.
Up until now, we've only discussed the business end of filmmaking, but the true value of movies
extends far beyond the balance sheet. The history of Hollywood has seen no shortage of shameless
cash grabs, mediocre junk that everyone forgets about as soon as they walk out of the theater.
The films we end up remembering do more than just make money. Perhaps the most surprising
thing about the most profitable film in cinema is that it was actually good. Oddly enough,
there is very little fanfare surrounding Blair Witch today and it rarely comes up in discussions
of the most iconic horror films. This is probably due to the split reception it received from
audiences at the time. After more than a year of intense hype, many viewers found the final product
underwhelming. Much of the disappointment stemmed from the simple realization that the events of the
film weren't actually real. While this led much of the general public to dismiss its merit,
critics saw things differently. In a time of stagnation for the horror genre, Blair Witch
represented something truly new. The handheld amateur camera work provided a more intimate
sense of immersion that felt unique and refreshing. The film makes great use of tension, gradually
escalating the conflict without ever revealing too much. Throughout the story, the true nature
of the Blair Witch is kept ambiguous. When presented with the possibility of changing the
film's final scene, the directors ultimately decided to keep what they had shot originally,
the ending that left the audience with the most room for interpretation. This open-ended mystique
has allowed the film to age gracefully. To this day, there's still a debate over whether the
characters truly experienced anything supernatural. Perhaps this movie's greatest success is making us
realize how frightening it can be to simply let our imaginations run wild. I think the late Roger
Ebert put it best in his review of the film. At a time when digital techniques can show us almost
anything, the Blair Witch project is a reminder that what really scares us is the stuff we can't
see. But as for the movie's overall legacy, the only thing most people did see was its eye-popping
financial success. Naturally, it was bound to spawn some imitators, and in the following years,
the found-footage genre briefly became Hollywood's newest gold rush. Out of these new challengers,
the most successful were J.J. Abrams' Cloverfield and the Paranormal Activity franchise. In fact,
depending on how you factor in post-production costs, the original Paranormal Activity has
a claim to the title of the most profitable film. But the way I see it, it's hard not to respect
what came before. Thus far, no other film has really topped Blair Witch as the defining piece
of the genre. You can chalk up its success to a perfect storm of events, how it benefited from
a series of extremely lucky breaks that will never be replicated. But at the end of the day, when you
look beyond the pomp and circumstance, the Blair Witch project deserves to stand on its own as a
good product. Even now, 25 years later, it still has a lot to teach us. Despite a few home runs,
2023 has been one of the most unprofitable years for Hollywood. And while many are quick to blame
the actors and writers' strike for this, it doesn't really tell the whole story. For many years now,
the industry's tried and true money-making formulas have been backfiring. It appears that
the days of simply pumping out recognizable IPs might be over. Modern cinema has found itself at
a crossroads where not even Disney can seem to figure out what to do anymore. Somewhere along
the way, the business end of filmmaking got too optimized for its own good. Throughout Hollywood's
obsession of making movies more profitable, they forgot how to make them valuable. If you really
think about it, having people pay to watch a bunch of imaginary moving pictures is a pretty
nonsensical business model. If it's money you're after, you'd be far better off selling drugs,
drilling oil, or defrauding investors. After a while, movies have to be more than yet another
means to an end. Cinema was built off the backs of the gunslingers, the risk takers,
the visionaries who showed the rest of the world what no one else could see. The greatest
filmmakers are defined not by the money they produce, but the magic they create using what
little they have to work with. If Hollywood wants to turn things around, they're gonna have to learn
how to be more resourceful. The way things are headed now, they might be left with no other choice.
The future of cinema may be uncertain, but if there's one silver lining,
it's that the hardest times often lead to the greatest inspiration.
