What a song to listen to at the start of the day.
It's Sciitis!
Alright, so it's 10am, the next batch of plants should have come in, so Naomi and I are going
to go and hopefully pick up our cucumbers, since that's the last thing that we need to
get the garden going.
So Naomi, we're at the store again one week later, there's Naomi's feet, and what kind
of cucumbers do you want now that they're here?
English cucumbers, or Japanese cucumbers, no, Lebanese, sorry.
Do you need more tights?
Ow!
I thought you just cut myself off.
Regular cucumbers.
Regular cucumbers.
Do you have a preference?
Nope.
Actually, I think they're pretty much the same.
So we're going to grab four of these and head back home and finish up the planting
for this year.
Naomi, the car's a mess again.
It's your fault, stop fucking up my car with your goddamn plants.
Yeah, but you're still going to eat these cucumbers and like them.
Okay, we're back at the garden, and same situation as last time.
Take a hole, manure time, in it goes.
Cucumber in it, and then we just bury it up.
Yeah, there we go.
All four cucumbers are in.
Now, the trellis looks no good, but maybe it'll last one more year.
It's still holding together, right?
And with that, we have basically set the garden up for the year.
The cucumbers are in, peppers charred because we have too much kale, beans instead of peas
this year, and the tomatoes.
So, let's see how it all turns out.
I just saw this guys, oh no, it's frost time.
Take preventative measures to protect frost-sensitive plants.
Alright, so we're here in the middle of the night, and by we I don't mean Naomi this time,
I mean Dave, fresh off my Garogua playthrough, because Naomi cannot help me with the garden
right now, as she just had all four of her wisdom teeth pulled, so Dave's stepping in.
Um, where is the tarp?
Uh, I know we still have it here somewhere.
So there's gonna be frost tonight, actually I think tomorrow night too, so we gotta get
the tarp.
Garden looks good, even in the night time.
So because of the frost, we're gonna put the tarp on, we're gonna take it off tomorrow,
maybe nine or ten o'clock in the morning, hopefully this will work out.
Hopefully this won't do as poorly as that time when the rain hit.
That was, yeah, about water weight, so there should be some, there's these patio stones
that are hanging around, you can just get it mostly over the beans, that'll be fine.
Who knows if that'll actually work out, but maybe it will.
I guess we'll have to see.
Yeah, this'll probably work out.
Let's hope anyway.
I have a good feeling about it.
It's the next morning, let's hope everything survived.
Oh, it looks okay.
These two are broken.
This one's still going good, okay?
Tomatoes are a bit droopy, but still okay.
The beans are a bit droopy too.
Oh no.
Chard looks good, peppers look good.
It looks like most things survived.
That one pea over there doesn't look so good, and two of those cucumbers are dead.
Here we are one week later, and what I said was gonna happen did happen.
That cucumber died.
Everything else looks good.
My four cucumbers are only doing so-so.
This one's completely gone, this one's like half gone, there's one dead plant there, and
there's this one, and this one, and they look okay, but they have the dry edges.
I don't know if that means there's been too much water.
There's been a lot of rain recently, so maybe there's just too much rain hitting these guys.
Oh my god, guys, you need to see this.
You know that I've been fighting with frost and all this this whole year.
It is the 23rd of May, and if you look up here, we have a frost warning again, even
though it's 22 degrees Celsius.
Frost yet again.
Cover up plants, especially those in frost prone areas, of course, of course, of course.
Well guess what, unlike last time when we just put the tarp on, no big deal, check out
the hourly.
It's 22, 21, 19, lovely spring evening.
By 10 p.m. it starts raining, rain, rain, rain, rain.
It gets real cold, and then at about 5 a.m. it goes down to below freezing until 10 a.m.
So I can't even put the tarp on before I go to bed, because the rain will weigh it down
and crush all the plants.
I'm gonna have to get up at 5 a.m. and put the tarp on for this like four to five hour
window to prevent them from getting frosted.
Fuck my life.
Here we are, it's five in the morning.
Getting the old tarp out yet again, actually, first, it rained a lot last night.
Getting it down again now.
Good morning Naomi, how do you feel?
Fucking awful.
Yeah, same.
So I was touching the plants and stuff, and like they seem not wet, and I thought they
might be, because I was thinking like if it's just wet from the rain, it's still gonna freeze
whether or not we put a tarp over it, because like rain and then instantly into frost might
just be like the garden's done anyway, I don't know, this still might not work, but I guess
we'll see.
We'll try.
There we go, tarp out again, it is a week before June and we're still getting frost
warnings.
I hope that this is the last time we have to do this.
All right, it's the morning, what a terrible night, and we just noticed part of it blew
over and Naomi, you said they might look frosted?
No, no, I can't tell if they're here.
Let's see.
They seem okay, yeah, I think they're okay.
Well, did they have a fault anyway because that was your side?
Yeah.
Yeah, my side was perfectly fine.
Here, lift it up, and walking forward, walking forward, wait did this pepper die?
It's not dead, it's just bent, stand up straight, it's a little bit floppy, and we gotta do
this again tonight, I think the garden's just not gonna work out this year, there's so much
frost and so much heat at the same time.
Ready for climate change.
Look how floppy this one is too, I don't know man, this might be, this might be a disaster
this year.
Hey guys, I'm recording from the upstairs window right now and as you can probably hear,
if not see, there's a ton of rain, it's been like this for about two or three days now.
This is not like last year where the rain almost destroyed the garden and it's certainly
not cold enough like earlier in the year where there was a bunch of frost, the temperature
is fine, there's just a lot of water, so I haven't been watering the garden recently.
And to be honest, the rain's actually pretty good because there's a ton of wildfires in
Canada right now, I don't know if you know.
Tomatoes, peppers, and especially chard are all doing very well.
The beans and cucumbers though don't seem to be going anywhere.
It needs some weeding, which I'll do when the storm's passed.
Also it's been a year and I still haven't fixed that.
All right, all that rain's finally done, so it's harvest slash clean up the garden time
because look at all those weeds.
There are weeds everywhere.
In terms of the harvest, oh there's Naomi throwing some right in the camera's way.
Oh, into the bowl too, then we're gonna have to put the harvest in.
Nice, good job.
Thank you.
I hope there's bugs in there for extra protein.
So...
I didn't eat the bugs.
So we're harvesting the chard now, there's been a lot of chard.
That fifth extra chard that I happened to scavenge actually worked out pretty well.
Everything else though is not necessarily doing the greatest.
Because our weather's been so terrible.
The peppers are about where they usually are at this point in the season, they just take
a while to grow.
Some of the cucumbers are doing okay, but they're also a little bit behind as well.
Same thing with the tomatoes, they're doing all right.
I think they need to have the cages put on them soon though.
And those beans that I bought on a whim, they're mostly just dying.
I don't know what the deal is with the beans, but it doesn't seem to be doing anything.
I guess we'll see how it turns out.
But we've got to harvest, water, and weed.
Naomi, why do you have to weed at the exact spot that the viewing place in the garden
that I have to harvest?
Get out of the way!
I know we had chard last year, but I forget how we did it.
I assume it's just like kale though, you just snip off all the big leaves?
Yeah.
Yeah, just like so, you just snip-a-roo.
You know, you could look this stuff up.
We'll just figure it out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That works great.
So, so well.
It does.
No.
Look, we have a few leaves we can eat.
All right, so the garden is now mostly weeded.
It's not a perfect job, but I mean it's a lot better than it was.
Hey, you hanging out with me?
Yep.
While Naomi grabs this watering can and goes to get some water for the garden.
Is that what I'm doing?
Yes.
I'm going to grab these tomato cages and start putting them over the tomatoes because it
is time I think.
Can I come back and pour the water on your head?
No.
Why not?
Get out of here.
How do you do it?
I never sprayed you with water once during this whole thing.
Now at some point during one of these I'm just going to do it as a surprise when you're
not looking.
And you won't know when I'm going to do it because I'm just going to do it.
Oh, okay.
You almost fall?
No, I don't.
These look like some something's like cocooning on my tomato cages.
Oh well.
Let's go.
Is it this one that goes first?
Nope.
Which...
Okay.
God dammit.
Okay.
I realize I always have tomato cages on the tomatoes.
I never actually show me putting them in though I don't think in any of the videos over the
years.
Not that it matters.
You literally just push them in.
And what happened?
I got sprayed.
Nice.
Thankfully we're going to the beach after this so it doesn't matter.
Let's see if Naomi can actually water plants correctly.
Go!
Oh no!
That's probably enough water yet.
Come on.
Go in.
I'm bending them more than I'm putting them in.
These final two I guess we're just not using them this year.
These tiny ones.
And there we go.
There's our garden.
You know what?
This is one of those times where we might need to just skip the garden for a year.
Because it's going okay but it's not going as well as when it first started.
It could also be because a bunch of these trees grew up in the back here and now we
have way less sun.
It could also be because we...
Oh that's a big bug.
Never mind.
What were you going to say?
Nothing.
I don't remember.
I got distracted and scared.
Oh fly.
Oh fly.
