This will not be a normal Wendover Productions video.
That's because I'm getting a Patreon, but first I need to show you why.
So at 5 AM on a recent Saturday morning, I woke up, left my apartment, walked downtown,
took a bus, took a plane, took a bus, took a train, then arrived here—an open field.
It may seem strange that I traveled over 200 miles to an open field, but this was no ordinary
open field.
This was Argyleton, a place that was once a story in every major newspaper worldwide.
Now this place may sound familiar to you, I talked about it in TWL episode 3.
Argyleton exists, but only according to some maps—it's a paper town.
Back in ye old days, mapping companies devoted an enormous amount of resources to just figuring
out what existed where.
They had to survey every physical place, map every road, plod every mountain, just so they
knew what to put on maps.
Some figured out, though, that they didn't have to go out and survey places—they could
just copy the information from other maps.
They were, after all, mapping the exact same world, so in theory there would be no way
to tell if they were plagiarizing.
That's why paper towns were created.
These towns never existed in real life—they were just randomly and arbitrarily placed.
If competing maps suddenly started listing paper towns, such as Argyleton, their source
would know and could prove that they were plagiarizing since there's certainly no
way that they would get the false information from surveying.
Modern maps are constantly updated and adjusted using new technologies like satellite and
Yes, but a good amount of information on our 21st century maps comes from centuries-old
maps.
Modern day companies such as TomTom and TeleAtlas acquired much of their information from slightly
older companies, who acquired their information from even older companies, and so on and so
forth.
So, remnants of those 19th and 20th century maps sometimes will show up today.
Argyleton is one of those remnants.
Some time down the line, some company placed Argyleton on the map as a copyright trap.
And decade after decade, nobody noticed, even when it got onto digital maps.
Nobody's actually sure when it got there.
TeleAtlas, who sourced mapping information for Google in the region, tried to figure
out where Argyleton originated from, but came out inconclusive.
After it was pointed out that, in truth, Argyleton really is just this field, Google removed
the town from its listings.
In the area, there's no trace of the paper town that once received worldwide media attention.
There are no signs, no souvenirs, nothing, even for perhaps the most famous fake town
ever.
So now's when I talk about money.
If there's no way I'll ever convince you to contribute to my Patreon, you can go, but
I do encourage you to hear me out.
I was able to do such a ridiculous thing as traveling 200 miles to an empty field because
of your guys' support of the channel.
I think this video is much better than the original video I made about Argyleton, partially
because I was able to go to Argyleton in person, and I want to do things like that more.
I've grown enormously, and through adsense, licensing, and freelance, this channel is
now basically my job.
I make enough through these sources to support myself, but I want this channel to improve.
That's why I've started this Patreon.
Every dollar you give to my Patreon will be spent directly on the channel.
I'm serious about that.
I will not take a dime of what you contribute.
I'm even going to release a monthly report showing you where your money went.
The cool thing about this arrangement is that the two or five or ten dollars you contribute
will come right back to you in the form of a better video.
You will be directly affecting the quality and quantity of Wendover Productions' videos.
There are a couple of things I want to spend this money on.
As with this Argyleton video, I think there's value in getting real footage of real places
along with doing research and interviews on location.
Some of the money will likely go to travel expenses to get to these places.
Additionally, I'd love to hire animators and sound designers and others to improve
the quality and quantity of my videos.
I'm not going to change format, I promise you.
I will always have the same simple, clear animations in my videos.
They'll just be cleaner and smoother, so a big part of the money will go to this mad
push for better production quality.
I've tried to create some really rewarding rewards.
At only $2 per video, you'll have early access to my videos, access to the behind
the scenes Patreon feed, and you can wipe your conscience clean for using Adblock.
At $5, you'll get a handwritten letter and stickers sent to wherever you live.
$15 gets you into a super secret group chat with me and other high level supporters and
your name will be eternalized in the description of all videos you support.
$20 per video will get you an awesome looking Wendover Productions t-shirt.
There are some higher tiers too, but I won't go over them here because I doubt many people
will actually use them.
Also, just to be clear, at whatever tier you support, you'll also get the rewards of
the lower levels.
So, if you have the means to, I would love your support on Patreon.
I don't need this money to keep doing the channel, I only want it to improve the channel.
So thank you, and good night.
