Brought to you by Manscaped.
It's once again that time of the year when we revisit the horror genre,
and few movies are as horrifying as John Carpenter's 1982 film, The Thing.
The story of an unstoppable virus plunging a small community into total isolation.
As you can probably tell, it's a film that was remarkably ahead of its time, almost to its own detriment.
While the film is universally acclaimed today, audiences in 1982 initially hated it.
A combination of poor marketing and stiff competition doomed the film to a lackluster theatrical release.
The Thing went head-to-head with Blade Runner in the sci-fi department and Poltergeist in the horror department,
losing out to both at the box office.
But perhaps the biggest obstacle in the way of its success was the highest-grossing film of 1982, E.T.
As yet another film depicting an encounter with alien life, E.T. served as the direct antithesis to The Thing.
At the time, the U.S. was in the midst of its worst recession since World War II,
and audiences gravitated more towards the whimsical escapism of E.T., with nationwide unemployment surpassing 10%.
Moviegoers were not thrilled with the gloomy, nihilistic overtones of The Thing.
Even more hostile than the audience were the critics, who slammed the film with negative reviews.
Most of the discussion was fixated on the movie's most identifiable element, the special effects.
The Thing featured some of the most innovative and unique creature effects of any film in history,
nearly all of which were conceived and implemented by prosthetic makeup artist Rob Bettine.
$1.5 million of the film's budget was spent on the creature effects, and the result was as impressive as it was gruesome.
In the age before computer graphics, all of the effects had to be done practically, using real models and materials.
Up to 50 technicians operated the models through a system of hydraulics, gases, and wires.
The project was so ambitious that Bettine worked over a year without a single day off while living entirely out of the studio.
At one point, he was even hospitalized for exhaustion, suffering numerous medical ailments from the sheer stress of the workload.
For the filmmakers, the finished product represented a remarkable technical achievement.
But for audiences, the effects were so shockingly grotesque that they overshadowed the greater philosophy of the film.
Critics tended to treat the effects as an excessive gimmick, suggesting that the rest of the movie had very little to offer.
While mostly derided as overkill at the time, the effects were entirely necessary to establish perhaps the most important aspect of the film, the monster.
Hello, Kino Corner here. I'm currently in Antarctica, and there's a dog on the loose who I think might actually be an alien.
Look! There he is!
This monster, this alien, is not some little green man.
It came to Earth on a flying saucer, but that's where the similarities with our normal conception of aliens ends.
And it definitely diverges from the man in a rubber suit alien in the original version of The Thing.
This alien is us. Or at least, it appears to be.
Really, it's everything that it's ever encountered over at least tens of thousands of years of existence across multiple planets.
It goes beyond being just a simple mimic.
This isn't like Invasion of the Body Snatchers, where people are just replaced by identical but alien versions of themselves.
It's not as simple as that. It's a Lovecraft-inspired cosmic horror that has devoured God knows how much of the universe.
And we are just another step along its path.
And how can we stop something that we don't even understand?
What power do we possess in the face of this utterly incomprehensible terror?
But this thing is not a thing.
Each cell is its own entity with its own will to survive, and part of surviving is camouflage.
But because it can assume the form of everything it has consumed, we're given grotesque creations.
Amalgamations of man, beast, and something else, blending body horror with science fiction.
Rob Bottin, who was only 23 at the time but had previously worked with Carpenter on The Fog,
pitched the idea to Carpenter that the monster could be anything, and Carpenter ran with it.
What ensued was about 14 months of working 7 days a week in order to create all the models used in the movie,
which also meant lots and lots of latex.
With these creatures, they were pushing the limits of special effects at the time,
but even so, if you were to look at any of the monsters in even lighting, they would look fake.
Rob Bottin and his crew might have created these horrors,
but cinematographer Dean Cundey brought them to life by masking their imperfections in shadow,
and using contrasty and moody lighting to add another layer of dread and fear to their presence.
Each one of these latex abominations was life-sized, apart from a couple miniature shots,
and incredibly detailed, causing them to lag behind the rest of the production as you can probably imagine.
Most of, but not all of the shots of the various incarnations of The Thing were filmed after the movie wrapped.
Carpenter covered the scenes appropriately so that he could fit the shots of the aliens into the movie,
but that led to many of the actors not actually knowing what The Thing looked like until they saw the film.
Clear!
And I think that that actually helped the film,
because as disgusting and as horrific as the monsters are, the true horror of The Thing is psychological.
Who can you trust? Who is infected? Can you even trust yourself?
At the beginning of the movie, MacCready plays chess with the computer.
The computer always knows the best move, so it wins.
But MacCready enacts his revenge by pouring his whiskey into the computer, frying it.
It's a microcosm for the film as a whole.
MacCready plays a game of chess with The Thing, and every man at the station is a piece on the board.
The psychological horror emerges out of this cosmic game of wits.
And, spoiler alert, the film ends just like how the chess game ended.
Alright, now let's see who here is an imposter.
Get away from me!
Despite being a monster from out of this world, The Thing manages to be disturbingly realistic in its execution.
This trait is mirrored by the protagonists as well.
The film was initially criticized for a lack of strong characters,
but the relatively simple demeanor of the cast only adds to the overall tension and atmosphere.
The juxtaposition of any ordinary character revealing themselves as an incomprehensible monster is what creates the suspense.
It's for this reason why something like the blood test scene is so compelling.
The lack of specific character development actually helps the story remain unpredictable.
The individual characters are not relevant to the overall premise because The Thing is not a character-driven film.
You could have told the same story with Siberian prison guards or Area 51 agents and it wouldn't have made a difference.
The Thing functions much better as an allegory, with each character representing a different archetype of how people act in crisis.
Just as the monster is not inherently evil, the crew are not inherently heroic.
MacReady, the main protagonist, murders an innocent crew member.
That clock was human, huh? Which makes you a murderer, don't it?
He becomes the de facto leader of the group not because he is the most virtuous or sensible,
but because he is the most paranoid and brazen.
Anybody touches me, here we go.
Some critics question the lack of group cohesion among the crew,
finding it implausible that the men did not band together to defeat The Thing.
Contrary to the idealistic whims of the 80s audience,
the film presents a fairly accurate portrayal of how real people tend to act in conflict.
There is overwhelming historical precedent to suggest that people become increasingly atomized while under duress.
Everyone dreams of a gallant hero swooping in to magically solve all of our problems,
but in reality our only salvation comes from men like MacReady,
those who have no choice but to pick the least terrible option.
They will be met with fire and fury.
The Thing could be described by some as prophetic with its portrayal of paranoid isolation,
but its themes undoubtedly echo the real-world events of the time.
The early 80s saw the rise of the AIDS epidemic,
a mysterious and incurable virus whose carriers were indistinguishable from the average person.
The social reaction to the virus was far from cohesive.
The infected were ostracized and abandoned by their communities.
Gays and other minority groups faced unjust discrimination.
People and governments neglected the epidemic until it started affecting the most illustrious members of society.
By the end of the 80s, three-quarters of a million people were infected in the US alone.
In hindsight, did our society really handle things that much better than MacReady?
I don't know who to trust.
Trust is a tough thing to come by these days.
A more broad inspiration for The Thing was the prevailing Cold War.
The collapse of group harmony draws immediate parallels to the Red Scare,
which tore apart American communities by injecting paranoia over communist sympathizers.
The Thing more subtly alludes to the threat of mutually assured destruction.
MacReady is so determined to defeat the monster that he no longer values the preservation of himself or the crew.
We're not getting out of here alive.
But neither is that thing.
The film literally ends with a fiery mushroom cloud
and the two remaining crew members resigning themselves to a mutual demise.
Just one year after the film's release, a lone Soviet officer would save us from meeting the same fate.
Perhaps the most frightening aspect of The Thing is not the monster, but the horrors of human nature itself.
Paranoia, mistrust, isolation and assimilation.
The film has a lot to say about what compels us to turn against our fellow man.
How far do you have to push people before they justify homicidal acts?
The zombie genre tends to depict homicide by portraying the infected as physically and mentally corrupted.
In many aspects, a zombie has lost the traits which make it human,
and the protagonist can indiscriminately slaughter them without remorse.
The Thing complicates this premise by making the infected identical in appearance to the rest of the crew.
Many crew members at first experience guilt or hesitation upon killing the mimic
because they are unable to truly separate the image of their peers from the monster.
MacReady, I know bad things. I've known him for ten years. He's my friend.
You gotta burn the rest of him.
Only MacReady, the least empathetic character, is able to dispatch the infected with confidence.
But ironically, in acting without emotional attachment, the crew gradually begin to lose touch with their own humanity.
Just as the monster learns to act more human, the humans begin to act more like the monster.
If it takes us over, then it has no more enemies.
Nobody left to kill it. And then it's won.
Biologically speaking, a virus is not classified as a living thing.
Despite posing a major threat to life, viruses are entirely dependent on life to propagate.
In a similar sense, ideas, beliefs, and perceptions can only really exist within the host of the human mind.
The film becomes perhaps the most fascinating when you view the monster as a metaphor for ideology.
The disgusting appearance of The Thing may serve as a representation of the ugliness we see in opposing belief systems.
The very same psychological effects experienced by the fictional crew have been used to justify some of the worst atrocities that mankind has ever witnessed.
Somebody in this camp ain't what he appears to be. Right now, that may be one or two of us. By spring, it could be all of us.
There exists a latent theme of purity within The Thing.
Each piece of the infected material serves as a functional part of the entire alien being.
Maybe every part of him was a whole. Every little piece was an individual animal.
If a small particle of this thing is enough to take over an entire organism...
Conversely, each crew member seeks to retain purity from the monster, or risk allowing the healthy to become corrupted.
This echoes how fanatical ideologues relinquish their individuality to serve a greater vision of society.
Those who do not align with the vision must either be assimilated or exterminated.
The opposing ideologies are doomed to wage war until only the pure survive.
At the end of it all, MacCready and Child sit face to face as the two remaining survivors.
After all the violence and destruction, neither the protagonist nor the audience are any closer to figuring out who The Thing really is.
The two survivors are utterly paralyzed, not by fear, but by total mistrust.
It is through this situation which the film truly hammers in its most compelling theme...
Isolation.
Even though the characters have found each other in this moment, each has never felt more alone.
From the very beginning, the film establishes a paradox of isolation.
Separating people from others simultaneously makes them more safe and more vulnerable.
To protect human civilization from an apocalyptic pandemic, Blair has no choice but to isolate the crew from the outside world entirely.
But in doing so, leaves them with no reinforcements in fighting the monster.
When MacCready and the rest of the crew quarantine Blair, they ensure their temporary safety while creating a future vulnerability.
Within a group there's strength in numbers, but also a greater risk of being in the presence of the monster.
When splitting up, the monster is less likely to be present, but has a much easier way to attack.
As the characters descend further into paranoid hysteria, they become mentally and emotionally isolated from one another.
Making it more difficult for anyone to cooperate and defeat the monster.
Nobody trusts anybody now.
We're all very tired. There's nothing else I can do.
Just wait.
The final scene of The Thing has sparked numerous theories over which of the men could be infected, or whether any of them are infected at all.
Lead actor Kurt Russell interjected that analyzing the scene in this way is missing the point.
And that the ambiguity of the ending is a rhetorical device designed to make the audience just as paranoid as the characters on screen.
By the end of the film, we, just like MacCready and Childs, have absolutely nothing but doubt.
Only through total mistrust can we achieve a state of profound isolation.
When you lose all faith in the world around you, you become nothing more than a prisoner in your own mind.
Hey Blair!
Blair, have you seen Fuchs?
My favorite scene in the movie is when MacCready goes to check on Blair after quarantining him.
There's just something so unsettling about Blair calmly and uncharacteristically asking to be let back in the base as a noose ominously dangles in front of him.
There's no action, violence, or immediate threat to the characters. It just feels off.
As a viewer, this moment for me represents the psychological point of no return.
Beyond this, we have officially crossed the event horizon of uncertainty, where no character is trustworthy until proven otherwise.
Has Blair really calmed down? Has he succumbed to the madness entirely? Is he an imitation trying to act human?
What if MacCready is an imitation and he's just leaving an innocent man to die?
So many questions, so little time.
For me, this scene perfectly captures why The Thing is such a remarkable film.
And its calmest moments manage to be utterly terrifying.
Human intellect is capable of feats unprecedented to the rest of nature.
Our unique abilities to reason and ask questions has allowed us to utterly dominate the natural world.
However, these same abilities also present us with a unique challenge in self-destruction.
We can survive in climates inhospitable to nearly all other forms of life, but can we survive each other?
Both viruses and ideology challenge the mastery of our domain.
We have transcended the animal kingdom to such an extent that we have mostly lost sight of how it feels to be threatened by the world around us.
Films like The Thing provide us with a disturbing glimpse into just how close we may be to the edge of control.
The film is truly unnerving because it reminds us of the darkest parts of ourselves.
The primary reason for the film aging so well is that we are now more paranoid and isolated than ever before.
Watching it back today, The Thing appears much more realistic than nihilistic.
How many of us now are locked in an endless confrontation with our own version of The Thing?
Ironically, while the far more popular films of its era have mostly faded from the public consciousness,
the robust themes of The Thing remain just as relevant today, nearly 40 years since its inception.
My blood from one of you things won't obey when it's attacked.
It'll try and survive.
In the long run, The Thing managed to outlast both the competition and the critics.
Its initial negative reception may go down as one of the most baffling trends in film criticism.
Sadly, The Thing's lackluster release would spark the beginning of the end for John Carpenter's career as a blockbuster director.
The hostile audience response to the film derailed Carpenter's directorial confidence,
and he struggled to find much commercial or critical success after this point.
After rewatching the film on home video, audiences gradually warmed up to The Thing, and the film developed a cult following.
It has since been reassessed as a masterpiece in the horror genre, with some calling it Carpenter's best work.
Today, The Thing lives on in a new generation of creative work which carries on its legacy.
The concept of an alien imposter infiltrating a small community continues to thrive as a compelling psychological exercise.
And now, as we all confront the perils of a quarantined world, one has to wonder just how much of the movie will cross over into reality.
So with each passing year, as everyone gets a little less trusting and a little more isolated, just remember to stay safe out there.
Alright guys, you know the plan. We hang out here, and when the murderer shows up, that's when we attack.
How are we gonna know that he's the murderer? Well, he'll usually let you know that he's a murderer before he kills you.
So we just wait here?
Yep.
Are you a guy who's stuck in quarantine on an isolated Antarctic research facility? Don't go mad, go for Manscaped.
Hey everyone, Dr. Spiral back again to shill yet another fantastic product.
Recently, many of us have seen our personal grooming get out of control. I am declaring a pubic health emergency.
It's time to break open the performance package kit.
Is your hairy groin making you look like a Lovecraftian monster?
Try the new Lawn Mower 3.0 with SkinSafe technology to reduce nicks and cuts.
If your taint smells worse than a rotting mutated corpse, you can try using the Crop Preserver deodorant and keep things fresh the next time you go more than three days without showering.
Nose and ear hair getting too woolly? Chop it down with the Weed Whacker.
Nails becoming an epidemic? Quarantine them with Shears 2.0.
And now for a limited time, your package comes with two free gifts.
At last, you can replace that shredded underwear. Just make sure to keep the travel bag away from fire.
Don't allow the boredom of isolation to get you down? Clean up with Manscaped.
Head on over to manscaped.com today and use code MPLEMON for 20% off your order plus free international shipping and two free gifts.
Ha ha ha, security kit! Yeah!
I want to give a special thanks to TheKinoCorner for his contribution to this video.
If you like in-depth film analysis, I recommend visiting his channel.
His newest video talks about another John Carpenter classic.
Check it out if you dare.
And now some patron-sponsored content.
Thanks for watching!
