Here's one I've wanted to get to.
Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and the justice system, something that's covered a fair bit on this channel.
And to be honest, I think it should be. A lot of the problems that we face do come down to the systems that hold it in place,
whether it be jurisdictions, governmental, or just societal.
Today we're going to be looking at one of the more illogical moments of recent in the justice system,
the treatment of quote-unquote, talented individuals.
Her potential was caught about a week ago when I saw an angry tweet about females who had been let off their sentencing due to talent and career prospects.
The most recent incident being one with a model who was caught shoplifting nearly a thousand pounds worth of items from Harrods.
Now her penalty was a small fine, completely within the legal threshold for such a crime.
However, what bemused a lot of people was the reasoning.
The judge listed the fact that she pleaded guilty at the first opportunity and the potential for a bright future as reasons why he was going to let her off.
This understandably annoyed a lot of people.
Let's have a look at his statement piece by piece.
This man is called magistrate Grant McCroskey.
You are a newcomer to this country. You are a student with a place at university.
So I'm going to ignore that typo at first and just assume it's country, not county, because the laws aren't different in fucking different counties.
But either way, I assume that Poland, which is the country that this model, namely Natalia Sakarowska, comes from,
has laws against shoplifting too, just has doing a guess.
And now to the student with a place at university.
That's a very astute observation, Grant. Well done.
But a lot of people are students at university.
And I'm sure a lot of criminals and probably a lot of people who are facing court down too are students at university as well.
Doesn't really change much.
Let's continue.
Taking goods from any store, including Harrods, is wrong.
Well said, Grant. You're really on a hot street today, Grant, mate.
You're a magistrate, not a personal service announcement for fucking toddlers.
He's not wrong, but I'm just saying it's pretty obvious he doesn't need to explain that.
We'll carry on.
Your future has been put at risk by these actions.
That is also true.
Now, this is the statement that caught most people's eye.
Because of the fact that you pleaded guilty at the earliest opportunity, and you do have the potential for a bright future,
we will deal with this more leniently than we should have.
Now, sometimes I'm more understanding of an early plea centre's reduction,
often if it saves time or emotional stress during a trial,
but I doubt it would have made much difference in this instance.
My guess is that she probably just pled guilty because she would have been found guilty anyway,
though that's just conjecture.
However, it was the latter that caught most people's outrage,
stating that she might have had a bright future, so he was going to let her rot.
And to be honest, I understand the outrage.
The whole dialogue seems very awkward to say the least,
and it does seem like the judge is clutching at straws for his reasoning.
Normally, the severity of the sentence would be based on the crime itself,
and the mentality behind the crime, not circumstances surrounding their external personal life.
And given the fact that a lot of people wouldn't receive this privilege, it's understandably irritating.
This isn't even the first time this has happened.
Another more serious occurrence happened earlier this year,
in which Oxford student and aspiring surgeon, Lavinia Woodward,
who stabbed her boyfriend, was spared jail because the judge didn't want to jeopardise her future.
Now, it seems that I'm not the only person who wouldn't want her operating on my heart.
And once again, people weren't too pleased with the fact that she was let off.
And obviously the thing that both these cases have in common is that they're attractive young ladies.
I think people are well aware that there is a societal prejudice that attractive people tend to do better,
and that's unfortunately impossible to erase.
People do hope that that doesn't seep into delivering proper verdicts when these people commit wrongdoings.
Is it understandable to be annoyed about it? Yes.
Is there much that can be done about it?
Well, unless you tighten the guidelines, it's hard because they're just exercising their legislative power.
The only way it can be done is if you opened an inquiry or study into crimes in their respective sentences.
Because at the end of the day, a few rogue situations could just be anomalies.
People know that jurors are prone to bias, but magistrates and other lawmakers are thought a lot more highly.
And to be honest, they should be held accountable, but as long as they're acting within their rights,
it's hard because you can't judge their motivations unless they explicitly state it.
But maybe it's time to make sure that such reasoning isn't applied again,
because the statements made do show a questionable application of logic in the legal system.
A punitive measure should relate to the crime and conditions related to the crime, such as a person's general mental state.
I could understand that, for example, but someone's possible bright future, it shouldn't let them off anything.
They should face judgement like anyone else would.
I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
