Oh boy, it's time for the MrBeast discourse, because I don't value my remaining brain
cells enough apparently.
On January 28th, 2023, MrBeast, a YouTuber with 131 million subs, in case you don't
know who he is, put out this video, 1000 Blind People See For The First Time, and this video
is exactly what the title describes.
MrBeast found 1000 blind people with a specific type of blindness that can be cured by extracting
the clouded natural lens of the eye and replacing it with an artificial lens.
The video is full of feel-good moments that you'd expect to see from this sort of thing,
punctuated with that highly energetic effects and editing that ZoomerHumor is known for.
MrBeast often blows a ton of money on his videos, sometimes by giving away exorbitant
prizes, sometimes by going on extravagant trips, sometimes just by taking a big pile
of money and destroying it.
But he also regularly does charity work.
He's helped clean the oceans, plant trees, give away tons of food.
In fact, he has a side channel, Beast Philanthropy, where all he does is show where the money's
going.
And with these sort of view counts, where a few million hits is considered a failure
on the main channel, he's absolutely got truckloads of money coming in from AdSense.
MrBeast has gone on record multiple times, in tons of interviews, stating that all the
charity work he does is his way of giving back.
But despite all of MrBeast's previous philanthropy, this time the curing 1,000 cases of blindness
video, the leftoids on Twitter decided to lash out about it.
Normally, Lance has enough cancerous tumors strangling his brain stem that a coherent
thought can't actually make it from his mind down to his fingertips and keyboard,
but he did finally manage to pull it off a couple days ago, going viral with this garbage
take.
People are honestly praising MrBeast yet again.
The guy does poverty tourism for cash.
If he pays a person's medical bills lottery-style without informing anyone with his platform
that it's fucked he needs to do that, he's just profiting off of his ability to do so.
What makes this take exceptionally retarded is that hours before, MrBeast did exactly
this.
I don't understand why curable blindness is a thing.
Why don't governments step in and help?
Even if you're thinking purely from a financial standpoint, it's hard to see how they don't
get a return on investment on taxes from people being able to work again.
Lance got so much backlash for his stupidity that he actually caught the eye of MrBeast,
who replied to him with,
It did raise awareness and get tons of people talking.
Also, what profits?
The average MrBeast video lost $1.5 million last year lol.
This was enough for Lance to delete the tweet out of embarrassment, but not enough to know
when to quit.
His video about how he's paying for medical costs should have been focused on how government
should be funding healthcare.
His episode on prison should have been about how solitary confinement is torture, not renting
out an old one for his friends for the lulz.
Wait, are you literally just mad he's not doing politics videos?
Basing the episode in solitary confinement or renting out an old prison to see how long
your friends can last in it is political.
And of course the conversation devolves from there, with the Normies saying it's just entertainment,
and the Pragues saying everything is political.
We know where this rabbit hole goes already.
Lance was the one who got burned by MrBeast directly, but he's not the only breadtuber
who decided that MrBeast uses his platform irresponsibly, by their standards.
Put on your sped helmets, kids.
You're gonna need them after I subject you to these clips.
One YouTube guy to decide to make content out of it that people who are too poor can't
just fucking see.
That's insane.
The lefties on Twitter, those darn lefties, were saying, yeah, but MrBeast still sucks.
This sucks.
Like, this video sucks.
And some people are like, how can you even pretend to be a leftie when finally a rich
person is living the values that you say we should have and paying for people's medical
care?
And, like, it's missing the point.
We're seeing people's healthcare be used as, like, clout harvest, as, like, virtue signaling,
as content, and he's paying for this, but he's making up 55 million views or some shit
in two days.
Yeah, I mean, he already made the money back, and more.
Like, this is the formula for this guy.
He spends a little money, and he makes it at this point, and, like, he's the philanthropist
YouTube guy.
And you see people do this type of content where they essentially exploit impoverished
people for content, harvesting their fucking tears and their struggle for the enrichment
of themselves, for pittance, in their opinion.
And it doesn't attack the central, like, problem.
Like he still participates in all of this.
Like, this video could be used as, like, explicit political action, and he could still do this,
and it would start to be better.
And like, I can hear, like, the liberal being like, that's not what it's about, it's, like,
wholesome content and stuff, and I'm like, I know.
And there's a fundamental problem with us viewing this interaction as a wholesome one.
This is disgusting.
There is an air of disingenuousness that hangs over MrBeast videos, where it feels as though
the fact that he is making profit off of showcasing the struggles of poor people, it
feels as though this is a rich person getting rich off of the struggles of poor people,
and while, yes, he is helping them, he is at the end of the day not solving the poor
people problem, so the concept of poor people existing will always remain a sort of necessity
for him to make his content and for him to make his profit.
And so he has a business model off of monetizing poor people, and while, yes, he is making
those individuals feel better, have better lives, he is still monetizing poor people,
and he needs there to be poor people, and thus, as he has in the past, he will continue
to defend capitalism, because there needs to be capitalism, well, there doesn't need
to be capitalism for there to be poor people, but as long as there is capitalism, then there
will be poor people.
Here's an example of a really big difference, okay?
The ways in which people who have wealth socially legitimize that wealth.
So for example, back a thousand years ago, if you were like a king or a queen or an emperor,
or even just a very, very wealthy merchant, there was usually a kind of imagined, often
divine self-justification to power that people held.
The idea that kings and queens were divinely chosen was kind of broadly accepted, and oftentimes
very wealthy people were considered to have been blessed or gifted by God.
As societies have become more and more concerned with the idea of social equity, you know,
like maybe things should be fair, maybe a little bit kind of, the idea of extreme amounts
of wealth being concentrated in the hands of some people while other people starve has
been seen as more and more of like something that has to be addressed from an optics perspective,
you know?
Nowadays, however, the idea that ultra-wealthy people have to in some way contribute to the
social good, that's actually a well-accepted normative idea.
The problem that a lot of lefties have with philanthropy, as a rule, even if the outcome
of that philanthropy is good, is that it is often considered to be a kind of last defense
mechanism for the inequities of capitalism.
Charity can't really like maintain that level of care over people, the state can, the state
is capable of this.
For those of you who didn't make it through, my thoughts and prayers are with you.
And Mr. Beast offers way more than thoughts and prayers every time he does charity work,
so what gives?
Well the reason behind all of this is kind of scattered around my previous videos.
One of them is literally called, why do socialists hate charity?
Where their position on the topic is encapsulated in the phrase, solidarity, not charity.
The complaint is that charity relies on the goodwill of the rich, while solidarity means
that all people have a right to health care, or food, or shelter, or whatever.
And because it's a right, the government has an obligation to provide it.
If the government has to tax it out of the rich, then fine, they don't want the rich
to exist anyway.
The issue ultimately is, despite the claims of the libertarian socialists to be decentralized
and oppose the state, the very things they advocate for place more power into the hands
of the state.
You need a centralized bureaucracy to manage any sort of redistribution.
This leads into a second video that I made last year, this time all about why leftists
hate small business owners.
This time, the idea is encapsulated in the famous Trotsky quote, a particle of Hitler
is lodged in every exasperated petty bourgeois.
According to socialist theory, the petty bourgeois are the class of people who work
the means of production, like the proletariat, but also own the means of production, like
the bourgeois.
They don't sit by doing nothing, extracting profit through right of ownership, like the
bourgeois, they still work.
But they're not wage slaves either, who must exchange their labor for pay, like the
proletariat.
In a liberal sense, these are the small shop owners.
And there's a lot of well documented leftist hate for them that I presented in that video.
The reason for that hate also basically boils down to centralized connection and control.
A truly socialist system is a totalitarian one, where everything is interconnected, everybody
is a component of the superstructure that dictates and directs all production, everything
is political, you might say, all within the state, and concepts like privacy or independence
run against this goal.
If you own your own business, you're a bit more unplugged from the superstructure, you're
a bit less reliant on the interconnectivity, and the whole thing doesn't work if people
can just opt out of it.
Both the charity thing and the self-employment thing show that the socialist true goal isn't
to care for the poor or to see that individuals own the means of production, no matter what
they might say.
Their aim is to encapsulate everything into one unified structure where everyone is connected,
everything is political, and there is no such thing as individualism.
Or at least, that's the aim in terms of socialist political theory.
But none of these socialists actually want socialism.
Hassan doesn't want real socialism, because then he wouldn't have been able to buy himself
a multi-million dollar mansion and fly out to Germany to fuck sex slaves.
Meanwhile, Lance's own charitable endeavors ended up funding a Palestinian terrorist
organization, something I covered in detail in another video.
And Vosch is out here complaining about MrBeast making money off his charitable work, money
that is required to be able to perform the next charitable work by the way, while at
the same time admitting that the reason he performs his own charitable work is to make
connections with larger content creators and grow his own brand.
You know, I really hope that this big livestream, the charity, the positivity, all of it, I
hope that it encourages some people who are on the fence about me to be more open to working
with me in the future.
Working with me, I mean, you know, speaking amicably, that would be nice I think.
No, these people don't want socialism, they don't want to help the poor, they just want
to get rich.
The reason they hate the rich isn't because of some sense of justice, it's simply jealousy.
That's it.
That's why they're completely fine with a socialist getting super rich within a capitalist
system.
I don't think there's anything wrong with an individual maximizing their outcomes within
an unethical system like capitalism, especially if they're a socialist, because it increases
the likelihood that they'll be able to achieve political and economic power.
Does that mean-
I would love it if we had socialists who were go-getter business majors, so when the day
comes or something, we have people in legitimate positions of power, as opposed to a bunch
of college students.
You hear that?
That's between Mr. Beast and ItWasPhilosophyTube in this example, but it can be any rich socialist,
really.
Hassan, whoever, is simply their politics.
That's it.
If you're not a socialist and you're rich, your charitable works don't matter because
you're a collaborator with capitalism and your existence is part of the problem.
If you are a socialist, you have the moral license to maximize yourself under capitalism
because you have the correct beliefs.
This is nothing more than a privilege for following the correct religion.
Saying OMG it's so tragic that healthcare costs money, this is an injustice, it's
all well and good, but that's the level one baby analysis.
It doesn't matter if you have a universal healthcare service or not.
Fact of the matter is, healthcare costs resources, it costs labor and materials, and those people
need to be paid.
You cannot simply tax the compensation from the wealthy because there's eventually a
breaking point where it becomes easier to simply up and fucking leave.
The procs like to point at the Nordic model and wonder why America can't do that, but
newsflash, not all countries are the same.
You can't behave like everyone and everything is a replaceable cog.
There's huge differences between America and Norway or Canada or Japan or any other
place.
Differences in productivity, in natural resources, in population, in political stability, and
yes in ethnicity and cohesiveness too.
Though that variable is way less of the equation than the dissident right likes to pretend
it is.
The point is though, eat the rich doesn't work, it's never worked, and attempts to
do so has always made things worse.
Here, let me show you what I mean.
Let's talk about a different MrBeast charity event, this one from three months ago.
MrBeast had decided to show up at a random grocery store in Greenville, North Carolina
and pay for everybody's groceries.
However, the news somehow leaked to the local population that he was going to be there.
And look at what happened.
If anybody needs to get groceries on the regular, please proceed through the line.
MrBeast is not coming today due to security issues, and I'm the one to get to tell y'all
so.
Oh God, get up!
Anybody intending on getting groceries on the regular, MrBeast is not coming today.
There are security issues, he can't even get you.
I didn't even know about this until last night, so I have no idea what's going on, they just
called me in.
You have people loading up garbage bags with the entire meat department?
People loading up multiple carts?
The purpose of MrBeast's visit was to pay for people's regular purchases, just surprise
them with a gift, not to let opportunists buy up a whole store.
After the leak, MrBeast decided to volunteer at a local soup kitchen instead, and once
the word got out that MrBeast was in fact not coming, everyone just abandoned all the
stuff at the store.
The store ended up having to spend a lot of labor hours putting everything back, and lost
a fair bit of stock due to damaged items and fresh or frozen food warming to above the
safe temperature for sale.
This is what happens when things don't actually cost the end consumer anything to
obtain.
People stock up, they waste, they take way more than they need, because it is human nature
to save extra for a rainy day.
We saw this with pandemic buying as well.
If the people they're buying from, and the people footing the bill, are strangers to
the end user, they will simply take whatever they can get.
Any collectivization scheme that encompasses a group of people larger than a family unit
will always fall prey to the free rider problem.
And the socialist only has two possible replies to humanity's natural tendency to stockpile
for later and disregard the needs of outsiders.
First, they socially shame them for their greed.
And second, when that doesn't work, and it rarely does, they must use force.
Their problem with MrBeast ultimately boils down to the fact that he is free to do with
his wealth what he likes.
Even if he chooses to do good with it, they believe nobody should have the choice in the
first place.
Except them, of course, after they enrich themselves by becoming communist party leader.
And at the end of the day, regardless of who has the correct politics, regardless of
what socialist theory says, regardless of all of the anger and screeching and gnashing
of teeth of the Twitter nobodies, MrBeast has helped 1,000 people.
And that's 1,000 people more than any leftist activist.
