What does it mean to be indigenous? Well, like with most of these discussions,
let's start with a dictionary definition and then work our way down into the details from there.
Here's Merriam-Webster's first definition,
produced, growing, living, or occurring natively or naturally in a particular region or environment.
A secondary definition related to the first one is of or relating to the earliest known
inhabitants of a place and especially of a place that was colonized by a now dominant group.
In progressive-speak, indigenous seems to exclusively refer to the earliest inhabitants
of a place that has historically been colonized to the point that their civilizations have been
entirely destroyed, like the indigenous peoples of Canada, the United States, and Australia.
For the majority of the progressive movement's history, this did not refer to colonized peoples
whose civilizations didn't actually collapse, like people from India or China. This is why,
until it was recently replaced with the phrase global majority, the acronym BIPOC was commonly
used, standing for Black Indigenous Person of Color. There was a common understanding
that indigenous meant something different than just black or person of color. It was its own
thing. But in the past few years, the progressives have began to use the word indigenous a little
differently. The requirement that a historical indigenous society has to have collapsed during
colonialism has basically been expelled from the word. So, Indian people are indigenous to India,
and Chinese people are indigenous to China. Kind of.
See, to really understand what's going on here, we have to talk about a couple of other contexts
first. If you were to take a European and an American and have them talk about what
ethnicity means, you would likely get a lot of confusion. The talk between Sargon and Vosh
comes to mind. In an American context, a race basically just refers to a skin color and a broad
collection of facial features. White, black, Asian, Hispanic. And ethnicity, meanwhile,
is the genetic origin of a person. So, a white American might be descended from English settlers,
or French, or German, or Russian. And in an American context, their race would be white,
and their ethnicity would be, say, English. The reason this is how it works in America,
and frankly in most other new world nations as well, is because these are aspirational nations.
They are founded specifically on a tradition of immigration. The old cultural practices of the
various ethnicities of the immigrants become diluted over multiple generations and are
gradually replaced with a unifying American culture. The only thing that remains are the
broad physical markers. And so, English, French, German, Russian, all become white.
In the old world, though, ethnicity doesn't just refer to genetics. It can also refer to cultural
practices, or a historic homeland for a people, or a shared language or language group, sometimes
even a religious practice. What all of these have in common, though, is a sense of solidarity among
members of the group. A political mythology about where the group came from, what makes them them,
and what justifies their unification. A political myth doesn't need to be factually accurate,
though it often can be. It simply needs to be a story that a people tell themselves to explain
their existence. The American political myth is the revolution, and its hero is George Washington.
The Roman political myth was Romulus and Remus suckling at the wolf mother's teat. It doesn't
matter that one story is more factually accurate than the other. Both serve as the founding
political myth of their respective groups. From this point of view, practice and belief
is just as much a part of ethnicity as genetics is. Let's go back to our examples of India and
China. From an American point of view, where citizenship within a country is the identifiable
marker of being part of a people, Indians are indigenous to India and the Chinese are
indigenous to China, simple as. But that's not how those people view it. India has roughly 2,000
ethnic groups divided by language, religious differences, caste differences, and very little
of it has to do with skin color, something that defies American expectation. That's why India's
modern government is a federal one. A federation is specifically a type of country where partially
independent groups are united under a central government in an attempt to represent different
peoples and their competing interests. The concept of India as a united polity and the
Indian people as a broader ethnicity only came about as a consequence of rejecting British
colonial rule. Meanwhile in China, the dominant ethnicity, the Han, have been engaged in a
multi-millennia colonization project of Greater China. This process is called Sinification,
where non-Han Chinese are culturally encouraged to adopt Han customs, accept Han political rule,
interbreed with Han people, and ultimately become subsumed within the Han ethnicity.
This is what is currently happening with the Uyghur genocide. The Uyghurs aren't being
slaughtered in concentration camps like the Nazis did with the Jews, but they are undergoing
Sinification. Their cultural and religious practices are made illegal, their men are
forced into re-education centers, and their women are being forcibly married off to Han men by the
state. The acceptance of the Uyghur genocide as a genocide shows us that the old-world concept
of ethnicity is still considered the correct one. A genocide is the destruction of an ethnicity,
and if an ethnicity is only genetics, as the Americans like to claim, then the Uyghurs
aren't actually being genocide. Their genetics will continue to exist within their new Han
descendants. But an ethnicity is not just genetics. It is language, religion, cultural
practices, a sense of solidarity. Those are what is being destroyed by the Chinese state,
and that is why it's a genocide. Now, some particularly sneaky white
nationalists will take this understanding and make the claim that civic nationalism
is ethnic nationalism, that they are one and the same. Their logic is, if ethnicity is not only
genetics, but it's also cultural practices and language and the rest of it, and if civic
nationalism is defined as voluntary adoption of a nation-state's cultural principles by immigrants
who become citizens and integrate, then civic nationalism must be a form of ethnic nationalism.
Ethnic nationalism, in the non-civic sense, is when membership within a nation relies on
being a member of the ethnic group that nation rules over, like Germany for Germans or Britain
for the British or something. If your ethnic identity is an aspirational one, if you can
join it through cultural adoption, regardless of genetics, then there probably is a point to
that claim that civic nationalism is a type of ethnic nationalism. However, I will say that
nearly everybody that I've encountered personally who seriously makes this claim in public, in
private, has no problem with advocating for the mass death or deportation of anybody that they
consider to be ethnically undesirable, whether they're citizens or not. Leftoids hear dog whistles
everywhere, but in my personal experience, this one seems to ring true. While it's true that civic
nationalism is a type of ethnic nationalism, as both terms are defined, all ethnic nationalism
is not civic nationalism. When the white nationalists, or hell, the black nationalists too,
they're both chomping at the bit to oppress each other, claim that they want an ethnostate,
they're not talking about an aspirational ethnicity in the civic, integrative sense,
and their appealing to civic nationalism is simply a mot and bailey. That being said,
it is not necessarily the case that all states that are formed around an ethnicity are inherently
evil. One can point to Israel and notice the continual displacement and colonization of
Palestinians and call that bad, though it is up in the air how much of the crackdown Palestine
brings upon itself considering how much mutual hatred there is in that conflict.
But one can also point to Japan, a country with very strict immigration laws with a population
that is 97.8% Japanese, and you will see a very functional state that primarily serves the
interest of one ethnicity. Some people will say that Japan isn't actually an ethnostate because
non-Japanese people can move there, which is very difficult. Okay, fair enough. But to me,
that's just a word game. You can also call it a nation state. A nation state is a political unit
where the state and the nation are congruent. It is a more precise concept than a country,
since a country doesn't need a predominant ethnic group. A nation, in the sense of a common
ethnicity, may include a diaspora that lives outside the nation state. Okay, this is some
of the stuff I went over in my nationalism video. A state is a government that controls an area. A
nation is an ethnic group. A nation state is a government that controls an area that is considered
the historic homeland of an ethnic group, and often whose citizens are predominantly members
of that group. If you want to call what we're talking about nation states instead of ethnic
states, because the alt-right has made the term ethnostate refer to taking all the non-whites in
America and non-violently deporting them somehow because their ideas are retarded,
sure we can go with that. The point that I'm getting at with all of this stuff is,
if we accept the following premises. One, that a nation is an ethnic group. Two, that an ethnicity
is not just genetics, but language, culture, religion, all of which form a sense of solidarity
among group members. Three, that a political myth is the stories that the group tells itself
to justify that solidarity. Four, that ethnicities have historic homelands and have at least some
right to see their ethnicity continue into the future on that land, both in terms of genetics
and cultural practices. And five, that disrupting that right using the power of the state to
privilege a foreign ethnicity is an immoral act. What you'll find is these five premises form the
basis of progressive indigenous activism. This checklist applies to Indian rights movements in
the United States, Aboriginal movements in Canada and Australia, Palestinian rights in Israel,
Uyghurs in China, Indian ethnicities in India, all of the multitude of African ethnicities all
across the continent. All of it. The morality underpinning progressive indigenous activism
is the same morality that drove the adoption of the framework of the nation state beginning in
the 19th century. It wouldn't be a dev video without Twitter nonsense, so I want to go over
parts of this ridiculous thread by an indigenous anarchist witch lesbian twin spirit disabled
person. Yeah, disabled in more ways than one. I'm not going to read all of it because it's like
a hundred fucking posts, but if you want to read the whole thing, here it is, just pause the video.
But I want you to keep in mind everything we've talked about so far when it comes to ethnicities
and what it means to be indigenous to a location as we go over this. Some of her complaints are
reasonable, like where she says that it's racist to say you don't look native enough to be native,
or when she brings up blood quantum, which sounds a lot like a white form of signification,
so fair enough. Some of her complaints are retarded, like the cultural appropriation shit,
complaining about the use of costumes, or white people buying dream catchers, or the casual use
of herbs that indigenous people consider to be medicine. And some of her complaints expose the
weird reactionary nature of indigenous activists, spreading the debunked land bridge theory while
claiming that indigenous people were also immigrants or also colonizers so colonization
didn't matter. It's unscientific and based in racism, maybe you should just listen to our
communities about our origins and how long we've been here. The land bridge theory is the idea that
indigenous people of North and South America, as human beings, ultimately came out of Africa like
all of us, and so they got to the western hemisphere by crossing a land bridge between
Russia and Alaska that existed during the last ice age and vanished when the ice receded. All
archaeological evidence, as well as genetic examination of indigenous people in America
compared to people living in eastern Asia, make it highly likely that this is their actual origin.
But indigenous activists tend to completely reject this position. As a part of their culture and
their spirituality, they believe that they have an origin that is entirely separate from the rest of
humanity, that their ethnicity appeared on the earth through entirely different mechanisms than
all of the humans of the old world, which is why indigenous activists like this one often call the
land bridge theory debunked and view the claim that they are also immigrants to be racist,
because the actual science goes against their political myth and so disproving that myth is
attacking the ethnicity. The funniest part to me is that if you take all the rhetoric these people
use and swap the word indigenous for, say, German, you suddenly have the same blood and soil rhetoric
used as justification for the atrocities by some of the worst genociders of the 20th century.
And not just Hitler's rhetoric on gays and Jews, Mao's rhetoric on landlords and intellectuals,
Stalin's rhetoric on Ukrainians and kulaks, it all fits. Now, if I were your average
rightoid political pundit, I would make this comparison and end the video.
See guys, the indigenous activists are blood and soil Nazis. But because it's for the sake
of brown people instead of white people, the left thinks it's okay. While there are absolutely many
people on the left who do actually think this simply, who do think this is just okay, we can
be a little bit smarter than your average direction brain and keep digging down. What made the monsters
of the 20th century monsters is not that they use the same language as the indigenous activists,
language designed to separate themselves from the rest of humanity as a distinct ethnic polity with
specific rights to an ancestral homeland, meant to reinforce the political myth of their special
origins, whether it's the hyperbrian noble blooded giants for the Nazis or the great spirit for the
natives. No, it's what those monsters used that language to justify that matters. And I'm under
no delusion about what various radical non-white nationalist groups would do to white people if
given the chance. They do want the exact same type of horror. But we also have positive examples
of the nation state, where even though the majority of the population is of one ethnicity,
where one cultural standard is the normal, visitors are still certainly welcome to come
and experience and share that culture for themselves. Immigrants are welcome to if they
integrate and intermarry and become a part of the ethnicity, not like with China's signification,
but voluntarily because it's what they want to do. It doesn't have to be the case that just because
a state exists for the primary benefit of one nation, that all other peoples are going to be
expelled or exterminated, or that unending war will ravage everything everywhere. To be indigenous
in the old world sense means to be the ancestral people of an area that a modern state presides
over. And it's not unreasonable for that state to represent those people's interests. That's
what a nation state is. So since all of this is true, and we know that the left accepts it as true
based on everything I've told you, the logic as to why signification of the Uyghurs is bad,
the logic behind indigenous activism across the world, all of this stuff, then why is it the case
that when it comes to Europe specifically, we instead see this logic? The Sami are the EU's
only indigenous people. Since time immemorial, they have lived in an area stretching across
parts of four countries, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Russia. This area is called Satmi.
How is it possible that the Sami are Europe's only indigenous people? Are the French not indigenous
to France, the Germans to Germany? Are the English, Scots, Welsh, and Irish not the indigenous people
of the British Isles? Does indigenous just mean non-white now? The associated pictures show very
white-looking Sami people wearing traditional-styled clothing, hanging out in the snow with animals.
So does indigenous mean savage or living like a barbarian or something? That indigenous activist
from before wouldn't like that. Or is it the case that because the status of indigenous confers
moral authority among leftoids, the right to a homeland, the right to have special consideration
by the state that rules that homeland, the right to the preservation of their culture,
and all that other shit that's been stuffed into the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous
Peoples? Is the reason that the indigenous peoples of Europe are not called indigenous
is specifically meant to deprive them of the rights associated with being indigenous to a
location? If all the articles within this UN Declaration were applied to the indigenous
populations of Europe, the progressives would cry racist so hard they would shit themselves.
Articles on cultural protection from outside influence, articles on local control of natural
resources and economic activity, articles on the ethnic makeup of their own institutions,
articles guaranteeing state assistance on ethnic grounds. This is all stuff that every rightoid
ethnostater wants for the white ethnostate. Now this comes from the UN, so it's not a law,
but a moral principle. And yet every single leftoid who thinks that this is a good idea,
they would never be caught saying that it is an appropriate moral principle for the indigenous
populations of Europe. The question then is, why? Why are the indigenous Europeans not considered
indigenous to Europe by progressives? Why are they not indigenous on European land?
Is it just anti-white or anti-European racism, like the EthnoNats claim? To be fair,
that's probably partially it. I know some progressives don't want to admit it,
but it's not hard to find various non-white groups who just hate white people, who view
members of their own race, who have children with whites to be traitors, all sorts of wild shit.
Some of this absolutely is just hatred of whites. They might couch it in revenge for colonization,
giving them the moral high ground to hate without remorse. But at the bottom of all of it,
it's just racism. But I don't think it's only racism. I also think it's part of the march of
progress. The nation-state is a 19th century innovation, and a lot of progressives have a
very deterministic way of looking at history. This is even more prevalent when you look at socialists,
who view history as dividing into clean economic eras, and that a transition from capitalism to
socialism is just as inevitable as the transition from feudalism to capitalism. This view, however,
is stupid, because history and technological advancement are not predetermined, like filling
out a tech tree in a game of civilization. The current progressive belief is that while
nation-states were once useful as a way to shake off the yolks of the old monarchies,
the true future, the next step of progress, is found in the cosmopolitan. No, not the magazine,
the way of living. Nation-states are backwards and oppressive, erecting artificial barriers
preventing cultures and peoples from mixing. This is why so many people on the left have
come around to the position that borders are racist, and anything less than unlimited
immigration is also racist. Forget about zero immigrants like the conservatives want. If you
advocate for 100,000 immigrants a year when you could do 200,000, you're a racist in the eyes of
the progs. Why? Because the march of progress means tearing down barriers and hierarchies,
and doing away with all tradition, whether or not it's useful. Now that the monarchies are gone,
the liberal apparatus of the nation-state is next, because change for the sake of change is
the progressive good. This runs much deeper than simple anti-white or anti-European hatred. It's
way more complicated than that. Progressives view all cultures mixing into an unidentifiable,
gray, universalized, cosmopolitan sludge as an a priori good, because then nobody is excluded
or offended by distinctive cultural practices. Standardization is the norm for ease of transport,
storage, and sale for pretty much every product. Every modern city looks like a wilderness of
brutalist glass and concrete. Entertainment is boring because to risk being different means
that someone might not like it, and that narrower appeal means less profits. Progressives know
exactly what I'm talking about. When it comes to being an individual, they will say,
if you sand off your rough edges, you lose what makes you you. And they say it so much that being
a special snowflake became their stereotype. But they were fundamentally correct on some level.
The right tends to see this soulless, bland, universalized capitalism that waves a pride
flag once a month, emblematic of the modern era as fundamentally leftist in origin. The
leftists don't accept this, because it's not real socialism. But the rightists are more sophisticated
in their thinking on this topic. A conservative is particular to his culture, his practices,
and his aesthetic. None of it is universalized or standardized. A city full of progressives
looks like any other city, while a British town, a German town, a Russian town, and a Japanese town
look like they are particular to those locations. The fungible economics and politics that
progressives spend so much time decrying are caused by and come hand in hand with the
universalization of modern culture that progressives demand in order to make things more inclusive.
America and Canada are aspirational countries. To be ethnically Canadian simply means to
immigrate here and adopt Canadian customs and practices. Because Canada's nationalism
is civic nationalism. Why would I treat a black Canadian any differently than a white Canadian?
We're all Canadian, that's what matters. I'm not going to put my whiteness over my Canadian-ness.
And if he puts his blackness over his Canadian-ness, he's the problem.
Personally, I think this is a good way to run a country. But why does every country
need to be like mine? Should every country be aspirational like America and Canada?
Are you really British if you get a British passport and citizenship? Or are you just a
foreigner who's sticking around? What was your knee-jerk answer to that question in your head?
How about this one? Are you really Chinese if you get Chinese citizenship?
If your answer to those two questions is different, why? Both Britain and China have
indigenous populations that are still around. They're both a type of nation-state that should,
if the progressive logic is followed, grant their indigenous ethnicities special consideration.
I'm going to guess that if you're center-left leaning, because no radical leftoid would ever
watch my videos, the logic I presented felt right for Britain but wrong for China. Why?
Why did you knee-jerk Britain as an aspirational country, like the New World countries of America
and Canada are, rather than the traditional society that it is? Is it actually because
it's white, it's European? Is it because it's English-speaking? Is it because it's a former
colonial power? Is it because it's culturally similar to North America in some ways? Is it
because it's technologically advanced and militarily capable? Is it because it's one
of those countries that is considered to be on top, first world, G7, and therefore it can bear
the same short-term economic burden of immigration that other aspirational countries do? I mean,
I don't think it can, personally, if we look at figures on social welfare spending as compared
to immigration in the UK. Leftoid cries of, just throw more money at it, rings hollow,
especially if we're talking about the UK's housing crisis. England is already more densely populated
than India and Haiti. When conservatives say, we're full, there seems to be some truth to that,
and crying racism doesn't dispel this fact. My personal position on all of this should be obvious.
I'm fine with immigration, probably because I'm from a social contract society. As long as you
come here to be Canadian and not ghettoize and colonize, I don't care what race or ethnicity you
are. But I also understand that not everywhere is Canada, not everywhere is America. Why should the
nations of Europe, who do not have a tradition of immigration like we do, who do not have our space
and natural resources, be expected to engage with the world in the same way? Why should every square
inch of forest and countryside in Britain, France, Germany be bulldozed and turned into ugly Soviet
style apartment blocks to house new arrivals? We don't demand any other old world nation to place
the needs of foreigners above the needs of indigenous ethnic groups, whether they be in
Africa, the Middle East, Asia, and there does not seem to be any good reason to demand it of
European countries. While I have my problems with Sargon's sensible centrism, calling this
white nationalism is exceptionally stupid. If this is white nationalist, then Nigeria is a white
ethnostate, as Nigeria implements all of these policies. What this actually is, is the common
practices of any non-European nation state. Progressives don't do much objecting when the
rest of the world implements these policies, but they yell and scream something fierce when the
right wing of European nations suggests doing it. And it doesn't make me a Nazi or whatever to point
out that Europeans are indigenous to Europe, that their countries are nation states, not immigration
states. Those who benefit from European states disregarding the will of their own people,
namely immigration activists, have no problem pushing narratives that deconstructs the ethnic
identity of Europeans, saying that these places and people never truly existed as a polity anyway.
This is a line of logic that if it was employed back on them, would be blasted by progressives
as racist, and possibly genocidal. Therefore, there is no reason for us to tolerate it here
either. There is definitely a type of leftoid who would listen to this video with their brain
completely shut off, and come out of it thinking that I'm just a genocidal Nazi who wants to kill
non-white people. Those guys are retards, and they're never going to understand anything in
here anyway. I didn't say anything racist today. I didn't say anything in here regarding ethnic
supremacy, or advocating for mass deportation of a group, or any sort of extermination or racism,
or whatever. Like I said, I'm from Canada. I'm cool with immigration as long as immigrants come
here to be Canadian. I just don't expect nations with indigenous populations that still mostly
exist, unlike us, and like European nation states, to do what we do over here. So, what does it
actually mean to be indigenous? The rhetoric surrounding indigenous activism demonstrates
a glaring flaw in the progressive point of view when it comes to ethnicity. And it's deeper than
the whole hashtag land back is blood and soil Nazism, though that's a pretty fun meme to
sling around on Twitter sometimes. The real issue here is that there's one progressive value set,
the rights of indigenous peoples in their homeland, that is in direct conflict with a
second progressive value set, the drive to universalize cultures to include everybody
and eradicate racism, distinctions, differences, and hierarchies. The way that progressives have
solved this conflict between these two value sets is to de-indigenize Europeans in their own home,
a grotesque dehumanizing act that will likely prove to be terrible for the political stability
of those countries going forward. Personally, I'm not surprised that the European voter is turning
right wing after this series of events. If you ever wondered why I call myself a liberal,
but explicitly not a progressive, this racist nonsense is one big reason why.
