Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, champion of gender equality, dies at 87, and I was
happy that I was able to say that properly because the past four times
I've said Ruth Vader Ginsburg. That's not to say that I don't have any respect
for this woman, I do. She spent most of her adult life serving her country, and
even if you disagree with her politics or you don't know what should happen now
that she's gone, we can at the very least be decent people, recognize the body of
her life's work, and understand that regardless of politics, somebody's dead.
Her family is obviously in mourning, she wasn't an evil person even if you
disagreed with her, so let's at least come at the situation with a little bit
of respect. And yes, I know I'm calling for respect even though I started the
video with a joke, but that really wasn't at her expense. And to be honest, on a lot
of social issues I actually sided with Ginsburg. Gender equality, of course. I'm
pro-choice as well, pro-gay marriage. There are a lot of more left-leaning
rulings coming out of the court that I just can't object to, in fact I directly
support, because a lot of them were simply issues of human rights, of equal
access to public services. Of course, she was also routinely anti Second Amendment,
which is a valid reason as to why some people did not like her rulings. But
regardless, she still did what she thought was right. She wrote well
reasoned opinions during her time on the court, and I think it's fair to say that
she acted honorably in her position. So you will be missed. Of course, back here
in the land of the living, absolutely everybody is losing their minds. If they
even try to replace RBG, we burn the entire fucking thing down. Firstly, um, I
almost read this as RGB. I'm probably watching too much Linus Tech Tips. But
dude, there's been like riots for the past four months now. People on the left
have been constantly burning and reburning down their own neighborhoods.
Do you think this is how you win the election? Do you think people are
seriously going to give in to a threat like this? You've been trying it for four
months, and the polls are showing your guys aren't gonna win. Why are you
doubling down on this nonsense? Over our dead bodies, literally. You don't want to
make that your terms, man. You do not want to make that your terms. The only solace
I can take tonight is that if anyone is capable of helping us from the other
side, it's RBG. If she wants to haunt Mitch McConnell and other Senate
Republicans for a few months, I'm cool with that too. Thank you for everything,
Justice Ginsburg. And there's a white power fist? Alright. But dude, I guess
they're gonna try and summon her back from beyond the grave. Listen, alright,
don't don't bring her back to hell world, okay? If McConnell jams someone through,
which he will, there will be riots. How is that any different from the current
state of affairs? Ruth Bader Ginsburg just died. Might as well kill myself
before I'm forced through conversion therapy. I mean, if Mike Pence hasn't
made his electrodes mandatory after four years, it's probably not gonna happen. If
the Democrats don't fight, the people are gonna have to march on Washington and
shut it down ourselves. Yeah, good luck with that one, dude. Let me know
how marching on the White House turns out for you. Fuck you, Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Fuck you for not retiring under Obama. Fuck you for dying under Trump. Fuck you.
Fuck you. Fuck you. Leftist, feminist, vegan, epidemiologist, coomer, she slash her.
You know, even I gave her more respect than you did at the start of this video.
Honestly, if Trump steals a second term with minority support and ends up with a
6-3 court with Thomas Alito, Gorch, Kavanaugh, and some other wingnut, it
would be time to think hard about getting out. Especially the Jews. This
never ends well for us. And dude, just wait until you hear what the socialists
think of Jewish people. I hope the men of the world know that if Roe vs. Wade
gets repealed, I'm not having sex with any of them. Also, fuck. Is this an
admission that your only valuable aspect is your vagina? Ruth Bader Ginsburg was
America's Dumbledore, and now nothing stands between America and its Voldemort.
Thank you, Vice. Thank you for continuing the slow degradation of journalistic
integrity's corpse. Here's a worldwide-renowned melting-clock artist, Joe
Biden. Let me be clear, the voters should pick a president and that president
should select a successor to Justice Ginsburg. Now the election's what, like,
less than two months away? It is cutting it pretty close to select a new court
justice. But men, I've heard this before, haven't I? Oh yeah, the Republicans, in
their infinite stupidity, said the exact same thing that Joe Biden is saying now
when there was a spot to fill on the Supreme Court back in 2016. And here's
what President Obama had to say about that. When there is a vacancy on the
Supreme Court, the President of the United States is to nominate someone. The Senate
is to consider that nomination. Either they disapprove of that nominee or that
nominee is elevated to the Supreme Court. Historically, this has not been viewed
as a question. There's no unwritten law that says that it can only be done on
off years. That's not in the constitutional text. I'm amused when I
hear people who claim to be strict interpreters of the Constitution, suddenly
reading into it a whole series of provisions that are not there. There is
more than enough time for the Senate to consider, in a thoughtful way, the record
of a nominee that I present and to make a decision. And it seems like the irony
is lost on everybody right now. Here's Chuck Schumer back in 2016.
Attention GOP, Senate has confirmed 17 SCOTUS justices in presidential election
years. Do your job. Here's Chuck Schumer today. The American people should have a
voice in the selection of the next Supreme Court justice. Therefore, this
vacancy should not be filled until we have a new president. There's no
consistency here, it's just whatever happens to benefit you at the time, eh? And
the thing is, if Republicans did actually decide to try and ram through a new
justice in the two months that they have left for the election, I'm not even sure
if the Democrats could stop them. Because back in 2013, the Democrats used their
power then to change the procedures within the Senate. Rule 22 of Senate
procedure requires that three-fifths of all senators agree to end a filibuster.
In other words, if one senator wanted to stall out a proceeding indefinitely, it
would take 60 other senators to vote to stop him. Under the new rule, voted on by
the Democrat majority Senate, it would take only 50 senators and not 60 to
break a filibuster. This applied to everything with the exception of Supreme
Court justices. Back then, Mitch McConnell had this to say about the Democrats
blatantly changing the rules to make it more favorable to them.
And he was right, because in 2017, the Senate, now run by mostly Republicans, was able to build upon that 2013 rule change and lower the requirement to 50 senators for
Supreme Court justice nominations as well. And had that change not happened,
well, the Senate would be in a much better position to block any potential
Trump nominee that comes up between now and the election. These people truly
don't understand that you can't simply change the rules to make it more
advantageous for you, because the minute you're out of power, your opponents will
use those same rules against you. Again, this is why you can't give the
government extreme amounts of power, because the minute that somebody you
don't like gets voted in, that power is going to be used in a way that you don't
want. It is restriction of government power that prevents all of this, not the
expansion of it. I do think it's important to talk about this mentality
though. Fuck, now Trump's gonna destroy everything. Women's rights, immigrant
rights, LGBT rights will be gone with her. We lost our last hope. Well, this
individual here is obviously cancerous as fuck, but I don't blame him, he's only 17.
But let's discuss the actual idea here, not the person. Does this mean that
suddenly Roe vs. Wade is going to disappear? Even though in my opinion
it's not a great way to do abortion rights, no, it probably won't just vanish
overnight. People on the right thinking that it will, they're idiots. People on the
left crying about it, you're also idiots. That is not how things work. The two
Supreme Court justices that have come out of Trump's administration have not
been a far-right fascists or whatever. There was like a centrist and a slightly
center-right guy. People who are not outside of the realm of acceptable
politics. In fact, one of Kavanaugh's first actions was to side with the
liberal side of the bench. Even if Trump were to replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg with
somebody who was a bit more right-leaning than her, would women's
rights go? I don't think so. Would LGBT rights go? If we're talking about gay
marriage, I also don't think so. I think that's a subtle issue. And to be frank, if
I actually thought that gay marriage in the States was at risk, then I would be
objecting far more than I am now. Because no, rightoids, gay marriage is just fine.
Immigrant rights. Well, we actually might see a dismantling of DACA, finally. And
maybe you like that, maybe you don't. Personally, I do think that you should be
a citizen of a country or, you know, legally invited in in order to reside in
that country. So if by immigrant rights you mean the right to freely flow across
the border, maybe bringing drugs, maybe bringing weapons, maybe trafficking
people, or even just best-case scenario, coming across to live a life as an
illegal immigrant, yeah, that's not a right. And that should be curtailed. But
there is serious worry coming out of the left, and you know, I kind of get it. They
still think they're fighting the old religious right. They still think the
right wing of politics is run by people like Pat Robertson or Newt Gingrich or
Rush Limbaugh. You know, these these nut cases who are out there talking about
Jesus, or alternatively the Warhawk neo-cons like Bush and Cheney. But that
isn't what the right is anymore. And those reasonable people in the center
and the center-left have recognized that that's not what the right is anymore,
which is why the left is losing to them. And in terms of the real politic of the
situation, if the Democrats could have forced through their SCOTUS pick in 2016,
they would have. But they did not have the power to do so. Right now the
Republicans do. They might even try it. Actually, in my opinion, it might actually
be a bad idea to try it, because what is going to lose this election for the left
is the complete demoralization within the Democratic Party right now. Nobody
wanted Biden, yet here he is. He's a complete fucking shambling nightmare.
Among those people who don't hate Trump, most of them completely love him, and
there have been a few things still on the table that could actually help tilt
the election in the Democrats' favor. One of them is like if Trump had a stroke or
Trump died or something, because he's kind of an older man. Another one is a
massive second wave of coronavirus. And another one is the death of a Supreme
Court justice. This just might galvanize the left enough to get out there and try
to get Biden into office. So if you're an American and you want to see Trump win,
this is the tipping point. This is where all hell breaks loose. This is that final
crisis at the 11th hour. So if you want Trump to win, you've got to get out there
and make sure that he does. And although I am not a Trump superfan, I would take
him over anything the left is putting out right now. Alright guys, I'll talk to
you later. I love you.
