So Naomi, what are we doing right now?
We are looking for seedlings.
For the 2022 garden.
There's a, it's a little bit low slim pickings right now, but it'll...
When we cut back to it, you'll see a whole bunch of seedlings.
Man, it's nice to have, it's like the first nice weekend in a long time, eh?
Yep.
In like six months.
Yeah.
Hold on.
They're Americans.
They don't know what Celsius is.
Well, the units that make sense, not braided units.
And here's all the plants.
It's the next day.
We got everything but cucumbers, because they just weren't there.
Maybe it's a little bit too early, because right now it's early May.
We have a bunch of lettuce.
That's going to be new.
It's red leaf lettuce.
We have peppers that are going in.
There's the kale, there's the tomatoes, and there's the peas, and there's the spinach.
Wait, we only got like two kale?
No, that's four kale.
That's eight kale, actually.
Really?
Yeah.
They're just tinier plants.
All right.
So we're going to be setting all this up.
Well, actually, first of all, we have to weed the garden.
The year always starts with weeding.
Oh my God, you see that?
That's like caving in.
Yes.
We need to fix that.
Probably.
I guess we're doing that too.
Okay.
There's things to do.
And it already feels like the sun's trying to eat my skin.
You had a sunburn a couple days ago.
I already had a sunburn.
It's not even officially summer and I've already had a sunburn.
It's fine.
I'm going to head into the shed and get what we need.
Come on.
Got the shovel.
It's actually new because our other shovel had disappeared randomly.
We also need my bags of manure.
This is last year's manure.
It's probably...
I only used half of it.
It's probably just basically turned to earth at this point.
And this is the fresh one.
I don't know if you guys heard those nurses walking down the street just now.
We live pretty close to a hospital.
They were talking about how the hospital's filled up with heart failures and they're
wondering if it's the coronavirus vaccine.
The average people working in these places, they're saying this all the time.
Anyway, we also need a rake.
Here we are.
So while Naomi does some weeding there, I am going to do some trimming.
I have these...
What are these?
Snips, I guess?
Pliers?
No.
Not pliers.
What are they called again?
Giant scooters.
Giant scooters.
There's basically along the property line here in the back some trees like to grow in
and so I just snip a little bit.
There we go.
Almost fell on my head.
Wow, guys.
So while I was doing this trimming, I actually found my old keys that I lost like two years
ago.
I guess that's where they went.
So that derelict door from last year is already starting to bend inward.
Doesn't matter too much.
It's probably going to be a problem next year though.
The issue is when I first built this garden years ago, along the side of the deck I put
a piece of wood in there and it's all rotted away at this point.
So I probably need to shovel that out, put a new piece in there and then shovel it back
in.
This is going to kind of suck.
Yep, that was once a full piece of wood but it just disintegrated over the years.
It's been I think six years or so, six or seven, since I put it in there.
This entire garden is basically just scraps of wood so I guess I'll just get another scrap.
So to replace that hole, I pulled this thing out.
This is an old curtain rod holder that I yanked out of the living room years ago.
And so that's going to be your purpose to go in that hole underneath the deck so all
the earth doesn't keep spilling underneath the deck.
This is why you pack rat things guys, this is why it's good to always hold on to whatever
it is that you happen to be getting rid of anyway.
Press X to doubt.
Well that was a botched job if I ever did one but you know what, it's in and by the
time it becomes a problem, we will have moved out.
Hopefully.
Yeah, I'll give it a couple of years, it'll be gone by then for sure.
So while Naomi rakes all that up and flattens the garden out, I'm going to shovel in a bunch
of the compost that we've accumulated over the year.
I'm going to shovel in the compost into this thing, not into the garden.
This is just a little planter that was left here by a former tenant years ago.
It's just been collecting dust in the back of the shed.
I'm going to put the lettuce in this because it's like a baby lettuce, you can just snip
and it'll grow like grass.
So we're going to try to do that this year.
Yeah, compost just like last year is pretty gross, but that's okay.
This was hard to open last year too.
Oh no, I knocked the top off.
Yep, that's all pretty good earth in there.
A year's worth of compost.
There's some stuff in there, but it's all pretty much quality earth.
Yeah.
So it was pretty full before and now it's about halfway full.
I shoveled the bottom half out and I pushed the rest of it down with the shovel and what
will end up happening next is this stuff by next year will become that year's compost.
It's the circle of life, Naomi.
I'm going to grab some water here.
And Naomi's pretty much done raking the garden.
It looks great.
It looked awful before.
Wait, what is that thing?
It looks like a peach pit.
Avocado pit maybe?
I don't think it's an avocado pit.
It's too red.
It can probably go.
We're not going to grow a tree in here, are we?
Yes.
So there's the planter full up with the compost and last year's manure, which we just kind
of had sitting around the shed over the winter.
I'm going to put, where is it, Naomi's, here's Naomi drinking more water.
I'm going to put this tray of red leaf lettuce in there.
Now if you leave red leaf lettuce, I think any lettuce alone long enough, it will eventually
become heads of lettuce.
If you plant it like a lawn and just trim it, you can just keep getting new leaves out
the way that you cut a lawn with grass.
So that's the plan.
We're going to stay on top of this this summer and not be losers.
And that whole tray will go in there.
So just like the last few years, I'm behind the mesh right now, but the peas are going
to grow up.
They've done that for the last little bit.
So what I'll do is right here at the corner, I'll dig a hole.
It's got to be deep enough.
We'll dig it down.
And then just like last year, at the bottom, I put a handful of manure.
You didn't want to grow a basil plant this year, did you?
No.
Yeah, we had too much basil last year.
We didn't use half of it.
We dried it and froze it and we still haven't used all of it.
So because Naomi got so angry at me about using the kitchen scissors for the manure
bag, this time I got my produce knife.
A long time ago when I used to work in retail, they gave us one of these knives if you worked
in the produce department for free.
It is the sharpest nice knife I've ever had.
It's sharper than anything.
To be fair, Naomi, we also use this knife in the kitchen.
Do you care that much?
I don't use that knife in the kitchen, so I don't care.
Oh, okay.
If you want to use the kitchen knife, that's fine.
There we go.
I can tell it's fresh manure and not one year old manure because it's still wet.
So you take...
Say moo.
Moo.
Moo.
Just put your hand right in it, dude.
Like, don't got to worry.
Oh my god, it's gross.
Got a clump of that stuff.
Peas eggs.
You put it right in the hole.
That's all you need.
I had to take the peas out with two hands, guys.
You couldn't see it, but there's the peas and the peas go right in the hole.
There they are.
Put the earth in.
Make sure not to cover them up.
And there we go.
One pea plant.
Six more to go.
So with the peas in place, since they have to go there every single year, because of
the mesh, I'm now thinking about where to put the rest of the stuff because we're only
going to get four cucumber plants this time because there's always the complaint that
there's...
There's always too many.
There's always too many cucumbers.
So we're going to put those four cucumber plants on the far side of the gardens and
grow up that mesh.
Okay.
We had tomatoes.
I'll just zoom out a bit.
So we had tomatoes over there last, peppers here, and kale back there.
And with cucumbers having to always be there and peas having to always be there, we can
rotate those three.
But also there's the fact that we bought four spinach plants because there's currently a
shortage of cucumber plants.
So what I might do is I might put those in rows here at the front and then put the tomatoes
and peppers in the back.
Maybe that's the plan.
And the garden is put in right there.
Naomi is watering some kale.
Eight kale plants.
There's four spinach right here.
If the sun will cooperate.
There's the six peppers.
There's the six tomatoes.
A little bit of extra lettuce back there.
Maybe we'll give it to my parents or something, but that's where the cucumbers will go once
we get them.
And of course the peas along the side here.
And the bed of lettuce.
That's a lot of lettuce, but it'll probably be okay, actually, if we just keep cutting
it regularly.
There's Naomi's dirty legs.
That's okay because my legs are pretty dirty too.
And that is the garden.
Welcome back once we have the cucumbers ready to go.
But it looks pretty good for, you know, this is actually a little bit early.
Usually we put it in a couple of weeks later than this, but it's been very hot in May.
It's already 30 degrees today and it's May, it's early May.
Welcome to global warming guys.
Yeah.
Ready for Canada to become a jungle.
Thank you.
