Hello and welcome back to SJ Weekly and welcome back to the channel, I'm back guys!
It is very good to see all of you here again, a special thanks to The Britisher for letting
me do the show on his channel while I was gone, and a very special thanks to all of
you guys, either in the comments sections or on Twitter, who tried to get me back on
YouTube, who rooted for me, and who welcomed me back yesterday during my 18 second I'm
Back video.
And I must be doing something right, because there are a lot of the angry usual suspects
in my Twitter mentions right now, so we're on the right track guys.
During the two week vacation, one of the things I did was I went home and visited my parents,
we did an early Christmas, and one of the gifts that I got was a set of cold brew coffees,
different brews, so I guess I'll be drinking those for a while.
What a cold brew coffee is, if you don't know, is they take the coffee grounds, put it in
cold water, and they just let it sit there for like a day, and let it kind of cold brew
up, and then they drain the grounds out, and then you have coffee.
So this is the hazelnut coffee, let's give it a shot.
It's a bit stronger than regular hazelnut coffee it seems.
I've heated it up so it's still like a regular cup of coffee, it's a bit stronger, the hazelnut
comes through a bit more.
It's not bad though, I don't know if I drink it every day, but it's pretty good.
Let's begin this week with Muslim Amazon workers say they don't have enough time to pray, now
they're fighting for their rights.
East African immigrant workers in Minneapolis are rallying for fair treatment, whoever wins
we lose I guess.
You know you're in Minneapolis right, holding a sign in your native language probably won't
help that much.
Somali community members in Minneapolis rallied against Amazon in July 2018 for allegedly
firing a Muslim worker who slowed down during Ramadan.
See this is what I mean when I say whoever wins we lose, because Amazon is legitimately
a shitty company, they really mistreat their workers.
However I don't like the idea of special rights being carved out for small subsections of
the population and only them.
As a practicing Muslim, Ebrahim tries to pray five times a day.
But because Amazon has the warehouse associates working on a strict hourly packing quota,
she says she cannot take a prayer break.
Well, keep in mind that the Quran not only says to pray five times a day, but that women
can't work outside of the house.
So what are you doing working at Amazon?
Associates are pressured to make rate, with the rate number increasing and decreasing
depending on the season's demand.
The warehouse's current packing rate is 240 boxes an hour, Ebrahim says, but it's gone
as high as 400.
Associates are penalized if they fall behind this rate, they can get a write up from a
manager if they're too slow, which can lead them to being terminated.
And this is what I mean by being a shit job, sometimes, for literally peanuts, companies
expect the world out of their employees, Walmart's another egregious example of this.
Ebrahim usually chooses to pray during her timed breaks.
Breaks make our rates slow down, and we get the risk of getting fired, and so most of
the time we choose prayer over bathroom, and have learned to balance our bodily needs.
And that's another piece of bullshit, yeah, you should be able to go to the washroom whenever
you have to go, like, sometimes these companies are just ridiculous.
Ebrahim, who works a 12 hour night shift from 5.30pm to 6am, says she's worked about 20
different jobs since moving to the US as a 16 year old in 2004.
Those jobs include working a fishing boat in the middle of the ocean off the coast of
Alaska, cleaning Chicago's O'Hare airport, and packing at a Target warehouse.
Her current job at Amazon, she says, has been her hardest.
I understand that Amazon can be pretty shit, and I'm not necessarily saying that it's not
hard, but I have a hard time believing that working on a fishing boat isn't harder.
Like fishermen, they do some pretty rough jobs man, and I gotta say, if this is so terrible
why don't you switch jobs again?
You're obviously okay with switching jobs, I mean, you've done it many times, 20 different
jobs in the past, what is that, 14 years, 15 years?
With that many job switches, maybe the problem is that you can't hold a job down.
And she says, I want to keep this job to provide for my family, and I'm also working as hard
as I can, but you can't live under this type of pressure.
The way Amazon pushes people is not moral.
In a statement to Vox, an Amazon spokesperson touted the facility's excellent pay and comprehensive
benefits.
Well, I mean, maybe the facility does have excellent pay and comprehensive benefits,
and that's why they push people.
Maybe the facility doesn't have that, and therefore Amazon is just complete shit.
But nonetheless, if you're a Muslim woman, again, why are you providing for your family?
That's not within the tenets of your religion.
Ibrahim says the workers are asking to be treated humanely, calling on Amazon to display
racial and cultural sensitivity.
Those are two different things.
To be treated humanely is one thing, yes.
Fair pay for fair work.
Don't overwork people into the fucking grave.
Provide reasonable breaks.
But racial and cultural sensitivity is outside of that.
That's something different entirely.
Because you don't have time to pray five times a day, that's not based on your race or ethnicity.
It is based on your religion, but the problem would be your religion, not necessarily the
workplace.
Amazon made changes that mainly dealt with issues around practicing Islam, oh boy.
Muslim Amazon workers had no place to pray in the warehouse, and they complained about
not being able to keep up with the job during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, where they
fast until sundown.
Well, is there a church inside an Amazon warehouse?
Do they provide that shit too?
Amazon responded by creating a dedicated prayer space, I'm sure, and said it has been working
to make shifts more manageable during Ramadan.
But employees complain that these moves are like band-aids that address small issues
without tackling the larger problems.
What do you mean?
In my opinion, these are ridiculous things to do, but they directly address the problem.
What more could you want than this?
They give you a dedicated prayer room, and then they ease up on your quotas during Ramadan.
That's literally what you asked for.
During Ramadan, employees have the right to use PTO, personal time off, unpaid time off,
or vacation time if they have time available in their account.
They have to use those banked time allotments for religious holidays, giving them less time
than their non-Muslim co-workers to take off for when their kids are sick.
You don't think that Christians take time off sometimes.
You don't think there might be a Christian working for Amazon who takes Sundays off to
go to church?
You don't think there might be a Christian who works for Amazon who takes time around
Christmas and Easter off?
Unless you're comparing yourself to atheists, in which case you have a point, but that is
what you choose when you follow a religion.
If you want time set aside, you have to have time set aside, and it is entirely fair that
you have an equal amount of time set aside, you're just choosing to use it for religious
purposes.
Amazon said, we work hard every day to ensure all of our employees are treated fairly and
with dignity and respect, including here in Minnesota, where we have an open and direct
dialogue with employees.
Amazon offers a great employment opportunity with excellent pay, ranging from $16.25 an
hour to $20.80 an hour, and comprehensive benefits including healthcare, up to 20 weeks
parental leave, paid education, promotional opportunities, and more.
We encourage anyone to compare our pay, benefits, and workplace to other retailers and major
employers in the community and across the country.
We invite anyone to see for themselves and take a tour through our fulfillment center
tour program.
Well, there you go.
I mean, that's not super amazing pay, but it's certainly better than average.
And it's just for packing boxes.
Regarding its prayer breaks, Amazon told the author of this article that prayer breaks
less than 20 minutes are paid and productivity expectations are not adjusted for such breaks.
Associates are welcome to request an unpaid prayer break for over 20 minutes, for which
productivity expectations would be adjusted.
That sounds fair.
There's obviously the possibility that Amazon might be lying here, but if they're not, they
seem like they're doing an alright job already.
Ibrahim also says that until recently, nearly all Amazon managers in the warehouse were
white, which contributed to the culture gap many African workers perceive in the facility.
Oh, okay.
Everything up until now has mentioned Islam, but now suddenly we're talking about white
people.
It's gone from religion to race.
I don't want to sound like an Amazon apologist here because I know that there's actually
a lot wrong with Amazon, but I think this, this racial religious hodgepodge complaint
is not the place to go with these protests.
But speaking of religion, God wrongfully impregnated teenage Virgin Mary without consent, says
Minnesota professor.
Um, he's, he's not wrong, I guess.
Virgin birth story is unethical abuse of power at best and grossly predatory at worst.
A Minnesota state university professor tweeted this week that Mary, the Virgin could not
have consented the conception of Christ and that God was behaving therefore in a quote
predatory manner.
That professor whose salary is paid for by taxpayers also tweeted himself decorating
a Christmas tree with satanic ornaments.
Have you taken any of his classes, Mark Stein?
No.
And the reason is this is the thing that this is because 50 years ago, this kind of shallow
banality would have been the province of a drunk undergraduate at three in the morning.
Um, I mean, basically the idea that, that God, uh, has gotten the Virgin Mary back to
his pad and she's saying, I really must go.
And he's saying, Oh baby, it's cold outside and put some records on while I pour.
I miss the days when atheists were at least intelligent enough to take seriously what
they were porting to knock down.
I mean, I don't really care about the satanic ornaments on your tree.
Do whatever you want.
But this is really stupid, isn't it?
This professor wrote the Virgin birth story is about an all knowing all powerful deity
impregnating a human teen.
Was was Mary a teen?
I mean, she might've been, it was, it was the ancient times, right?
But whatever.
There was no definition of consent that would include that scenario.
Happy holidays.
He later added the biblical God regularly punished disobedience, the power difference
deity versus mortal and the potential for violence for saying no negates her yes to
put someone in this position isn't an ethical abuse of power at best and grossly predatory
at worst.
The problem is not necessarily with what he's saying because I guess factually, if we're
going just strictly with what he said, he's correct.
However, what he's missing is that you cannot judge yesterday by today's morals.
There are various figures who lived throughout human history that by today's standards would
be considered immoral people, certainly, but by their own standards, they were paragons
of virtue.
And that's because just like any other form of, of advancement, whether it's, it's technological
or artistic advances in politics and philosophy also take time and you can't really judge
somebody living in the past for not living up to today's standards.
They had no concept of, of liberalism.
Some of them, if you go back far enough, there were no concept of universal human rights.
So to take a religious tale that was set in an era 2000 years ago and judge it by today's
morality is, is just stupidity.
However, there is a, there's a link in the middle of this article that says Nebraska
principle bans candy canes because the shape is a J for Jesus.
Let's see what that's all about.
The J shape stands for Jesus according to the blaze, but that was just for starters.
Also on the naughty list were Christmas carols, Christmas music, and making Christmas ornaments
as gifts.
You know, you know, I never really liked candy canes.
There are like strawberry flavored ones that are pretty okay, but the normal ones are just
eh.
A Nebraska elementary school principal named Jennifer Sinclair gave out this list of things
that were not allowed at Manchester elementary school in Omaha.
Santas or Christmas items on worksheets, Christmas trees in the classrooms, elf on the shelf,
bringing Christmas carols, playing Christmas music, sending a scholastic book that is a
Christmas book, making a Christmas ornament as a gift.
Candy canes.
Historically, the shape is a J for Jesus.
The red is for the blood of Christ and the white is a symbol of his resurrection.
Is that, is that actually what a candy cane is all about?
I don't know.
Red and green items.
So nothing red and green.
Those are just off-limits colors, reindeer, Christmas videos, movies, or characters from
Christmas movies.
Just no Christmas.
It's gone.
Sinclair, who's in her first year as Manchester's principal noted in the memo that she comes
from a place that Christmas and the like are not allowed in schools and that as a public
school, Manchester elementary will seek to be inclusive and culturally sensitive to all
of our students.
Make sure those students know to celebrate their generic winter holiday.
And actually I think her, her list of acceptable practices kind of reinforced that idea.
Gifts are okay.
Making gifts are okay.
Snow men, snow women, snow people, snowflakes.
I'm pretty sure the principal is a fucking snowflake.
Gingerbread people, not gingerbread men, according to the, what was it?
Was it Scotland that recently outlawed gingerbread men in favor of gingerbread people?
Holidays around the world, except not Christmas, apparently.
I know that, you know, Christmas is celebrated around the world.
There are Christians around the world, but I guess they don't count.
Sledding is good.
Hot chocolate, polar bears, penguins, scarves, boots, earmuffs, wait, wait, hold on.
Penguins.
They're in the South pole, not the North.
Scarves, boots, earmuffs, and hats.
You don't want them to freeze.
Can't ban those or else the kids will start dying.
Yetis and Olaf from Frozen.
It does seem like sanity has prevailed though, because Liberty council sent a demand letter
to the superintendent about the Christmas ban, urging it to be immediately overruled
and specifically disavowed the sweeping directive banning Christmas holiday items.
And the district's response to Liberty council said that it had investigated the matter and
determined that principal Sinclair's memorandum did not comply with board policy.
And the update shows that the principal has issued an apology, so I guess all's right
in the world.
You know, I'm not even a Christian, right?
But I cannot deny the cultural significance that Christmas has in western society.
I'm not even talking about the religious significance, and I'm sure for religious people there is
a great religious significance, but for non-religious people to simply celebrate Christmas as a
secular holiday, that shouldn't be taken away from them.
Western nations do have a culture all to their own, just like every other nation does, and
we should not be ashamed of it.
We certainly shouldn't think that ours is somehow superior to others, but we shouldn't
be okay with it simply being washed away in the name of political correctness.
Here's some more school nonsense from our old friends over at Breitbart.
Germany launches how to identify Nazi parents guide for schools.
I can see Germany doing this honestly, they're very Nazi-phobic and frankly I don't blame
them considering what happened.
However, a new booklet for daycare workers that claims to help identify Nazi parents
suggests looking out for girls with braided hair and athletic boys.
It's all it takes to be a Nazi nowadays, guys.
If your little girl has her hair braided, her parents are a Nazi, and she's being raised
to be a Nazi.
If the little boy is athletic, if he likes to run around or play a sport at school, Nazi.
People have labeled this booklet that's been handed out as parenting espionage or spying
on parents, and the booklet has been criticized because it identifies the way children dress
or how much physical activity they participate in as being potential signs that their parents
might be Nazis.
The criticism of that does not fit into democracy.
It very clearly does not fit in with fucking democracy.
You can't say, unless they're wearing an actual Nazi uniform, and even then there are reasons
to wear actual Nazi uniforms that don't make you a Nazi, believe it or not, but like how
people dress and how much physical activity they participate in, really, that's what makes
you a Nazi.
You're going to be a weightlifter.
You're a Nazi.
You're going to be a professional sports star.
You're a Nazi.
The foundation that put out these booklets defended it by claiming that the case studies
were based on real life cases they had witnessed, including a girl with braided hair whose parents
turned out to be far-right extremists.
This does not mean that all girls with braided hair are going to have parents that are far-right
extremists.
This is some D&D causes satanic panic shit, all right?
This is some video games cause school shooters gamers rise up bottom text actually shit.
The case studies echo research presented by Antifa groups in 2016, which claimed that
Volkstfamilies, those who believe in countryside living and traditional German culture and
values, posed a threat to Germany.
Anti-fascist action group member Olof Meyer warned of young couples who buy farms and
restore them together with their relatives and friends.
Yeah, this.
This is Nazism, guys.
This is it.
You know, you buy a fixer-upper?
You want to have kids?
You're a fucking Nazi.
Why aren't you participating in the absolute demographic destruction of the native German
population?
Is it because you're a Nazi?
This is so fucking stupid.
Let's learn the politically acceptable way to manipulate your children, according to
the Washington Post anyway.
Parents should encourage girls to get angry and show it.
Here's how.
We are so busy teaching girls to be likable that we forget to teach them that they have
the right to be respected, and the effects of that carry into adulthood.
Women and men experience anger the same way, but men are much more likely to express that
anger verbally, while women tend to keep it to themselves.
In doing so, we lose our ability to defend ourselves.
See, I'm not sure this is the truth.
I remember reading a different study where when adult men are angry, they're more likely
to express it physically, while when adult women are angry, they're more likely to express
it verbally.
They don't yell at people necessarily, though they do that sometimes, and they do get physical
sometimes too, but overwhelmingly women tend to spread rumors, they tend to slander, and
they tend to defame people.
There is a gendered component to how boys and girls, and men and women, let off steam
in this way.
Well, this author is committed to changing that in her home with her girls, ages six
and eleven.
Here's her six-point plan.
Oh boy.
One, share the positive power of anger.
Saying I am angry is a necessary first step to listen, believe me, listen and believe,
trust me, I know.
Time to do something, writes the author in Rage Becomes Her.
Well, here's the thing, simply being angry does not entitle you to something.
You might be angry and still be wrong.
What you're feeling, thinking and saying may matter, but it might also not be factually
correct.
In fact, you might be completely off base, and your anger might be completely unjustified.
That's why people say facts over feels.
This is a completely bullshit article, guys.
Number two, listen to your daughter.
Number three, give her a framework to express it.
Number four, start early.
Number five, help her smash the stereotypes.
And six, express your own anger directly.
Here's a general rule of thumb, and it applies to people of all ages, it applies to people
of all genders.
If you're angry, that means that you thought something was going to turn out one way, and
in fact turned out another way.
Something unexpected has appeared within your field of view.
And the first thing you need to do is take stock of yourself, because sometimes your
anger is because you've laid out a road map, and now you've realized that a tree has fallen
on the road, and now you have to try to find a way around it.
And most of the time, rather than getting angry, you can just find a way around it.
I would say overwhelmingly, overwhelmingly over the course of your life, if you're angry,
there's something you can tweak within yourself that will fix it.
And it might even be your fault.
It's not really important to have your anger validated or whatever feely bullshit this
article is talking about.
What's important is what you do about it.
And the first step is to always take stock of yourself.
And as I said, that advice applies to all genders, all 33 of them, in fact, according
to the Australian government, omnigender, neutrois, whatever the fuck that is, and intersex.
Australians to choose from 33 different gender labels for passports and birth certificates
under radical new labor proposal.
I want to see this list.
I hope the list is in the article because I want to read this shit.
Demigender is also among the 33 labels that will be discussed at the party's upcoming
national conference and could soon be seen printed on passports and birth certificates.
Let's see if this link contains the list.
I want to read it off right now.
I've got to log in.
Fuck that.
The proposal argues that transgender and intersex people would be able to enjoy equal human
rights without discrimination with the additional gender options.
The party would also look at promoting options beyond binary male and female.
And then here's a picture of someone writing in by sex as their selection.
From what I know about biology, which is honestly not much, I think there's like a grand total
of 12 various deformities that can happen.
It'll put you somewhere between male and female biologically, you know, various combinations
of nonfunctioning genitals.
And in fact, but these are like less than 1% of the population, like significantly less
than 1% of the fucking population.
So you have, I guess, a grand total of 14 genders where most are male and female.
And then an extreme minority is one of these 12 various disorders.
Because transgender people, for the most part, they want to be the gender that they're choosing.
You know, they don't want to be somewhere in between, you know, like if it's a male
to female transsexual person, they want to be female.
Okay, I've got the 33 guys, let's go through them.
A woman, a man, a transgender man, a transgender woman, a trans person, a trans man, a trans
woman.
Wait, isn't that just transgender man and transgender woman, but just shortened to trans
man and trans woman?
Female to male, male to female, transsexual, okay, these are just like these, this group
here are just rephrasing the exact same phenomenon, all of these ones.
A cisgender person, cisfemale, cismale, that's just woman to man, again.
Gender non-conforming, non-gender, okay, so, alright.
A non-binary person, neutrois, neutrois is a non-binary gender identity which is considered
to be a neutral or null gender, isn't that the same thing with non-gender, isn't that
what non-gender is, isn't that the same thing?
Okay, gender fluid, a person who does not identify entirely with either the male or
female genders, isn't that the same thing as non-binary?
Gender queer, again, it's the same description, demigender, this term, demi means half, is
an umbrella term for non-binary, okay, you're even using non-binary, something that you've
already defined up here in this definition, this is this, there's a demi girl, can also
be called a demi woman or a demi female, and there's also a demi boy, and they identify
partially, only partially, so that's kind of like a non-binary somewhere on the spectrum,
considering that demi means half, maybe this is just like half a person, maybe they lost
their legs in an accident or something, here we go, we got agender, this literally means
it without gender, isn't that neutroized, that's what this is, isn't it, just no gender,
you could just be agender as in a single one, agender, intergender, intergender people have
a gender identity that is in the middle, between the binary and gender, okay, these are all
rephrasing of the same thing, like I don't feel like a guy, I don't feel like a girl,
I'm in the middle somewhere, you know, I flipped the coin and it landed on its edge, that's
what all these mean, that's what all of these mean, and they're just rephrasing the same
fucking concept over and over, here's something that's actually different and has a grounding
in biology, intersex, a person who is born with a reproductive anatomy of both a man
and a woman, so we're talking about deformities here, you know, there are people who are born
with like a penis but it's like non-functioning and it's just a facade, right, and like underneath
it you have nothing, sometimes underneath it you have like a uterus that's like closed off,
and there are also other various deformities possible, I think I mentioned earlier that it
was about 12 of them that have been identified very strictly, this is where the whole idea of
the fucking Japanese Fudanari comes from, where you get like a woman but they have like a fully
functioning penis attached to the top of their vagina where a clit would be, that type of
intersex person is extremely rare, as far as I know, I guess they are like one in a billion
though so I guess they're out there somewhere, these people were previously referred to as
hermaphrodites but that term is considered rude and outdated, okay fine, here's something that
might actually need some kind of clarification on a passport for real, you finally found one on
this fucking list that is an exception to the rule, okay, uh, pangender, person who identifies
as more than one gender, okay, we're back to the bullshit, polygender translates to many genders,
a person who identifies as more than one gender, same thing as this, omnigender translates to all
genders, a person identifies as more than one gender, all the same thing, bigender translates
to two genders, a person identifies as both male and female genders, some bigender people have two
distinct male and female personas that's called like multiple personality disorder
that's having a split personality your problems if you're if you're in this
camp your problems go far beyond anything to do with gender androgyne a
person who doesn't identify with either gender they are both feminine and
masculine androgyny is is just it's the same as androgyne they're the same root
this is a person and this is a quality third gender I understand that some
cultures do have a third gender option within them in their in their religious
and cultural practices and and fair enough fine here you go there's your
third gender for your passport try gender a person who shifts between the
male female and a third genders okay so so what are the actual legitimate ones
on this list okay we got let's go to the top we got a you got male you got
woman a man we've got the two transgender possibilities where it's a
male to female and female to male there's four you've got maybe like we'll
have like one for the non gender when you just have zero gender completely
okay there's five you've got intersex for the various deformities and and and
very various biological things that can happen there's six and then you have the
third gender for those cultures that have that there's seven okay okay I
think we can work it out now if you really want to include everything and be
as illogical as you can about it seven genders it's more than two and it does
cover everything and it doesn't appeal to all these ridiculous fucking people
who want to feel special about it I do have two more articles left however I'm
deciding to cut it short because after reading them I think they're actually
worth their own video so maybe I'll put that that out this week sometime thank
you very much for everyone who stuck through me over the past two weeks I am
very glad to be back you're going to be seeing daily uploads from me now
hopefully I'm gonna be doing some short videos some long videos and dumping with
scrumps some political videos some idea analysis videos I'll be I'll be doing
everything that I can to keep this channel active and running and as usual
I stream on Twitch as well five times a week twitch.tv slash game boomers and I
know at least a few of you decided to come over and say hi during my two-week
absence because despite all the YouTube channels being down I was still over
there and in fact I'll see you there again in a couple hours I love you guys
