Hello, everyone. Welcome back to us watching The Last of Us. This will be episodes four
and five. We missed a few. So it turns out, Lilith, that you couldn't make it for episode
three due to some IRL shenanigans. So you got all caught up.
Yep. I watched episode three, actually just today.
And then episodes, basically, we missed episode four, because Arch, you had some sort of IRL
stuff to do with your job, right? You couldn't be around?
I was occupied, oh yes, I had to get up super early in the morning,
and I would have gotten about two hours of sleep.
And episode five, it turns out, actually came out a couple of days ago, but because it was,
it was preempted because tonight is the Super Bowl. And in fact, my IRL friends are off watching
the Super Bowl, and I'm a nerd, recluse, and I don't care about sports ball, so I'm here
watching The Last of Us with you guys. Let's talk about the sports ball. So as far
as I understand, there's a racist team against a group of birds.
Oh, is that how it is? Is it the Redskins or whatever? I don't know the teams.
One is called the Chiefs. I don't think they're Native Americans though, so that's really racist.
Yeah, because Arch, you're Norwegian, you don't really care about American hand egg.
And Lilith, you never seem like a sporty type to me. But Kibbs, you live in the American
heartland. How are you not watching sports ball like your brothers?
Sports boring. Well, there we go. He has a, he has a personal trauma with the hand egg.
So, oh, really can't watch it anymore. What's the story? What's the story? It fell on me in school.
I broke my collarbone. Is that true? That did. But that wasn't the reason why I don't watch sports.
I just, I don't like watching. Like, I, I like to play. No, I'm kind of the same much better reason
though. Like if, you know, you see the sports ball and you just imagine the enormous tuckas
coming towards you. No, it was his knee. And it would, like, it's not the, it's not the hands.
Well, here Kibbs, you know what? I, next time we play sports, I'll fall on you just,
just to round it out, okay? Devil, shoot you if you do that.
If I can, you know, move my arms, assuming, because what breaks.
Thanks. So we're, we're going to watch episodes four and five today. And, but first Lilith,
you wanted to give your take on episode three since, you know, a brief take because
you, you weren't here last time. Yeah, I thought it was pretty well handled. Like,
they depicted a libertarian character and who was like, libertarian representation.
Yes, libertarian representation with the don't tread on me and everything. And,
which is to be expected if you play like the game. Well, if you're familiar with the Bill character
who helps out Joel and Ellie and anyways, who's just basically like a prepper and a handyman
and can build all sorts of traps and resulted in one of the more memorable scenes in the game,
where it's like, Joel's just hung upside down by the leg and has to shoot zombies while Ellie gets
him down. Oh, that part was actually quite hard. I remember being very frustrated playing that
because like your controls are fucking inverted. Jesus.
You've got libertarians here, you've got gun-toting zero immigration
fucking build a fence now. It's like, that's woke. Is it?
It's about as chat as they get if, if only Frank was like a woman and like, it's like
perfect picturesque married couple living together, supporting each other and make,
making sure enriching each other's lives and having a homestead and harming and all that
trat stuff, but they don't like it because Frank is a man who speaks in gay or the crossing sword.
And like the, the actual like radical left gay stereotype are the people who are like
pissing all over each other on the pride float with, with children watching. And it's like,
that's not what these guys are about. You know? Yeah. The thing is, if you were to change,
if we were to go back change, the fact that it's not the last was take the same story arc
and literally change one of the characters into a girl. I guarantee you there's other people at
base to be speech. Like that's all that no one would have any problem with it. And that's okay.
So the director guy was like, Oh, I put the gay in there. It's like a trick. I fed it to you in
the brownie. I don't care. Like I've never been an opposition to gay people. And you've just
presented me with a perfectly fine conservative romance. Like, yup. You didn't trick me into
anything. You checked yourself, bro. They didn't really change anything. It's like,
uh, bill is gay in the game. Like, uh, the only difference was, uh, they changed the ending. Yeah.
This one, they had a happy ending where they didn't get separated.
Literally the only point of quote unquote propaganda is that it's a hyper idealized ending
and it is like all of their machinery is working. They still have fuel. They still have
fancy dinners. They still have fucking wine. Like, um, I was really surprised when they,
when they cast, uh, Nick Offerman as the, uh, libertarian survivalist bill, by the way,
it was like, that's like the perfect fricking casting because, uh, Ron Swanson and just like
the most memeable libertarian character in television. I watched it again with Naomi,
right? Cause she wanted to see the episode too. And it was a good episode. So I didn't
mind watching it again. And I noticed something subtle about it. I didn't notice the first time
through. Um, when you see bill, like, you know, before he meets up with Frank, you know, there's
the army's going around clearing out all the houses and he's, he's in his bunker and he's like
new world order fucks, w E F motherfucker. You're not going to get me out of here.
He seemed like your average, you know, off the grid Republican voter at the start of the, um,
at the start of his story, he's like, you know, he's, he's hiding, he's, he's, he's very handy.
He's doing things for himself. He doesn't care about other, he doesn't care so much about our
society. You know, he's, he's keeping to himself. He's, he's building up his compound. Um, he's
happy that other people are gone. And however, he also seems like in after watching it the second
time, he's probably closeted gay, you know, and then when Frank comes along and he realizes that
Frank is also gay, that moment when they're both in bed, they're both lying in bed. And Frank asks
him, have you ever had sex with another man before? And he nervously says no, only with a
girl. Once when I was younger, it seemed to me that bill was like, probably closeted, probably
a little bit homophobic, but now that society's fallen apart, he can basically do whatever he
wants without being judged by whoever was around him before. And so he's taking this chance with
Frank. There basically can't be a more pro gay story than that of a guy coming out of the closet
after years of repression and then finding a romance.
Apparently Ben Shapiro got super duper pissed off about Bill and Frank.
Oh, yes. That's one thing we should talk about real quick. So Arch, last episode, you basically
said that this was a good romance and I think you repeated it today. It was a good romance.
It was a good representation of a positive representation of a conservative gay romance.
And in fact, Arch, I think you, you milked this topic on your channel for all it was worth. You
did like three videos on how the right should be claiming Bill and Frank. Is that, is that correct?
No.
Milked.
You squeezed.
That's not really, this turned into a controversy is not really the right word because there were
people who disagreed with my take on this. And I think it is because we are too used to being
defensive. We have to be against things because we have to counter the woke. But
again, the thing is, if you did this romance and you made Frank into a big breasted blonde woman,
nobody would have any problems with this at all. And, you know, it wouldn't be an issue.
If anything, the only complaint would be the same that I have, that it was overly idealized
and that they had no problems whatsoever. Really. There's like one raid that was easily repelled by
the electrified fucking fence. I do think the right should be claiming these characters because
they are clearly hashtag our side. So to say these, these are libertarians. They are not woke.
They don't seem there was, how do I put it? Like at no point did they bring in politics into their
relationship. They didn't sit around the table going like, Oh, I was pressed under a patriarchy
or anything like that. It was just two people who fell in love and I don't see anything wrong with
that. So you sent me a little Twitter post from some breadtuber who was like, Oh God, I can't
wait for the conservatives to see this. They'll be seething and molding. This is exactly why we
should be claiming these two characters because nothing would piss the workers off more than
having the, cause they've owned the identity of gay now for 20 years and they've used it as a
political tool. Taking it away from them has got to be the funniest thing we could possibly do.
So what you're talking about arch is that a Xander hall made this post me watching Nick Offerman get
a blow job for another man in the last of us and imagining the reaction of the chud YouTubers who
have to watch the scene to review the episode. Now, firstly, like this is Xander hall, dude,
you got to stop thinking you got to unplug from the culture, the culture war. Okay. Because you
probably shouldn't be thinking about like, you're gonna sit down with your girlfriend or with your
friends or whoever with your discord, whoever you're gonna sit down and watch a wholesome
hour of TV, have a good time. And what you're thinking of is, man, I bet the people that I
hate on the internet are mad right now. It's like, Jesus Christ, dude, Xander hall, what the fuck?
You gotta, you gotta like turn off the internet and put down the bong or something like Christ.
See, I don't know what a Xander hall is. So I don't know the context here, but
uh, okay. Listen, listen arch. I presume he's a communist judging by
Vash with minus 20 IQ points and too much weed. That's Andrew. So in reply to Xander hall,
there was one guy named comrade giga Chad. He, him who says, surprisingly, they don't hate it.
At least this one doesn't. And then links your video arch. It links your video.
And then somebody else responded to like, it makes me worried. What are they getting out of it? I'm
like, it's just two conservatives having a romance. That's all I'm getting out of it.
See, I'm going to do a video on this, right? Because at some point I'll do a video. I have
to flush this out a little bit, a little bit more, but basically the right knows what the left looks
like from the point of view of being inside the left, but the left has no clue what the right
looks like from being, from the point of view of being inside the right. And there's a clear,
there's a clear like imbalance there between the knowledge of each other.
And that's why I think we're seeing stuff like this of why does a right winger like arch Warhammer
like a con like a gay romance? And it's like, Hmm, maybe you need to reevaluate how you view
the fucking world dude. But well, actually, that's an interesting idea you have there.
Cause I hadn't thought about that. I've seen, I figured that they would be able to,
how do I put this? Like all the shit that people say about me, I figured they were just lying
because it seemed like a good attack angle, but they might also just not understand. Cause I have
never at any point said, I've been anti-gay, but at least I can't remember. You know what it is?
I just assumed like, Oh, you're somebody who is on the right. And therefore you must hate the gays.
Well, it could be that it could also be the fact that people on the left tend to take jokes,
like as not just a joke, but as a dog whistle for what you actually believe. So if you make
jokes at the expense of gay people, that means that you actually secretly hate gay people.
That's a very common thing the left does. So maybe that's what they're doing because
all of us here, including you, Lilith, even though you try to keep a damper on it because
you don't want to get canceled. But I understand. I understand. I know what lies in your dark heart.
Actually, all of us here have made like jokes at the expense of gay people,
but they're jokes. And we know that we're jokes, but you're saying we know that they're jokes.
And we know that we're all actually cool with them. You know, when we say breed Kibs,
we don't mean to actually like denigrate Kibs because he's a gay bottom. All right.
We're just having we're just having fun. Oh, no, just make it.
You say at the expense of like, I don't think of it like that. For me, the the core
fundamental of all humor is absurdity. And sure, homophobia is a fairly absurd concept,
like being afraid of gays. The issue is, though, is that Arch,
while you were doing your milk and a lot of your a lot of your comments were saying stuff like,
No, we actually shouldn't claim Bill and Frank. And they were fighting back with you. Like,
I know I've been getting into into fights with my comments section. But this time you've been like,
you've been taking some hits over this. Not really. Like a grand total. I lost six
subscribers, which, oh, no, no, I've lost a few too. Like, I'm not the kind of guy who's like,
oh, they didn't matter or anything like that. But the things I felt like I had a very
good, frank discussion with my community over it. We did a stream, I talked to them,
we had a conversation back and forth, they kept to tell me their arguments, I got to tell them theirs.
I think it worked out fairly well, honestly. No, fair enough. Like, I'm not saying that,
like, oh, no, you lost subscribers. I'm not saying that. But like, I looked at the comments
in some of those videos. And they were like, no, these are degenerates. Some people were
saying shit like that. Like, oh, Jesus, you also got to remember, like, when it comes to the
creative sphere and in feedback, and then when it comes to critique, always the most loudest voices
are often those that are going to be the most vulgar sometimes. Yeah, that goes for whether
you're making a video game and you release it and be like, oh, I hate these mechanics,
you know, or you're just making a video, like, they're just gonna rise to the top, the scum
rises to the surface. There are there were a lot of comments actually read that were actually
pretty well mannered, and pretty well, well constructed. And they actually raised some
excellent points. And we brought those up on stream and we had a good chat about it.
Then we get to what you mentioned to start this whole section off Lilith,
which was Ben Shapiro's video called Brokeback Zombie Farm. And it's like, come on, dude. Ben,
what the fuck? Now, Ben Shapiro, like he's obviously like a partisan rightoid. So like,
this is expected to come out of him, right? But he did the whole culture war. I can't believe
they're shoehorning the gays into this perfectly fine The Last of Us show. And it's like, Ben,
what are you doing? Come on. I know clicks. I get it. I get it. You know, your video had half a
million views pregnant, made some money off of it. I get it. You have a company to fund. This is
just partisan hackery. It is indeed difficult to argue they shoehorned in since it was in the
game. It was in the game. They gave them a happier ending, and they spent far more time on it. And
I'm still not sure that was worth it. We'll have to see how the rest of the show turns out because
this was an entire episode dedicated to a pair of side characters. Yeah, so because here's the
thing in the original game, Bill and Frank don't come back after the segment. So you're not gonna
get any payoff. And they're also unless they change it unless they change it. So actually,
we didn't die. I decided not to kill myself. And it's just the other guy dead in there.
If we get to see more Nick Offerman, I mean, yeah, but I don't they'd ruin the story bringing
them back, though. Yeah, they probably would. Yeah. I don't know if you all watched Ben Shapiro's
video on this. I did watch it. He just he spends the whole time complaining from a purely culture
warrior perspective. You know, it's like, Oh, this is the LGBT ideology lobby pushing
gays into your TV again. And it's like, listen, you gotta, you gotta calm the fuck down with
us, Ben. Like, no, things have swung too far in the other direction. Now, right, like,
five or six years ago, we were complaining about them shoehorning in trans people or gay people
where it didn't matter race swapping to black characters where it didn't matter. And it's like,
this is kind of cringy. Like, what the fuck are you doing? Now, though, the reaction to that has
become so severe that anytime you see like a gay person in the media, these people are like flying
off the handle. And it's become too much in the other direction now. Yes, we our side is in the
ascendancy. And we need to recognize that rather than continuing on the defense. It feels just like
a money farm or a click farm. It's just like, oh, that's, oh, this is another thing where I get to
get riled up and make lots of angry clicks with like, oh, it's so cynical, like gays have been
appearing in television since forever. It's like now we're seeing more of it because now we're
seeing there are more gays and oh, gee, the FCC doesn't fine you thousands and thousands of
dollars if you show homosexuals in a non-negative light on television. Oh, I think he will also
complain about that two second clip of lesbians kissing in Buzz Lightyear too, didn't he? Yeah,
I think so. That was stupid. If he has to go to war with Steven Crowder, he needs all the money
he can get, you know? So basically like, like righty tube is doing the same thing that lefty
tube went through or like lefty twitch, you know, they're just eating each other at this point.
They've like isolated off into their own little internets. And now they're in fighting for,
for clout. And I was, it's funny to laugh at when it happens on the, on the left. And it's
funny to laugh at when it happens on the right. And I think that basically Ben Shapiro losing it
over Bill and Frank is just a small component of that larger issue of it's just people scrabbling
for relevance. The inevitable spiral, it happened to Gamegate after people realized that once the,
the video game journalists horse had been beaten thoroughly to death,
a lot of people realized, well, we might not actually agree on everything.
And then a lot of egos in a very small room, et cetera, et cetera, and it's happening to the
left on red tube, et cetera. And it's happening again. Now, this is just the natural cycle of
content creation. I think I know a lot is going to be cut out, but we've been talking for like
nearly an hour and a half just shooting the shit. So maybe it's time, maybe it's time we should
actually watch the show. We have two episodes to get through.
Listen, I miss you guys. All right. It's a good time. You know, you could come in any time. We
stream a lot Bart and I know, I know, but usually I'm busy. Like I'm also working on things.
That's no excuse. You can always find time at somebody who has time management problems myself.
You know what I'll do? I'll break up with my girlfriend for you.
I'll, I'll free up some time that way. Jesus.
Kibbs you have more. You're so demanding now. I'll start dating Kibbs. Okay.
Arch. Now I understand. And now I understand the, the, the dynamic here, what's going on
of, of why kids need to be, needs to be bullied. Cause otherwise he just sucks up all your free
time. He does. He's a woman. I have got queued up in the pipe episode. I think it's not for
me to still check. Yes. Episode four. Let's roll. It's currently black. I'm playing it right now.
Okay.
This is what I always expect.
I think the guitar at least. Yeah.
You know what? Unlike the rings of power, this song actually makes the intro worth watching.
I think it's a nice song. They actually incorporate it into the show too.
That's sort of what they're doing with like the new Mario movie from the looks of it too.
Yep. Yep. Hello aircraft carrier. It's been long since last time.
Fuck. There were some comments who were saying, arch, that you're too mean to this girl.
You know, she might be, but is she like, she, she does not fit the character. She just,
I'm sure she's a lovely human being, but at least she knows basic gun safety.
Yeah. I hope so. For giving her a gun. Oh, she found it. Oh, that's right. If he took
I expect to be gangster. Tilt the weapon. It lingers accuracy.
Put the safety on, man. You don't want to just randomly going off cause it hooks something in
your bag. Fun fact, the French rifles of the second world war did not have safeties.
So they just would go off. It was a bit unfortunate occasionally.
Yeah, no. Uh, if, if Litchin is growing on the cars, I guarantee you that fuel is not
usable. That would be jello years and years and years ago. 20 years. How long does gas last in
a tank a year? Like it lasts a year in an underground to be fair. This is something
that every single survival setting gets wrong. It'll still be stationary.
No pun intended volume two, but will Livingston volume two. Wait, is it a, this is a puns book.
Okay. This is the best show, the best character, the best episode. I love
already. Yes.
Feel free to wait in the truck. Okay. But just know you can't escape. We'll Livingston.
You'll be back. There's nothing you can do to stop him.
At least somebody cleared out the cars from being on the road. Very convenient of them.
Yeah. They conveniently just 45 degree parked them. Yeah. They used to take big ass plows
on them and clear the roads for their tanks. And so they actually explained it.
Oh wait, they're doing the yep. Right on the reading, but it has some interesting pictures.
No, no, no, no. Put that back. That's not for kids. Please get rid of it. That's actually
kind of funny pages stuck together. Who knows? I know what coom is.
Okay. So that was shot for shot identical from the game.
Yes. Yeah. She finds the gay porn from bill stash.
You know, that one picture that people use to show like the downfall of America by having all
these like McDonald's and Arby's and all these restaurants. This is, it kind of looks like that.
That place, but the post-apocalypse.
Wow. That, that one spot of grass was clearly driven over several times for this shot.
That and the fact that, you know, you can clearly tell it's been mowed.
20 year old raviolis, dude.
Am I even eating that is 20 year old ship where do you ravioli? I actually agree.
So can we start a fire? I'm freezing. Now, why am I going to tell you? No,
because in fact, you don't see the smoke fungus in that smart.
This is about to say, anyway,
people remote, the fungal zombies just hang out and populated areas for some reason.
It's because of the all the connections with the fungus going underground. They stay in like urban
centers, literally just live outside the city and you'll be fine. Okay. So they're literally left.
Wait, the pun book, the pun book. She better say some more.
Why did the scarecrow get an award?
Because he was outstanding in his field.
This is sweet. The Joel and Ellie father and daughter moment. Those were like my favorite
parts in the game too. It actually makes me want to go out and camping.
Have you been camping before?
Man, I hate camping.
Correct. No one camping once. It was awful. Oh, it's percolator coffee.
How am I more outdoorsy than the two men? I live in Norway. The outdoors here will kill you.
I mean, same with Canada, right? Like, yeah, these are all woman excuses.
I would love to put you outside my backyard. Just 12 hours. Just 12.
Okay. I'm fine.
No, you can't. Yeah. I did scouts training on how to do it. You love it. Okay. I'll just
put you outside. No gear. Go sleep in the fucking snow drifts. That was not the stipulation.
Caves. I just want to point out that Lilith said that there's only two guys here.
Oh, you son of a bitch.
When Tommy meets Marlene, she talks me to join in the fireflies.
Same mistake you made. I got groomed. You got groomed.
You got up pretty early. If you want to grab more sleep, I'm not even tired.
Also from the game. Oh, no, we're entering Chicago.
Yeah. Okay. In America, there's highways going around all the major cities, right?
You don't have to go to the city. You can just go around it, actually.
Actually, why the hell would you go through a city? Other than to cut down time, I'd rather
go around it. Yep.
Because, Kip, this is where the fucking story happens in this television show that needs
conflict. If this was just driving to fucking wherever, pretty boring.
What are you talking about? That's a very cozy show.
25 hours of driving and Kyle was scratching at the wash. Please give me the faggots back.
Well, here's one. I am actually happy for. I like long road trips. Long road trips are fun.
So this looks like another level from the game because it has the soda truck in front
of the tunnel. So they're doing the same thing again.
But this isn't... Joel didn't lose the truck this way.
Right. They were ambushed by some group and that's what they call a truck, right?
Yeah. So I think this is actually the setup for a level in Salt Lake City near the end
of the game. That's what it looks like.
Go around it, man. Come on.
Screw it. They addressed Kyle's point and defeated it.
The answer was, he couldn't be honest. Take the next ramp and we're back on the road
many times. Now they are turning.
God damn it. Bye. Okay.
It's a smart thing to do, though. It's a smart thing to do.
I guess I'm right.
Yeah, but now you're going to see that it's a bad thing to do because there's going to
be like evil shit out there and they're going to have to turn around because that way the
plot can happen.
Don't you have a compass?
Uh, how old is that vehicle?
Well, no, I mean as an actual literal compass, you know, come here.
Compasses are those things in your smart car, right?
Actually, my old Jeep had one.
Oh no, this is the scene.
Yeah, that's a trap.
Okay. Never accept people in the apocalypse.
Oh, fuck.
See, they're going to come through the city.
Okay, so yeah, this is how it happened, yeah.
They missed the best one-liner, though.
In the game, there was a moment where Ellie asks,
aren't you going to help him? And he says, he's not even injured. He just runs him over.
He's like, he's injured now, motherfucker.
Oh, Arx, just so you know, there was like 50 guys to kill here in the game.
Yeah, he murdered like a fuckton.
Well, there came number 50.
Wow, they've got really good teeth,
considering the apocalypse has been going on for a few years.
Well, there should be plenty of crests lying around.
And toothbrushes.
Oh, lots of toothbrushes.
Can't aim that low.
You just shot Joel.
Joel's dead.
Yep, that was unfortunate.
Oh, well.
She couldn't know the bulbs got through things.
I'm gonna go home.
I'll tell everyone you're good.
I don't know what to do.
My legs don't work.
My mom isn't far.
If you can get me to her.
You got to kill him, man.
We can trade with you guys.
We can be friends.
I didn't know.
I'm Brian.
I'm Brian.
What's your name?
I do appreciate this scene, actually.
And this is rather humanizing.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, also it shows that Ellie's got to like harden up.
Remember, nobody's innocent after you shot them.
Wait, wait, wait.
My dude, you tried to rob us.
Damn.
Ellie, I got to get in there.
I can't get through.
That was some harsh shit, but I appreciate it.
Yeah.
There's some stuff against the door.
See, this is also kind of why I understand why people were a bit annoyed by the whole
gay romance thing, because it was overly idealized.
And it was a happy ending in a universe that doesn't have a whole lot of fucking happy
endings.
The Bergquists.
No.
Mark Anthony Halpin.
Carrie Schreiber.
Haven't seen them.
The Chans.
Henry Burrell.
Okay.
You know where Henry is.
Lawyer.
Medical attention.
Family visit.
I've completely fallen off the plot now.
Who are these people?
What has to stop now?
Uh, the Kansas City Fedra was overrun by bandits.
They've taken over.
Jesus.
Now, I got to point out, no matter how much of a douchebag that guy might have been, if
he's your only trained medical professional, that was a very, very, very bad idea.
Yeah, extremely.
Yeah.
Basically, you definitely have a bad idea.
Yep.
So she said, find every collaborator and kill them all.
So I don't know if they'll get to it, but in the game, the people had overthrown Fedra,
like Firefly style, and they immediately devolved into a gang.
Because of course they would, after you overthrow the government.
There's no utopia here.
And then they ended up being worse than Fedra.
And yeah, you all know how it goes.
Were they cannibals also, or was that a different group?
They might have been the cannibals.
I don't know.
I don't know if cannibals were later.
There was just like a hellhole maybe.
There was a cannibal group later though, I think.
Listen, human flesh with mushrooms built in, pretty convenient.
You eat mushrooms?
You don't put mushrooms in your pizza?
No.
Depends on what kind of pizza you're making.
You ever had a good Canadian pizza?
Bacon and mushrooms?
As soon as we don't hear it, we move.
No, bacon.
Fast as we can.
Canadian bacon.
We got you.
I think neither of you should exist.
You need to widen your pallet or widen you.
It's not all about post D&D pastries, Arch.
Are you okay?
His pastry is a sandwich with a piece of meat and cheese in it.
First time that you hurt someone like that.
See, this is why it's much better to not do this in the video game format too,
because here they just kill like three people who attacked them,
and it's entirely justifiable for him to still, you know, feel bad about killing people.
It's a hard thing.
But if he just murdered his way through a hundred fucking dudes, it would feel somewhat hollow.
Yep.
In the game, I think characters also somewhat acknowledge that Joe's like a mass murdering,
like an absolute beast of a man in the background too.
Sometimes, yeah.
Yeah.
Up where they had to tone everything down a bit.
I end up a little bit better than the epic storyline.
Here, have your little girl pistol back.
Did you take out the magazine?
No?
Ah, the feds didn't know how to handle horror small arms.
They truly were the ATF.
Safety on trigger discipline.
No, you put it in your pack.
Shoot your damn ass off.
You shoot your damn ass off through your backpack or there's more clutter.
Now that means she's going to shoot herself accidentally, I bet.
They're going to add that.
Or like someone's going to steal it out of her pocket.
That's going to come back to bite her.
Maybe, yeah.
Got mushrooms.
Fuck.
What did we tell the others?
Not yet.
Let's just handle what we have to handle.
We can deal with this after.
Kathleen.
After.
You have mushroom veins burrowing into your compound.
Okay.
Like you got to handle that shit now.
The personal vendetta thing is going to be the thing that dooms them.
Here's a problem.
Clearly, you guys know more about what the fuck's happening here than I do.
Because I am completely confused.
I don't know who this woman is.
I don't know why the clearly more senior and experienced man is taking directions from her.
I don't understand what the fuck's going on.
Like hell, I wouldn't even understand that they'd overrun Fedra unless you told me.
I feel like maybe explaining this would have been better use of the previous episode.
At least parts of it.
Maybe.
And I am lost.
I can't really remember this story that well.
In fact, I don't remember anything up until this point.
But like the federal stuff, like you can tell with visual storytelling because you had like federal building walls or blood smeared on the walls charge anymore.
Did you kill innocent people?
Innocent is a complicated word in the post apocalypse.
Joe.
What?
What are you doing?
I don't want someone sneaking up on us while we're sleeping.
I get it.
Crunch, crunch, crunch.
I mean, they can see you from the door.
It's a good point.
Okay.
To shoot you, but.
I put the glass outside the door, to be honest.
I guess it's a good thought.
Don't get me wrong.
It's just poorly executed.
Side sleeping is the only way to sleep, by the way.
When we were talking about hurting people.
What did you mean it wasn't your first time?
I mean, she tried to gut you with a pocket knife the first time you met her.
So talk about it.
She goes in a doc.
All right.
Okay.
Enter credit card to proceed.
Basically.
So it gets easier when you get older.
No, not really.
Yeah.
When you hit a certain age and actually care, turns out to be kind of fun.
Yeah.
Did you know diarrhea is hereditary?
What?
Yeah.
It runs in your genes.
That's great.
He thought it was funny too.
So goddamn stupid.
Jesus, I'm losing it.
You're losing it big time.
The character bonding.
Not too bad.
The only person who didn't laugh was Arch.
Arch, you hate puns, don't you?
He's not a human.
I'm sorry.
My intelligence is finally fucking high for this.
You're more of a lizard.
You remind me of that Facebook guy.
That Facebook guy.
This part is not funny according to the algorithms.
I told you they had guns.
Well, that's Henry.
I think that's Henry and Sam.
Yeah.
Well, there we go.
End of the first episode.
Well, no, the fourth episode.
The first one tonight.
There we go.
So yes, I can tell right from the beginning that one of the big problems with this episode
is they didn't adequately introduce the antagonist of the next section.
They just assume that if you played the game, you'd know who they are.
Yep.
Which does mean that Arch's point about the previous episode is now validated.
Because it would be fine to do that episode as like a bonus, like fluff thing.
As long as everything's like adequately explained.
But here the antagonist in the relationship is going to be explained in the next episode.
But the entire time you're just thinking, what, what, what?
Because Arch is like, what the fuck is going on here?
Because clearly there's a lot of story or rather who this woman is, why she shot their
only motherfucking doctor, why they're running a little Nazi dystopia now.
There's a lot that has happened here.
And that would probably have been a better use of the previous episode.
Yeah.
Spend more time building this up than that.
I don't know if I necessarily agree.
Cause like, I think the show could be going from like Joe and Ellie's perspective, because
to them, these are just a bunch of assholes with guns that showed up and they may as well
just been bandits and Raiders, which in some ways they are.
So that's true.
That's actually, that's actually a good point.
So I'll tell you how it goes down in the game Arch.
Okay.
I don't think it was Kansas city.
I think it was actually Pittsburgh.
It doesn't matter what city it was.
They have to go into a city.
For some reason, the roads are blocked off.
They have to drive through the city.
The exact same ambush happens where there's an injured guy, but this time Joel just runs
them over.
He's like, he's not even injured.
He runs them over.
They lose Bill's Bill's truck.
It crashes into a laundromat, which is what it did in the show.
And they have to work through the city on foot.
However, the path, because it's, you know, it's a linear video game.
The path takes them into the form of the former Fedra camp.
The gameplay is you're just killing a shit ton of people, of people just killing a shit
ton of basically of bandits.
And you can actually like listen to them talk.
And if you want to, if you want to get the story, you can listen to them talk about how
they, they overthrew Fedra and how they've been like just ambushing people who come,
who come through.
Sometimes they enslave people who come through a lot of backgrounds.
So you also find a data logs in the level because, you know, it's a, it's a video game.
So you can just, you can pick these up or you can ignore them.
The, the story basically was there was a group in this Fedra quarantine zone that was like
the fireflies, but wasn't associated with the fireflies.
They were these revolutionaries who wanted to overthrow the government.
They managed to do it.
They disbanded Fedra.
They purged all the people who were loyal to Fedra.
There was definitely some, you know, kind of communist rhetoric about what they were
doing, but of course they immediately descended into tyranny.
And what they do is they go out, they find people who are traveling around, they, they
kill them.
They take their stuff.
If they have kids, they take the kids, they brainwash the kids.
They turn them into workers for, for their new civilization.
And they're very, they're very utopian and they do not like people leaving even more
than Fedra.
It's, it's every, like all of Fedra, all of their equipment, worse morals, way more willing
to way, way more willingness to be ruthless.
Um, just Fedra, but worse and, and, and, and less competent all the way through.
But that's, this is the thing.
All of this stuff is like, it's all data log stuff.
It's all background conversation stuff in the game.
You can just fight through it and you don't even have to care about it if you don't want
to.
But there is a story here.
Um, the problem is you can't do data logs in a TV show.
So they had to somehow bring it into the show and they didn't do like, they didn't, they
did like a, like a 25% job of it because you can see like there's Fedra stuff, but they're
clearly not Fedra.
So there's like some environmental storytelling happening here, but they needed to do more
of it.
Yep.
Cause environmental only goes so far cause we can, we can easily deduct from the Fedra
building with blood smears and there's these like bandits that are occupying now that Fedra
has lost control of this region.
Yep.
Um, but it doesn't really explain like who these people are.
Now in the next episode, they're going to probably expand on the whole like Sam thing
and the fact that they're leaving, you know, the society and because
Don't spoil it, Kibbs.
Yeah, but it's game that's been out for a decade.
It's not even like, uh, like it's like, who, who is Luke's dad?
Like nobody cares anymore.
Nor you're spoiling arch for the next episode.
Yeah, but here's the problem.
This episode didn't give him any context for what the fuck was going on.
And that's the problem.
If the next episode begins to explain the context and that's, that's fair, but to address
the point as well, that is being taken from the perspective of Bill and Joel, that'll
be fine.
If it weren't for the fact that the preceding episode was not at all taken from the perspective
of Bill and Joel, making it a complete break from, oh, you mean Joel and Ellie?
People on the television screen.
Yes.
Cause that's the thing.
Like so long as the whole gay romance didn't detract from anything else, I thought it was
perfectly fine, but it depends on the next episode.
Like if they tell the story of what happened here through these two other characters that
just appeared, I'll be more than happy.
But if they never explain how the fuck this federal struggle is overrun, I'll be annoyed.
Yeah.
I thought it was fine to have a self-contained thing for episode three.
And it has to be paid off though.
So something has to work out.
Yeah.
Everything else has to work together to do that.
Um, yeah.
So from, from what I recall, Henry and since we're spoiling it anyway, Henry and Sam in
the game wanted to leave the communist utopia and they were very mad about that.
And they were sending like, like just guys in trucks, truckloads of guys after them.
And, uh, Joel and Ellie just happened to be in the wrong place, wrong time.
Well, in this case, from the dialogue, it seems like a Henry got the brother of random
woman killed.
Uh, maybe it seemed like when the, cause they were in target in the doctor and he was like,
I didn't give them your brother's like, yes, but Henry did.
You gave them Henry, I guess.
Yeah, they're, they're implying that there.
So there's, there seems to be more motivation.
Yep.
We'll have to see personal vendetta too.
Yeah, we'll have to see.
So let's start up episode five.
I've got it queued up.
That's uh, that's roll.
So while this is playing, I'm just looking this up.
Twitter's actually gone kind of quiet on this show.
I don't know if that's good or bad.
I mean, there's no big controversy surrounding it anymore.
And this, you know, we're not counting Ben Shapiro's that was kind of nutsoid, but like
the normies just seemed to be watching and enjoying the show, but not really talking
about it.
I don't know how to take that.
Well, it's probably because the show is it's entertaining, but beyond that, I wouldn't
say it's like stellar.
It's just all right.
Nothing particularly special.
And it's not really pushing any particular point either, I guess.
Oh, it's just going to be, it's going to be the backstory, isn't it?
Of how they liberated, liberated the zone from the bedroom.
It's a little bit of a waste.
Yeah, the people's revolution.
We all own the means of production.
Oh yeah.
These, uh, these definitely do look like heroes of justice.
That's for sure.
They're just killing the kulaks arch.
They deserved it.
Yeah, this is the problem with the revolution.
It's just going to make you the monsters.
I know you hang that person over a bonfire.
I don't believe you.
You will not really revolution it.
Yeah, like that's a great image of a fair trial.
Right?
Fuck him there.
Like I'd hand myself in in a heartbeat.
No doubt.
Wait, was the kid deaf in the last or mute in the, in the game?
I don't think he was.
I don't remember.
Did it feel good?
Betraying your neighbors to Fedra?
The struggle session.
Well, I'm not Fedra.
Lucky for you.
No one here has to die.
Yeah, we could put you on trial.
You're all guilty.
So that's how that'll go.
And you'll do some time.
Oh yeah, that's much better.
He had a place to hole up in the open city in case things went bad.
But things have gone great.
Haven't you heard Kansas city is free.
I do quite like this.
This is a very subversive take on communism.
I told you everything I know.
No, we are not really putting them on trial.
When you're done, burn the bodies.
It's faster.
Man, freedom.
People's Republic.
I've been saying like every great writer of history says one thing correct.
Even the people who are the worst like Marx or whoever I've been reading mold bug.
He has said one thing that I like only one thing.
And that one thing is sometimes freedom requires order.
And it can't just be anarchy.
You know, freedom from all possible institutions and just pure anarchy is no real freedom.
I agree with that.
That's why I'm a libertarian and not an uncap.
Like we need some form of order to ensure freedom for people.
Otherwise, it's just like warlords and well,
roaming.
Yes, it's just fucking this.
Yeah, or it's just fucking this.
He's scared because you're scared.
No, I'm pretty sure he's scared because he's Anne Frank now.
I'd be scared too.
Hello.
Well, he's deaf now.
Yep.
Look at me.
I am the captain now.
No, communists are still shooting people.
Okay, back to painting.
I always tell them not to whack on things.
Yeah, you could always eat the paint.
Oh, God.
All the crayon tasting.
You should probably go in the night, though, shouldn't you?
I don't know.
Communists are creatures of the dark, after all.
They might see better.
Like way skittered around the ceiling.
The suction cups.
Kibs, you're beeping.
What's going on?
What do you mean beeping?
I heard a beep in the background of your.
Oh, don't mind that.
It's your microwave from making those hot pockets.
Get it right in his eyes.
Make him blind, too.
Yeah, I'm not sure if smearing paint over your face is actually that intelligent.
I mean, it doesn't really do anything.
That depends on the paint, Kyle.
Have you gotten paint in your eyes?
Lead paint acrylic.
It's not fucking lead.
I think you let this kid play with lead paint.
Are you retarded?
It's the apocalypse.
Who cares?
It's acrylic paint.
Oh, also, I mean, not to get racist here or anything, but I mean,
they clearly are able to, like, stealth around at night easier because they're darker skinned.
Oh, my God.
I can't believe you went there.
Ah, good point.
Well, no, seriously, though, like, you're going to blend in in the night better,
just practically speaking.
That's true.
My grand puppet always told me the tale of the first black person he saw.
It was just a raincoat in the middle of night walking towards him.
An empty rimmed raincoat.
He was so confused.
Wait, is that a real story?
Oh, yeah, that was an actual story.
It scared the shit out of my granddad.
A ghost.
Oh, it's a black man.
Oh, they watched the whole Joel Ellie thing go down.
Damn, he dropping them niggas.
Yeah.
Time to use us to your advantage.
And to be fair, Dev, this isn't that racist.
I mean, the black father has yes to abandon his child.
Yep.
Where's the mother?
Well, good point.
I think they're brothers, though.
I think they're brothers.
So where's the mom, then, and dad?
Yeah, dad, you're digging yourself deeper down the hole.
They were probably like, fed restuges or something.
So they were counter-revolutionaries.
Yeah.
Damn.
Well, at least the parents had a good reason to run out on them this time, then.
See, he did put some outside the door, Kyle, you dumbass.
That was you who said that.
No, I didn't.
Hey, that gun's empty.
Oh, my God, child.
Yeah, that gun is empty.
That was interesting.
They still didn't explain enough, though.
You don't have to worry about what to say.
It was better than nothing, but I would have liked a lot more than that.
I want to help you.
I don't know what the next step is with something like this.
If I lower my gun, we didn't hurt you.
So you don't hurt us, right?
That's right.
Oh, Joel's gonna do it anyway.
That's just the way he sounds.
He has an asshole voice.
Joel, tell him he's okay.
Everything is great, dude.
Fuck.
Oh, Joel didn't just kill them.
Did he do that in the game?
Did you get these?
No, but how old is he?
He's eight.
Cool.
You didn't ask him.
You forgot your brother's age.
He was 14 in the game.
He was 14 before.
There is, like, an Elie quasi-romance, slightly.
To get a view of the city and plan a way out.
And when the sun's up, I'll show you one.
It would be like traveling during the broad daylight, you see.
It's more challenging that way.
It does feel like not a good idea.
Oh, here we go.
There's some backstory.
Finally tortured and murdered people for 20 years.
You know what happens when you do that to people?
They become communists.
They do it right back to you.
That's how it follows you here.
I know the city, and that's how I'm going to help you get out.
Also, that city looks very functional, you know?
They clearly, like, have...
They were in a real skylight or whatever,
looking down on the real city that was not apocalyptic.
And they just played it off.
Besides the communist rebels?
Fascist motherfuckers.
Fucking fuck.
They're going to help us escape.
Right?
All right.
You'll enlighten your child, would you?
Okay, the more they do this, the more I'm on their side.
It's fucking annoying seeing these retards walking around in broad daylight.
Yeah, I'd do this at night.
We need to get out of sight.
I think it's this way.
Then again, I suppose it's better than House of Dragons,
where they shot scenes in broad daylight and then dipped them in editing to be dark.
That's pretty bad, yeah.
Would you like to watch a television show?
Yes, well, fuck you.
It's actually a audiobook.
I thought I told you put that in your rucksack.
It was never paid off.
Yeah, also if there's clickers, like, don't make any noise, dude.
Fuck.
I mean, he knows what they are, so he knows that they...
they operate on sound.
Like, shut the fuck up.
To be fair, they're walking down a lengthy concrete corridor.
If there was a clicker down there, he'd hear them from hundreds of meters.
Yeah, waddling towards them already.
Yep, because of the way the sound reverberates.
Whoa.
Somebody used up a lot of crayons.
Vaults.
Oh, now you noticed.
You fucking...
Well, I guess we can wait tonight, this time.
You know, I wasn't exactly telling you the truth before.
About me not killing someone.
There was a man, a great man.
He was never afraid, never selfish, and he was always forgiving.
Have you ever met someone like that?
The kind of man you'd follow anywhere.
I mean, I wanted to, but I would have.
Yeah, but Sam, he got sick.
Leukemia.
Yeah, anyway, there was one drug that worked.
And, whoa, big shock.
There wasn't much left of it, and it belonged to Fedra.
And if I wanted something, I was gonna take something big.
So I gave him something big.
That one great man.
The leader of the resistance movement in Kansas City.
A Catholic brother.
Was that in the game?
I'm trying to justify the communist revolution a bit more.
Yeah, I think in the game, they were just going after them for leaving.
But being a woman, I was genetically incapable for that.
Where's the justice in that?
What is the point of that?
I think it went over her head.
He was a great man.
We all loved him, but he didn't change anything.
Oh, my God, she's Benito Mussolini.
She was the one who finally brought the revolution.
We're with you.
This is Sargon's capital punishment arc right here.
Why should we forgive them?
Kill them all.
This is how you do a night scene.
You illuminate it fully, and then you just have some darkness in the background.
I can see things.
I feel like it can't be quite this easy.
Yeah, it wasn't in the game either.
There's gonna be something, I'm sure.
He's like, no, Ellie, never, ever, ever happening.
And then I'm like, I'm going to ask you a million more times.
And he's like, oh, recognize the house?
This is the sniper house.
Okay, so there's like an infamously hard level in the game.
Where basically you have to go up a straight long street with like a
very accurate sniper killing you the entire way.
There's a lot of stealthing and a lot of trying over and over and over again.
Luckily, this guy isn't a particularly good sniper.
If you don't move, he's not going to hit you.
I'm going to go around, try to get in the house through the back, and then I'll take about.
But if you go out there, he's going to kill you.
It's dark, and he has shit aim.
Nobody's going to kill me.
Then he's going to kill us.
Yeah, no, if this guy could aim this, I wouldn't be this much of a problem.
Yeah, Cib Zloth, you recognize it?
Yep.
Man, that poor guy.
Like, he's practically blind at this point.
He's just pulling the trigger, hoping it'll scare them off.
Please don't come over here.
These are warning shots.
I just don't want to hurt you.
Was the mission at night?
No, it was during the day.
That'll bring the day.
Maybe your sniper's better in the game because it was daytime.
And this is where you unlock the sniper rifle.
Oh, no.
It was supposed to be the silly sight set, except worse.
Jesus.
Joel's also a terrible shot.
I think the rifle has been maintained or something, because this is awful.
The scope is fucked.
It just jammed.
That's just a shit rifle.
There you go.
That's an awful lot of brown shirts.
Whoa.
He's just a fucking kid.
Well, kids die, Henry.
They die all the time.
You think the whole world revolves around him?
That he's worth everything?
Well, this is what happens when you fuck with fate.
Get ready to take him.
He's actually a fairly compelling villain.
Yes.
I don't know about that.
The thing is, she sounds like she could be,
but all of this is based on nothing but,
oh, there used to be a guy and he was totally chill,
and so now she's Hitler.
You didn't show that, I think.
He was the...
I think what they're doing is he was supposed to be the good guy,
but he was also not a radical, but she's the radical and she's horrible,
but she also caused...
Was the able to introduce change.
Yeah, she was Mussolini.
It was bad change.
Changes are good.
But this thing like that needed way more cooking,
because right now it's so cliche.
They're trying so hard to make her the complex villain,
but the only reason I have to sympathize for this chick
is that she totally had a brother who was a totally good guy,
or so I've been told.
And she's totally doing this for the right reasons,
or so I've been told, because feta were bad,
or so I've been told.
But we're also sure she's bad though.
Yeah, she's bad.
Hold on, something's going.
Oh, that's going to be the zombies.
Noise.
Here comes the zombie cavalry.
Oh my God.
Yeah, it's time to fucking run.
Just just no, don't don't huddle that run.
Guys, what the fuck?
No, don't save them.
Kill them.
No, I want them to kill the bad people with the guns
that are a far larger threat to the children.
God, it's a super zombie.
Oh my God, what's that thing?
Yeah, these things are fucking nasty.
Oh, I didn't think they were going to have bloaters in this,
because they're so ridiculous.
They're bullshit.
They're bullspongy.
Well, this one does appear to be bullspongy.
They're going to get their muppets.
Yep.
God, I feel like these villains are so undercooked.
He killed, they killed Santa Claus,
and that's all I know about him now.
It's a little kid zombie.
That's pretty fucked up.
It's a kid clicker.
Just shoot it.
She's out of ammo.
She can leave her load.
Did she not have one fucking magazine?
No, if the show was brave, they'd kill the child zombie.
Luckily, Joe became a much better sniper.
Yeah, I mean, the area's illuminated at least.
Well, he was shooting against the giant truck,
and he was headlights on it.
It was pretty illuminated.
He never shot his headlight in here.
Yeah, it was heavy.
Underneath the headlights.
God does not understand how life works.
All right.
I think they lost.
Yeah, I think it's over for Kansas City.
That's it.
The city's gone.
They deserve that.
That's what they get for being communists.
That's true, but man, I wish that was more of a proper downfall.
Yeah, that needed like another whole episode to cook.
I think I have a whole but at least 10-20 minutes.
You think they'll be okay?
Yeah, I think.
It's easier.
Oh, yeah, they've seen plenty of death and destruction in their lives.
We'll be fine.
It just falls asleep.
So there's one thing I noticed.
These characters, Henry and Sam, they are black in the original game.
And Hollywood's never going to race swap a black character to be white in the adaptation, are they?
Not in the current year.
Given it a few decades.
It always goes one way with that shit.
Of course.
Martin Luther King is Ryan Reynolds.
Oh, no.
Well, time to put them down.
Oh, don't give him false hope.
Yeah, don't come on.
It's nicer than just take him out back and putting two fucking barrels in him.
Usually like a fucking blood transfusion.
Yeah, no kid is going to be able to do that.
I don't think this is going to work.
I don't think it's going to work, Ellie.
Just squish your blood right in there.
That'll work, won't it?
Don't worry.
It's the cold thing is that she's trying.
Just magically heals up.
Zoop.
He's like, you're retarded.
Just shoot me.
That kid's dead.
He's fucked.
Yep.
Oh, very touching.
My character I've known for all of 30, 40 minutes.
Like, she would have tied him to the fucking bed or something.
Yeah, he's fucked.
Oh, I remember this part of the game.
It didn't happen in a motel, though.
It happened like in a high rise.
The worst part is he can feel that.
It happened exactly like that in the game.
Yeah.
Oh, OK.
Well, I guess I was getting sick of these sidecarriages anyways.
I mean, that is how their story ended.
Different location, but same way.
Oh, God, no spicy joke.
Too spicy joke.
Keep it down.
No, say it.
Say it.
Do it.
Arch, Arch, do it.
Every time there's black characters, Arch has to make racist jokes.
Do it, Arch.
Because it's funny.
Arch, it's on my channel.
It's OK.
Go ahead.
That was the first time in a while I actually caught myself and was like,
no, that's a bit too much.
No, Arch, you have to.
If I tell us what I will truly be canceled.
Joel's been humanized again.
My God.
Ellie is reawakening that human human inside of him.
He's at least taken his jacket.
Looks like a warm jacket.
There we go.
All right, so right off the bat, I am sounding a bit to the Bill and Frank
romance now because that story felt more important and larger and undercooked.
Yep.
Especially also to us, like every fucking person in this universe has a horrible ending.
Everyone, everyone they come over has a sad story.
Every one of them gets fucking nuked, except for Bill and Frank, who lives a perfect happy
days drinking wine as their mechanical generator lasts for 20 years.
Yeah.
So you have to remember Bill was a prepper, so.
He was ready.
I think it takes you so far, though.
Absolutely.
But the thing is, like a mechanical generator is going to run you five, ten years if you've
got a good one, that fucking thing.
And that was a massive industrial aggregate, too.
Yep.
It ran without a hitch for 20 years.
So, I mean, you probably traded with Joel and fixed it up.
Yeah.
And fixed shut up during the years.
Joel did mention, like, trading for machine parts.
It can be assumed that this was a part of that, because you don't need to explain everything
in a show.
Nobody cares about it.
It's not that it's explaining anything.
It's that you have two characters who live a perfectly happy life.
Everything is abundance.
The fuel is still running.
They've got they don't just have food.
They have fresh lamb chops with wine and strawberries.
Yeah.
And strawberries.
If I could have had the grew those, that's less ridiculous.
So here's the thing.
Meanwhile, everyone else is living in squalor and dirt and they're filthy and they get to
live for about 10 minutes per episode.
Yep.
So, Arch, here's the situation.
Okay.
The Last of Us is well, it's a travel story, right?
So they can't stick around in one town for too long to really see the rise and fall of,
like, a big political faction because they spend the entire game on the road.
And so you have to, like, get the backstory through through logs and stuff.
Doesn't translate over to a TV.
However, every single person that Joel and Ellie come across meet a horrific death in
the game.
That's why, you know, Frank kills himself and Bill is bitter and alone.
Except for Bill.
Yeah, but Bill goes off.
Bill needs a pretty fucking horrific end, too.
And then his life companion fucking hangs himself.
Every person that you meet and while going through the game, The Last of Us, they all
meet, like, a terrible end of some type.
It's always a terrible end.
And that's kind of the point is, like, Joel.
I mean, I'll spoil a little bit more for you, Arch, if you don't mind.
Joel's actions as you go through the game become increasingly violent and erratic in
the service of keeping Ellie alive to the point that, like, every single wander they
come across just, like, meets a terrible, meets a terrible fate.
That's the point of the show is, like, how far Joel is willing to go for this girl.
And so you can make a story out of that.
Fair enough.
And you are kind of correct in that whole thing.
If they're going to do that story, they kind of ruined it by giving the gay couple a happy
ending.
I wouldn't go so far as to say ruined.
It just feels more unfitting after seeing this.
Like, it fits worse because if they have an entire episode to dedicate to that, then this
was a larger and more important set of events.
Well, there are two episodes for this one.
And so far, I don't think they've ever really dedicated more than one episode on any sort
of given topic.
Because that's true.
Yeah.
Episode one is the establishment thing.
And episode two was the start of the journey and also Tess's death.
And episode three was about Bill and Frank, and episode four and five are with this new
group.
So they've actually had two episodes dedicated to this particular group.
And I think for what they showed, and for the pacing and overall taking in the overall
broader pacing, I think they did fine with what they got.
I think since everything else only had one episode and this one had two, I feel like
doing three on this one would have stretched this beyond just a stop gap and made it into
an entire arc.
And this was sort of like a mini-arc.
And I think for what it is, it's fine.
But if you were more used to, say, The Walking Dead, the pacing from that, if this were
Walking Dead, they would dedicate an entire season on this.
Because Walking Dead numerously did that.
When they would encounter a new group of people that will try to kill a main group, they'll
usually have an interesting or overarching villain as the leader.
And they'll have several episodes dedicated towards learning the backstory and what came
of the group that they are now in opposition to the main group.
And I feel like if you're used to that, then you could take a look at this and be like,
oh, well, they didn't spend enough time on it.
And yeah, it would be nice to spend more time with learning about that stuff.
But I don't think it would fit this pacing of the skill that they're going with and the
theme of just moving from one direction to another, because it's all about transporting
Ellie throughout.
Well, that's kind of the point, because all of the other episodes have been about Joel
and Ellie.
And then you have one episode which has nothing to do with them, which is a complete sidetrack,
and then they don't do that for this group, which is this is a more important story element
in their journey, which means the Bill and Frank episode feels way more out of place.
It feels like it was put in there and it doesn't fit in with the rest of the show.
If they had done more on this group, too, I would have been like, OK, they're clearly
going for more of a grand scenery surrounding them rather than just the traveler story.
Instead, you have the travel story that stops for one episode and then resumes after that
again, because I absolutely understand that none of the characters get to live, because
as you said, it's the traveler story.
And so annoying side characters need to be shooed out of the way one way or another.
Well, I think I know I think I know what you're saying.
It's something like it's something like you can have a story where you're going from place
to place rapidly and you don't get everything.
And the and the villains of the day kind of have to be handled in that episode or soon
after, or you can have a story where like every time Joel bumps into a new group, we
get like an entire flashback build up of what they went through.
So in that in that in that type of story, each episode or like maybe each arc of the
show, it it becomes like Joel's journey becomes like a frame story with all these other
stories happening inside of the frame.
You could do that, but but you can't do both of them.
You can't have one episode focus exclusively on Bill and Frank and then not give the next
group just as much focus, which they didn't.
And I think I think that's what we're going to do.
Yes, that's that's my point.
So I decided to look this up real quick just just to get some numbers behind this.
So I looked at the Last of Us season one critical reception by episode on Rotten Tomatoes.
So all the episodes are still considered good, by the way.
But episode one has critical reception 100 percent.
It is like 97 percent per episode to 98 percent for episode three, 100 percent for episode
four and 90 percent for episode five.
So people still overwhelmingly loved this, but it dropped down 10 percentage points episode
five compared to the other four.
And I think that's because that final villain at the end there, the woman just didn't have
enough time to like really get established and like there's only a couple of establishing
scenes with her.
There was the scene where she's talking to the doctor and then there's the scene where
she's in her childhood, her childhood bedroom.
And those are the only real character focused scenes on her to make her a compelling villain
for the audience.
And it just didn't work.
There wasn't the one thing the one thing we can definitely see here is the translation
from video game media, interactive media to TV show.
And this is where the video games able to do it better because better use of pacing,
better use of exploration and visual storytelling through exploration.
The show has no such luxuries to do these things.
You can't overhear dialogue as they sneak through because they can only do like maybe
a sneak thing for like one or one section of the show.
And it wouldn't be very good at that.
So you can see that the story doesn't translate very well.
And especially when they're trying to somewhat remain faithful to it.
So that's going to become a bigger issue, I think, as we get further and further into
the show.
I don't know if it's that because it's not that this story can't translate.
It's that they didn't give it enough time to translate.
Well, certain sections will not translate without them completely reframing and reworking
things.
They've already reworked quite a bit because of the whole like seeing like the bad guy
perspective thing.
That's completely new.
Like you don't really see them a lot because, you know, you're following this perspective.
Of course, but that's them simulating the audio logs, essentially.
That's the bad guy perspective.
That's the audio logs.
That's the bad guy perspective.
But the audio logs leave a little bit more vague, especially when they actually talk
about the bad guys and all the things they're doing.
And it's not more so like, I don't know.
It's hard to describe because if you play the game, it was just you escaping with Harry
and Sam, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's no particular like I think that woman was mostly like a background character, I
think.
Yeah.
Written for like the movie.
I mean, the show was big.
Yeah, she was like only mention logs, I think, actually in the game.
They expanded it out a bit, but they didn't do anything with the expansion like in the
you stealth and fight your way through the city in the game.
And then you make it to like Sniper's Alley.
Then you get out of Sniper's Alley, you just move on.
I don't even think there was like a big rush of infected at that point.
I think that was in our episode on this group.
They completely reworked that whole section.
That was not faithful to the game at all.
Oh, speaking of that.
Okay.
What did you think of the first appearance of the bloater?
A stupid video game monster.
Yeah, kind of.
It's not as cool because what it should have been as the bloater should be fighting like
Joel and Ellie.
And it could be like a really tense moment.
Like, I don't know, the bloater has always been scarier in the game because when it attacked
you, you're like, fuck, not that piece of shit again.
Like he eats bullets like nobody's business.
And he's really just kind of cancerous to deal with because he murders you pretty easily.
Yeah, it's got the corner.
It's not as intimidating when he's attacking the bad guys.
Yeah.
So, Arch, I'm sure you've intuited this already, but the bloater is the stage after the clicker
and the stage before you become a big mushroom.
And you can run around and like spread spores as a bloater.
You can just spit spores everywhere.
And he's really annoying to deal with in the game because he's very bullet spongy.
However, he has like an insta-kill attack, but just by infecting you with a bunch of
spores if you get close.
Um, they were always, even in the game, they were always more annoying than scary.
Clickers were always scarier because you had to stealth them.
You can't stealth a bloater.
They're always like a boss fight, you know?
Yeah, the bloater was the quote unquote boss of the universe.
Like Dead Space had the invincible necromorph.
This had the bloaters.
Like they're there to try to drive up tension.
But if you get caught on a section like that, that can, you know, the tilt factor starts
to rise.
Oh, that's the thing.
Any monster that is described as annoying or frustrating is not a scary monster.
It's a video game mechanic that you recognize as a video game mechanic.
Yep.
It's all about raising tension and how you execute that.
And you know what?
It's the example of the fucking alien from, uh, from aliens video game.
The sooner, the moment you realize it's a fucking video game mechanic, it ceases being
scary.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And isolation is really bad that where you just like, you can tell how the AI director
works on it.
This isn't scary.
It just runs circles around me.
So, uh, compare the introduction of the bloater in this episode, which is it runs, it comes
out of the hole in the ground and there's like a, you know, uh, uh, uh, a soundtrack
that makes it sound like it's going to be a big fight.
And then he starts like beating up people and he's like ripping people's heads off.
And I mean, it's cool and gory, but it's not scary.
Now compare that to, um, to the introduction of the clicker back in episode two where they're
all like extremely quiet for multiple minutes and they're just like, shut the fuck up.
This is extremely scary.
And they're tiptoeing around.
And then when it finally shows up, they're like, it was significantly, the clicker's
introduction was significantly better.
Yep.
They did better job of tension.
What they should have done with the bloaters, the bloaters shouldn't be there to save them
like from the bad guys.
That's stupid.
The bloaters should be this thing they bump into, but it can't quite get them because
of its large bloated body.
But you are quickly figuring out very, you know, just through this audio that have been
moving around that it's, it's something big, it's something threatening and you start to
generate tension.
This didn't generate tension because it sort of came out of the ground.
I was like, there's also the problem that what it did have was it had no payoff effect.
Okay.
So we'd kill Santa Claus.
And I don't know who the fuck Santa Claus is.
He's just a dude.
And he's with the woman who is vastly oversold as some kind of villain.
And then she's killed by a zombie thing like, there's no payoff there.
It's just, it's just randos getting killed.
And the show shows it as if you're supposed to give a fuck.
It's like, oh no, Santa Claus.
I don't think you're supposed to be sad about it.
Well, no, you're supposed to care.
You're supposed to be like, yeah, he killed Santa Claus.
He was a bad person.
I don't necessarily think so.
I think like they were trying to portray the group as like a bit mixed, like a bit extreme,
but I don't think like, I also think like Santa Claus looked like a bit remorseful or
questions if he was doing the right thing at the point.
Yeah, they tried to, he was like, no, no, you, you woman, you gave us the thing.
We kill all these people and we're behind you.
Like, I don't think he had any remorse.
If anything, I think he was annoyed that this wasn't the plan of the great leader.
I think he was like a bit, felt a bit conflicted because he felt like the woman was a bit extremist.
I don't agree with you.
And the reason I don't is because there was that one section where he asked, we're not
giving them a trial, are we?
And she's like, no.
And he just goes, like, he seemed to be on board.
He seemed to be on board.
Fair enough.
But I don't know.
They could have given them more characterization.
I think they were also like mostly like back way more in the background in the game too.
So they still only had like, they had to pretty much write entirely new characters, I guess.
And that's kind of the thing there, because I wouldn't be anywhere near as annoyed by
this if they didn't try to sell them so hard, if they were just like background character
and it was alluded to that they had done something horrible, like, okay, fine.
It's a traveler story again.
But they tried to sell them.
Like they tried to be like, oh, there's a complex story here.
Necessarily think they tried to sell them.
They think they more of that just like gave them more filling as opposed to just like,
oh, these are bandits and they steal and rape and shit.
I mean, they dedicated several scenes to like building up the reason why she did this, to
try and make her sympathetic yet still evil.
Yeah, it didn't work.
They needed either more time with them or less, I think.
Yes, either more or less.
One of the two.
Fair enough.
I thought what I thought there was fine for the most part.
It could have used a bit more, but.
And to be fair, Lilith, they did say on Rotten Tomatoes that this scored a 90% audience approval
rating, which is less than the hundred average.
But still, I mean, 90 is pretty high.
So it's like it's this is still a liked episode.
It's still a like show.
People are still really enjoying this.
It seems it's just that this I think even the people who like the show recognize that
this is probably the worst episode of the five so far.
I don't know if this if this show deserves even even a 90.
Like it's a good show, but it's not like 100% good.
No, no, it's the modern day.
Everything now is either a train wreck or a masterpiece.
It's this I miss the good old days where if a show got a six, you're like above average.
I might check that out.
I don't remember those days.
I remember seeing a six and be like trash.
That's because you're a fetus.
I remember the good old days of the PC gaming magazines where a six meant above average.
Arch believing games journos caught now live.
Can you believe that guilt?
Like I remember fucking the only like super high scores that they used to give out there
was like for the really one.
It's like Diablo got like a nine.
Sacrifice got like a 10.
You know, the big companies that had the big paychecks here.
Well, I don't know if any of you three remember this, but back in 2006.
All right, back in 2006 on 4chan's video game board.
When when it was either IGN or GameSpot.
Gave a Legend of Zelda Twilight Princess an 8.8 out of 10.
That was considered like a fucking high crime against gaming to give a Zelda title less
than a nine and like 8.8 became a meme for years.
You know, it's probably worth it.
Honestly, it's probably it's probably about 8.8 to be honest.
Though we need to be returning to the numerical score system had a purpose and a point, but
it has long since lost that purpose because now everything is either a one or a 10.
Yeah.
And they're just quibbling around degrees.
Like five is meant to be average in the numerical score system, but no one uses it that way,
right?
Like if you especially if you're like talking about, you know, let's say like someone's
attractiveness, right?
If you say someone's a four out of 10 or a five out of 10, that's like saying there
is zero.
And if you if you say someone there, someone is like an eight out of 10.
That's like saying there are 10.
So it does seem like the whole numbers thing has kind of fallen apart in recent years.
Have we said all we want to say about The Last of Us episodes four and five?
Yeah, yep.
Yep, I think so too.
Next week, we should be able to do things normally again, because unless Archie have
some more IRL things happening.
No, I'm good next week.
Very good.
So no more Super Bowl, no more.
I think everything should be fine unless like some some drastic event happens, which I
mean probably will happen, to be honest, knowing our luck.
But hopefully we'll all be here for next week.
That's okay.
The Redskins won, by the way.
They're still called the Redskins.
They're called the Chiefs now, which is not much better.
Damn, it's not as based.
