Welcome back, everyone. We're doing another, um, another doubleheader tonight because real life seems to get in the way of everything all the time. All of our jobs and all of our, all of our commitments and all of Kib's streams. We just, we just can't seem to get it together, but we're here.
Wow, he name dropped me.
Well, he's singling me out.
All of us, Kibs!
All of us, all of us, but you more than the rest.
You deserve it. You can always move your streams. Your streams are flexible. I can now move my shit.
That's right.
This is your fault.
Arch and Lilith, you both work outside of the house.
Yep.
Unlike a lot of people, I have a job.
Yeah, my job is streaming.
So we are here watching The Last of Us episodes seven, which was last week's episodes that we missed and eight, which is today's episode. So at least something's going to be new.
Real quick before we start, since it's been two weeks, the last episode that we watched was the point where the show seemed to start to go downhill for me quite a bit because they ruined that very important Ellie Joel scene by undercutting all of its emotional impact.
By having that Joel Tommy scene in the workshop where Joel talks about having panic attacks, which was not in the game that was added.
You all might not be too surprised with this, but the Internet doesn't agree with me. The Internet loved that episode.
In fact, there's a bunch of articles floating around like this one on, let's say, more progressive leaning media sites.
This one is titled The Last of Us.
Joel exemplifies the strength of non-toxic masculinity.
Now, this is a long, boring article, as a lot of these articles tend to be.
The point basically is, is that because Joel had that moment of weakness where he talks honestly about his inability to care for Ellie and how how he's weak and it bothers him.
He is an example of non-toxic masculinity.
So can any of you point out the issue with with this line of logic?
Well, it's simple. Masculinity is being strong and capable.
Non-toxic masculinity is being weak and having fucking heart attacks because...
That's part of the problem.
If you look at, let's say, characters that are traditionally masculine, that progressives would call toxic masculine, like toxically masculine, they have toxic masculinity.
We can even stay within the realm of pop culture.
You can look at Superman, you can look at, let's say, Jean-Luc Picard, you can look at Han Solo, let's say.
These are all toxically masculine characters because they're too strong, they're too sure of themselves, forge the path forward and they disregard others' opinions sometimes.
Han Solo especially is a womanizer.
So there you go, they're objectifying women and they're not, they're toxically masculine.
OK, the issue ultimately is that Joel admits in the show to being a murderer and not just, you know, you kill someone in self-defense because you had to or you're facing off against an evil enemy.
No, he admits in the show, he jumped innocent people to take their stuff to survive.
Now, as far as I understand, the heroes of old, of the previous generation that exemplify toxic masculinity, they didn't do that.
Like, Han Solo was the thief with the heart of gold, right?
Like, he didn't just kill people for no reason or for like very self-serving reasons.
Joel did.
It's very strange because these people, they're putting forward this narrative that you can actually be the worst type of person, but as long as you cry about it later, then you're not toxic.
Yep.
It's the whole like, oh, I feel bad.
You know, I maybe was a murdering psychopath, but I felt bad about it.
So I'm, you know, a good guy now.
It's, oh, fuck.
As the old saying goes, it's a feeling that counts, okay?
Is that the old saying?
So that's what happened in the last episode.
This is how the internet took it.
Apparently leftoids loved that episode.
I thought it was absolute dog shit.
But it's time for us to watch the next one.
I just switch over here again, if you don't mind.
I do mind actually.
Oh, sorry.
Why did you even ask?
This is just a normal American suburb right now.
Even the house.
Leave.
Leave.
Shut up, Joel.
Take the gun.
Joel, shut the fuck up!
The Mandalorian started up, right?
Yep.
I guess Pedro Pascal just likes taking care of orphans now.
That's what he does.
I don't remember the last part of The Last of Us that well.
So did she actually just leave them in the game?
No, in the game, they just stayed there for like three months and healed them up.
And she just scavenged to get them alive.
So she might not necessarily have just outright left, just started leaving.
I wasn't the fastest. I wasn't the smartest.
Fight about it?
Don't fight.
She's not here anymore.
Is she?
The hipster effect.
I'm sure her shitty pace will pick up by standing there for a few minutes.
Oh, are they doing the DLC in this episode?
Yep, I think so.
My name's Kwon.
Oh my god, it reminds me of the Halo TV show.
Stop, Kwon.
I care because no matter what anyone out there says or thinks,
we're the only thing holding this all together.
If we go down, the people in this zone will starve or murder each other that much I know.
Considering what we've seen, that seems to be the truth.
He's right.
For all the evil that Fedra is.
I too believe the fascist oppressor is our best hope.
That's what they're implying.
Which way, Western woman-girl-thing child?
Don't do it, Ellie. Don't give in to the fascism.
She did.
She's a freak.
Captain Wong is being so nice.
Is that it?
That's it.
Sam Ting Wong?
Can I have my Walkman back?
You know, I should be offended by that, but I'm not. It was funny.
Now, this is fiction right here, because I've been told repeatedly there were no black comic characters ever.
Ha ha ha ha!
Uh oh.
Boogaloo.
Boogaloo boogaloo.
It's a flashback. It's her girlfriend.
Whoa.
Yes, she was black.
And you said ooga booga when she was coming in through the fucking window.
Damn.
You racist.
Oh my goodness.
I can't believe you did that.
Nope, that's staying.
Could you add in some jungle drums as well?
Keep it quiet, Harry.
Remember now.
This better be good.
And there they are. There's the guards.
Oh yeah, immediately perfectly correct.
Arch, how did you know that this was a lesbian romance situation?
Because you told me about it before.
Yeah, you told him, literally.
Oh shit, did I spoil this? Did I spoil the DLC?
You did.
Oh fuck.
Like, this has been common knowledge for a while now.
You spoil the entire story to him.
Oh shit, sorry Arch.
Wait, Canadians are always sorry. That's the point.
Sorry doesn't mean anything to a Canadian.
It's basically like, go fuck yourself.
Personally, I'm quite fond of lesbians, but I prefer if they were hot and adults.
And not fucking children. I was going to say not fucking children.
This is weird in the game, too.
Yeah, they're ages in the game where I think 14 and 17.
This is just my racism speaking here, but I fucking hate dreads.
Like, they just look bad. I don't like them.
I object.
You object to dreads?
How many floors?
I do.
You know what?
I think they can be done right.
Lots of people do them in a good way.
I've never banged a girl with dreads before.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, thanks, Steph. Thanks for letting her bitch.
Hold on, hold on.
I've never banged a girl with dreads before, and I want to at least once.
Before I completely rule it out.
There's probably not as much black people in Canada, though.
No, there's not. No.
It's a Bombay.
But that kind of dreads, where you have like a dread ponytail?
I just expect there to be something living inside of it.
You can keep dreads clean, like, and most people do.
They're not doing that in the post-apocalypse, though.
Oh, no!
I don't think floors break that way.
No.
They don't.
That would have to be cut and set up like that.
Dead guy fell on the ground.
Are we endearing?
I guess we're going to drink his old, gross booze.
Lauren's urine.
Depends.
And not even wonder what the fuck it is.
Yeah, like, Jesus.
You know, despite all of our tripping.
What if he had cordyceps and...
Oh.
He had cordyceps and now they're infected from drinking.
I know. I mean, I know.
Oh, no.
No, it's fine.
I'm not sure that's how transmission works.
No.
I don't need to understand science.
This show clearly doesn't.
Can I hold your gun?
That's true.
Like, that is literally a point I can't even fight you on.
You know, despite all of our tripping.
There have been, like, a few cute moments of, like, you know,
they're kids and they're growing up and life sucks.
I mean, this has been cringe, but still, like, okay so far.
Yeah.
This is pretty wholesome.
Also, I think I'm just less offended by teenage lesbians than art
because I've watched a shit ton of anime.
And they're always teenage lesbians in that.
Kibs.
Of age in Canada is 16.
Yeah, okay.
I mean, if that's the legal age, then you're fine.
That's how it is.
She's trying to make sure there's no lawbreakers here, okay?
Not Losh.
Welcome to Canada.
How does this chick know what a fascist dickbag is?
She's been living in Fedra for most of her life.
They're not going to educate you on that.
Especially if they actually are them.
I mean, they probably have, like, dictionaries
and they probably do teach to some degree.
History, maybe?
I don't imagine Fedra's education would be too different
than American education.
Like, maybe it's more extreme and more patriotic
and more authoritarian.
But, like, I think they would still teach basic concepts.
Maybe.
I would imagine it is because fascist in this world
means exactly the same as it means in this world of ours.
Asshole.
Asshole.
That's what I have a mild disagreement with.
You like, you know, cheese on your sandwich?
Well, it's not provable.
Fascist.
Fascist.
Ugh, fuck.
Let me put it like this.
If you ask dread girls, define fascism,
I doubt you'd get an answer.
She'd be like,
people that tell me what to do, fascist?
So it's the Twitter version of fascism, then?
Probably.
Most writers don't do research.
Sadly, in the modern era.
Fascist dickbags!
She only has one line.
I like how they're both fighting the shittiness
of the other's ideology, even though they both suck.
Well, they're both screwed.
It's like, oh, they're starving their population.
You mean rationing?
Does it look like it's easy to get food in the universe?
That's a dumb question the seal could have broken.
And that's not...
That is a hole in the roof.
Like, that is very clearly not a standard entrance.
Like, if they had known about it, maybe they had sealed it off.
I discovered a secret entrance, so it's not sealed.
Ha ha! Fascist.
Clearly the Fedra people were, you know,
just keeping it to themselves,
because they would waste all this precious space.
So, it turns out when Fedra connected that block up to the grid,
this place got connected, too.
Not that they know.
Oh, yeah. I mean, the entire mall
can almost control that much energy.
Pay attention.
We're gonna go through there, then turn right.
I'm sure there are dozens of kilowatts.
We don't know where we're going.
Fucking turn right, open the door,
tell me when you're there.
So, this area is pretty much exactly how it was in the game.
When they broke into the mall,
it was the same hole in the ceiling in the same corner with the same stuff.
Like, they remade the set.
I will say that this show has been consistently good in doing that.
Like, remaking locations exactly.
That is nice.
If you're a soulless console peasant and you play this game, poor that is.
Go play the PC version, Arch.
Yeah, you seem to be fine with that, you console scrub.
Arch plays console games, by the way.
Oh.
Ah, yes, that's not gonna alert anybody when the fucking mall lights up.
Yeah, the fucking windows.
This will definitely be difficult to see from the outside.
Yeah, I don't think these people know how malls work.
The guy at the federal power plant just sees the power usage spike.
He's like, what the fuck?
What the fuck?
No way.
Playing copyrighted music.
I love this song.
Of course you do. It's made by Norwegian.
When I was, like, very, very young, this was on the radio regularly,
and now I'm like, oh my god, I'm so old.
You know...
Yeah, trust me, you do not want to end up like that Chinese guy that got stuck in the escalator.
Yeah, like, escalators are very dangerous, and this is the one that has been used in 20 years.
Yep. One of them gets caught, sucked in.
It's fine, Ellie is doing the thing that her face is getting blended up.
It's like, fuck, fuck.
If you guys remember the video.
What video was that?
Oh, it was just, like, a woman, like, after exiting an escalator, that metal plate gives out,
and she basically got blended.
Oh, fuck, yeah.
And there was a kid that happened to have a kid, too.
Yeah.
Oh my god.
Is this the Edmonton Mall?
I know they shot this in Canada.
No, no, they got an abandoned mall instead.
No, the Edmonton Mall is, um, the biggest mall in Canada.
It's fucking huge.
And it's a pretty well-known Canadian spot.
I swear to god, show.
If you show me Elliot Page in underwear in this fucking episode, I am going to scream.
You're, like, three connections removed from Elliot Page right now, Arch.
I just noticed.
Her eyebrows all fucked up.
That's annoying me.
It's been like that the entire show?
Yeah, but I've just noticed, and I really don't like it now.
But that's literally Elliot's design.
They even pointed it out twice?
Yeah, she mentioned that there was some kind of fight at a 7-Eleven.
I mean, I wonder what the guy in that generator room, like, at the federal power plant's like, what the fuck?
You know this place is, like, eating up so much power.
Yeah, like, all the stores are turned on and shit.
This is a pretty cheap ride.
The horses don't even go up and down.
You know what's funny about this?
This is another procrastinating episode where we don't get to see any cool stuff happen.
It's been 26 minutes and absolutely nothing of relevance or interest has happened.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm kind of bored.
I think this is going to be another, um, another episode.
You lost to some clickers getting their heads smashed.
Yeah, I want to see, like, Zambies and stuff.
This is going to be another episode like the, uh, the gay libertarian romance episode
where we just stop for a minute and see flashbacks.
Like, this season doesn't have that many fucking episodes.
We already wasted one doing that.
Now we're doing it again.
Well, so, to their credit, this is pretty much how it went in the game's DLC for Ellie's backstory.
They went into the mall, they dicked around.
Now, there were enemies in the mall that they fought, but, like, the actual idea of it
being an extended date for two young women who don't know what their sexuality is.
It's the same story.
I turned 17 next month. That's when you get your assignment.
You know what Kwon gave me?
Sewage detail.
And I'm a proud woman, goddammit. I don't do sewage work. That's for men.
Actually, you know what it is? It's the black Asian...
Watch as somebody has to do it.
It's the black Asian racist, uh, war that's going to be happening in the future.
It's already happening right now.
No, don't make me touch the boobie.
I do like this. So she didn't run away for ideological reasons or because they were fascist dickbags, but because she was asked to do a dirty job.
Alright.
I mean, someone has to do it.
Understandable motivation.
What do you mean, shovel of shit? That's... debasing. Disgraceful. More important than that.
I mean, if this society's anything like real world, you get paid very well. And compensated well for doing a dirty job.
That's the thing, Kibbs. It's not like the real world. You don't get compensated well. You get compensated with you do it or you get shot.
You know what? What you want to do...
I like that. That's a win. You don't get shot.
You got to look at the bright side of it. You can't be such a pessimist.
In a liberal capitalist society, these jobs get done because you get paid for them.
And if there's no one who wants to do them, then you have to offer more money.
And the market kind of balances itself in a sense.
In an actual fascist society, they'll just point the guns at you and say, this is your work detail.
But then again, so will a communist one, so...
Same thing in the end.
I mean, they are the same, yeah.
God, I hope the zombies eat them both alive.
Patience.
Are you cringing, Arch?
What's wrong, Arch? You don't like this?
There we go.
Oh, fuck.
Yeah, the ink's kind of old, dude.
My dollar seems like a lot, though.
Pretty stiff.
Even for 2003, it was a lot, I think.
It was like a dollar back then, I think.
Awesome.
Yeah.
This is the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.
Listen, the episode has redeemed itself.
Because arcades were so much fun back in the day.
You can still find arcades today.
Man, I recall going to a hotel in like 2015 or something.
And they had like some sort of atrium entertainment area, like down in the lobby.
And there was like a path where you could see the pool, like the hotel's pool.
So okay, there's a pool.
There was like a pool table.
Okay, you could play a game of pool for a dollar or something.
And then there was like two neglected arcade cabinets in the corner.
And one of them was broken.
And the other one was Ms. Pac-Man from a very long time ago.
And I was like, Jesus, no one's played this in years, have they?
Her pays are pretty cool.
There's still some around, though.
Not in Canada. Rip.
I think there's a place in Minnesota like Dave and Busters is what it's called.
popcorn from 52 years ago.
Mortal Kombat!
My dinner's ruined.
So Naomi, she's also watching this series, too.
And she gave me this insight.
Her theory as to why they changed the dates of the show to make it so that the apocalypse happened in 2003
and that this is now 2023 is that it made it much easier to get era-appropriate props
because everything that they would get that was era-appropriate would automatically be aged 20 years
because it is aged 20 years.
So this Mortal Kombat 2 cabinet looks old because it probably is one of the originals.
They didn't have to recreate it, you know?
I'm bored.
Kibs, listen.
The only reason you're bored right now is because you're too young to enjoy Mortal Kombat.
I said, damn, he got bored.
Oh, I thought you said you're bored. Oh, sorry.
I'm going to have to tell Vee that has this in the show. He'll be happy.
With my fetish.
I forgot that that was Vee's fetish.
Wait, what?
The old Vee lore.
This is a Vee lore item. Oh, I'm not familiar with it.
Vee lore and vore.
He likes vore.
Really?
Yeah.
Eat up.
He had a fur sauna and everything at one point because it wasn't just wool.
Oh, he still does.
Uh oh, a clicker.
Always a clicker. You're not going to show up?
Is it time?
Ooh, they're using the dollhouse for it. That's a pretty good one.
Very spooky.
There he is.
Now, remember how long that person has to have been here?
Yeah.
To become a full mushroom.
So that means somebody actually waddled in here.
Yep.
Man, I think what I would miss most in the post-apocalypse is the video games.
I just love them too much.
I mean, as long as you have electricity, you can still play, like, physical media games.
Yeah.
On consoles and shit.
That's right.
Arch, consoles would rule the day in the post-apocalypse.
Luckily, the war with China won't lead to the apocalypse.
It'll just lead to free and cheap labor.
That person just fucked up.
Well, no, it's supposed to be volume 2 with a T.O.O.
It's a pun book.
All right, Dev, you're getting beaten too.
Listen, my pun sense immediately fluted in.
That's kind of terrible, Dev. I kind of hate you now.
Isn't the clicker fucking moving faster?
What's wrong, Arch? Are you bored?
It's so loud.
It takes screenshots.
Some of you have been out of Arch's pain.
Not much, though.
Watch those screenshots.
See, there's wholesome aspects to this, and there's cringe aspects to this, and they're kind of overlapping.
I'm kind of enjoying it, but it's also kind of boring, yeah?
Oh, shit.
The pipe bombs.
Don't just...
It's just like, I don't mind a romance story, I guess.
The villain fucking Ted thing was like, okay, I mean, decently done.
But this is just two kids on a date? I'm not interested.
Arch, were you never a kid on a date before?
I have experienced this. I don't need to see it on television.
Okay, you could make this interesting.
Like, if you had two really interesting characters doing this stuff, you had a long relationship with both of them, and they had been flirting or whatever, this was the culmination, sure.
But it isn't. I don't know who rat hair is. I barely know who Ellie is at this point.
I think they have too many flashbacks. They're really relying on you knowing the game.
Yes, and I don't. I don't care.
I mean, she's right about that. Ha, got him.
You join the communist revolutionaries and they're already ordering you around and making you go places.
I need to fight for the revolution in some country or some city.
At least it's not Fedra who orders you to do things.
You know, like, logistics and maintain the city.
I like how she complains so much about being told to shovel shit, and now she's like, well, I'm told to go to Atlanta, I guess I'll just do it. It's like, okay.
Oh no, now she's going to feel so bad when she's eaten by a zombie.
Spirit Halloween!
That fucking zombie's taking a sweet ass time.
Listen, Arch, he's been stuck there for a while. His legs are a little stiff.
He's going to work up that, you know, limber up a little.
Arch, can't wait to see a black person die.
I mean, it's true.
Arch can't keep his hatred of them.
I want to see the white person die too.
It's going to be that scene from American History X, but the guy kicking the black man is going to be a zombie with a mushroom head.
Listen, I read Marx, okay? I get it. Power to the people or whatever.
I watched RedTube, I know what's going on.
Damn, they groomed her.
That's what she just said.
Yeah, pretty much.
Yeah, his father.
They love-bombed me!
Damn. Arch, make more whining sounds about how bad this is.
Please.
I am busy right now.
I'm playing on my phone.
My shipgirl waifus need me more than this TV show does.
I knew you were fucking slacking.
Wait, what are you playing, Arch?
Azur Lane.
Fuck.
This reminds me of, like, some of those best of the worst episodes, I don't know, that are media, where Mike will look over and Rich will just be on his phone playing.
I was like, you fucking cheater!
You gotta watch this shit with us!
Oh, this is the scene.
I remember this because they're going to get-
Yeah, if it's like the game, they're going to-
Yep, there's the masks.
Okay, they're doing exactly like the game.
They get the masks, they run around with the masks, they get bit accidentally because they're being stupid with masks.
Because they're dumb kids.
Oh, sweet baby Jesus, this is actually going to be the entire fucking episode.
It is. This is the episode.
Listen, Ellie, we're almost of age.
We gotta learn how to dance on tables.
Okay.
Okay.
That was real easy to talk her out of it.
Okay, you can die now. You've had your kissy thingy.
Yep, here it comes.
Revolutionary Lesbians in Late-Stage Capitalism.
Oh, no.
Have you guys actually played that?
Let's not talk about that again.
Focus on the fun.
Damn, here's your shot.
Everyone was bit.
And we just don't realize it.
Of course.
Because the camera working intentionally didn't show anything.
Yep.
Oh, you know, 9mm bullets, not all that dangerous.
But a knife to the head, well...
Holy shit!
She's not happy though, because she's dead.
You're gonna have to put her down, Ellie.
Why are you smiling?
Chomp.
Yeah.
Just like with the whole Pablo Escobar, whatever his name was, getting stabbed.
That didn't happen. You didn't actually shoot that.
He didn't seem to get his mouth close enough to either of those body parts.
They didn't. They just pretended it happened.
Oh wow, now we'll get the shocking revelation that she didn't actually leave anyway.
Didn't you enjoy that flashback?
That was totally worth fucking 50 minutes of my existence.
She just stood there and remembered the whole story.
And Joel's like, I'm dying, just either help me or leave.
Hey, calm down Pablo, I'm reminiscing right here.
I remember being a lesbian because of a DLC they released.
Oh, by the way...
So, I mentioned before, revolutionary lesbians in late stage capitalism.
That's actually a game you can play. You can download that on Steam if you want.
No, I don't think I will.
It's not a very good game, I don't know if you can tell.
You know what, they just listened to the federal people. I think they both have lived.
I think that's the message of the story.
Or if they had swept the ball properly.
Moral of the story is, fascism saves lives.
That's like the Warhammer 40k moral.
Uh oh, that's a mmm.
If only you had listened to the Nazis keeping you safe, warm and fed.
The multi-racial, multi-cultural, LGBTQ plus approving Nazis.
They're very progressive, okay?
Nazism has come a long way.
I mean, if you could have Nick Fuentes in your ranks, you were gone for three hours.
What were you doing?
My mouse is getting a tiny bit dirty. I think I might have to go clean it or something.
You don't get to get out of this that easy, Blondie.
Well, Joe, I mean, it's not bleeding at all.
Actually, I don't think I need to stitch this.
Fine, I don't know what you're being a big baby about.
Unironically, this is nothing.
Yeah, there's no blood coming out.
That hurt.
Yeah, no, you're just adding mania.
Uh, that hurts.
Yeah, no, there's no blood. The wound is dry, like...
And you're sewing it with a needle you found in a fucking cupboard somewhere.
You're doing a horrible arselet.
There's probably cordyceps on it, fuck.
So...
So, how did you enjoy flashback episode number two, guys?
That's really easy to put into words, Dev.
Yeah?
I'll be right back. I'm getting a piece of cloth to fucking watch my mouse.
Far more important. And interesting.
I guess Arch doesn't have anything to say about it.
Well, to be fair, Arch didn't play the game.
So, it is a different situation.
I actually played the DLC.
So did I.
But did you like the DLC? Because I didn't.
It was okay. It wasn't as good as the main game.
I felt like it was like, oh, by the way, Elia's for sure trans, and that's the DLC.
Not trans, lesbian.
Or lesbian. Whatever.
Listen, names and stuff are hard, okay?
You know, it could be lesbian. They might retcon that later.
But either way, she's lesbian.
Yes.
My memory, I'm old man memory now.
But, like, I just remember the DLC being kind of like,
Ellie's a lesbian now. Wow, isn't that amazing?
And it's like, I'm playing the DLC and I was like,
yeah, but like, this is kind of boring.
Just like the DLC was.
Because the DLC was just kind of boring, too.
It didn't really add anything fun.
Yeah, I kind of agree. When it comes to the game,
the actual DLC itself wasn't, like,
the levels were just kind of samey and they didn't really do anything with them.
And you only play as Ellie. There's no Joel.
It's just Ellie because it's her flashback.
And I think, like, it was one of the first instances of,
let's see if woke stuff sells.
Let's sell a DLC where we're only selling the fact that
Ellie is going to be confirmed a lesbian.
And that's it.
And they didn't really, like, they didn't put anything else that was fun in it.
For me, when I played it, that was kind of all I got out of it.
I didn't really care at the time and I still don't.
It's like, OK, Ellie's a lesbian, but like,
at the end of the day, I want my money back because the experience of the DLC.
Like, to be blunt, like, the DLC added a bunch of rehashed, like,
like what felt like rehashed recycled assets
for a couple of levels that just really didn't add anything.
Yeah.
And it was like at that point, by the time I'd beaten the game The Last of Us,
I was already kind of bored of the gameplay loop.
It's like more of that just wasn't enough.
I personally have mixed feelings about this episode because it,
in my opinion, it wasn't very interesting.
It was a second and another flashback episode.
However, if you were a Last of Us purist,
a Last of Us mega fan, you know, and you wanted to...
You probably already don't like the show, though.
Well, if you're, no, no, if you're a purist,
you're going to want it to be exactly like the video game.
Yeah, you're going to want the mushrooms back and the, you know,
I agree with that. I agree with that.
But, but, but here's the thing.
This, this episode, for better or worse,
was like the DLC that it's based on.
And someone who really is invested in these characters
and these stories in these games would probably like this episode
just because of that. It's like, okay, no, this is the story.
It's properly adapted. Okay.
Now you can not like the story looking at it from a non-fan's point of view,
like Arches and fair enough.
But I think, I think you can't, you can't come at this one with like,
Oh my God, they changed it and made it worse.
You can't make that argument this time because it is accurate.
Well, yeah. I mean, the only thing,
the only thing I saw like major lore break in this one
was the fact that when the zombie was going after Ellie,
you could see the little tentacles come out of its mouth for a second,
which is not canon. But beyond that, like the biting,
like the whole sequence, that's pretty on point.
The issue is, is like, even if you're a purist,
I don't think purists will be watching at this point.
The purists would have already tuned out because it's,
it's not a pure, it's not a pure replica.
It's possible. How about you, Lilith? How'd you feel about this episode?
I haven't played the DLC, but like in the time I did watch it,
it was like a very long time ago. So like,
it's kind of about the story beats I remember and like, you know,
they wanted to adopt the DLC into the story and that's fine.
Like it gives the viewers who don't know the story or haven't played the game,
a bit of an insight into Ellie's backstory.
Like some people might think it's unnecessary and like,
it doesn't feel like extremely pertinent to the story so far,
at least from what we've seen, like next episode might change her mind.
Like her girlfriend might be important in shaping her character or something,
but like that remains to be seen.
Well, I guess we'll just have to watch on, but if not,
then like other people have said, like it's,
it would be pretty pointless for the most part or at least padding,
some might say.
Yep. Yeah, it definitely feels like padding.
And you know, if we count the other, the other flashback episode,
we've now had two episodes of padding out of seven episodes.
And isn't there only nine episodes in this season?
I mean, if they want to like self-contained like stories,
then just let that be an episode. I mean, that's fine.
Like I don't have anything against that, but like,
like you said, there's like not that much, that many episodes left.
I mean, they're taking a risk and you know what I'd rather they,
if they are going to get into it, I'd rather dedicate the time to do it.
Right. Then to not do it at all, if they're going to do it anyways.
So, yeah. And you know what, to this episode's credit,
it is more central to the story than,
than the Bill and Frank story because those characters don't come back again.
Yeah. And with this one, you could actually like,
it shows off how Ellie got bitten and found out that she's immune
and also goes a bit to her past, which is, you know, fine from a narrative perspective.
Yeah, definitely. I think that's definitely a valid point because this episode,
unlike the Bill and Fred one. Oh God, I already forgot the other guy.
It's Frank. It's Frank, you fucking homophobe, Kibbs.
Kibbs, how can you be a self-hating homophobe, man?
Wow. But this episode, yes.
This episode actually has far more plot relevance than Bill and Frank ever did.
Because Bill and Frank was a side story that had nothing to do with the main characters
and like they're dead and then they waddled away.
Yep. And then they immediately lose Bill's truck, like the next episode.
So it's like, oh, well, okay.
That was the whole episode for a plot device, for a truck,
for a thing that we're going to use for like the first five minutes of this episode.
And then just fucking gone.
Arch, did you actually want to give your take on this episode or?
I can, with great and everlasting eternal joy, inform you and everyone else that my mouse is now clean.
I see. Okay.
All right, we can move on to the next one.
So that was episode seven and now we have episode eight to talk about
or to watch and then talk about, I guess.
But first, real quick, I had this episode spoiled to me, the one that we just watched.
Sorry, I knew it was coming. I didn't reveal it.
I didn't want to break the magic of this amazing show for everyone.
But I knew that this was going to be the LEDLC lesbian romance.
And then they get bit at the end episode.
And the reason why I knew that is because of this article.
Basically, do you recall how Ben Shapiro and some of the other like rightoid political pundits talked about how they shoehorned in gay men into The Last of Us with Bill and Frank, even though they were already gay?
Right. Basically, the same type of complaint came out of, you know, rightoid YouTube channels about they they added more gay people to the last was how could they do this?
And it's like, you guys, these people were always gay.
And of course, that meant to, you know, more people on the left on Twitter making fun of them.
And, you know, you everyone knows how this sort of news cycle works on the Internet nowadays, right?
Someone gets outraged. The other side laughs and says they're ignorant.
And it's just it's just a constant echoing drama that just goes for forever.
All right. And so once it came out that people on the right were not happy with this episode and not because it was poorly written and poorly paced
and didn't really fit with the rest of the story and just wasn't you know, wasn't a very good episode all in all.
But because it was lesbians, the actress who played Ellie's girlfriend, I forget her name, Riley Storm Reid, she said she isn't concerned with homophobic The Last of Us fans because we are telling important stories.
It's 2023. If you're concerned about who I love, then I need you to get your priorities straight.
It's current year, guys.
I thought Stormy Reid was a porn actress.
Yeah, yeah. Me, too. Isn't that a porn name?
Yeah, it's like, I mean, it's fair if she's upset that people are upset about this.
Like, it is a pretty dumb thing to cry over.
The objection to this exists on TV.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly right. Like, you know, the objection to this to this episode isn't lesbians exist.
It is that it's a it's another flashback in a show that's already very slow and needs to have a bit more meat on the bone.
That's the objection. The lesbian part doesn't really matter that much.
I know that I know our you're like making fun of him a bit, but it really doesn't matter.
Like, but some people for we're just basically it's turned into another culture war thing.
The thing is, it's a bit of a derpy situation because there are a lot of I don't know if I'd call them right.
But there are people on YouTube who do entertainment commentary stuff for pop culture commentary along the lines of what I do.
But a lot of them do pretend that they know what they're talking about.
And so they go like, oh, they put they put gays in this because they realize that's a that's a talking point, right?
You don't like forced woke ism gays woke. Right. So therefore it's bad.
But if you actually did some research, you realize, you know, they were always gay.
There's been held the last of us. I don't bother covering this specifically on news about it because one, I don't know about it.
Two, I don't care about it. And three, as far as I'm concerned, it's a woke is property already.
So I'm like, oh, you know, woke thing.
But I see because that's the thing. I don't mind there being gays and TV show.
I applauded the the Bill and Ted romance with the caveat, so long as it didn't screw over the rest of the show, which in part it does.
And now there's a second filler episode and I'm kind of just sitting here like, wow, this is getting very boring.
That's my contention with it. But yes, a lot of people do.
They try to jump on the bandwagon that frankly passed a year or two ago.
Yeah, yeah, I think so. Like, no, no offense to guys like the quartering, but his his whole thing seems to have hit its peak a little bit ago.
And now it's kind of like on its way down in terms of what's popular on YouTube, you know, and also just Jeremy say this.
Now, it sounds like I'm starting drama.
He had no idea. Wow.
Arch spoke the truth and arch versus Jeremy. I mean, this was bound to happen, though.
I have I have unironically seen this because because it is the thing, right?
Because the left did this to say they've always been woke.
That was always been woke. No, it hasn't. It's literally the same knee jerk reaction thing.
Was it the oh, God, there was a show a little while ago.
I can't there was one show or was it a game with everyone on like our side, quote unquote, said it was going to be awful.
And it turned out it was actually pretty OK. And everyone was kind of coping about it.
What was that? That sounds it does sound familiar. It wasn't Hogwarts.
It was before that. It was a game. I think it was a game.
I think it was a game. Yeah, it might have been a game because I remember everyone's like, oh, no, no movie, movie Avatar, The Way of Goddamn Water.
That was it. I didn't see that. Was it actually good?
I don't know. I'm Cindy there. But I remember that everyone's talking about like, yeah, this is going to bomb.
This is going to be awful. Like he's talking about toxic masculinity is going to be terrible.
And I didn't comment on it at all because I hadn't seen anything of it.
And if I don't know anything about a thing, I'll probably usually just be like, yeah, that doesn't sound good.
But there wasn't anything about toxic masculinity in the movie, though.
No, I don't think. Oh, yeah. But the director had said so specifically that he wanted to fight toxic masculinity and he didn't want guns and et cetera.
Fuck. Also, the the pregnant female Navi warrior.
But by and large, the movie turned out to be OK.
And it's like, OK, so that reminds me of like pregnant Spider-Man who's like swinging around on.
I was like, it looks ridiculous. Fuck.
But the way of water ended up being enormous economic success. So a lot of people were kind of coping about it.
And I get it. But like you do have to it is, again, that idea that we are on the defensive all the time.
If you're on the defensive, you have to try and cancel things. You have to protect yourself against those things by attacking them.
We're not there anymore. We are genuinely in a position where we can we can be offensive.
Yes. Yeah. Anyway, you know, we don't have to be on the defensive.
If way of water turns out to be good. Great. If Hogwarts turns out to be good. Fantastic.
If it turns out to be shit. Well, I'm bastard then, too. Yeah. Yeah, I completely agree.
I was on E-FAP yesterday when we were talking about Atomic Heart.
And I made the point that I really enjoyed the the over sexualized fridge girlfriend where she liked her.
I fucking I hated the fact that they moved away from her. Like occasionally you would just get generic voice.
I'm like, oh, fridge waifu. I know, Kibbs, you've played it a little.
Did you play it on the card? Yeah, I watched some gameplays of it. Yeah.
OK, so so there's there's the one fridge that you buy your items and stuff from or you upgrade your stuff at.
And it has the A.I. it's like a horny, super horny robot. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So people were saying that, like, it was problematic and it was sexist.
And I was just like, listen, I like this. Yeah, I like this, even though it was kind of over the top and cringe sometimes.
Because because it's. Yes. Yeah. But but here's the thing.
It's because it's something that a woke developer wouldn't do and that they would they would in fact be very angry if it came out and it did come out.
And it's like, oh, this is actually a breath of fresh air. People who don't care about about appearing a certain way in public.
They just say, we'll just we'll just put sexy robots in the game. Fuck it.
We'll just put like like I mean, I saw one Twitter streamer like turned the game off because because the main character called a robot a gear head.
And she said that she didn't want to promote slurs against robots. Anyway, this is this is way off topic.
I guess the point the point that I was getting at is that it was refreshing for how flawed atomic art was.
It was refreshing to see some of those things that woke creators, woke artists, woke people who make TV shows or games or movies or whatever.
They wouldn't do that stuff. And it was refreshing to see it again.
In terms of The Last of Us, this this this is a more, as you say, are two more woke property.
But at least the show is, to its credit, at least somewhat accurate. That's nice.
But yeah, I'm not I'm not at this point in the show, I'm not expecting anything great.
So I've got episode about episode eight here.
Episode eight is the second to last episode of the season. For some reason, it's a nine episode season, I think, which is kind of strange.
Lucky me.
A show made for the fans at least has that going for it.
You know, at least it's made for the people who are supposed to enjoy it.
I've noticed that they've completely stopped with that.
How the virus or how the mushroom started series of flashbacks.
It would have been nice if they had one of those every episode.
You know, God, no, we don't need any more.
I would have enjoyed like little hints of the before times before every episode, as long as it was relevant to the episode.
That's just the problem is, is we've mucked around for two whole episodes.
I want to just Joel and Ellie do Joel and Ellie stuff.
It's a simple request.
I want to see more Joel and Ellie.
They've replaced little flashbacks with full episodes of flashbacks.
Yeah, they're not little anymore, Dev. They're not little anymore.
I can't wait till we get like flashbacks inside of flashbacks.
Hey, we're not at that point yet. I don't think there's enough episodes for that.
Executive director Neil Druckleman.
Fucking Druckleman, dude.
He's like, bro, I'm going to ruin this franchise.
It's like, OK, fair enough. I mean, I can't really call you there, dude.
You do you.
You own it.
That's true.
Your toy. You want to break it? Go for it.
Joel and Ellie, please.
Hey, this is like an average Canadian town.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth.
For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away.
This actually looks like like my town, my hometown.
Jesus saying, behold, the tabernacle God is with men.
And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.
Crazy Catholics.
Oh, is this going to be like the winter cultists?
This was a part of the game.
Is this the religion is bad portion of this video game?
I think so. They find a cult at some point and Joel kills them all because, of course, it's a video game.
I love killing cults in video games like doing like the Boomer cannibal cult.
Side story in GTA five and ending up killing them all as Trevor was really fun.
It's kind of cold.
You got to wait for the ground is too cold to dig.
Yeah, I will bury your father in the spring.
That's how it is here, man. I'm sure that's how it is in Norway, too.
Well, then we have advanced technology called digging machines.
OK, we have those here, too, and in bigger cities, they do that.
But like in my hometown, they just had like a hut.
They put the bodies in and to wait until spring and it would be cold enough to keep them in there.
You go in there, Bob. We don't have the technology to bury you yet.
It always triggers me when people are in cold environments like this and their front is entirely open.
Now go get it. We're going home. You guys should be wearing toques or something.
Like at least zip up your jacket like they put it. No, put on your hood.
Put on your hood, Nick. Don't worry, Joe.
I'm going to go hunt the deer. I don't know how to dress it or what parts they eat or anything like that.
But I'm going to hunt the deer. I mean, it's fine. And in survival situation, you don't know how to do that.
You might as well fucking try. I can barely use this fucking gun.
You're barely twice your size.
Fire it like that underarm. It'll be a good way to get rid of that scope.
My favorite is when you see people who have the butt of the gun over their shoulder.
And that's my favorite. So it's facing downward.
No, no. So you've got the actual like butt of the gun, but they put it on top of their shoulder.
Oh, my God. Yeah. Jesus. You know, if you shoot that rabbit with that, you're going to have very little rabbit.
Yeah. You're going to have a good, fluffy hole, though.
Oh, and that gun just went off.
I think in the game, Ellie was using a bow by now.
I guess they didn't want to level her up that way. You have to teach the actress how to use a bow.
Yeah. You also need the arm strength because those aren't easy.
Actually, I think the person who plays Ellie came out as non-binary.
Like in real life. That kind of makes sense, though. So does that mean?
What's the gender neutral term for an actor? It's not actress.
It's Jesus objects.
What do you want from the actor? I think after itself is a gender neutral.
Yes, I don't think it is. It might be. Yeah, I prefer it.
Jesus. Oh, you did it.
Well, quote close. I mean, I'm surprised that she actually got the shot off is what I mean.
People are jerking triggers bleed out.
Well, actually, there's a fascinating little thing that happens when it's nice and cold outside.
The blood after a while will actually begin to freeze and clog up the wound.
Yep. Really nasty.
Quickly, whoever shot, it's probably nearby.
I don't know where they're going to go.
Oh, you can't drag this back on your own.
We're not a charity. We we can trade you for some of the deer we have.
What do you need? We have boots, medicine.
Like for infections. We do back in our village.
You're welcome to follow us. I'm not following. Let's ride over there.
Wait, where's your fingers? You have a trigger discipline? No, no, no.
For a second, there was like, oh, my God, they actually told her about trigger discipline.
Now she's wearing her gloves to Padres living dangerously right about now.
That's your dad's gun. You're the one that's sick.
That's why you're out here on your own. Well, look, it's a four mile round trip back to our settlement.
It's going to be a while before James gets back. I have some oil and matches in my pack.
Take shelter. Start a fire.
I'd suggest you start dressing that deer because, you know, it's cold outside.
You know, I know how this turns out, so I can't exactly blame her.
But they're religious and post apocalypse dev. They're evil, obviously.
Yes, obviously, obviously. But he's been nothing but friendly this whole time.
I honestly mean, you know, I feel like this is probably an overreaction from L.A.
And for what it's worth, it will be proven not to be. But still, like right now, it's true.
There's a reason to be cautious here. It is post apocalypse.
What hostile people have they met? So they ran into the communist commune and they were not very friendly.
Wasn't my choice. They ran into Tommy's group and his mock Mongolians and they were friendly.
So I guess she's 50 50ing it a bit, but better to be safe than sorry.
Yeah. Well, you sort of kind of got me there. I am a preacher, but just pretty standard Bible stuff.
What the whole world ended and you still believe that shit.
I actually started believing after the world ended. Found God after the apocalypse.
Oh, God, why? That's how I ended up with our flock. Sometimes people find God.
I imagine God is just like in the fridge and it's like, God, why?
And he just turns around like, oh, shit, I wasn't paying attention. What happened?
And as we wanted, we picked up from stick in his mouth. Turns out he was murdered by this crazy man.
And get this. That crazy man was traveling with a little girl.
At the same group. Did you bring the medicine? Yeah, but throw it to her. David.
Makes me wonder, though, if they've got rifles aplenty, handguns, why they didn't send any of that with the pilfering party.
But, yeah, the story demanded they be poorly armed, I guess those four guys attacked Joel first.
Right. Yeah, because they had their backs turned. Yeah. Yep. They charged him.
Do you know how this works, Ellie? Joel, where the fuck do I put this?
I don't know. He's allergic to penicillin.
I'll just stick it right here. That'll work. Right there. All the way in.
Just pump it straight into his internal organs. Good.
I knew she'd been better off either coating the wound or putting it in their arm, but hey, details, it works.
You know, I'm just happy we're back on with the story. Yes.
And that it is, you know, more or less what the game was again.
I know I'm like a broken record on that, but it's refreshing to see.
It's a story. It has characters. I even know some of them.
Lilith and Kibs, how much do you two remember about the religious cultists in this game?
I don't remember nothing at this point. No? Were they cannibals?
I remember the ending. I don't think these were the cannibals. I don't think.
What is it?
Are you sure? Maybe they are the cannibals.
What do you think that guy was? They just got a deer, so I don't see why they'd eat each other right now.
We could eat the deer, or Bob.
Oh, well, that one father just died, remember?
Yep. I know, but again...
No, because here's the deer. Here's the deer.
Ah. So these are the cannibals. Maybe it is, Bob.
Yeah.
To be fair, if you're starving and you have a dead body...
Yeah.
I can see the argument. It is, however, what we call a long-term health risk.
And avoid the brain stems.
Yes. We found a girl who was with the man who took Alec from us.
How did he hear a rumor when he just got back?
I don't know.
When the sun rises, I'll lead a group out to pick up her trail.
Well, the other dude did come back for a moment, I guess, maybe?
Or...
Because he did get the penicillin.
And we'll bring that man to justice.
You should kill him. You should kill both of them.
Ugh.
Women. Always so bloodthirsty.
Jesus.
Now you know where the back is.
The Lord speaketh of the back of his hand.
I'm sorry I had to hit you, child, but we had to establish that we were actually the bad guys.
Now go on and eat your own dad.
It's in the soup.
Uh-huh. Your father is soup.
Thank you.
What do you mean you don't have a dad anymore? He's right here, points to Platter.
Blesseth with Christ, the living bread.
Amen.
Yes, he withal eating the body of Christ, I think.
Yep.
And the way that they're just focusing on the food, yeah, this is the cannibals, okay.
Making it gross.
Bob was delicious.
I mean, I can understand a desperate situation, but it sucks.
Well, it's the thing. If they ate him because they were out of food, then fair enough.
Yeah, they didn't just, like, kill a random person. He was already dead.
Waste that whatnot.
Mm-hmm.
If they eat random people for fists and giggles, however, it'll be different.
I'll inject it right there again. It'll be okay. Ah, fuck.
That's not how this works, Ellie?
That is not how that works, no.
But she's filling up his stomach cavity with lots of penicillin.
To be fair, you know, it'll be absorbed through the skin eventually.
Ellie got there.
Dude, eat your horse at this point. You're gonna be camped out here for a while.
Ellie doesn't know how to brush her tracks in the snow.
Wait, wait, wait. You can't feed a horse snow. You can't eat snow yourself.
Well, you can. I wouldn't recommend it in the long run, but again, if you're desperate.
You have to let the snow melt into water first before you drink it.
Like, it's not gonna hydrate you like that,
because the amount of energy that your body uses up to melt it.
I don't know what kind of snow you have, Dev.
There's something about snow causing dehydration long-term.
Long-term probably is.
Now, if you were smart, you'd boil it first, because, uh,
well, there are many wonderful things that live in snow.
Ah, yes.
We're a stealthy hunting party, hunting a dangerous man who kills one of us,
which is why we're walking in the middle of the fucking streets.
Daylight.
You wouldn't want to be sneaky or anything. That'd be stupid.
Just another mouth to feed, or another hole to breed.
Jesus.
I couldn't resist. It was too good. It rhymed and everything.
Down here, you fucking kill them. You got it?
Joel.
Joel, do not fall asleep.
He's like, bro, I hurt. Am I everything hurts?
Also, I'm going to say, oh god.
Well, if they didn't know I was here before, that'll do it.
Yep.
Come on.
I mean, has the horse been eating?
Uh, no.
To be fair, I like...
Must have packed horse food. Feed.
Listen, this is fake Hollywood snows.
There's probably some grass for it to munch somewhere.
It's like bushes inside.
Fuckers!
Ancient Mongolian horse gunnery.
Keep cutting fuckers.
Yep.
Now they can eat the horse.
They've solved the food situation.
Yeah, didn't this guy want Ellie to, like, be his underage wife or something?
I think that might have... I can't remember.
It's been too long since I played the game.
Damn, that's kind of creepy, though.
It sounds like something that's going on, though, doesn't it?
Of course.
The rest of you, stay here, go door to door.
You so hungry for vengeance?
Deliver it.
Jesus.
They got a creepy looking guy to play this part.
Wow, just because he's ginger deaf, wow, a little bit of racism.
Well, at least he plays the creepy look well, I guess.
He has...
Soulless eyes, is that what you're going for, Dev? Jesus.
God damn it!
Get your knife ready.
Man, Ellie should have at least, like, dragged him underneath the stairs or something.
I have no senses. Ice approaching.
Hmm, a bloody mattress. I should continue.
I should definitely not call with my friends, since this is definitely not where he is.
He wants to kill, though.
Also, that beard, you deserve this.
Now you have more people to eat.
Hungry.
Why do you think he sent them on their little vengeance quest?
He's racking up food.
This is quite, uh, quite slow.
Joel can barely fucking do it.
Jesus.
Good job, man, who couldn't move five seconds ago.
He probably fucked up his stitches, though.
Stitches?
The stitches.
Alright, she did...
Well, did she even have threads, though?
She's just stabbing him for just some giggles.
Oh my god, bro.
No, she found threads. She found threads in the last episode.
You're too busy cleaning your mouse.
He was so busy playing his phone game that he didn't even watch the other episode.
I mean, I don't even blame him.
At the end of the flashback, she found a thread.
Oh god, this is going to get weird, isn't it?
Yeah.
I think this is the...
The veterinarian's place in town.
They really make it look like the place in the game.
Oh, hey.
I just realized.
I was prophetic.
Another mouse to feed, another hole to breathe.
I called it.
Hey, listen to me.
It's okay, he's just setting up one of those Deep South child beauty pageants.
That's what he wants her for.
Timothy.
Oh, so long as there's nothing weird, I guess.
I like how they actually split up.
These guys deserve what's coming.
Yeah.
Timothy.
Well, can I park with him?
It's always a good idea to split up and to cover my ground, okay?
I like how Joel's just killing them all.
He's barely conscious and he's like, nope.
My non-toxic masculinity will pull me through this.
I'm going to kill all these misogynists.
I don't know any girl.
Oh, Jesus!
Michael.
He can't help you.
You focus right here or I'll pop your fucking kneecap off.
Jesus.
I think this was in the game, right?
Yeah.
Just interrogating them.
Yeah, this is from the game.
Interrogating to me.
Oh, the town.
What town?
Cooper Lane.
You got to get directions out of him?
Oh, no.
He knows we're civil, I guess.
We got a map.
Jesus Christ.
Non-toxic masculinity.
It's okay.
I believe him.
Jesus.
Yeah, that's pretty much how it went in the game.
You just got to inject it right in there, Arch.
Here, have some people soup.
Or me.
Just in case it wasn't obvious enough.
That's for the brain dead of yours.
For what it's worth, this is just dear meat, I swear.
You're going to chop me up into little pieces.
If you want to judge me.
Judge you?
You're eating people, you sick fuck!
It was a last resort.
You think it doesn't shame me?
But what was I supposed to do?
Let them starve?
These people who put their lives in my hands?
Who expect me to keep them safe?
Who love me?
Yeah, maybe.
I don't know if I agree with Ellie here.
No, that's a retarded position.
I'm like, yeah, you should just all have died.
Why?
You remind me of me.
You're a natural leader.
You're smart.
Loyal.
Violent.
Violent.
Wow.
You read a lot of that script off screen, didn't you?
You have a violent heart.
And I should know.
I'm a little bit of a user myself, actually.
They need God.
They need heaven.
They need...
They need a father.
You don't.
You're beyond that.
You are fatherless.
I'm surrounded by sheep.
Fatherless behavior.
Damn, he bonded hard over this chick.
You met, like, five minutes.
Like I said, loyal.
Yeah.
He just wants to bone her.
That's what this is.
I can tell the others to stop looking for him.
The script says I have a weird attraction to young girls.
Well, better roll with it.
Really?
They're paying me.
I just let him go?
Yes.
If he leaves us in peace, they will just let him go.
Well...
They do what I tell them to do.
That bridge is already burnt.
I can't get what they're doing here, but Jesus Christ, he's...
This is some love at first sight level shit here.
Like, I've always wooed you.
We can be man and wife.
We can lead this group of crazy people together.
We grow.
Spread out.
And we do whatever we need.
A little bit of zero to sixty, but alright.
I think it works this time, because he's just clearly nuts.
I suppose, but like, the only thing he's doing that's nuts is this.
Like, the other decisions have been fairly irrational.
The nuts part is just that he's like, alright, kiddie, yes.
This is a deep south marriage, guys.
Like, the very first scene...
Oh!
Oh, God!
Yep, he was thinking with his dick.
That's grody.
He deserved that.
You little cunt.
Let's see what I go tell the others now.
Ellie.
What?
What?
Tell them that Ellie is a little girl who broke her fucking finger!
How did you put it?
Tiny little pieces?
That's funny.
You say, well, where?
We chopped up our pieces.
Most unfortunate.
Damn.
You see, I wouldn't have done what she did.
I would have pretended to play along for a while.
You would have become, like, the priest's concubine until you could escape?
I could just, like, stab him.
In the middle of the night?
While he's sleeping.
Yeah.
And get away.
The thing is, you can just also wait until he buys it, and then you sneak out.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, at the very least, wait until he unlocks the cell door.
Yeah.
This was, in my opinion, the most unbelievable part of the game.
Because Joel is still fucked up.
Like, from his wound.
He has a murder rampage.
He just murders fucking everyone.
It's like, alright, alright, dude.
That's a bit too video game for me.
He had a bleeding, septic, fucking stomach wound about an hour ago.
Yeah.
Mark, you got better, okay?
And Joe Allen.
The story kind of demands that he be a little bit more effective.
He pressed the heal button, Arch.
Clearly, you don't know anything.
He found one of the healing packs.
He held down the X button.
He's invoking, as I said, his non-toxic masculinity.
Listen, I found a health pack. I'm good.
There's the horse.
I guess they'll eat that later.
You really should leave that outside, actually, in these circumstances.
It'll freeze better.
And there's the people that they're eating.
It's ganger ape time.
Fun for all the family.
What?
Oh, no, they're just gonna eat her.
Well, I suppose that's merciful.
Don't do it! Please, don't do it! Please, don't!
You had your chance!
Don't! I'm infected!
I'm infected.
And now so are you.
Roll up my sleeve. Look at it.
Look at it!
It's part of your hair.
What did you say?
Everything happens for a reason, right?
I wonder if she can infect people.
Oh, shit!
Ooh, damn!
That looks pretty real to me, too.
That was pretty impressive.
Not only did they let her do that, but he missed a series of point-blank shots.
Good job, both of you.
I mean, we've kind of established he's a Pascafist.
He's not very good at gun.
It's gun stat, super low.
It's charisma stat, also low.
Unseriously removes it.
Aw, more food for later.
Oh my god, burn him.
Lul, that'd be so funny.
Burn his dick.
Oh, no, that's a video game torch.
Yep, that's gonna catch.
Awfully quick.
Yep, there it goes.
Yeah, don't even bother trying to put that out.
That's a video game torch, my dude.
It's gonna burn.
I do love how he doesn't even try.
He doesn't say anything.
He doesn't call for help.
Like, bye!
Damn.
It's a boss fight, Arch.
It's a video game.
And he realizes this.
I'm the boss in a video game.
This is ambiance.
Holy shit, it's overbur-
Wow, the fucking beeps are-
Listen, they doused it in gasoline before they started living here.
Part of the ritual, okay?
I actually really like that they're doing this.
Because you did have to basically take this guy on with no weapons as Ellie.
Or are you just that fucking special?
No one likes being humiliated, Ellie.
You don't know how good I am!
That's not true.
Some people have that as a fetish.
You don't know what I could have given you!
This guy's the ultimate nice guy!
He's like, I'm super simpy!
I'm gonna miss you.
Ellie...
Hold it down, you trust me.
You whispered her name in a very creepy fashion.
Fuck!
Yeah.
Yeah.
Resistance only makes me harder.
Go, go, run!
Oh no.
I think it's weird.
Ha! Told you.
Oh no.
Oh man.
There's no fear in love.
You're gonna fucking hit him.
Please.
I love how this guy...
Like, the entire building is on fire.
Like, he's fighting a chick with a big cleaver.
And all I can think of is like, hmm, he'd be hard.
Ha ha ha ha!
Yes, yes, we got it.
We get it.
He was a bad person.
Show me the body.
Now I don't require too much makeup.
Makeup?
It would require them to make, like, a prop.
Because there wouldn't be much of that face left.
It was a nice play.
Bit too expensive.
See, that was such a missed opportunity.
Get off of me!
Get off of me!
Get off of me!
Yeah, that's a good question.
Where is everyone else?
The whole town's just...
Joel's the guy that killed them all.
I'm fine now, by the way.
Yeah.
Yep, I'm good.
Thank you for that penicillin injection into my stomach.
It really helped my heart.
Even though I just killed this entire town, we're not gonna loot it or anything.
We're not gonna take a vehicle or any of their food.
We're just gonna go.
Their food, their weapons, their fuel.
Or use some shelter to rest after all this, you know, stuff.
I'll be too big for her.
I don't think we would like to take their food.
I think there's a deer and a dead horse there.
Yeah, we can use that.
The deer's used up, but the horse is good.
Oh.
Wait.
That ended real quick.
That was an hour, Dev.
That's a long time, you little shite.
Yeah, but this time something actually happens.
I know.
So it went faster because it was kind of fun.
There was violence.
There was murdering.
There was a bit of creepy stuff.
A girl almost got raped.
I just noticed something.
Didn't like that part.
I just noticed something.
So the credits said Troy Baker.
This guy is Troy Baker, I think.
His right-handed man throughout the episode.
And Troy Baker is actually a bit of a nod to the fans because he was the voice actor for Joel.
Damn.
They apparently grabbed a bunch of the voice actors from the game and just gave them small roles scattered throughout the season.
So instead of doing what the Dead Space remake did, where they made the main characters actually just take on the roles of the people,
they replaced them with more prominent actors and had them play second fiddle in their own series.
Yes.
Damn.
A bit of an F.U.
A bit of an F.U.
I mean, it was nice of them to include them at all, but yes.
At least they included them, but like as a side character.
It's a middle finger with a little bit of, you know, a little bit of goodness on it, too.
Yeah.
A little bit of good.
A little bit of bitter.
So this episode was very much like the part of the game that it was covering.
The characters were pretty much spot on.
The locations were pretty much spot on.
The fact that the town is now suddenly empty and no one else came to help is a bit strange, but fine.
We'll just accept it.
The only issue is that it felt a little bit rushed.
And that's a really damning thing to say, considering how in other episodes that we've talked about before, they just take their sweet fucking time doing nothing.
Yep.
This is not a show that could afford to waste two episodes worth of time.
I completely agree.
Like, the Kansas City, the queues, there weren't fireflies, there were other rebels that overthrew the Federer in Kansas City.
That needed a full extra episode to cook.
And this one probably also needed a full extra episode to cook.
And instead we got those flashback episodes.
So I do think that the show could have been better if it didn't shoot itself in the foot in that way.
That's my take on it, though.
Because this was actually more fun, and I wish it was longer.
And I wish they had more build up.
With the characters and the whole reveal of them being cannibals.
It was way too on the nose about the cannibal part.
Yep.
More subtlety.
They could definitely learn that lesson.
Let's talk about this food we're having, huh?
Guys, these big red plops of meat, that's bringing attention to it.
Like, probably not pointing towards the thing.
Yeah, in shows, there's often the trope where it's like, what's the meat?
And then it looks over and it's just very raw, very red meat.
And the characters just wait for an extra second longer than they should.
And it's like, okay, we get it.
That's human.
That's human meat.
For whatever reason, they never cook it, too, so it looks very gross.
Yeah.
It's very on the nose.
Or in this case, the ear.
We've got one episode left, I think.
Hold on, let's get it done.
Let's get it over with.
Well, not today.
It's next week, man.
It's next week.
Go find it.
Yeah, go steal it.
Well, the issue is, they now have to survive the winter.
There's an extra sequence.
They survive the winter, and then they get to Salt Lake City.
And then there's a whole fucking shit show at Salt Lake City.
Then they have to go back to Tommy's town.
So, I'm not sure if they can fit all of it in one episode.
They gotta do that in one episode.
Yeah.
They gotta cram it because of all this crappy filler, or it's just gonna skim like 90% of
the stuff.
Yeah, there's like a big thing with the fireflies in Salt Lake City, and then they go back.
I feel like the pacing of the show is gonna be its downfall.
They spent too much time on other shit that didn't matter.
Any of you three have final thoughts?
I would have eaten the horse.
This episode was more violent, and I liked that part.
That's about it.
I think the destroying the pedal rapist was very empowering.
It was very good watching Ellie just stab him for a full minute where that's all there
was.
It would be nice to see the corpse, but...
Yeah.
Hold on, Jesus.
Bloodthirsty Lilith over here.
No, no, no.
Lilith is right, actually.
This show has already shown that it's violent and grotesque, right?
So why not actually make up a prop doll dummy of that actor, and then have her go to town
on it and show it?
That'd be kinda fun.
Walking Dead Season 2, the game, the second one, they did that with the villain that got
beaten to death.
They actually showed the corpse, but it was a video game.
It's been so long since I played it.
It's been at least five or six years.
I recall that, though.
Yeah, I recall.
Well, in the end, you're like, Kenny gets to beat the villain to death, and you're given
a choice of watching or not.
Right, yes.
Yeah.
So, two more episodes down.
We're coming across the end.
We'll reunite one final time next week to watch the finale, unless my math is wrong.
I don't know why they have a nine-episode season.
It's very strange, but I guess that's what they're doing.
And then, I guess after that, what are we doing?
Are we watching the Halo show, Kibs?
Halo Season 2?
Yes.
I've said yes on behalf of Kibs.
Kibs will rewatch the Halo show.
What's my revenge after that?
Because this is my revenge.
You already owe me Dota.
Consider this the Dota.
He's like, I will wash away the debt with your tears.
I will sacrifice Dota for you watching the entirety of Halo.
You know, there is no limit to bad shows nowadays.
Like, you want to go watch Velma?
You want to go watch the Fresh Prince of Bel-Air remake?
I watched it.
That was just sad.
I remember Arch lamenting about it every episode he'd watch.
Oh, we can go watch Season 2 of Rings of Power.
That'll be coming out, like, the end of the year.
Oh, yay, Deb.
I'm glad of all these stellar recommendations.
Like, honestly, this is not a good trend.
We need to cover some good shows once in a while.
Otherwise, we're going to get stuck in the loop when the pendulum swing happens
and good TV starts coming out.
We're going to be in the dust.
This was the good show.
This was the good show, yeah.
All right, come here, you little shit.
So we'll see you guys next week.
Say goodbye, everyone.
Goodbye.
Take care.
