Oh boy, is this becoming the Jordan Peterson channel?
Because this is like the third video in a row that relies on one of his quotes to start
a conversation.
While I do like Jordan Peterson to a point, I also recognize that when he gets out of
his psychology wheelhouse, he's honestly a little bit shaky.
The psych stuff is 100% on point, but his career shifted away from psychology to being
a pop scientist years ago, and his non-psych takes are hit and miss.
But nonetheless, there's a few clips from his recent Andy Ngo video that have gone viral,
and one specific clip that the left has decided to repost and mock everywhere.
So I would like to analyze it, because I think it actually contains some wisdom.
What is the psychology of this mob violence?
When I see it, like I don't even recognize some of these, they seem animalistic is what
I mean.
No, they're worse than animals.
They're worse than animals, because animals, they just kill to eat, you know?
Human beings, they have a twist in them that makes them far worse than animals when they
really get going.
Well, I think it's, I think, you really want to know what I think?
I think it's revenge against God for the crime of being.
That's really what I think.
It's Cain and Cain and Abel.
It's like, oh, Abel's your, Abel's your guy, eh, God?
How about if I take him out in the field and beat him to death?
How do you feel about that?
All my sacrifices went unrewarded.
Now that actually does sound a bit too dramatic.
And boy, did Twitter not hesitate to point out exactly how dramatic it sounds.
I'll let these reactions scroll by on the screen while we talk about this.
Feel free to pause at any time and read these in detail, because this clip has like 3,000
quote tweets, and the vast majority of them are terminally online leftist activists with
pit crew avatars, flags and emojis representing their support of the current thing in their
name and comments that don't actually count as anything even resembling a real analysis.
Just making fun of the man because they don't like him.
And they find the idea that the foundation upon which their violent socialist activism
sits is a hatred of life itself.
How can that be, they say, or for the working class after all?
We want to ameliorate the material conditions of everybody.
We want freedom.
We want good ends and harm reduction and equality and every other buzzword you can think of
that the left likes to label itself with in an effort to claim the moral high ground.
But as Peterson said in that same interview, it's not any sort of moral high ground that
causes them to laugh at suffering.
Rather, it's that they've convinced themselves that their cause is so righteous that anybody
who opposes them must be ontologically evil by default, and they can do what they will
with them.
Or at least that's the reason they tell themselves.
No really, that's actually the text of a common meme right now that they love to use.
It's fitting that they chose Patrick Bateman, the American Psycho himself, as the pitcher
for that one.
Let's actually examine this idea, that the radical left is rebelling against God for
the crime of being.
We can take God out of it, frankly.
The analysis is the same.
There's multiple levels to go down until we reach the bottom, so let's start digging.
Level 1, where the socialist is simply self-interested.
Oh, have I used that clip too much recently?
Okay, how about this one instead?
It's not hard to find some conservative YouTube channel, like Crowder's Change My Mind thing
or Campus Reform, where the host interviews some dipshit university students and gets
them to admit the most basic hypocrisies about their socialist ideals.
The example on screen is about a GPA redistribution, where the left-leaning students are asked
why shouldn't we equalize the GPA of high-achieving students with low-achieving ones?
The students all give the same reply, because the low-achieving ones didn't work as hard
as they did.
When confronted with the very real possibility that high earners and low earners in society
function the same way, making income redistribution just as offensive as GPA distribution is,
almost all of their brains shut down.
This is a funny gotcha moment, sure, but it serves to show that a lot of young socialists
are either idiots who haven't thought enough about their ideas, or they're entirely unprincipled
and simply looking to do what benefits them.
Redistribution when they're on the bottom, rugged individualism when they're on the top.
Frankly, it's probably a bit of both.
Level 2, where the socialist directly sides with a foreign evil, because at least it is
not the familiar.
During the Vietnam War, we were actually the very first party in the US to stage a demonstration
against the Vietnam War, in like 1968, when most people just kind of thought the war was
whatever, you know, there wasn't a massive anti-war movement.
And I think, you know, obviously the Vietnamese people themselves fought a heroic battle and
gained their liberation from US imperialism.
It's not hard to find people on the left who worship the genocidal totalitarian regimes
of Lenin, Stalin, and Mao.
And I don't just mean the overt tankies, though obviously them.
Even the breadtubers, the so-called libertarian socialists, while they might criticize the
Soviet regime from time to time, especially during a debate with a non-socialist, where
they know that an audience outside of their own insular crowd might be watching, catch
them talking on their own, to their own communities, and you'll likely hear some variant of, well,
socialist regimes around the world were sabotaged by capitalists who refused to trade with them.
Because I guess socialism requires an outside capitalist society to keep trading with them,
if it's going to work?
Modern socialist apologia ranges from the Hall of D'Amour was an accident, not a genocide,
to the kulaks deserved it for resisting collectivization, actually, to the exceptionally grotesque the
Communist Party of Peru did not boil children alive, but they did occasionally use scalding
water as a method of execution, which has to be the craziest commie simping I've seen
yet.
I made a video detailing this general idea in the past, revolving around this quote of
Aristotle's.
It is the mark of a tyrant to have men of foreign extraction rather than citizens as
guests at table and companions, feeling that citizens are hostile but strangers make no
claim against him.
I probably didn't do that video concept proper justice back then, but hey, we all
get better over time.
And while before I used the example of leftists loving immigrants as oddities from a foreign
land while hating their own countrymen, I'll look at it from a different angle this time.
Have you ever noticed that if you happen to know a couple where one partner is secretly
abusive of the other, when you think about your interactions with them, you will begin
to notice a pattern?
More specifically, that the abusive person while at a social event with their partner
is not only quick to brush off their partner's complaints, but also gracious with outsiders
and heavily invested in keeping the peace.
There's a limit to this, of course.
There are extraordinary stories where the abuser snaps publicly, but you know what I
mean.
There's two reasons for this.
One, it's because the abusive dynamic is a product of the relationship and the abuser
feels that outsiders should not be privy to it.
Two, it's because the outsiders do not know the abuser in that way and so they cannot
peer into the darker parts of his soul.
This is all just guesswork by me, but that idea maps onto Aristotle's view of tyrants
well, and it also maps onto the socialist who is willing to support the evil other over
his own familiar homeland.
Level three, where the socialist directly sides with domestic evil, because a socialist
revolution must come from the margins of society.
What happened was the intellectual communists were sent out in cadres, out into these little
towns to find people who would help them round up the kulaks.
So imagine you're in a town and there's three or four people or maybe ten people or
something like that who are a little more successful than everyone else.
There's going to be some people who are not happy about it at all, that are going
to be very resentful about that and jealous.
And so when the intellectuals came in and described the reason that these people should
be treated as parasites and profiteers, then it was the resentful minority in those towns,
and that would be the kind of guy that hangs around in the bar all the time and is completely
unconscious and fails at everything and then blames everyone else for it.
The intellectuals came in and said, here's, this is unfair that this happened to you.
You've actually been victimized and now it's your opportunity to go have your revenge.
It's not hard to find people who are cruel for the sake of being cruel and who have told
themselves that it's because their politics are good and their targets are bad that justifies
that cruelty.
This makes the cruelty moral, and I say that word moral with heavy air quotes.
This ranges from people playing cover for thieves, looters, and shoplifters, saying
shit like, don't snitch on a thief stealing from a corporation, you didn't see nothing.
Or idiotically calling people racist for noticing the California ransacking problem, to people
playing cover for rioters and arsonists who destroy people's businesses and livelihoods
by saying, oh, that's what insurance is for, lol.
At least that's what they said during the George Floyd riots.
Now that it's a gay bar getting arson instead, people are screaming about how insurance isn't
enough.
It's funny how that fucking works.
To people openly advocating for the death of their political opponents and the targets
of their ire, and in some cases actually killing them, again, viewing your enemies as ontologically
evil.
I also made a video on this topic as well, quite literally called the identification
with evil, where I described the left's tendencies to claim as their heroes the worst fictional
characters possible, because those characters in rejecting the status quo were subversive.
The fact that they were evil didn't actually matter.
The video revolved around the new guy meme, where the creator of that comic's moral compass
was so twisted that she actually thought people were going to identify with her self-insert
character, who was cruel and bitter, as opposed to the new guy who genuinely seemed to have
a decency about him, solely because she viewed her politics as being correct.
The issue here, ultimately, is that these people think that a correct politics actually
exists, and that of course, they have the vision of the perfect politics all the time.
Then they're comparing themselves, their behaviours, and their lives to that perfection, constantly
falling short of it and becoming embittered by it, rather than doing what most sane and
normal humans do, which is comparing yourself to who you were yesterday, rather than some
ideal perfect future, and spending your time and energy working on incremental change.
This bitterness seems to be connected to a more general trend among millennials, which
is steeped in cynicism and disappointment.
They thought their lives would turn out differently, and rather than doing what they can, where
they are with what they've got, they'd rather rage at everything around them and be cruel
and drive away what little hope that remains.
Level 4, where the socialist hates his own family because they, too, are bourgeois oppressors
for properly working within the system, gaining and having capital, and expecting them to
get a fucking job now that they're of age, it's not hard to find terminally online communists
with failed relationships with their families.
In fact, again, I did a video on this topic, too, about how young people tend to hate their
conservative parents, conservative small towns, and conservative upbringings, and after high
school they move to cities and universities to further radicalize.
They constantly say and think, once these old people are dead, we'll be able to outvote
the rest and finally build the socialist utopia.
I should know, when I was a 19 year old socialist, it's exactly what I said and thought, too.
A lot of these people come from extremely privileged backgrounds.
Zoe Quinn, of Gamergate fame, came from the Van Valkenburg family.
Her boyfriend during Gamergate was Alex Lifshitz, who hated his father while simultaneously
living on his military contractor money.
Vosch grew up in Beverly Hills, and his father has an extensive career working in Hollywood.
Hassan Peiker got to where he is because of opportunities given to him by his uncle, Cenk
Uygur, at the Young Turks, and he hit mainstream news for buying a Hollywood mansion.
Even someone smaller like Kefls, the trans woman surrounding the recent Destiny drama
– yes, her time is coming on this channel – calls herself working class, but her parents
had the money to spring for her trips to South Korea and Thailand for expensive transitioning
surgeries.
Seriously, gather up all the progs and commies, put their picks on a dartboard, and throw.
Whomever you hit, you will discover that they were people born with privilege.
Level 5 is what Jordan Peterson talked about at the beginning.
Hatred of being itself, and I get it.
Being is hard.
It's suffering.
There's work involved.
You're going to die.
Everybody you know and love will also die.
Everything you build will fail.
Every accomplishment you achieve will be undone, and there's nothing you can do to stop it.
If you're very lucky, in 100 years time, the sum total of your life – all of the
ups and downs, all of the stages of development, all of the memories, all of the accomplishments,
all of the relationships, all of the experiences – will be reduced to nothing more than a
single inaccurate story that your descendants will tell each other.
And when those descendants die, it will be like you never even existed.
The void waits for us all.
I think I deeply understand the people who have a hatred of being.
And I think that is what's at the bottom of all of this.
Revenge against the universe for having brought you into it.
You didn't consent to bear the burden that is the suffering of life.
It's not fair.
And that's why school shooters do what they do, rather than simply offing themselves quietly
since they want to die so badly.
Because somebody has to be punished for that crime, and God's out of reach.
So why not the people at school that made their lives a living hell?
That's why every totalitarian regime, regardless of political slant, destroys whole populations
and moralizes about doing so.
How this is for the greater good.
Here's what's, in my opinion, Huxley's greatest quote.
The surest way to work up a crusade in favor of some good cause is to promise people they
will have the chance of maltreating someone.
To be able to destroy with a good conscience.
To be able to behave badly and call your bad behavior righteous indignation.
That is the height of psychological luxury.
The most delicious of moral treats.
Again, viewing your enemies as ontologically evil.
It's not hard to find people who exist at this level.
Who blindly hate based only on ideology.
Who advocate for widespread death, like all other tyrants before them, in the name of
a greater good.
Who curse at the victims that they create, because their existence is politically inconvenient.
And though I have no examples to put on screen this time, I have met and seen many depressed
leftists say things like, widespread mental health problems are caused by capitalism.
And I never asked to be born, I hate that I have to work to eat.
These are the laws of nature.
You will always have to work to live, regardless of social change.
Mental health problems are not caused by capitalism, but by your own cynicism about your inability
to achieve the perfection you're addicted to.
This attitude is the hatred of being itself.
And all of this shit is endemic to socialism.
Karl Marx himself would be right at home beside the blue-haired, plaid-wearing, verified
Twitter hipster who hates his job and hates his parents and hates his life.
We all know one of the more famous Marx quotes.
Religion is the opium of the masses.
Here's the full quote.
Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul
of soulless conditions.
It is the opium of the people.
The abolition of religion as the illusory happiness of the people is to demand for their
real happiness.
To call on them to give up their illusions about their condition is to call on them to
give up a condition that requires illusions.
The criticism of religion is, therefore, in embryo, the criticism of that veil of tears
of which religion is the halo.
Criticism has plucked the imaginary flowers on the chain, not in order that man shall
continue to bear that chain without fantasy or consolation, but so that he shall throw
off the chain and pluck the living flower.
Criticism of religion disillusions man, so that he will think, act, and fashion his reality
like a man who has discarded his illusions and regained his senses, so that he will move
around himself as his own true son.
These are the words of a man who is eternally at war with reality itself.
This is the cry of rage and his inability to reach perfection.
To really hammer the point home, I want to show you some letters to Karl Marx from Heinrich
Marx, his father.
Dear old dad's words about his son give us some insight into what kind of man Marx was.
Frankly speaking, my dear Karl, I do not like this modern world, which all weaklings use
to cloak their feelings when they quarrel with the world because they do not possess,
without labor or trouble, well-furnished palaces with vast sums of money and elegant carriages.
This embitterment disgusts me, and you are the last person from whom I would expect it.
What grounds can you have for it?
Has not everything smiled on you ever since your cradle?
Has not nature endowed you with magnificent talents?
Have your parents not lavished affection on you?
Have you ever up to now been unable to satisfy your reasonable wishes?
And have you not carried away in the most incomprehensible fashion the heart of a girl
whom thousands envy you?
Yet the first untoward event, the first disappointed wish, invokes embitterment.
Is that strength?
Is that a manly character?
This criticism isn't a one-off either.
On several occasions we were without a letter for months, and the last time when you knew
Edward was ill, Mother suffering, and I myself not well, and moreover cholera was raging
in Berlin.
And as if that did not even call for an apology, your next letter contained not a single word
about it, but merely some badly written lines and an extract from the diary entitled The
Visit, which I would quite frankly prefer to throw out rather than accept, a crazy botch
work which merely testifies how you squander your talents and spend your nights giving
birth to monsters, that you follow in the footsteps of the new immoralists who twist
their words until they themselves do not hear them, who christen a flood of words a
product of genius because it is devoid of ideas or contains only distorted ideas.
As if we were men of wealth, my son disposed in one year of almost seven hundred tailors,
contrary to all agreement, contrary to all usage, whereas the richest spend less than
five hundred.
And why?
I do him the justice of saying that he is no rake, no squanderer, but how can a man
who every week or two discovers a new system and has to tear up old works laboriously arrived
at, how can he, I ask, worry about trifles?
How can he submit to the pettiness of order?
Everyone dips a hand in his pocket, and everyone cheats him, so long as he doesn't disturb
him in his studies.
And a new money order is soon written again, of course.
I must add, too, the complaints of your brothers and sisters.
From your letters, one can hardly see that you have any brothers or sisters.
As for the good Sophie, who has suffered so much for you, and Jenny is so lavish in her
devotion to you, you do not think of her when you do not need her.
I have paid your money order for one hundred and sixty tailors.
I cannot or can hardly charge it to the old academic year, for that truly has its full
due.
And for the future I do not want to expect many of the same kind.
Oh, by the way, that request from Marx to stop spending so much money went unheeded,
as we can tell from a third letter.
I am referring to the paltry matter of money, the value of which for the father of a family
you still do not seem to recognize.
But I do all the more.
I do not deny that at times I reproach myself with having left you all too loose a reign
in this respect.
Thus we are now in the fourth month of the law year, and you have already drawn two hundred
and eighty tailors.
I have not yet earned that much this winter.
I am sorry for that gigantic block of text, but I really wanted to hammer the point home.
Marx was considered to be brilliant, but also depressive, manipulative, potentially even
sociopathic.
He treated his parents like a bank account, he only considered his family insofar as he
could use them.
His father was dismayed at who Marx was becoming, despite his talents and his upbringing.
And as an adult, Marx went to war with being itself, and every other socialist follows
in his footsteps.
So when Jordan Peterson says that the bottom of all of this is punishment against God for
the crime of being, if you are looking at that viral clip and thinking that it is just
more bible mumbo jumbo, you are not actually paying attention.
I have said it before, I am an atheist, I don't care about the God part of this conversation,
but it is overwhelmingly clear to me that in a non-religious sense, Peterson is absolutely
right.
The bitterness and hatred and cruelty that drives a person to destroy those who are doing
better than him because he cannot stand the sight of himself in the mirror every morning,
since whenever he looks into it he sees a failure and he can't bear to take responsibility
for that failure, so he is desperate to offload it onto anything else he can.
If that's the rich, fine, if that's the system, so much the better.
That feeling, those people, they're real, socialism thrives on people like this.
A lot of those replies to the viral clip from the beginning came from people genuinely too
dumb to understand what's going on, but I have a hunch that a lot of them also came
from people who know, deep down, that what Jordan Peterson is describing and what I've
described here, that that's you, that you're the bitter, hateful, cruel person who would
rather punish God for the crime of being than actually do something positive and work to
build up their life.
You terminally online dumbfucks are addicted to reading Twitter trending headlines 16 hours
a day because social media makes the socialist movement look bigger than it actually is.
You can get into your bubble and circlejerk about the impending revolution all day long,
I know your communities feel big because there's a lot of tweets and retweets, but in the real
world nobody actually likes you, they'll never meet a single person in real life who
gives anywhere near as much of a fuck as you do about it.
The few real friends you do actually have all think you're neurotic as fuck for obsessing
over Catalonia or Zapatista or Rojava, nobody knows what the weird fucking flags hanging
in your room are, your favorite breadtuber doesn't know your parasocial ass exists,
your weird anarcho-syndicalist with South American characteristic streams get less views
than my fucking gaming channel, you will never accomplish any of your political goals, and
if you don't fucking stop and log off, you are going to spend the rest of your life wasting
away online accomplishing nothing but ratios on Twitter.
