If cancel culture ever comes for me, here in one little package are all the hateful, terrible, racist, bigoted, misogynist, transphobic, xenophobic things that I believe, all in one go, okay? Here they are.
I believe that gay people, trans people, people of any race, of any ethnicity, of any religion, deserve the same equal rights as anyone else.
That also means they have the same responsibility to uphold others' rights as everyone else. Meaning that if you are a fanatic Muslim, no, you cannot simply kill gay people because they have a right to life.
I believe that trans people should be allowed to do whatever they want. If they want to transition as adults, that's their business. They are legal adults. They can do what they like.
However, I believe that children should not be allowed to medically transition with hormones until they turn 18, or at least the age of majority in your country.
We don't let kids make serious decisions until they're adults. I think the same standard should apply with transitioning, and that does not make me transphobic.
I believe that a liberal, free society requires a strong border. I believe that illegal immigrants flooding into a country depresses the value of labour in the market.
Because why should a company pay you minimum wage when they can hire an illegal for half that price?
Therefore, I believe one of the best ways to help the working class is to end illegal immigration, and enforce border laws.
However, I don't want those border laws enforced on a racial or ethnic basis. I am happy for any race, or any ethnicity, or even any religion of person to come to the West and live in a Western country, as long as they do so legally, and they do so with the intention of upholding our values.
And probably most importantly of all, I don't believe that hate speech should be censored. I believe that hate speech is properly countered with more speech, with better speech, with competent debate.
I believe that if you censor hate speech, it's because you have no actual argument against it.
And that means that either you're shit at debating, which is possible, or that your ideas are even worse than the hate speech that you're listening to.
The leftists of my era understood that sunlight was the best disinfectant.
Meaning that when you engage people with radical ideas rather than isolate them and ban them from places, you end up de-radicalizing them, as long as your own ideas are actually sound.
In banning people from discords, in banning them from social media platforms, in cancelling them whenever something even minor happens, you are only serving to radicalize more people, not de-radicalize them.
Now, if everything that I've just said to the progressives in five or ten years make me equal to Hitler himself, because things have just gone that crazy in the future, then go ahead, cancel me.
I don't fucking care anymore. But never for the rest of my natural life will I walk back any of the things that I just said.
