Hello and welcome to another tick-tock Tuesday this time on Thursday once again
Unfortunately, listen, I had to get that super mega video out. I hope you guys enjoyed it
Apparently it made waves because uh while it was premiering guess what the girl in question Lex up dog. Yeah, she blocked me
She blocked me while it was premiering so that came out on Tuesday
I wanted to get it as soon as possible
If you haven't seen it go back and watch it
But for now, let's check out what tick-tock nonsense you guys have sent to me
Hey ladies, how are you?
Hey girl
Call my twin and I just want to let y'all know
Be toxic for the rest of your 20s. You only get one life be toxic toxic 20s
You never get to be 20 years old the toxic 20s guys
Be toxic cuz don't get in your 30s thinking you could just go slashing tires and doing all this crazy shit you two
Slashing tires be toxic for the rest of your 20s and if you delusional turn it shit up a notch
What are you doing? You only get to do this even one time, you know
You know, I don't think you get to slash anyone's tires any time in your life
I guess the the whole like be destructive self-destructive abuse your partners throw things break things
That's something you're supposed to grow to by the time you're 30 now see personally
I thought you're supposed to go to that by the time you're five years old
Enjoy your toxic 20s. I guess don't date anyone till they're 30 years old guys
Oh shit delivery robots under attack don't invest in this company. Look it is watch this
Yeah, he's just robbing it and no one cares
Oh
You can't have like delivery robots going around in a place like this for no one man look at
Somebody knock them over who is it? It's Austin. They steal your food, too
Oh
Just sitting on it doesn't give a shit
I
Know I know everyone has like this vision of the future where you know robots are zipping around delivering packages
You know like it's no big deal
You know Amazon drones fly over to your front porch and drop the package off and fly away that vision of the future
You see it a lot in sci-fi that might work in a high trust society, right?
Where no one's gonna just rob the delivery robot but man like that looked like it was happening in LA or San Francisco
Or something and I guarantee you there's gonna be like homeless people or crackheads or whatever
They're gonna just rob the shit out of they don't care. They'll just tip it over take it there
Well, you know if a drone like flies or head little shoot it down throw a rock at it
And this isn't just like some sort of inner-city, you know druggie thing
Imagine like an Amazon delivery drone flying over like Alabama or Arkansas or something, right?
Yeah
like a bunch of poor people living there and they just like it's like that it's like that picture that you see go viral a
Lot of the people throwing their empty beer cans at a drone watching them
Like I think imagine some redneck family sees a drone flying by carrying a package
He's gonna knock out of the sky and they got the package, you know, as long as American society remains relatively low trust
It's not as low trust as some crazy ones
But like it's slower than other liberal democracies as long as America remains like that
This whole automated delivery system isn't gonna work get ready with me today for therapy
My best
I'm gonna need therapy after watching this
Gee, okay. That's that's restart. Let's give her the benefit of the doubt
Hey, what does it say backwards use a condom? Oh
Okay, I mean if it prevents making more people like you sure get ready with me today for therapy
Okay, my best makes me feel my best when I go to therapy
So I'm going to style this super cute bow mini dress. Okay, here is the dress on and of course
I'm not just gonna wear it like this. So let's style it
I think these ruffle bloomer shorts underneath going to add this tiered skirt my croc earrings
Of course, I had my bow accessories. Oh my god
So I put one in my hair know what I'm going to add my cheetah tutu as well
I think this little bustier bag is gonna be perfect
My therapist in my Moschino blow-up wedges red frames to complement my makeup
Here is my final look for therapy. Oh my gosh, it's so fun. She looks like she fucking needs it, doesn't she?
I think I'm ready to slay my therapy session
Remember baddies go to therapy to love you all this has to be a troll
Like I can't believe this person's actually doing this like she has to be playing a fucking character or something
Oh my god, like I was thinking she might have been like a professional clown
Maybe any of you think you can fix her post in the comments. I can fix her
No, no one can fix her do not even that fucking therapy can fix her think it's okay to transition children
To Christianity
Like I know that they don't care what the double standard or the hypocrisy they simply want what they want and that's that but it
Is always, you know cathartic to see to see them just come out and say it, you know
Whoa, she owes me. Oh I
Was discriminated against twice tonight in less than two hours anti-demon action here guys
Holy shit, let me explain while I take off the makeup that
Let's hear about it. I covered myself and to appease
the public I
To get hired at jobs that I really don't even want
Really, dude
It's just something for me to get out of the house, you know
Okay, that had to be an act all right
Like okay. Okay. Okay. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on
My brain's melting a little bit that one had to be an act like another clown lady
I was like on the fence that I know I don't believe this
I was like
Believing that this person was real up until they're like I'm gonna take my makeup off and like a bunch of black sludge poured out
Of their head. No, I don't believe in real demons. All right, I don't believe in this shit. That's a no I refuse
You
Know there's a whole continent of non-whites
We're back at woke segregation. We're there. All right. Listen, listen, it's okay, dude. It's okay
Listen, we'll totally provide you with your own entrances into businesses. We'll give you your own change rooms your own swimming pools
We'll give you your own water fountains
If that's what you want, like how far back do you want to fucking go lady?
These people are just racists
All right
Black lives matter is fucking racist all these race
Agitators doesn't matter if they're like pro white or pro black doesn't matter. They're all fucking racists and you see me getting jumped
What are you gonna do?
In the moment probably point and laugh that shit's funny a cab but later that night. I mean good
I'm having some pulled pork sandwiches
Okay. All right
Is it is that is it because it's a cop and you know pig pork like is that what you're doing?
Are you literally gonna eat the police?
I feel like it's a spongebob comic where this chick comes up and is like a cab and then you know Squidward's like
Feeling daring today are we being anti cop is the most safe edgy bullshit. I've seen in my fucking life guys
I'm literally shaking right now. I was just getting groceries and I live in San Francisco and I never really feel fully safe
Why are you there? I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. And I just got groceries
Yeah
literal shitting streets and this guy is walking past me and
Says move you stupid bitch and he spits in my face, but all over my face
What do I say? Excuse me? Did you just spit in my face and he says move or I'll rape you
People everywhere and everyone's just walking by because they're like, I can't handle something else in San Francisco. It's always something else
I don't know even know I'm posting this just leave let's go. Do you feel this way all the time?
I don't feel safe ever. I literally never feel safe. We just stay late but nighttime. No not leaving my house
Yeah, what are you living here man, okay, listen listen, all right
I've spent some time in Toronto and I never feel safe in Toronto. I feel like every single fucking person
There's what a mug me. Okay, so fair enough. I get it. All right, but I've been to like other cities in Canada
I've been in places in the United States
I've been to other places and like no even in like larger Canadian cities or whatever. I feel like reasonably safe
There's like a select few shitholes where it just seems like the entire city is hostile like it's out to get you
All right, LA San Francisco definitely like that New York definitely like that Toronto definitely like that London definitely like that
My sister used to live in London
She's like yeah hundred percent go to a mid-sized city if you want somewhere that still has like the amenities and like the the cult
The culture and and the the social aspect of living in a large city go to a mid-sized city
Don't go to Portland. No Portland that city don't go to Portland. But like there are other mid-sized cities you can go to
It'll be okay, you know, especially in Canada Ottawa Montreal Vancouver, Halifax. These are decent places in Canada
You can live that aren't just like a Toronto Ian shithole full of like
Non-integrative immigrants and just crime and just disgusting like filth everywhere or some cities you can go to that are nice
But the biggest ones they're all like trash and get the fuck out of California guys
If you're if you're listening to me, you're in California get the fuck out of California
Okay, my friends that about does it for me for to talk Tuesday. They talk Thursday. Sorry. Sorry. Hope you enjoyed
I'll see you for tonight's stream. Make sure you drop in and say hello toss a few dollars my way somehow listen listen
It took me a long time to do that super mega shit
So so if you don't mind toss a coin to your Devo, okay
Anyway, I'll see you at the stream and I'll see you tomorrow for a new video. Have a good one guys. I love you
