People just love to talk about accessibility in video games.
And I get it.
Wouldn't it suck to be blind, or some kind of clawed half-man creature, and not be able
to hold a controller?
You wouldn't be able to experience the mountain of quality video games that exist out there.
Specialized controllers for people who don't have normal hands seems to be a fine idea
to me.
Though, in actuality, they end up just being fight sticks, or sometimes altered controllers
that put all the button presses under one hand.
But hey, it works!
There's also a vest that deaf people can wear that translates in-game sound effects
into vibrations, too.
That's really cool!
And a lot of games are including colorblind options.
For example, the green, blue, purple, orange-tier coloring for common, rare, epic, and legendary
items has been in use since, I think, Diablo.
And I recall games even as old as Borderlands 2 having colorblind options to make that sort
of thing stand out a little bit better for people who are colorblind.
But the practical reality is, some games just can't be adapted to work with every single
disability.
Sometimes, somebody with partial blindness, but who can still see bright things, will
still be able to play a game if it's set up in a mode where contrast is turned up or
something like that.
But a horror game that relies on squinting into the darkness, or subtle movements in
the distance, there's just no way to bridge that gap without ruining the feel of things.
It sounds funny to say it, but we often forget just how debilitating disabilities are.
We should try to accommodate people, but we should also understand that our ability to
accommodate has its limits.
And if there are some gaps that are just too big to bridge, it's nobody's fault.
Not the disabled persons, not the game developers.
That's just life.
There you go.
I've just given you the whole of the accessibility in games position that is actually reasonable,
and not mired in progressive bullshit.
Getting past this point is going to be nonsense.
Strap yourselves in.
I wouldn't want you to get whiplash and have to play your games in a neck brace.
In 2010, the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act was passed in the
United States.
As reported on DualShockers.com, it's a piece of general purpose legislation that requires
accessibility concerns addressed in all advanced communication services.
The gaming industry is affected only insofar as voice chat, text chat, and video chat in
online games are concerned.
And due to technology not being there in 2010, the gaming industry was given several
extensions up to January 1st, 2019 to implement changes.
Now if you were hyper-tuned into the culture war back then, like for example our old spurgy
pal Billy from One Angry Gamer, you might believe that Big Brother Government was going
to dumb down all of our games such that the hardest mode possible would only be fit for
a doped-up Dean Takahashi.
But that's what you get for only reading the headlines and not actually checking out
the legislation involved.
I guess this is why you sold OAG, eh Billy?
However, despite this being a joke position, progressives have actually taken the position
up.
A lot of progs like to repurpose the accessibility angle in order to push for stuff that actually
has nothing to do with helping the disabled.
And everything to do with dumbing things down, rounding the corners, making everything brightly
colored and identifiable, and catering to everybody's most specific tastes, no matter
how ridiculous and demanding they are.
The dear girl from the last video over on Twitch?
Yeah, she thinks that voice chat is inherently a non-inclusive game mechanic, not only because
some people are mute, but because some trans people don't have passing voices.
Also, the person giving out the deer-gasms in that cringe video clip I played for you,
that I played twice, believes in this position so strongly that she's willing to insult
people's dyslexia over it.
Being ableist in your advocacy for disabilities.
Good job.
Sorry, had to do it.
But most famously of all, the progs are using accessibility as an excuse to backdoor in
a general lowering of difficulty in games.
Because I guess not being able to get fucking good as a disability now?
When Sekiro came out back in 2019, game journos who couldn't beat the game, or hell, get
beyond the first hour, started dropping articles talking about accessibility, when what they
were actually talking about was difficulty.
Yes, even in the article whose headline blatantly says it's not about difficulty, it's actually
about difficulty too if you were to read it.
We saw viral tweets and articles like this, if the entire point of your video game rests
on the player's ability to perform fast-click challenges and precision jumping in bullshit
mechanic gimmicks, then you aren't telling a good story, you're making bop it for grownups.
Anyone who ever uses the word gameplay needs to seriously consider their life choices.
Now that Ubisoft's opened the door, can we have our skip boss fight button?
Why Dark Souls 3 should have an easy mode, and the problem with playing to win?
Twitch streamers are sick of being shamed for playing a game on easy.
Oh shut the fuck up, I'm shamed all the time on my stream, that's part of the fun.
As streamers, we're dancing monkeys, and if that means that sometimes you're the butt
of the joke, that's how it is, you hypersensitive art hoe.
Also, watch Game Boomers already you cucks.
That last article is Patricia Hernandez's most recent abortion published on Polygon,
and it's in reference to this video.
Hi friends, I want you to look right in my eyes right now, you know exactly who I'm talking
to.
Hi, shut the fuck up, let people play games however they want to, are you seriously roasting
me for trying to play a story that is notoriously one of the most convoluted lore-based games
in existence to try to figure out the lore and listen to the dialogue and watch the cutscenes
and enjoy it?
I swear to god, I swear to god, not everybody wants to play games to be absolutely infuriated
and in pain the entire time.
I will absolutely suplex you the fuck out of my chat, stop gatekeeping how people play
games, it's so fucking boring, you're boring!
I wonder what kind of worldview you have to have to think that you're boring is a proper
reply to getting blown the fuck out.
I know at least two breadtubers who say that on the regular, and it's like damn dude, the
rest of the world doesn't exist for your entertainment.
In fact, if you're on stream it's the way around, you're the boring one for bitching
that your chat is having a good time laughing at you, and if you don't want to be laughed
at, get good.
This tiktok also went viral a couple months ago, and it's cut from the same cloth.
Side note, we are not hating on people that make video games a priority.
If being good at video games is one of your priorities, what an excellent way to spend
your downtime, I am flabbergasted by your skills.
It's just not one of my priorities, I have many skills in this life, but beating Hollow
Knight mini-bosses is not one of them.
I don't want a challenge, life is hard enough, I want a cool interactive story.
What happens is I get frustrated on a fight I can't beat, and I end up giving up and
I lose out on so much cool stories.
Video game creators, this is my plea to you.
Slash slash, on with the story.
Easy modes, please, thank you.
Holy shit, did we need this one to be an angry feminist rages in the car flavor?
The problem with the position presented in these two videos is that it completely backfires
when you put it together with another prog talking point.
Not everything has to be for everybody.
Which is true.
For example, High Guardian Spice is not for me, it's for the chromosomally deficient
who think that Steven Universe or BoJack Horseman were actually good shows, but that's fine,
not everything's for me, not everything is to my taste, but it doesn't have to be.
And it also doesn't have to be for the adult infants who can't beat Hollow Knight either.
I have many skills in this life, but beating Hollow Knight mini-bosses is not one of them.
Guess what, lady, Hollow Knight's not for you.
And that's okay, there are other games you can play.
Progs always hide their it's not meant for you card when something is not to their taste.
Because the truth is, they want everything to be meant for them.
Their thought process is, hey, here's something popular, like Hollow Knight, like Sekiro,
like Dark Souls 3.
It's in the current cultural zeitgeist.
I want to be able to tweet about it while it's still relevant, but it's actually not
my thing.
Therefore, I'm excluded, and exclusion is a social justice problem, and so the solution
is to change it to be something that I like.
It's a related medical condition to the Netflix adaptation tumor, called the Easy Mode Lesions.
In fact, if you only want to watch a game, then go watch a stream or a let's play or
a fucking movie adaptation, I don't know.
Hell, Shenmue is getting an anime.
That game will probably even be better as an anime, just go watch that.
Of course, if this is the way that customers want it, or rather, if game developers think
that this is the way that customers want it based on an annoyingly loud minority online,
they're going to start implementing shit that Sony revealed as part of its PS5 accessibility
microtransactions.
Imagine approaching a boss during a game, and you suddenly get this popup.
Players who used Resource E were successful on their first attempt 80% of the time and
defeated Boss X in about 1 minute on average.
Expect Resource E now, with Resource E costing a buck or two on the PlayStation Store.
I remember people ridiculing this shit back in the 2000s.
In fact, I booted up Mass Effect 3 on my old Xbox 360 because I'm playing through it
on stream right now, and still available on Xbox Live.
On the 360, even now, for this decade old game, are $5.99 gun packs to unlock super
strong weapons not available during normal play.
We made fun of this shit back in the day, and rightly so, and now it's going to be
pop-ups right in the game.
Speaking of microtransactions, what the fresh hell is this?
Alright, alright, let's see.
Subtitles are of course useful for deaf and hard of hearing players, while colorblindness
modes have been an increasingly common feature in games.
There.
I've played the only good part of this 20 minute Jim Sterling video for you.
That was the only good point made.
Everything else is listening to that cat bell jingle while the two of them try to deliver
their lines.
Why are you wearing a collar?
Something else in this video is just complaints about how microtransactions are evil, and
they certainly can be, but how they're also ableist, because people with certain disabilities
just can't control themselves, and have to spend spend spend on loot boxes and other
shit.
And sure, for some people, that's probably true, but for a lot of others, I think it's
just people externalizing their lack of discipline, blaming some other variable so they don't
have to own up to the possibility that they need to work on themselves.
In a moment that shames me, I once idly spent money on pocket fucking mortys without really
thinking about what I was doing.
My impulsiveness and my lack of patience for the grinding and randomization made me toss
some money to get more of the dribblingly and unsatisfyingly unlockable playable mortys,
and I didn't even think about how I was buying loot boxes until immediately afterwards, where
my brain actually caught up and said, wait a minute, my lack of self control as a result
of simply not thinking is genuinely scary to me.
This is like saying it's McDonald's fault that you got fat.
No, just stop fucking eating it, dude.
Truth be told, the accessibility discourse in gaming is the most disingenuous bullshit
I've ever heard.
If progs actually cared about the disabled, the conversation wouldn't revolve around
easy modes, but would instead focus on things like the lack of colorblind settings in most
games, or the pain of getting specialized controllers or interfaces to work on some
platforms, most notably PS4 and PS5 right now.
Yet, whenever they bring up the accessibility issue, it's never actually about disabled
people because they do not give a shit about disabilities, and in fact, are very happy
to be ableist if it serves their interests, as I've covered in another video.
They only talk about difficulty, and they use the disabled as a shield for their own
lack of skill.
It was a recent story that Double Fine put an invincibility toggle in Psychonauts 2.
Not an optional invincibility powerup like in the more recent Mario games, but a straight
up, turn it on in the menu, you're now invincible.
And Tim Schafer decided to characterize his critics like this, uh, excuse me, I beat sword
guy serious time on a no hit hard mode, and if you didn't do that, I don't respect
you.
And like, can you even comment on things if you're not Diamond 6 rank in shooty mcblam?
I don't think so.
Cool bud, you're so cool.
Now, if Tim Schafer wasn't a walking turn up, but actually knew how to appeal to his
primary fanbase, which at this point is only people who have fond memories of Psychonauts
1, here is what he should have done.
He should have put in an invincibility mode as a cheat code.
There you go.
Now the boomers who are aching for a taste of when games were once good, get some nostalgia
in the form of the return of cheat codes.
And now these pretend accessibility advocates get to put something in their shitty Kotaku
article that nobody will read.
But it seems like Tim Schafer would rather shit his pants at people who actually want
to play the game he's created.
Also, excuse me, but um, shooty mcblam?
Using a mick like that as a slur against the Irish I'll have you know, progs need to
stop abusing the term accessibility to mean consuming the raw content of a video game
easily and without any sort of roadblock whatsoever.
But they won't.
Because that would mean giving up the ethical grounding upon which their own subjective
tastes and consumption patterns rest upon.
Without that, they'd have to admit that it really is just a matter of personal preference,
and that the onus really is on them to get good.
But that means personal responsibility, and turning your own individual inadequacies into
a social issue is a great way of blaming everybody else for your own bullshit.
I'm not even against the people who use the invincibility mode or whatever, I just
won't use it.
That's fine.
But one, banter is still legitimate, and just like in the old days, if you play on
easy, yeah, laughing at you is fine.
Laughing at me is fine too.
Yes you're a big kid, that's the point.
And two, we all know where this eventually leads, don't we?
Superhot went from having a really cool game with some admittedly dark components, mainly
suicide and brain alteration, to having a toggle to remove those dark components despite
them being essential to the story, to just outright removing them for everybody in the
name of accessibility.
It won't stop with the inclusion of easy modes, but the exclusion of hard modes.
Mass Effect Legendary Edition was already significantly easier on its hardest difficulties
than the original game.
The Grand Theft Auto trilogy re-release also seems to be similarly rebalanced.
This is only going to continue unless you start voting with your wallets.
Probably the most disgusting part of it all, though, is how these people co-op those with
actual real physical needs because they're tired of being made fun for being DSP clones.
This is like if a guy in a wheelchair said, I need a ramp to enter the building, and then
the city government spent six figures on a public education campaign, put up billboards
and signs everywhere, ran TV and radio ads promoting the plight of the disabled, donated
huge sums to the advocacy group People United for Ramps in America, collected research on
the opinion of violent anti-ramp groups, and then when the guy in the wheelchair once again
just asked to have a ramp built, he would be arrested for harassing and threatening
city officials as part of the alt-right gamergate fascist group We Won't Wheel.
