Hello everyone, welcome to TikTok Tuesday on Monday night, the main reason for this is I'm still working on that giant video
I don't know if you pay attention to my Twitter or my discord or the community posts on the YouTube channel
But I announced I think was it Friday. I announced Friday or Saturday. I was making a huge video
I figured I have it up by Saturday. That's why no video come out on Saturday, by the way
I had planned for it to come out then. Well, I didn't finish it in time
So I worked all through Saturday aside from the weekly sip
I worked all through Sunday and then I said, you know, I'll get it on Monday. Sure
Oh, I didn't get it on Monday. I'm nearly done though. I'm nearly done. I'll be able to get it out
Tuesday morning, so you know what Tuesday morning drop by it's gonna be one of those really big videos like the three forms of fascism
Or like the Antonio Gramsci video very long at least an hour long. I'm gonna be premiering it. It's gonna be great
Make sure you drop in make sure your super chat
I definitely need the money right now
Some IRL things happen that I talked about on the weekly sip the TLDR is that my car is fucked
I gotta get a new car. That's as simple as that. Anyway enough of that nonsense
We are here check out this week's round of tick-tock gobbledygook, let's go
This comment is asking if I could prove that all 2,000 of the billionaires are evil people. Yeah. Yeah, I can
Oh my god, I can already tell this is gonna be cancerous. All right, Tormund Giantsbane. Tell me all about it
So first let's put a billion into perspective
1 million seconds is about 12 days
1 billion seconds is just under 32 years
Which means that if you earned one dollar every single set number big and never number bigger any of it
It would take you about 32 years to earn a single billion dollars if you earned
$5,000 a day from the time that Columbus started his infamous voyage. It would take you about
527 years to earn a single billion dollars and there are people out there with
Multiple billions of dollars. Holy shit. I was just joking. His argument actually is a big number is bigger
Listen, I don't know if you value your time or your labor at one dollar a day
I don't know if that's your your personal level of worth, but basically I'm sure he's gonna get into it
He's gonna get into some sort of labor theory of value
I'm sure that's where we can be the next leg of the tick-tock
The reason some people make more money is because their labor is more valuable to more people
How hard you work can actually affect certain things for sure
But ultimately it's how valuable your labor is based on that math. We can conclude that there's no ethical way to
Billion really because there is no physically possible way to earn that money
Solely through the value of your own labor actually very very very dumb because not all labor is created equal
A guy digging a hole with a shovel is gonna get a whole lot less
Digging done with a whole lot more of his own energy expended than a guy digging a hole with a backhoe
It's not equal and it shouldn't be equal which means that in order to become a billionaire
You have to steal the labor value of thousands
If not millions of people and we know that this is the case and we know that this is the case because between
1979 oh god this statistic one the average productivity meaning the average amount of labor value produced by the workers has increased by
64.6%
Meanwhile, the average wage of workers has only increased by about seventeen point three percent. That's it. Okay, you want to know why?
Okay, hold on. Yeah, that's difference of nearly fifteen labor value right difference of nearly fifty percent labor value
Got it. You want to know why this is the case?
It's because productivity and value aren't the same thing
Laborers become more productive once they have let's say better education or better tools. There's a whole bunch of different factors here
It's not just that owners are
scraping surplus value off the backs of the laborers people at the very top of businesses still do labor in them and the fact that
Their labor affects the entire business and therefore all the all the people who shop at that business
Use that business a service that's what makes their labor more valuable because they affect more people
I've outlined this in several videos. I'll just do it again real quick
Let's say they work at a grocery store, right? So you put up a hundred boxes in an hour
Okay
During that hour of work your labor has affected
100 potential customers right at some point hundred customers will come by and buy those hundred boxes and so your labor affects a hundred other
People that's what gives it its value now
Let's say you have a guy who's a receiver and he's taking the product off the delivery truck and putting it in the back room
He's gonna be using a tool generally a hand jack or a power jack and he's gonna be moving pallets and he can move pallets
Way faster with his tool than you can moving individual boxes with your hands
He might move a thousand boxes from the truck the back room in the same hour that you move a hundred boxes
From the back room to the store floor his labor
Even though it's the same amount of time and also probably less labor intensive for him personally his labor affects
1,000 customers instead of a hundred so he makes more money
Then you have the store manager whose labor affects every customer in the store the district manager who affects the customers of every single
Person who shops at any store in the district all the way up the chain your labor affects more people you get paid more
For it. It's as simple as that already
Billionaires are stealing 50% or more of their workers labor value so that can sit around in
investment funds and stock portfolios providing nothing of value to society
Does even know what a stock portfolio is like an investment? Do you even know what these things are?
Okay, when you buy stock what you're doing is you're buying a portion of a company. All right, so there's a company
It's going for sale. You can buy stock in the company
So you own like ten you pay the company X amount of dollars you own like five stocks and like five percent of the company
Or something, right? The reason companies go public is because they need money for expansion
You know
The company is booming so you have a shop right and it's booming and you use it's time for you to like branch out buy
Other locations open other shops, you know grow the business
You can take a loan out but loans have interest on them or you could go public and
Sell part ownership of your company and then use that capital that you gain from selling the ownership to expand the business
So when money is sitting in a stock portfolio, you know what it's actually doing
It's enabling businesses to expand which allows them to hire more people and provide more services to the community
So it's not doing nothing sitting in a stock portfolio you fucking moron. There are currently over
582 thousand homeless people in the United States many of which are children. Hold on
582 thousand homeless people
Population of the USA
331.9 million. Okay. Okay, so it's
0.0015 percent of the country is homeless, you know, that's pretty good
The reason there's a lot of homeless people in America is because there's a lot of fucking people in America and in the year 2020
There were more than 34 million food insecure people in the United States
that's about
10% of the population that doesn't know where their next meal is going to come from the condition of not having access to sufficient food
Or food of an adequate quality to meet one's basic needs. Okay, like
Sufficient food means you don't have enough food. You're just going poor you have no food
You're hungry but food of an adequate quality that could just mean that they're eating shit
Because I don't know if you've noticed but poor people in the United States and in the Western world in general
They're not skinny. They're not starving. They're fat. All right, they're eating way too many carbs
That's a problem that we have to solve but it's not the same thing as just starving people everywhere
You know food insecurity is not the same thing as hunger and I think that's why this guy's not saying hunger
Now, do you know how much it would cost to end homelessness in the United States according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development?
It would cost 20 billion dollars to end homelessness in the United States a lot of that money
They have actually isn't cash its assets and if everyone sells their assets to get liquid cash one
They won't get as much liquid cash as they think and two there's no buyers for assets that expensive
Also, I'm gonna have to rely on the old-school d-boonkers, but apparently that 20 billion dollar figure
It's actually not that accurate would likely cost significantly more than 20 billion to house America's homeless population
After factoring in the expansion of the federal housing voucher program and affordable housing development
Yeah, it ain't just 20 billion dude. It's a lot more. Of course his answers just take more from the billionaires
But I mean as I said, there's no liquid cash there. It's all assets
This guy just doesn't understand what he's talking about. He doesn't understand economics doesn't understand finance
He doesn't understand why things are the way they are
He sees one little slice of society and thinks oh it needs to be this way because he has no actual information
Maybe this is why Hollywood's replacing all these redheads with black people because they're actually stupid. Okay. Now that's maybe that's a little too far
Sorry, sorry, my redheaded listeners
This has to be a troll
I
Okay, this is a troll this is a troll
Wow, okay. Okay. I thought maybe that was like like the cops weren't in on it initially still pretty funny though
Then don't post it I've had to record this for context don't do it
Then mom ripped up my kinky drawings called me disgusting and gave me a lifelong guilt complex for having a pregnancy finish
Well summer you wanted to see my drawing
Why
Here's one I did in high school
So guilty hated myself afterwards. Jesus Christ. You should paper you should feel guilty
And though I perceive myself as being completely unable to draw so more often than not I get all missions like this
or this
Here's my fursona and address, oh, of course very mean I'm male assigned at birth this basically counts as M preg
Here's my among this character
My blood-borne characters my planned vtuber persona
Gross yeah, I mean at least you're honest about it. All right, at least you're so hold on
How do we see in there? We saw um trans
stepchild
Mpreg fetish
Oppressive parents like this person has just won the lottery of shit that makes your life fucked up
Oh and furry, of course my god. What a what a way to end it. Okay, guys, I think that's that's enough
That's that's enough. I need to go do something else. In fact, you know what?
I think I think after once if you're watching this right when it comes up
I'll be streaming right after so I just click over to the stream say hello
You can yell at me for showing you some furry Mpreg trans trans stuff on the on the show. Okay
Fuck dude
