Are you a safety valve for people who are stewing about all kinds of stuff, or are you dangerous?
I don't know whether I'm dangerous. I just say what I think, and it's the way I think.
You could say it's bigotry if you want. I don't think it is.
I'm pro-Canadian, more so than I'm anti-Soviet or anti-Sweet.
I wish more Canadians were like me.
That really plays in the country these days, but where is it going to end?
Where is it going to end if we get into that kind of politics?
Whether it's in sport, whether it's to do with jobs.
We let people come in and take our fish, and the people are starving down there.
Then people come in and wreck everything on us.
They come in, and it wouldn't happen if I was a part of it.
There's not a party in Canada that would take you today with what you're talking about and what you believe in.
I've been asked by two.
Which ones?
Liberal and Conservative.
And they want Don Cherry in there talking about, complaining about the immigrants.
They want people that people like, that people like on TV.
How could you not like me on TV if you're Canadian? Good old boy like me.
From the back benches, he'll clean up metric and more.
I'll tell you, I'll straighten those guys out.
I want to be in the back, hollering and yelling.
I'll be great. I'll be as great in politics.
Imagine me going down to Newfoundland, going down there.
What would happen?
I'd go down there and I'd say, look, vote me in, and I guarantee you, as I stand here,
no foreign trawler would come in and touch one fish.
And foreign aid, if you want to get into that, here we got people dying.
Here we got people dying for want of beds, and we're giving money to the foreigners.
No way. It'd be Canada first, and Canada only.
That's what I am, a nationalist.
I'm going to start a new power, the nationalist.
And isolating ourselves in trade, and isolating ourselves and the rest of the world
will do just as much good as going out and punching somebody in the nose
before the end of the third period.
75% of our trade is with good old USA, and they like us strong.
They want us strong, not to be wimps.
