As you can see by that timer on the screen, the Lord of the Rings, the Rings of Power
comes out in 45 seconds.
Are you guys ready?
No.
We can't wait.
This is good.
And I say that with a full sarcasm.
I'm here with Lilith and Arch and Kibs.
Hello everyone.
How's it going?
Hello everyone.
Arch and Kibs.
So last night I watched the Fellowship of the Ring extended edition with Naomi just
to have like a taste of something good before I knew this was going to come out.
And you know what?
It still holds up.
It's a bit goofy in that 1999 way, but it still holds up generally.
You know what I mean?
It's going to be a classic probably for all time, honestly.
Peter Jackson did a good job with those movies.
The first three are just always going to be like the Lord of the Rings movies.
Yeah.
Before the movies, I actually really wasn't that interested in Lord of the Rings.
I became interested in it after.
In fact, my first Lord of the Rings experience was that god-awful Super Nintendo game, which
turned me off of the entire franchise for like a decade.
Damn.
I don't even know what game you're talking about.
Why is there an animated series?
The fucking animated movies.
Oh yeah.
They're definitely products of their time because the style is ancient, but they are
one-of-a-kind movies.
I forget the name of the animator who did that.
I remember being super scared of Sauron as a kid.
Like when Sauron came on, my eyes would just be fixed like, oh, he's looking at me.
Well now he's M&M.
That might be a priest of Melkor.
Maybe.
We'll see.
There's conflicting stuff about it, but if that's what Sauron looks like, I'm going to
lose my shit.
At some point, I'll have to do like an actual proper video about this show.
This is just going to be like our series debut watch party since we're all hanging out tonight
and watching it.
But I mean, there's been so much stuff coming out about just how bad the show looks, how
the costumes are shit.
Apparently the intro looks like it's something out of a daytime soap opera.
It's a drastic variation in color.
Right.
I've seen the intro.
It looks like a complete joke.
Are we going to watch like some step wives slapping each other?
Nice.
What's going on here?
Dude, if you could have two elven wives, wouldn't you?
Elves are for enslaving.
They're going to get canceled.
It's the variation in the quality that I think has stood out the most to a lot of people
because some of the gear does not look bad.
Like Galadriel's plate armor looks like plate armor.
She shouldn't be wearing it, but beyond that.
And then you've got that lamellar style armor that the Numenoreans wear, which looks like
some kind of a t-shirt with a scale male pattern painted onto it.
Oh, I saw that.
Yeah.
I don't get it.
Why does it look like cheap?
This is like an Amazon Prime show, isn't it right?
Like you would imagine they have lots of lots of money.
You would think they'd be able to afford to pay the say custom designers a little more.
You definitely think, yeah.
But the one thing I will say, you could definitely tell, at least from the trailer, the hand-picked
CGI scenes, like there was a serious amount of effort and money put into those.
When they're like, here's the trailer shots that will make everyone want to watch this.
There's a bunch of CG and then a bunch of characters that just look really cringy.
Yeah, the character designs are bad.
The CGI scene shots don't look half bad.
Yeah, we're going to have to see how this all comes together, and I'm a little bit skeptical
about this whole show.
I think it's just going to be a train wreck, honestly.
Hopefully it'll be a fun train wreck.
I'm hoping in mind, maybe.
I'm hoping it won't be as bad as everybody's is, but it probably will be in all that likelihood.
If it is, okay, if this is a train wreck, it's going to be a train wreck that we're
going to have to live with for five seasons because they've already ordered five seasons
of it.
I can't, like if it's bombs, they're going to cancel it.
I hope to God.
This is the survival of Amazon Studios on the line.
This will not be canceled.
They will push this turd almost no matter what.
Well, there was one that basically said that this will determine prime video going forward.
There's the meme of everyone saying, no fucking hate watching.
Sorry, guys.
We're doing it so that you don't have to, okay?
We'll do it because we're the YouTubers, okay?
You guys, no fucking hate watching out there, all right?
Yeah.
Special exception for us because we're part of the elite now.
Dev laughs, but he's like, yeah, that's true.
We are the new bourgeois.
It doesn't work.
Not like refusing to watch it isn't going to work because we make up 0.0000% of Amazon's
market cap here.
That's not going to make a difference.
Us watching it and honestly reviewing it will.
Yeah, it's true because people will see the review and then be like, oh, well, this sucks.
And then if you have 10,000 of those or 100,000 bad reviews, that does add up.
You have the Gronton Tomato scores and stuff.
Those 100,000 bad reviews is far more powerful than 100,000 people who didn't watch it.
That's one of the reasons why I felt compelled to do the Kenobi video, even though it was
kind of a little bit old by the time I did it, I was like, you know what?
I should try my hand at doing this sort of thing.
So Kibs, Kibs is the one controlling the video feed.
We're already 10 minutes behind.
You're ready?
Kibs, Twitter already knows about this.
Kibs, I'm letting you Twitter already knows we have to catch up if you have to be involved
in the newest thing.
I have to get I have to figure out how this works even because it's like the episodes
are out.
There it is.
They just came out.
Let's watch this shit.
Here we go.
It's starting.
I also have the pleasure to announce that the episodes are already up on the torrent
sites as well.
So if you don't want to support Prime, I'm not suggesting alternatives.
You can hate watch on the seven seas, so to speak.
You're her fidgety.
Nothing is evil in the beginning.
This is how Google began.
Nothing's evil in the beginning.
But even then, there was light.
You mean our Mary Sue?
Even you could have possibly believed there was a scrapbook float.
It's not going to float.
I hate how the elves are just people.
Are these elves?
Wait, I can't even tell.
They've got like regular ears.
You show them.
They're slightly pointy.
Like, look, they're slightly pointy.
Yeah, she's an elf.
Yeah, I guess.
Oh, my God.
It's a little fucking spawn.
Whee!
Oh, it's a magic origami.
Galadriel made a magic spawn.
Oh, evil toxic masculinity.
Toxic fucking white boy males at it again.
Wow, this story is already really bad.
These are elves.
They look like people.
They speak like people.
Like humans.
What the fuck?
Yeah, the ears aren't pointed enough, you know?
It's the way they shoot it, too.
The way they did it in the movies was actually brilliant.
It gave them an in the luminescence.
Yeah, they kind of glowed.
You know, at this point, I think I preferred the three long pointed ears, like a foot long.
You see those in Warcraft's highlighters?
This guy's barely got pointed ears at all.
Also, they should not be talking about darkness.
This is the first age.
They don't even know darkness exists yet.
Ah, that's that's her brother, isn't it, Finrod?
If I had to guess, yes.
But you must learn to discern them for yourself.
I won't always be here to speak them to you.
Oh, no.
Come along.
Foreshadowing much?
God, this is really bad.
Death flags abound.
We have two death flags on them already.
Nice and subtle.
The symbolism of him walking away over the horizon and she not following and her crying.
And she's talking about death.
Oh my God, Story, can you stop?
The two whatchama doozies, I forget their names.
The Elden Ringtrees.
Oh, doing a bit of a time skip, I see.
Just a bit.
Oh, my Jesus.
OK.
Yeah, we.
All right.
We're skipping to this part, fair enough.
How many how many years have we skipped now?
Quite.
I think a thousand, maybe over now.
They're now basically pursuing Morgoth to recover the light of Valinor, a place known
as Middle Earth.
Oh, my God.
I clapped.
I clapped when I saw it.
Oh, God, I hate this shot.
You see, this helmet symbolizes dead soldiers.
Don't worry, it's not just that helmet.
Yeah, here we go.
That's good stuff right there.
So what I shot, we did is collect all the helmets of the elves died.
It is the most unelven thing ever to just pile up those helmets of dead elven soldiers.
Hey, have you guys heard that orcs are black coated?
I don't know what you're talking about, Dev.
I don't want to get cancelled.
Oh, my God, we time skipped to his death even.
So how many years now?
How many years?
Honestly, we're in the thousands, and that's kind of all I know.
I think we're out of the first agent of the second now, aren't we?
Yeah, we're in the second age now.
So we skipped over the entire first stage.
That's good.
Because remember, Lord of the Rings takes place during the third age.
He became a girlboss.
Gaslight Gatekeep Girlboss.
Yes.
Galadriel is personally chasing us.
I assume she didn't originally do this, did she?
No.
Is it just me or is their voices really soft with the music overpowering?
That's been TV and movies for the past decade.
Look at how strong she is.
She's way ahead of everybody.
Of course, they're holding her back.
This was the show I was demonstrating.
Oh, the fuck boy is keeping the girlboss down?
He'll be wrong enough to apologize.
Or die.
She doesn't care about her men, though.
Jesus Christ.
Considering that I did just watch Fellowship, there was that scene where they were on the
mountain, and they were like, we have to turn back.
And then they did.
Galadriel is far stronger than I.
That's abandoned.
She's gonna abandon her own men.
Feels like how empowered she is.
She's like, no, we keep moving.
Oh, no.
My fucking bad command has gotten one of these elves, like, fucking badly injured.
But there it is.
She was right all along.
It's just Elsa's palace.
I hate these elves.
They're not elves.
They're not token elves, at least.
Galadriel just punched through an ice wolf the best.
Well, hold on.
I don't fully know this lore.
Do the elves have super strength like some elves do in this?
They are stronger than mortal men, if I remember right.
Faster.
But not, not punching through a solid wall of ice with their fucking hands in two blows
Probably not that.
Her girl energy makes that possible.
Girl energy?
See, we're in the second age now.
It's second wave elven feminism.
Don't worry, she's super smart and knows everything.
She's a special snowflake, in fact.
That's not how he works, but details.
According to Amazon, actually, it is.
According to Jeff Bezos.
Actually, Jeff Bezos said this isn't his fault.
The show.
Wait, what?
Yeah.
Apologize.
He apologized before the show started.
No way.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, guys.
That's hilarious of Joe.
Jeez.
Literally, what Lou had pointed out, the men are only holding her back.
They're constantly questioning.
There's something here.
He wasn't here.
Can we go home and he's a bitch?
I'm right.
He's always gotta be right.
As we'll probably see throughout the entire thing.
She's always right.
I mean, she's already flawless.
What has she done wrong?
Even when she was a kid, she was perfect, but the children were holding her back.
The white males were holding her back, really.
She...
Oh, shit.
You know, these guys aren't acting like elves, by the way.
Bumbling around an ancient ruin like a bunch of muppets.
That's because she has to save them.
In a lot of stories, elves are just like humans with pointed ears.
Maybe they have more magic, maybe they're stronger.
Like Vulcans, basically, sometimes.
Or like in Warcraft, they're just like other people.
But in Lord of the Rings, aren't they supposed to be like almost godlike?
Fine.
Now, fastly superior to humans.
Yeah.
And the easy thing about you is an actual scene of a fucking human.
I love how right I was.
Christ.
She...
They couldn't do anything to it, but only she could.
Yep.
She's the only confident one of the bunch.
Also, I thought...
I think she's such a bitch.
Uh-oh.
The fuckboy's gonna say something.
Gotta hold the girlboss down.
All these white men holding her back.
Fucking white people, am I right?
Are you...
Are you literally, like, laying down your arms?
No, serious...
Oh, that's...
Ah, fuck me.
They laid down their arms before her feet like a bunch of fucking retard.
Right, so we're off to a horrific start.
Oh, god, is it the retarded people?
Yes, it is.
Yes, it is.
Why do they have those?
Like the wind would blow them over.
Yes, it would.
I love the antler people.
Look at that.
What is that?
They just have giant antlers on their back.
Okay, so this was shown off early on.
Yeah, so these are like hunters, but they wear giant antlers for some reason.
And they just look retarded.
And they were like, look at the new Lord of the Rings.
And this is like the first picture they showed.
And these people, they just look so fucking stupid.
This is the early second age, they're talking about barstools?
These should be fucking neolithic savages.
I have to guess.
I would say they're like wearing the antlers to appear bigger to animals.
See, that's not wrong.
But like, that would scare away predators.
But you'd have a hard time hunting like that.
Oh god, we have the harfoots.
Oh no.
Don't worry, we have a black one too.
Don't ask me how.
So what are these guys?
Are these guys just like Kokiri or something?
Like primitive poppets.
Yes, but Amazon can't call them hobbits because they don't have the rights to the hobbits.
Wait, they actually don't?
Really?
Nope.
They don't.
That's why these are harfoots.
These aren't canon.
Wait, hold on.
Hold on.
It's pseudo.
Wait a second.
Explain this to me.
They've got access to the...
Oh god, what's the English word?
You know, the list of things that's in the book.
But they don't have anything to do with the actual Lord of the Rings books.
They've got like the summaries and stuff.
Oh, but not the actual main stories.
Okay.
No.
Which means that they don't actually own hobbit hobbits,
and so these aren't hobbits.
These are harfoots.
And that's why they've specifically said, Lenny Henry here in fact specifically said,
that the harfoots weren't hobbits.
Now, that's bullshit according to the lore, but...
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Like, Shunkus.
You guys were all thinking it.
Yep.
A little bit.
Look at the way they're shooting this.
They're shooting from down and up all the time.
The hobbits don't look like hobbits, they look like, again, just fucking people.
Yeah, so I recall seeing a making of the original Lord of the Rings way back in the day.
showed like all the camera angle tricks to make um to make elijah wood look so much smaller than
everyone else right yeah they built the cart with like the seat in the back and like all that stuff
they really made them look like they were tiny people and this i don't get that feeling from
this at all why do you got leaves in your hair because they're quirky their culture it's their
culture basically it's a a very lazy way to make them look oh they're like either finicky
so i'm guessing they're like tree ground uh hobbits i'm guessing well the thing is
in the show they're described as no uh nomadic people that travel with the growing seasons
for all the sense that makes and they're supposed to be super stealthy so i'm assuming that's why
they've got branches in their hair oh that's their camo not wolf ah fuck me
i heard you're just gonna have an aneurysm watching this the thing is i'm not even the
biggest like lord of the rings lore fanboy person but it's just basic shit like this pisses me off
because they know this isn't a wolf and yet they call it a wolf anyways all wrong quote unquote
it doesn't look like l running mr anderson ah they're doing they're already sabotaging
his character how's that nice you know you notice that notice how he's already making errors and
scratching out words he's unrefined not thinking clearly his guidance from a strong female
character i mean i think aileron is already like a thousand years old but details details
the writers don't know that
wait this is the exact same as house of the dragon it's the same story where like the girl
the girl boss flies off in the dragon and gets the job done and comes back and the king is mad
that she did it all on her own but doesn't get recognized for her work yeah it's the same fucking
story it's it's the classic strong female character she's the only one who knows
and ever nobody believes her everybody else are morons she's gotta be proven right yeah everybody's
gonna be like oh you're right oh you know that story isn't necessarily bad john snow did that
was pretty well done with him and the white walkers it was well done in mass effect when
no one believed shepherd about the reapers but like yeah there are other stories you can do with
girl characters you know anime is full of stories you can do with girl characters there are but this
is the only strong female character hollywood knows like this is is their strong female character
sadly it's sadly true for a lot of mainstream writers and that's why we see it regurgitated
in multiple shows because they they're creatively bankrupt and they don't know how to write female
characters she's adventurous by the way
look she's female frodo oh my jesus she is well isn't this more isn't this more female
bilbo because frodo frodo was kind of reluctant to go on the journey actually yeah that's actually
more apt because bilbo was the one who had that wanderer's lust but was like holding himself back
and then finally gave in yeah frodo i mean i just watched fellowship the ring frodo he was more like
he did it because he was a good person he knew it had to be done but he didn't really want to
he was a reluctant hero but he understood that uh gandalf couldn't take the ring and that he
had to take it he was the ring bearer somehow i feel like you know adriel might have an objection
soon look at how mad she is yes jesus christ she's just fucking glaring
it's a ceremony for her you can at least be nice for the second right
wait i thought the whole point of this story was that everyone was going going to valinor yeah
no no the elves pursued across the sea and that's why they founded various elven kingdoms like
linden where they're right now because they were hunting the uh the things that were stolen by
oh fuck i can't remember but all elves have a calling to go back to valinor right you know i
will say like it it looks good a lot of the scene compositions are are the production i don't know
about the scene composition but like the production value is okay my annoyance is in the the lack of
the representation of these are not people i feel a bit too human yeah yep they're a bit stiff
like those wooden carvings oh god damn it but like galadriel is basically just ray
from from the star wars sequels that's fairly accurate i'd say just in different clothing
every female protagonist has to be ray no don't and uh if you have objecthood
you're a bigot and you hate strong empowered women obviously it is over the evil is gone
oh my god literally my feelings that's a you problem lady ah yes my lived experiences
what she ironically just pulled that well the problem too is galadriel has not
seen galadriel was not with the army galadriel has not fought sauron my friend
damn friend zone but the other way around
hahaha
i mean at least the map's done nicely that looks pretty nice but that's about it i want to run my
hand through it i'll bet it feels nice get your greasy paws off me map that's so textury it looks
very textory that's true i'm sorry kibs you racist you look at a black woman is this the
person to laughter i'm sorry but like when it comes to cultural you have this like european town
and then there's just a random black lady and she has like the black head scarf and and like the
like the circles hanging that's like an african thing
we just got random diversity scattered everywhere
and the worst part it feels like a quota doesn't it oh speaking of diversity hires we got a new
character it's a black elf so is he supposed to be some kind of dark elf or is it literally just
a black elf okay yep they're all fair-skinned also like i think they've made have fucked up
because they mentioned this is the south lands i mean this should be the lands of like
let it go i didn't see where the map was painting
now still honestly because uh this doesn't look like thinking
by the way racism is bad in case you were unaware racism is indeed bad
unless it's against elves thank you amazon prime for showing us i hate his hair most of all like
sure okay so he's black or portrait hold on look at his breastplate though what about it
it's made of wood or something it's made of plastic those are the finest costumes at spirit
halloween okay his hair is the thing that annoys me the most because okay he's like it's the
current year they've got to have black elbows because reasons but at least they could have
given him long flowing hair instead like he is the most anti-elf you can imagine like in in tone in
demeaner in appearance because elves are supposed to have long beautiful hair give him long dread
locks that's not beautiful we got an interracial relationship now yep kib called it kib genius
but another short-haired elf they all seem to be short-haired now pretty much really
the elves are talking about their life we gotta have vulgarity you know again they're just
people that's the thing they're just fucking people with people's concerns
they're just humans they're not even elves my point is that's a cool shot only twice
in known he waited till now to speak his point after like three hours of walking
listen you just wait for three hours you know my point is actually
it's like what what the fuck were you talking about maybe they're just elves from a different
region idk that region's called amazon land of amazon basil's high king
do you notice also every time they pronounce a name or a place name they change their
pronunciation drastically not only they can just talk always talk like that that's the problem
most of the time they speak like just regular fucking humans and then when they occasionally
inadvertently have to say something that's related to lord of the rings their pronunciation changes
to be fair arch you're barely speaking like a human right now damn he's more elf than these
characters she's got the hots for that black elf though look at her he knows
you know why are you at my home or make
oh jesus
that's fucking racist all right time for the the action to brew up fellas here we go
where are you going dramatic music
so obviously the cow's been grazing in corrupted lands
corrupted lands they're unaware of you know do they do any reconnaissance whenever we're
garrisoned here they just sort of chilled in their little fort and that just waited
yeah weren't they there for like 79 years or something they weren't patrolling around
attention they're just sitting there twiddling their thumbs it's a lie maybe that's why he's
a half no i'm sorry child then what happened to him his dad is the elf though you think so
this is the real bouncy that's why he's light brown that's racist kibbs race is a social
construct oh that's the evil looking sword he's got the sign sorry just stand there at attention
mean to be fair it's the most elven thing they've done so far
we wait in full armor what happens if you fall off the boat
very descriptive thank you strange how
on my way is there a tin can look like it like in the background i'm pretty sure that was a tin
can in the background there better than a starbucks cup
you're the only one who let me hit it
listen he's desperate okay well the warden's fucked up a bit
maybe you should have warned the garrison instead of your girlfriend
still standing there they've been standing there for fucking days
no one can take the sword from you no one's doing anything on the ship they're just standing see the
writers think that overs overly ceremonious will be very elven delicate i mean again to be fair
this is the most elven they've been so far yeah but even when they get on the ships to valinor
and the other movies like they don't wear their full battle garb no no but give them a point for
trying i don't give them a point for being amazon barge listen i like my knife i want to stab
somebody with it now this is actually a pro second amendment message never give up your arms damn
oh my god valinor is an arwelian nightmare so how does luminor work like uh like valinor
yeah that's i mean it's our valinor it's like the land of the see i'm not super familiar but
i've been starting to read up on the lore a lot more but basically it's like a magical land where
nothing dies and so that's why the immortals like elves that go there you know that's where
they belong they don't belong in middle earth i see it's the land of the valor the valor
so can just anybody sail there or do only elves though how to
uh only else mortals can exist in the land works there's sometimes rare exceptions but that's why
there's the van then alcom frodo was able to go there they made an exception for him because he
did and you know that was only because he was going to die anyways like he would die in valinor
it's a mercy because mortals aren't allowed to valinor because they apparently like it's sort
of alluded that they age too quickly but immortals are fine there it's also because it's nice to have
the ethnostates i think they brought all the ring bears so they brought frodo sam and bilbo
yep because like you guys are in it you can you can come on
you can join our ethno state you're your exception you guys are honorary ways you can come in
nice to follow yeah i reckon i can swim to shore from here i'll just jump out
like she literally did no way she's gonna swim all the way back home
do you understand writers how far she's gonna have to swim now
isn't like a thousand miles like she'll never make it of the atlantic ocean she'll never make
it because the currents would pull her away even if she swam as hard as she could that's fucking
horseshit she doesn't even have like a trifle to hold on to yeah she's basically dead so uh gg
you're dead dead if you do that the natural reaction to anyone seeing a meteorite crash
nearby wandered towards the burning wreckage especially if you're like a you know primitive
civilization you're not terrified or anything also what's in here what well first the meteorite
wouldn't look like this but i guess it's a person crying in the show that's how she's crying too
everybody's they have water in their eyes wait wait wait that that is sauron that is sauron
oh my episode two is up already what yeah yeah yeah so uh they did like an episode one and an
episode two in one day you gotta keep going kibs let's spend a few minutes talking about what the
fuck we just watched oh god because we watch okay here here's what a pilot's supposed to do right
introduce your characters introduce your setting introduce at least get the conflict started this
shouldn't be the first time you're exposed to what lord of the rings is it feels like because
this pilot relies on so much past knowledge of everything that's come before the only reason
that we care about any of this is because of the previous movies they didn't establish anything
that makes us care in this dev you're you're being facetious okay they introduced her brother for at
least five seconds and then he died hold on they introduced him he maybe had like two minutes or
five minutes of screen time before he died and they foreshadow his death in the introduction
to his characters like this story is so rushed like we should have gotten a whole like thing
about the the war of wrath rather than just like the war of wrath happened and it was bad
i was like okay but but yes so what what what happened in gladiator story she she went through
the ice she found evidence of sauron nobody believed her she went back she was being sent
away she refused and jumped into the ocean like that that's the tldr of it right but
yeah so sauron's returning and things are getting corrupted and all things are bad
yes so so the other stories actually had stuff kind of happening in them but it really seems
up something but like it's kind of setting up something but it doesn't make you care about
any of the characters beyond this is these are people that you already know from previous movies
because they're doing the same thing because the the completely new characters they're so bland
it's it's the same problem with house of dragons like you are expected to know
the reason why you should give a shit like you should care about galadriel because it's
galadriel it's given you no other reason to give a shit we also established um oh god elrond but
we also established i can't remember the guy's name let's call him black elf or belle for short
and we also established yeah belle and uh harfoot lady so we have three story arcs that have been
prepped so i somehow they're gonna all intermingle i think the harfoot one's gonna have something to
do with the sauron dude yeah i have a sneaking suspicion they're all gonna be kept completely
separate and i have another sneaking suspicion that they might actually be taking place at
vastly different times oh so that would be really weird well they did that with the witcher and it
was fine with the witcher with all the different time periods kind of shifting around fine and
fine it was it was a decent show the witcher i like the witcher come on you guys are being
apologetic just because henry kevl was in it that's it i've established it to be fair the
arrival of sauron is a pretty big deal and but he's not obvious he's the stranger this is part
of his ploy yep he's pretending he's gonna be he's gonna blend in with the rest of everyone
because he's gonna eventually slip his way to numenor and trick the numenorians into
trying to break the ban because they'll be like the elves are you know they're they're preventing
from going to valor because they're they're holding all their power and immortality and
he's like what really that's they're dicks i want the immortality they're why can't we have it arch
i know you and i disagree on house of the dragon like you think it's bad i think it's like okay
it's not amazing but it's okay i'm gonna beat you we're gonna beat you i feel like house of the
dragon actually set up its principal characters to have personalities way more than this because
we know that in that show the king is kind of weak and and he doesn't have a grasp on anything
we know that that the daughter is is is intelligent but overlooked we know that
her uncle he he's the evil uncle who wants the throne like they set up the characters
well enough that we can tell who they are based on personality i don't think this show did that
they all just seem to be the same bland person i feel like this show is kind of the same though
because this show is also and then and then and then and the house of dragon is and then and
then and then it tells us rather than really showing us and when it shows us it's overt
it's like look his fingers falling off look he knocked over a statue and broke it
seeing his house is coming undone foreshadowing it's a little too on the nose that's the thing
dev is actually correct here in that house of dragons has done more like it's
it's basic bitch shit the king is literally rotting to demonstrate that his realm is falling
apart the uh the princess is the only capable individual that can get anything done and her
uncle is like yes yes yes yes yes but at least those are characters galadriel's only character
here she is it was actually a brilliant uh comparison she is ray she is the cardboard box
that speaks she is strong female character and the other characters they they don't even exist
like elrond what we knew about elrond well he writes okay cool uh what about gilgalad well he
has like leaves that are made of gold uh he's a king and he's wrong actually that's what we know
the show hasn't even really told us about his position like what is he king of is this an
important title like is he respected well we kind of know he's king of linden because he's
in linden that's the thing you know he's king of linden well you'd assume he's king and he's also
in linden ads are but what's linden a normal person what's linden is that the entirety like
is that all of it they show you on the map what linden is it's next to ariador but the thing is
what they don't really show you is like the borders or anything like that yeah exactly and
what's ariador yeah it's like i mean the map has only panned past ariador it's never actually done
anything there it's just a thing on the map for the newcomer ariador means nothing and we also
introduced them to complete the other else i don't dare like okay who's he why why is he in the
southlands the southlands as well that is one hell of a skip and a jump and also they keep present
they're presenting the southlands as if they were like major allies to morgoth like they would
barely have counted in morgoth scheme like that was not a war of men like that was a war in which
balrogs were generals the if i remember right they were more like a vassal state fighting alongside
his forces but that's about it so for the elves to like set up a garrison there to police their
conquered subjects i don't really remember that being a thing because i i think like the only
time they're relevant again from what i know is when the numerians start you know setting
colonies and building up stuff over there and they've got a full site the worst part is too
i'm actually kind of annoyed they're white they should be brown yeah because we're in the south
lands these are the people of ruin right so it should be kind of like southerly like a little
bit arabic kind of yeah a mix of arab and mongol a little bit more instead they're just they come
across as like just european peasants yeah because yeah you're right so like european so i i don't
know the lore the way that that that archon kibbs does but i do know that there are certain places
where certain human races come from in lord of the rings and every population shouldn't just be
mixed race my impression of like southlands weren't they like the people on the boats that
showed up like uh at the third movie they have returned to the king they have like big elephants
hey yes those guys um actually those are different oh god because those i i know the name but i can't
bring it up because this is from the horadrim right yeah horadrim because this is actually to
the east the southlands is past the lands of mordor so this should not look like a european
village which is it's interesting isn't it like they've got a force in a black elf but in a
position where they could actually have a diverse village like now illy law europe the corsairs were
coming up the river or the direction where the river leads to goes to os giliath os giliath is
the former capital of gondor ministeroth is actually a uh like city fortress kind of thing
the that's the thing that the corsairs are actually white because they're full of
numerians oh yeah they are i forgot about that they're the black numerians right
yes also the black numerians aren't actually black by the way this is they call them black
because they turned evil that's racist i'm sorry but i'm not i don't dare and bronwyn
like their romance is not explained it's just like they they meet you see them by the well
and they're like i'd like to have sex with you i know but i can't see this is just modern writing
because it's the forced interracial relationship that does that comes out of nowhere in left field
it's not natural there's no buildup for it i mean galadriel got a prequel okay well introduce the
other characters then at the very least i don't they're like arriving you know looking around
uh being called a black person for a while then he goes like i think you're cute even though you're
black something like something to establish a relationship but they're kind of forcing it along
the show is rushing he said like you're the only kind touch i felt okay like there's i'm saying
i'm sensing that there's like an implied history between them but it's like we're not we're not
shown nor was it told well maybe maybe they'll show it to us that's we want to give him the
benefit of the doubt and maybe they'll get a flashback back yeah but that's gonna flashbacks
work sometimes for twists but this is kind of on the nose because i swear to god that kid that is
his kid you think so oh because his ears are being dead left yep his dad also left because of that too
remember and and his ears are all hidden by his hair you think it's gonna be i think i think the
elf dude's dad originally is gonna hate him and he's like i don't like you but they'd be like
actually you're my dad and you know what we're pretty cool actually and then they shake hands
he's also found the sword of sauron which is god damn it don't worry about it that's just
lying under the floor that's true most of sauron's artifacts kind of have a corrupting influence
well i mean it did kind of glow and look at him a bit that's true everybody's gonna turn evil
he's still fine this is the thing um well what they established in the uh original movie trilogy
boromir is tempted by the ring by just being near it he's willing to kill his compatriots
to her normal human touching an artifact of sauron should be a pretty fucking big deal
yep remember the council when they were in uh oh god uh the thing with the e basically
elrond's uh fortress city place and they were all fighting and bickering because the rings
influence is that powerful yeah yes i'm letting like the different magnitude again like the racist
boy look at the stories i was like oh i want it um but it's like the him holding it there's it
doesn't even look like it's having much of an effect on him yeah you think that he'd be like
instantly possessed or something or at least get like mind fucked should we start the second
episode are you ready to go yep might as well oh god here we go the last the evil is gone then why
is it not gone from in here i'm sorry oh the opening okay we didn't see it the first one
let's watch this shit
oh my god that the rings for me on a dust game or show well it's nice to have pebbles
yeah it's nicer than what twitter said it was yeah no that's not i thought it would be like
them fading in like that thing yeah where did that come from then maybe it was a trailer a fan edit
or maybe like 4chan did it to like shitpost i don't know ah she's realized that swimming for
you know three weeks straight is uh not working out oh glad you what um was your plan
that facial expression is the look of oops i'm a bit retarded oh she's just gonna swim it
yeah okay she's in in the lore she's a witch right can she cast water walk probably not
is this fucking dnd dev convenient underwear very convenient underwear looks you want
soran's first act of waking up is to end up in a sex offenders registry okay
in before yeah i was thinking like the gandalf too
oh
also not to mention there hasn't been a handsome elf in the show yet
i was about to say
the characters are comedically stupid good you know i'm okay if it's hobbits doing this though
uh they're harpots actually for legal reasons he's literally named the stranger
yeah so it's definitely sorry listen sorry little baby lad he's misunderstood he's just having a
little nappy nap little sorrow nappies even dark lords got asleep somehow i just know he's
important hitler was important he is this literally is would you kill baby hitler this
is what's going on here damn pretty the show's asking the hard questions we've got female bilbo
and like a female sam they're even repeating some of their goddamn dialogue what's the old saying
if it ain't broke don't fix it no no it's a different saying it's like poetry it rhymes
god damn it that's fine oh shit my new twitter account's already locked fuck
well that's what you get for saying that that was god punishing you
that damage uh-huh show i'm sure everybody got away fine
no bodies you wanted to keep this pg-13 it's a pg-13 it is actually if you go back to the uh
the page this dramatic music warn your people you're not coming with me i must follow the
passage to the other direction are you gonna tell the wardens why did you call for backup
no no no send the woman i'm sure she'll be fine in the middle of the night god only knows how
many kilometers away from her home so something bad happened we're gonna send that lady unarmed
meanwhile black don't think about it run back home in half the time and give me back again
before she was that's right they can run super fast they can yeah they've got great direction
my good erection
at least they're establishing the reason why he's going to be talked into making the rings
hot as a dragon's tongue and as pure as starlight the things we could use it to create could
transform middle earth nothing bad could ever be created from such a thing don't worry about it
have you considered seeking partners outside the confines of our own race feel far outside
you gotta be a free marketeer man they don't have montages for when they move across man they just
do it indiana jones town you notice that yeah i noticed they had montages they're not like
running across the plains anymore it's like uh it's like a loading screen it's like a little
picture all right yes calin broad one of the richest and most powerful influential individuals
in the entirety of elvenham walks to kazakhdum he's a simple man he wouldn't go on a cart with
a bunch of soldiers no luxuries no creature comforts it just not even backpacks how the
fuck did they eat wasn't there that special elf bread that keeps you fed yeah but how the fuck
much of it will it be carried beyond what you want it is elrond of lindon accompanied by calabrimbor
lord of oregano and no one else no all right okay i admit that was kind of funny
the dwarves are base now trust me is he gonna walk back again yep a few days all right go ahead and
walk back by the way all sorts out by myself i don't know why i brought you motherfucking what
so he came all the way out that's actually really like how many weeks must have taken
well he's walking back by himself
being the doors at their height is pretty cool yeah
are all the females beardless so what yeah this is a inconsistency like oh my god
isn't the tokens female dwarves like they're supposed to have like full beers yeah
they didn't have the stones motherfuck yeah they didn't have the stones to do it like the
witcher did i appreciated that which we saw the bearded dwarves they were female that was cool
problem is you've already established that he's going to get the workforce
yeah that's just the big problem with the prequels you already know what's going to happen right
yep oh black dwarfs good fantastic light
well you know what in warcraft they have the dark iron dwarves that are they're dark skinned
yeah they're literally evil yes they're actually an evil race like personally i disagree now but
if you want to say that all black people are evil then this is a hill you can die on dev you're
welcome to it looks like a comfy spot right here dev uh hello we're back to the fucking hobbits
not hobbits you mean the store brand hobbit he's being holy
it turns out this is actually skyrim hold on i know what's gonna happen
it's gonna be her credit that the ring didn't affect uh frodo or something oh
she's gonna give sauron just enough love that the ring will have some kind of spell on it
that doesn't affect hobbits in the same way they're french right eat the snail
eat the bugs guys which animal finds the shell is it a snail or is it a crab because a crab
that finds the shell right and the snails grow their shells the uh hermit crab finds their
shell um snails they're just like um they grow them
he's out of mana guys he can't cast anymore my god i hate the hobbit parts
they're pretty bad aren't they i like i like angry hobos are on the can you migrate
any migrants they're migrants arch i also want to point out here nomads do not grow crops
because to grow crops you need to you know stay yeah yeah oh my gosh she's still swimming
holy shit she's just giving her just gonna be her swimming for like 30 minutes
oh this is fantastic though and ironically i love the fact that she's just gonna swim home
well we were complaining before that the elves just seemed like humans maybe this is maybe
this is how they make her seem like an actual elf they let her swim home absolutely i mean
no human would do this see beast shark in each year don't forget she's got to be a strong
independent women that's gonna be about
the horns or something or a shipwreck out here maybe they're the numerians
sailing west i don't know
that's a very convenient piece of wreckage
only the women's are the good guys only the women let her on jesus man she is flat as a pancake
oh my god what a waste of water i need you to tell her all our affairs why not
does she doesn't matter looks can be yeah like unironically why not
like you're all gonna die dude come on yeah
and this is such a pointless thing like they're worried like yeah we can't bring her aboard
you're at the you're floating wreckage in the middle of god knows what wait until we can see
the sails corsairs probably these waters do you want to be skinned alive corsairs who's fucking
corsairs nice come back and pick you up is it gonna be a ghost ship as a hound no it's being
warm yep okay trailer shot yeah okay that would have destroyed this raft that would have no it's
it's still sturdy down oh my god can you believe the racism about these humans
i don't know what i'll do oh she's gonna kill a thing yep name so they're all fuck because
they're it's okay they're racist they deserve it there's another raft because why not
now he attached his part he planned all of this beforehand you see
he's like all right i need to get laid come on board
um hello there offices mattress i'm the captain i feel like this is some sort of mini game
oh yeah this is when you just tap a a whole bunch to like gain your strength
this is the most engaging part of the story so far i think this is the most character moment
we've ever had in this show you know i kind of like it though it's something it's something
true he's weak-willed i can see the comedy god help me
what is that abomination
where's the beard told you to to stay out of my head the sargon heads it's a bit of a cameo
you know i would have asked sargon to show up but i think it's too late for him might be almost
early now well he has to like get up and go to work and he has a wife and kids too so
us neats don't have to worry about that
so there are no black doors in the lore are there no no i'll say this so far this is the best part
of the show at least they're lively they've got personalities yeah i like doors so far and plus
they don't look like people they look like dwarves but if only she had a beard i would
actually be happy with this scene yeah reacting skills are actually pretty good i like her as a
character yeah you know even though she was the face of so many so many derisions towards the
show she's actually a pretty enjoyable character yeah i'm not gonna lie surprised the thing is the
problem is she's an enjoyable character but she's still a middle finger to the very idea of tolky
all they would have to do is paste a fucking fake beard on her and she'd be a great character like
that is insult in and of itself also y'all put her in white face yes are we good too
is
wait what is she pulling on here i'm not sure what she's doing
the acting director was like look like you're doing semen things so she's like okay i have
no idea what i'm doing it's just a stick that's what she's talking on it's just a stick
it's just a stick it's just a stick i don't know what she plans to do with it
dame better hope that uh it's just a snake like look at that shot she's just talking
fucking stick yeah listen what else you're gonna do on that boat a raft she's trying to she looked
dizzy in a shot okay so that's what matters we've got a running montage my god oh never mind it's
over evil things are happening
hey you kind of match the music stone good job thank you hold on you didn't run to the garrison
you run to the bar yep all right unarmed peasants it's the only set they have
how do you know that we must spread the word no i will not have this gossip runwin i've seen
landslides less dangerous than a wayward tongue without proof oh god it's galadriel all over again
she knows the truth and the men won't listen we've done this story before show this story
they really like using the same
that's a bloody big mice you know when i first saw this tunnel like
in the previous scene for some reason i was thinking um fire ants from fallout
getting around down there yeah actually i heard a rumor that making a fallout show
yeah that's gonna suck the set leaked oh god and it's set in new jersey at least it's mostly
destroyed already i mean it's in a wasteland i'm pretty sure elves are supposed to have
pretty good night vision so why is he giving away his position by carrying a fucking lantern
in the dark ass tunnel okay
yeah just keep swimming my dude i'm i'm sure this uh comes up somewhere yeah swim
into an underwater oh jesus christ oh that was lucky ah this is the jump scare scene
is there a jump scare scene there's jane behind him
oh jesus that was so painfully obvious too now she's running home bitch garrison well to be fair
like that is where her son is yeah but but but she didn't go here first though either you go
to get your kid or you go to get the soldiers you wouldn't go to the bar first yes yeah she
went into the bars only to be told oh you're a woman you don't know what you're talking about
you're wrong she's tried that already she fucked up she went to the wrong group damn
he was like oh you're gonna hide in the closet okay but she has no idea what's in the hole
like she'd be safer running we need to have a scary scene though where she's scared in the closet
do we do we really that sound right now that sound is the creaking of their rubber suits
oh my god lol
here it comes yep i think he called it very soon
oh it's a soft dress oh no
that is a remarkably uh
oh jesus okay so this is getting a bit
it's just like they're not
it's just that they're not a superhuman uh actually apparently they are according to the amazon
oh excuse me boy i'm entailed by a fucking metal sword so you know
oh strong independent woman
why first light i was right there damn strong female wait wait hold on hold on hold on
jesus christ this is loud in that scene there was light coming in through the windows in the
bar wouldn't you just go now no damn the town's about to go no we gotta wait till the last second
we need to get that attention why did they give the goblins a chance to attack them yeah it's not
fair dev some of the characters need to die off so they can you know get rid of them gotta make the
stakes seem high so it's just very clear why like she went to the bar first it's so she can have
that i told you so a little bit yeah yes that was the only reason
oh
yeah and she's just gone here she goes she's like sinking like a rock now she's tangled
yeah good job that's a very good idea woman
alla branda says like should i shave her i mean she didn't have sex with me so maybe she's not
worth it yeah she kind of she was a little bit but she might have a bit of a prude but yeah that's
right she's right though she might because she did say bind see he misinterpreted it
you could just haul up the rope fucker oh cop in a feel i see you'll have to sleep with me now
i'm gonna take her sword yeah just mind you dagger actually listen he's awake again
she passed out a second ago but i guess all about fresh air mister revitalized her
oh yeah yeah the fresh air underwater
find yourself to me this time
oh my god so she was like unconscious underwater and he had to be helped in the end
they probably rewrote the scene because like oh it's we can't have the men being strong
erases it this is just the hippie commune it's a lantern we use fireflies
that's a lot of fireflies in there
oh my god he's whispering to like gandalf i clapped when i saw it
how did you get to that conclusion the writers needed us to okay damn the bugs died they all
just fucking died are dead but the ones inside her lantern are okay yeah yeah magic protected
them i guess how many fireflies you got to collect to put in there that's like a several day project
well that sucks for them i guess digging to the bell rock
okay
oh it's the arkenstone
are you gonna clap when you see it kibs remember it's dipper dipper not gonna show it though they're
too much of a no they didn't show it they didn't have that copyright either they're trying so hard
with the member berries it's not even funny do is behaving remarkably calmly for a person with
an orc hole in his house they just moved a table over it it's fun it reacts to his blood interesting
also did it draw the rolling back or something oh it is yeah reconstructing itself
yeah there's definitely something wonky going on with this guy
he's a guest mother i will command the old legion soon what
i'm calling it numen orient i better be right or barges getting beaten
nah this is the end of the episode that's what this is
okay so i'd sum that up as a lot happened and nothing happened kibs stop it
i can't i'm too lazy he's like how can you be this crazy do i hear noises
no it's your imagination yeah the trailer is playing for some reason why is it playing how
is it even whatever if i click this button and then pause it and then it will shut up
all right yes so episode two we one and two two punch double feature uh-huh that was two
hours of my life and i do not feel particularly enriched yeah i kind of i kind of like i don't
feel anything really i feel apathy actually about the whole show honestly see like it wasn't
a so bad it's good kind of thing you know it was just kind of you know i don't want to be
too mean to it i i'm i there was parts of it i liked i'm mildly entertained but yeah like
the village setting was so boring yeah like when the galadriel was like nah i'm a swim home
yeah that was like that was pretty good hey at least it went as horribly as you'd expect except
for you know randomly stumbling brilliant ideas after brilliant ideas this episode like tying
herself oh fuck she's like she's been a fuck up this whole time even as the show is trying to
tell us that she's implacable and infallible yeah i tried to make her feel like oh she's so smart
she knows she's she's right all along is this like and she just it feels like she's just been
handed the idiot ball tie yourself to the sinking rack jump into the unending ocean
bind yourself to me strong women sinks the symbolism there pull on the stick on on your raft
thing the only thing i've enjoyed so far are the dwarves like everything else interesting
i like the dwarven city that was like underground and stuff i thought i thought that was cool
a little bit of effort actually went into it as well like the images there
they had the adorvan like like uh agriculture and like the waterfalls is showing them how how
they get food down there it's just like how they live they're showing how they bring light down
yeah that's interesting but what is this like just wish we'd seen more of that and we've seen
more of that everywhere with like the elven setting and like the human setting even like
the human setting doesn't have to be just boring european-esque village it's just but it is but it
is yep yeah everyone's choreography is probably the strongest in this entire show and the rest
are just kind of wet farts okay that's the problem with the timing here so this is very
early for the humans and you see those original hunters and they look very savage like wearing
retarded hordes for some reason and yet their civilization is actually pretty fucking advanced
like they've got tons of stone structures they're living in settled villages they've got livestock
like it's not terribly far off because remember the the humans that helped the elves were gifted
that thing barch numenor and so they're on their little island of numenor and this is like their
golden age but it's also coming to an end because everything's about to go south well that's another
thing too humans and numenoreans are not the same thing either like the numenoreans are superior
species wow do you hear this oh my god i mean they lived for 200 years i think that qualifies
well hold on arch are they white yes but yes but by now their their lifespans are beginning
to shrink and that's where the jealousy is going to kick in they're starting to forget about the
whole everything about the ban on balanor and everything else they become arrogant and decadent
and i think that's what the show is going to probably show what do you what do you all think
of hobo sauron he feels like he he isn't there for any reason other than they were like where we
can't have hobbits somehow but how do we make them relevant i know sauron so the hobbits help sauron
so you're sorry the harfoot i did the harp like i called it like i am i am seriously calling it
like they're gonna do something and they're gonna like help in some way sauron to life
it's gonna all be thanks to nori that frody was able to frodo was able to carry the ring
it was actually nori the real hero that's what's gonna be sauron's master plan for rebuilding the
world was actually like yes i'll help the hobbits because they were my loyal allies and then frodo
fucking throws the ring and there's like god why i trusted you oh god what if it turns out
yeah let's put the most retarded possible theories okay it's gonna turn out that she
that she dies and then reincarnates as frodo he kind of looks a little bit like
so actually frodo was had the spirit of a girl the whole time
all right just gonna continue doing this as more episodes come out
if you want to we can keep doing it every week but jesus this is painful to watch
well at least next week it'll be uh only an hour only an hour instead of because there'll be one
episode right yeah about an hour long uh this was quite a time dedication but i don't mind
like watching anything is like no matter how bad as long as we're watching with like people it can
be fun yeah how long is this season because we we haven't even seen isoldo or elendil or
eight episodes it's eight episodes in i believe it's eight episodes so six left okay so we're
we're a fourth in we haven't even met half of the main characters listen arch they're gonna milk
this for five god damn seasons five seasons they're gonna try to drag their heels oh my god
amazon lord of the rings a hundred years amazon is warty lord of the rings amazon bought the
television rights for lord of the rings for 250 million dollars in 2017 and then set up a five
season production worth at least one billion dollars this is the most expensive tv series
ever made jesus christ you know what it feels like it feels like a big web meh like there's
a lot of production budget stuff in here but by and large my my overall feeling is like like
it fine again it's it's the lack of soul like what they're making here is it's it's a lot of
the rings we're told but what except actually the dwarves the dwarves are the only thing that
i've looked at so far and gone yeah lord of the rings everything else is just people in costumes
pretending yeah the elves are just like slightly arrogant like people with pointy ears yeah and
their original ears are even all that pointy there there's no magic here like there's no
lord of the rings there's no wonder there's no creativity and i die the elves again gill
fucking galad is supposed to be one of the mightiest individuals on the side of good like
he's a fucking warrior king and he's just some fucking dude like only noticeable because he's
probably the only elf with semi-long hair yeah he's just he's just like important elf guy and
that's about it wait what what if it what if it what if you know how the elves live for thousands
of years right what if it just turns out that elven hair grows so slowly that they just can't
grow long hair yet a lot of the younger ones yep it's gonna take him another 100 years another
thousand years ago gladriel have long hair like galadriel has long hair as a child that's true
oh dev you've been defeated oh yes well hold on hold on as a child though she's an elf she could
have been like 60 in that who knows i've been wrecked never hold on hold on hold on does that
mean that the loli the loli at the start of the show is legal no dev no that's not
oh and thus the end of the series began yeah it it feels like we're just kind of spinning our
wheels here you know like two two hours into a show you should you should have more stuff going
on than this in my opinion something should be happening so far the most dramatic thing that's
happening is that there are probably goblins and they're probably gonna attack some village of
humans in the middle of fucking nowhere of no relevance to anyone yeah why are we supposed
to care about this village uh because uh dude with the sauron sword there you go yeah i guess
it's the only thing i can think of of you three which of you actually watched the kenobi show
we all did i have you all did okay yeah and and you know that i made my big
giant essay my two and a half hour long video on kenobi okay um i hope you watched it it took me
like three weeks to make it but and all all you listening out there too you better watch it too
but i do want to point out um one thing i noticed with kenobi is that if you cut all the fat out of
it it's like an okay story it's not great because and that's why i mentioned in that video that
there's a guy who took all the all the footage cut it into a two and a half hour movie and it
was fine and the more that i watch new tv i'm realizing like for some reason all these new
shows they just move so slowly and i think they're trying to mistake moving slow for being epic or
they're making that mistake rather and it's like you know sometimes like i i get it like you have
a huge story in a massive world and you want to really take it in but you can't just do nothing
you know you you the problem is too there is superfluous characters like out on there and
bronwyn i don't fucking care halbrand who the fuck is that halford's what it's like we can cut
a lot of these characters just right out i have a feeling that after this season is over someone's
gonna cut this into a movie like kenobi and it'll probably be like an okay lord of the rings film
not gonna be great but it'll be okay if they were just focusing on elrond so far i would have been
like okay that was all right like elrond's character he uh he is not elrond like he he
cannot follow up agent smith he just kind of brim bore too is just again all of these characters
are deeply flawed because they're just fucking people like there's nothing elven about them
i don't really never feel feel the majesty as much as when when like um witnessing the elves
as they were portrayed in the movies this has none of the mad juice there's there's no like
yeah there's no like glow or like ethereal aspect about them they're just like well also
what helped is that aside from legolas you didn't see much of them they were there for a few scenes
and they would like flow around they would like kind of glide around the place and that would
be about it because if you see too much of them you realize that they are just people
there's also the style in which it is shot like the lord of the rings movies are very
warm kind of a little bright almost they're very magical and inviting they're in color whereas
here you've got the classical fucking tv show where everything looks fucking cold and dark
and grim and realistic and yeah i guess that's just like the 2020 look yeah well it the 2020
look is like the inheritor of the 2008 fallout 3 brown and bloom look you know we're to make it
look more realistic they just make it look darker and it's like well sometimes you can make things
pretty bright and it looks pretty good sometimes you have to have the you know that spark of hope
looks cold and boring and sickly like this is the least majestic person imaginable just a
drenched house cat well to be fair she is swimming back home that's true
yes the entire length of the island i want to point out that none of that happened in
the original lore though like this is all well because that's stupid this is all a ridiculous
contrivance to have her in the middle of the ocean to meet halibran who's drifting
don't worry about it don't think about it as for what i think is good you know i i i'm also
enjoying the dwarf storyline they have character i like i like them uh them getting along with
alrond um i don't mind the hobo sauron stuff i can see what they're going for and what they're
going for could actually be quite quite good they're just not doing it that well but like the
the the the the bone of the story is is actually decent it's it's the galadriel stuff that just
seems to be a complete fucking train wreck the galadriel thing is a train wreck and black elf i
just don't care about that's right i forgot about him i didn't even mention him the worst part is
right now he was in a hole he was in a hole yeah he's just he just fucked up yeah he's just gone
because the problem is this is actually only going to get worse because right now we have village in
the middle of bumfuck nowhere story arc we have elrond story arc we have galadriel story arc and
we're gonna get elendil story arc and isildur story arc and the queen lady as well like we're
only going to get more characters disparate spread across this huge universe i can only
hope that the converge at some point but like well it is a lot to keep track of all at once
i think everyone just wants to do game of thrones now you know yeah that was a big thing with a
billion characters like we can just do that just introduce a shit ton of people it's like well
game of thrones worked for a specific reason and it only kind of worked at the end
yeah and it fails too i remember very vividly reading through the last like couple of game
of thrones books and thinking to myself god could you fuck off i want to get back to the characters
i care about yep oh bloat of characters just because you have lots of characters your story
doesn't inherently mean good care a good story or an epic for that matter well is that all we
have to say about this is this is this the end my final verdict is meh not worth a billion dollars
no not worth about jesus christ not worth a billion dollars um how about this considering
that uh you know august and early september seems to be just a torrent of shit is this as bad as
the other shows that have recently come out that are everyone's talking about right now oh god this
is nowhere near as bad as halo or as fucking kenobi like this is just mediocre or or is she
hulk she hulks a fucking nightmare jesus i dare not watch that oh no i i watched the first episode
and i was like i can't i can't i can't fucking like naomi refused to watch it with me she was
like nope not the same well because her and i we sat down to watch the halo show because she was
like an xbox kid growing up so she said i want to watch halo so we watch it and it was like a fucking
there's a fucking holocaust watching that thing the i think it depends on the scale you're judging
it by because pablo schreiber the tv show was bad in that it wasn't about halo in the slightest it
was a story about pablo traveling the galaxy it was it was just a and kenobi was the same kenobi
has nothing to do with selves it is a just a big fat middle finger to the star wars universe where
every character acts like a complete fucking retard like the organa's calling kenobi on his
phone like again and again i know you're in hiding and shit but he is in danger what is this thing
this thing is just bloat it is mud like i can't even judge it because i don't even know what's
fucking happening the character's stories have progressed not at all like galadriel's story is
the one that's progressed the most and the only thing that's happened there is she knows silence
alive nobody believes her and she jumped in the ocean like two hours later she's finally
being recovered from the ocean this whole show just feels like just sort of forgettable and i
think that's probably i think that makes it arguably worse than the other ones because
they're memorable because they're about there this show there's nothing really to talk about
like it's just kind of it's there it's it goes at the pace of a snail and it's not very good
do you know what it reminds me of you know what reminds me of it reminds me of the um the new
harry potter movies the wizarding world movies right um the um the fantastic beast they're
trying to make that into a series and no one really cares and i've seen a couple of them
and they're not bad movies they're just very forgettable movies no one's gonna no one's gonna
remember those in 20 years the way they'll remember harry potter like the originals and
that'll probably be the same with this in 20 years time no one will be right we'll be re-watching
this shit but they'll re-watch the original movies yeah people will remember the good stories
no one will remember these things like kenobi even halo they'll be forgotten yep and it has to
do with the lack of soul because you look at this and it tells you it's lord of the rings like the
characters have the names of the lord of the rings they even have the little stairs and shit but
there is nothing lord of the rings here like there is no magic majesty there's no mystery there's
nothing that makes you feel like this is a lord of the rings property beyond names and set pieces
i mean i i would i wouldn't i wouldn't use sargon's term the progressive skin suit for
this one i don't really see it fully but it's a skin suit of some type that's for sure i'll
give it this much like as in terms of actual story there hasn't been any obvious progressivism
beyond every female character being the only competent people in the room but yeah so that's
the current year and the diversity hires but again that's behind the scenes politics the show itself
hasn't got any like political views so far it doesn't i guess i noticed i didn't bring it up
but i noticed one but i it's only like half a political view you'll notice that like all of the
all the not hobbits they're all very isolationist and i was like are they are they are they going
to do that do a trump thing later about about yeah but the hobbits are the isolationists yeah
yeah but that's why i didn't bring it up because i was like maybe maybe not but there are hobbits
they're hobbits tm there's not hobbits
well it is midnight and i need to i need to edit this all night and then put it up tomorrow and
then go to bed so i have i'm not going to bed i have to do i have to make this watchable for
all you guys watching at home and that's another six hours of work so i gotta get to it jesus good
so thanks for being here everyone thanks kibbs thanks arch thanks loth
oh thanks thanks stuff and if you wanted if you want to do it again we'll do it again
just uh looks like we're on then oh god i'm gonna need to get a coffee
fuck in there
oh thanks a lot guys i i am gonna get get to work on it though i'll see you later
yeah yep yeah take care wait where's where how do i get out of here
how do you get out of any discord group or call oh oh that is stuck here forever
there was no hang up there was no hang up button because it was i was watching something in the
server okay
