Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and Autumn, it's not far away now, and soon I'm sure that we will be basking in the Autumn leaves like the outdoorsy people we are.
However, for the moments you've probably chosen to delay your joyous pastimes and watch this video,
in which we will discuss a curious comment that was brought to my attention recently, and the interesting rabbit hole it can take us down.
Security online is something that a lot of us value as a personal liberty for our privacy and our safety.
In the last decade, security online has taken multiple steps forward, but as large platforms are taking steps to protect their users,
hackers are never too far behind, always looking for methods to stir up trouble, whether that's attempting to obtain user data,
or merely hijack someone's account for comedic purposes.
Plenty of sites have encountered data breaches, and it's an unfortunate hazard that some are clearly ill-prepared for.
However, as much as hackers obtaining user data justifiably causes concern on a macro basis,
I think people are much more protective over the possession of their personal accounts,
because our personal accounts, regardless of size or influence, often pertain great personal value to us,
as a platform that can represent our thoughts, feelings, and even our creative ventures.
It's a piece of us. That sort of thing can definitely be exemplified with one's YouTube account.
Now, of course, many people merely create YouTube accounts for the purposes of commenting, subscribing, and following content,
however, for many people, a YouTube account allows us to express ourselves,
and even if we're projecting our content towards a large audience, it's still a product which feels deeply intimate to us,
which is why people care about others when they have their channels unnecessarily terminated or restricted.
We like to think that all in all, YouTube, in spite of their flaws, have a grip on keeping their accounts secure,
however, when you look at their track record, this could be called into contention.
I understand why you're wondering that the investigation resulted that no hijacking activity happened on the channel,
however, I can assure you that our internal team carefully investigated this, and didn't found any.
Didn't. Found. Any.
Over the last few years, many creators have reported their channel stolen, and subsequently used for less than dignified purposes,
in fact, it seems to be an overwhelmingly common occurrence for many users.
Now, when you have so many channels on a website like YouTube, it seems inevitable that some accounts will be hacked or stolen,
but today we're looking at an issue that transcends a few occurrences, and outlines a trend which appears pervasive on the platform,
and encompassed by one account, which went by the name of Logan.
If you follow any smaller creators, you'll have almost definitely seen this line of text in their comment section,
I can without a doubt say it's the widest spread comment I've ever seen, but it's so much more malicious than it seems on the surface.
In the small YouTuber world, attention and friends can be hard to come by, so when you're uploading content,
it's easy to be particularly receptive to anybody who may provide you with attention, especially larger channels.
However, for anyone who does have experience with being a smaller creator, you'll know that you have to regularly deal with comments
that from a cursory perspective seem fairly friendly, but often just reflect a veiled attempt to gain subscribers from inexperienced users.
Now, those who have familiarity with YouTube will tell you that this technique is rather redundant,
and most creators partaking in this will breed no longevity on their content, because you're just cultivating a load of dormant subscribers,
numbers really aren't everything on that front. Nonetheless, this doesn't stop people from trying,
and over the years, desperate creators have manufactured various automated techniques in an attempt to garner likes, views, and subs,
and eventually monetization. On the surface, this is what appears to be the case with the account named Logan,
a creator commenting on numerous uploads by smaller creators, with a simple three-word proposition, wannabe friends.
And with such an enticing offer, who wouldn't want to be friends with this lovely gent?
In times like these, we could use a good friend, like the lovely fellow Logan here.
However, as many of you have predicted, this comment was made by a bot, likely incapable of developing a meaningful friendship,
and Logan himself was merely publishing substandard content on how to grow your channel.
So what was the point? Was it merely farming views, or was it something a little more sinister?
Yeah, the real way he growed his channel so large was using bots, they're all bots, but bots using real accounts, your accounts actually.
Well, on the 13th of May, a YouTuber by the name of evans111 uploaded a video with the subtitle,
The Most Dangerous Comment on YouTube, referring to Logan's comment in question. How could such a comment be dangerous?
Well, according to Evan, it appears that creators who interact with this comment risk having their channel stolen,
and subsequently used in Logan's view farming ploy to boost his own YouTube channel.
Go on to his videos, and there were a plethora of generic, vague comments which appear to barely interact with the video at all,
and only lend credence to the idea that something is not quite right with the project that Logan is running.
Wanna be friends?
Somehow, this guy developed a way of hacking people's channels solely by having them subscribe to him, and this is incredibly alarming.
All these accounts posting these fake comments are real accounts, so this plague can go unnoticed by YouTube,
and his channel can thrive with nobody knowing how. This is not okay.
Evan postulates that this Logan character has created a bot which can take control of accounts who interact with its initial comment.
He warns people to not respond or react in any way. If this was true, it would be a huge breach in YouTube security,
and not one that can be ignored, and it wasn't. In barely any time at all, Logan's account vanished, and he became another YouTube relic.
All's well that ends well, right? Well, not entirely. The fact is that the perception of Logan presented may not be the entire truth,
and I'll explain why very soon. In spite of all the comments disappearing, Logan's channel was very much alive, it had merely shapeshifted a little.
So why aren't people doing more about this hacker? Well, probably because he may well not be a hacker.
However, take a look at the evidence today, and you'll find a truth perhaps more alarming, and one that should encourage awareness from YouTubers and YouTube alike.
So, to commence this interesting tale, we need to go back a few months, to a time when your boy Tro was a wide-eyed nipper who could still leave his house for leisure purposes.
Yes, in early 2020, I was dealing with an issue that I considered mostly internal at the time, however, this led me to investigate channels which I considered compromised.
However, one comment that appeared on multiple uploads was a comment by a channel named Tem, if you're wondering this character's relevance, all will be revealed.
When I clicked on Tem's channel, I was greeted by a similar video to that which was documented by Evans, in fact, the format was identical, the only thing different was the name.
Yo, what is going on, guys? My name is Tem R, and in this video, I'm gonna be showing you guys how to grow your YouTube channel just like I did.
So as you can see, I have gained a lot of subs for the past few days, and the pa-
The uploads that I was greeted by at the time were extremely bland uploads about how you could gain subscribers' views and traffic.
After all, this Tem guy was an expert, anyone who can secure tens of thousands of views on content with the personality of a grapefruit must be pulling off some impressive algorithmic massaging.
However, there was an additional parallel that could be drawn between these two channels, the comments section, which was also predominantly occupied with rote responses from small channels.
The only real difference is that some of these comments seem a bit more fleshed out, although many still represent a similar level of mental vacancy, however, there may be a reason for this which I'll soon divulge.
At this point, you're probably coming to the conclusion that Tem and Logan have both been drawing from the same framework, however, it goes one step further than that, because Tem and Logan are in fact the same person.
I'll give you a moment to let that sink in.
The voices were identical, and so was the format of the content, and now this isn't a huge surprise.
So Tem and Logan are the same person, big deal, but there are a couple more curious observations that we can make.
Firstly, this isn't the only channel, in fact, his highly successful Tips and Tricks channel was launched off the back of another channel which was at that point going by the same name.
So if you click on Tem, you'll see, oh wow, this channel has like 500,000 subscribers, that's crazy, usually people will go and see what videos they uploaded, but these aren't Tem's videos, you can see that this channel has no videos uploaded.
It was an interesting setup, basically, he had a playlist of his content, but it was being promoted through a different channel, why on earth would he be doing that?
Well, probably to loophole the YouTube guidelines, you see, his first channel here had obtained subscribers fairly fraudulently, but barely had any videos.
This is MrBeast, and this isn't MrBeast, but why isn't it? To the passive viewer, it appears to be his channel, it has his videos accordingly located, with the complementary view counts,
however, this is a classic trick used by the charlatans, they create a playlist, call it uploaded videos, and then position it at the forefront of the channel.
You can typically identify these channels by a lack of featured video, and the concealed subscriber count, often, I must add.
However, for the casual user, they may not notice, and come to the conclusion that they've been unsubscribed by YouTube's eternally faulty system, an understandable assumption, but an incorrect one.
Tem, or Logan, or Tom, or Todd, or fake MrBeast would then implement his bot to comment on smaller YouTubers who may find themselves starstruck in the moment, and not think to question the legitimacy of this account.
He pulled this off for a while, and ended up with over 100,000 subscribers, however, if you go back further, you'll realise that this wasn't even the case,
and that he was previously an account known as Trap Town, who was also notorious amongst communities, for guess what, doing exactly the same thing.
If you've got a YouTube channel, they'll send you a nice little message saying that they like your video, and they'll ask you, hey do you want to be a YouTube friend?
Now you might be asking yourself, what's a YouTube friend? They're basically asking, if you subscribe to my channel, I'll subscribe to yours.
YouTube frowns on this, some people call it sub for sub, now the problem comes in if you subscribe to their channel.
Now if you go to their website to subscribe, when you get to their channel, it looks like a normal channel.
Now notice, you can't tell how many people have already subscribed. Now let me show you what's really weird, when you click on videos, there's no videos on this channel.
They want you to subscribe, now the problem comes in what they do with your information.
From what I understand, they start by selling your information, and with dishonest people like this, who knows what else they'll do with it.
The creator who uploaded this video, Liv Free, alleges that if you subscribe to them, they acquire your information, and supposedly sell it on.
There is no accompanying evidence shown, and to be honest, this guy doesn't seem completely certain what their motives are.
The internet is a dangerous place out there. You want to protect yourself and others, and that's why I've got this video out here.
Chances are if you're watching this, they've already hit your channel, just do yourself and everybody else a favour, stay clear.
One of the strangest things is that in spite of this mass live subscriber farming campaign, if you look at one of the Social Blade archives that I saved before the channels were shut down,
you'd notice they almost certainly bought subscribers for their channel. At some point, you can see the uploaded video, but heaven knows what that video was, it seems they were set uploading on this other channel.
So after he had accrued enough subscribers, Tem decided to launch his channel, where he provides rather useless advice for the budding creator.
Now, for most people, when they want to create a new channel, they would just create it, right? Well, not here. In fact, I saved an old archive of the channel listing which Tem subsequently purchased.
Before this, it was a channel by the name of Xerox, who had just over 2,500 subscribers, and had the channel on the market for $200.
So as we understand, Tem bought a channel worth $200 who had 2,500 subscribers to launch his channel, which he'd promote using the 150,000 subscriber channel.
So why would a person fork out a couple hundred for a channel which appeared no different to a clean slate? Two words, monetization enabled.
A few years back, YouTube restricted monetization so that only channels above a certain threshold of subscribers and watch time could apply for monetization.
Now, if you were to acquire views through fraudulent methods, this may be identified when one applies for monetization, so by obtaining some real subscribers,
and then buying this second pre-monetized channel, it allows Tem to promote monetized content, and make the methods appear more above board.
However, it's just a rather elaborate ploy to bypass the protections that YouTube have in place for this.
So Logan wanted to make a buck through a rather complex scheme, but if you're aware of the original narrative, you may begin to formulate some questions.
What business would a hacker have in buying a channel? Surely he'd just hack one.
And to that, my friends, I'd say, good question. Well, let's see if we can crack this confusing case.
With the evidence that we have assembled currently, does the idea that this Logan guy is a seasoned hacker really stack up?
Well, obviously, he's operating some sort of enterprise which involves less than kosher methods of acquiring traffic,
but is he the individual hacking all these channels which appear on his videos, or is he just the buyer?
Obviously, it is a possibility that Tem was the individual who listed the channel before removing the listing and deciding to use the channel himself,
as the seller doesn't actually have any sales to his name. However, the transaction may have been done off-site,
and it also doesn't explain the unusual methods of procuring people's data, which would have been done through interaction.
There was no established correlation between the channels who Logan commented on, and the channels that had been compromised.
If Logan had installed a bot that commented on multiple channels' videos, and some of those channels were subsequently targeted for hacking,
then of course, it may lead some people to believe that Logan was the individual who hacked their channel.
Correlation, however, does not imply causation. Nonetheless, it seems an exceptionally strange system being run by this mysterious character,
and he had developed a comment bot, so he must have a degree of technical proficiency, unless it wasn't his, which it may not have been.
As if this project wasn't complex enough as it was, around the time that Tem's videos concerning channel growth were released,
there was another person by the name of The Comical Canadian, who uploaded videos with nearly identical titles and thumbnails.
The Comical Canadian's channel was focused around gaming, however, he was also notorious among smaller creators for operating a similar comment bot,
as well as allegedly conducting spam streams in an attempt to solicit subscriptions and money from unsuspecting users.
So this guy is not only scamming people out of their money, I mean, I guess if you donate to him, you know, whatever,
but he's constantly got all this, like, fake giveaway, fake shoutout, well, maybe not fake shoutout, I haven't done enough research into him,
but fake giveaways, right? And these kids that are watching him are probably only, like, 10.
You know, it pisses me off when I see someone like this scamming little kids out of their money.
In an interview with another small creator, he states that he'd been conducting business the way he has for financial benefit,
and I suppose it makes sense. This then ties back to our friend Vaxxie, or Logan, who is using a similar technique, with a few, well, giveaways.
If we look here, in one of these videos by Vaxxie himself, he mentions a Fortnite code, code Canadian.
Remember to type in code Canadian in the Fortnite item shop and subscribe and hit the bell so I can send you a gift.
And remember, the comical Canadian was using an interesting code back in the day, about a month ago. Oh, code Canadian. It's the same guy.
However, once again, it doesn't seem like much hacking comes into it. I know how much he made from this method,
and I never had the privilege of watching his streams in action, but it's possible that this bloke alongside Timothy
had been reinvesting their money into new get rich quick schemes, which they run as long as they can until YouTube notices these antics.
It's smash and grab content creation. Another creator, Timeworks, made a good video on his theory for why they're doing it,
which comes down to the value of channels.
Timeworks- Yeah, this is a subscriber farm. They're growing channels, gaining hundreds of thousands of subscribers,
and then, I would assume, selling the channels for a profit. More recently, we've heard of people hacking channels,
and then selling them, but this is a more efficient way, because no one's actually getting harmed here.
It's just one big sort of scam spam thing, and they make a lot of money by selling these channels that they sort of grow.
He provides good running commentary on the creators of these bots, who have recently come back under the name
Bananarama, and many others, and even conducted an interview with one of the people involved.
If you want to know what the dude is up to, then definitely check it out. It seems they buy the channel,
do what they plan on doing, with an undisclosed goal.
So the next very important question I asked is, do people get hacked in all of this?
And I asked it right away, because I knew that this was a major concern for the whole YouTube community.
And so Supremacy said, straight off the bat, no. The only hacking here that's going on is false information.
So he did mention some other people, like Evans, who was mentioned in the whole Logan wannabe friend situation.
So he said that Optimus was lying for clout, Evans is confusing, and so he went on to defend a bunch of things,
why they do not hack your channel. Now of course, they could be lying to you.
I personally don't think they actually do, but you know, they lie to you when they say wannabe friends.
So this actually could be a lie, I don't know. Do you know what happens to channels when it's done being used?
Because the Vaxi channel is sort of off doing its whole loop to live stream thing, so like, do they
actually sell the channels? That's what I was trying to get at. Why is Vaxi off doing something else now?
And they didn't answer, and that's where the interview sort of ended.
Now, that would explain a majority of the shenanigans utilised by this curious couple.
However, we can't necessarily ignore the fact that hacking has been involved somewhere.
When you look at the comments on the uploads, these are not just phantom accounts that were never occupied by anyone real.
These were not merely bots, these are real people who make real content, having their accounts hijacked on an unprecedented scale.
However, it doesn't stop there, because then we need to take a look at that $200 transaction that Tem made.
Now, on the surface, there's not too much to say. There was a channel up for sale, someone bought it, no questions, eh?
Well, there are a few quibbles that one might raise.
Now, firstly, as I understand it, selling your channel is a violation of YouTube's terms of service,
and it's something you can find on the relevant page. Although they don't seem to take a particularly strong stance about it,
it seems that selling it on third-party websites comes into conflict with their AdSense policy.
This makes sense for obvious reasons, because people could just buy a monetized channel,
and begin posting content that YouTube did not approve. However, this is more YouTube's PR problem.
What boils down to being a creator-oriented problem is what you can find by digging a little further.
YouTube channels have value, they've always held some value, but if you look beyond the individual listings for that account,
you'll find a website flogging various accounts for varying prices known as Axe Market.
They're selling YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, Telegram, and Twitter accounts.
Now, this website does have a verification procedure to make sure you have access to the account you're selling.
However, if someone is infiltrated that account to use it for malicious purposes,
this is not a really sufficient means of confirmation.
One of the most expensive listings, a wrestling channel with just under 500,000 subscribers,
has one comment which informs people that the channel has been hacked.
This does not necessarily mean the channel was hacked, though it's certainly not a good omen.
On top of this, a fair few listings have the disclaimer that there was no confirmation provided at all,
which confuses me as to why there's even a listing in that instance.
Some posters on these sites seem to have multiple listings, many of them thematically dissonant,
not the sort of channels that one would merely feel like selling at once.
The website also has a feature where you can notify them that the channel is yours,
and you want to delete the listing.
However, unless you're made aware prior to the sale, then you would never know to react,
and even then it would rely on you deducing that your channel's been hacked and was being sold,
and then finding the marketplace.
Channels with an online presence that may boost their algorithmic potential can be very profitable,
particularly ones which have monetisation enabled, because as mentioned earlier,
it is now a non-inclusive feature, so people wanting to have that boost,
people like Tem, will obviously see the appeal in these websites.
For example, the person who purchased a channel by the name of TBBAP,
otherwise known as Two Best Brothers Bitch About Ponies,
they were highly unsatisfied with their purchase because after a few weeks,
they lost access to the account.
Why was this? Well, it's because the channels were stolen from a large group of creators
who actually had the clout to attract YouTube's attention, and after a month,
they managed to regain ownership of what was rightfully theirs,
which obviously upset the buyer. My heart does weep.
Many creators will never possess this privilege, and with YouTube's policy making pre-established
monetised channels more lucrative and important than ever, scammers are attempting to take
advantage of this business, and then flogging these channels online to clients like Tem
who want a shortcut to stardom.
The strange thing is, I don't have a problem with people selling their channels on principle.
Although I do see why it's against the terms of service, it makes complete sense,
there's no way that YouTube would be able to universally enforce such a policy,
so the best thing they can do is focus on those whose accounts have been compromised
and work towards recovering them, right? Well.
YouTube has a waringly impersonal relationship with a majority of their creators.
It's unavoidable to a point, but there has to be a stage where YouTube starts to listen to people
who represent the majority of full-time partners, not just the mainstream TV imports,
and not just the YouTube goliaths, because creators from different echelons are likely
to face different problems. A lot of scammers tend to benefit most off small channels,
mainly because they're the ones that you can seize with the fewest repercussions.
The creators are more unacquainted with the particularities of YouTube,
thus making them more vulnerable, and once they've lost their channels,
they have much less power to bring it to YouTube's attention. A lot of these channels
tend to be inactive as well, which means the creator may not even be paying attention to
what happens with it. However, more than enough times a channel is targeted which involves a
somewhat influential YouTuber, or an individual who is part of a great community which will
amplify their endeavor.
I could explore the numerous anecdotes which tell us about the issue,
and how YouTube handled it. However, the most notable example from the last 12 months was
created by the name of Megan Riggs, a beauty YouTuber with over 2 million subscribers.
In a series of videos, she speaks about an ordeal which involved her channels being stolen,
and YouTube's somewhat sloppy approach to the situation,
I'm going to try and keep it brief, but after her main account was breached,
it was hidden from a number of her subscribers, who notified her immediately. This then led to
a drawn out exchange with Team YouTube, who repeatedly sent her the wrong instructions
to resolve it.
Until today, when I sent over, hey, this one video on that channel seems weird, they say,
oh, wow, our bad, we've been looking into the vlog channel. I don't know about you guys,
but to me, it doesn't really make a lot of sense. Not only had I filled out all of those
forms and questions about my main channel, the channels don't have the same or similar URLs,
they're not attached to the same email addresses, and we haven't been talking about that one.
They apologize for the snafu, the mix-up, the kerfuffle, and then they proceed to send me
the steps to unhide my channel. They also acknowledge that these are the exact same
steps that they had sent me previously and sent the screen recordings out. So essentially,
we are back at square one, where we were at on October 24th, and it's November 9th.
Despite being offended, I cleared my cookies in my cachet, and surprise, it didn't work. And then,
as if I wasn't about to lose it already, I get an email in which they said,
this would be the final attempt to unhide my channel. So this final attempt, you would think,
balls to the wall, something we haven't tried before, risky, things might go wrong. No,
it's the same link to unhide my channel that they sent me before, the same basic instructions on how
to unhide a YouTube channel that anybody can access. November 11th, they then realize that
they've sent me the wrong link. Oh, our bad, we sent you the wrong link.
Not laughing. They then provide me with another link to unhide my YouTube channel, and guess what?
It works. Do you know why? Because it's a completely different link than they had sent me
all of these previous times to unhide my channel. It is also a link that cannot be accessed unless
you have a direct link. You need someone from YouTube to send you this link directly for you
to be able to even see this part of the site, a link. So instead, it took from October 24th
to November 11th for my channel to be fully reinstated, when all I needed was a link.
This was already a bit of a shambles, however, in this instance, the hackers were particularly
persistent and eventually gained access to Megan's second account, her vlog channel,
changing the login before she could even react, then selling it on a forum for the grand fee of $500.
And this would be the first of several compilation videos of pretty obviously stolen content,
which are accompanied by a bunch of comments, which seem totally legit,
very much pertaining to the content of the video. Definitely human.
And definitely from the 500,000 people that had been subscribed to this YouTube channel.
Sound similar? I thought so. This channel then rebrands to Beauty Dior, and begins uploading
copyrighted content. This then triggers thousands of people to unsubscribe, as the audience didn't
recognise the channel, and wouldn't want anything to do with such meritless content. With a
sufficient level of evidence, it becomes quite apparent that this channel is no longer in
Megan's possession, so if it isn't too difficult for any casual observer to see the problem,
then YouTube shouldn't have too much trouble either, should they?
Not to mention, with a quick search, you could tell that this URL was my vlog channel,
which seemed to be much simpler than explaining over the course of nearly a month of emails what
a hidden channel looks like. This time, I have so much more ammo. Literally, it's been rebranded.
There's a whole other name, there's a description, there's a video up. I feel like this is like open
and shut case. Well, apparently so. After escalating the issue to their internal team,
they conducted an extensive investigation, and came to the resounding conclusion that there was
no suspicious activity. What?
So then between February 13th and February 21st, there have been multiple emails exchanged. Lots
of these very human responses from YouTube giving me updates that don't say anything,
and lots of my manager being like, hey, what's going on? We need to figure this out. Then
February 22nd comes around, and YouTube had finally figured it out. Actually, first,
my manager had followed up yet again, and they responded to that email with their findings.
Hi there. Thanks for the prompt response. This case was opened because this second channel of
Megan was claimed hacked. We asked our internal team to do an investigation about this report.
We just got an update from our team that after our investigation,
we can state that there were no signs of abnormal activity found in the channel.
Feel free to email us back if you have any other concerns.
The fact that I am not Beauty Dior, this is not my channel, and this has clearly been hacked.
I understand why you're wondering that the investigation resulted that no hijacking
activity happened on the channel. However, I can assure you that our internal team carefully
investigated this and didn't found any. Didn't found any. To help keep your account safe in the
future, please view these tips on how to create a strong password and give your account extra
security here. Sorry that I don't have good news for you, but if you have other concerns,
let us know. They are telling me that my YouTube account has not been hacked,
and then they give me the steps to protect my YouTube account from being hacked.
The YouTube account that I don't have access to because it has been hacked.
Yes, it seems that in spite of the deluge of verification that Megan displays,
the very professional specialist cybermonkeys of the eternal team were not won over. On top of
this, a lot of YouTube's correspondence could be described as a bit incompetent.
Hi, Alex. How's it going?
I want to let you know that there's about 10 people on this email chain. No one's name is
Alex. There's no Alexander. There's no Alexandra. I've never spoken to an Alex at YouTube. I'm
Alex. Bob here, stepping in for Chad today, who has been so eager to resolve your case.
Have you been? Have you been so eager? You've clearly done so much. I just wanted you to know
that our eyes are all glued on our case. Let me remind you that I haven't been on these emails
since the end of January, so I only get these sent later. My manager's assistant responds with,
thanks, the manager's name is, and the client's name is Megan Rinks. Nobody's named Alex here.
Hi, apologies. My last email was meant for you and not someone by the name of Alex.
Thanks for understanding.
In response, Megan decides that there's only one option, which is to openly drag YouTube,
because as many creators have experienced, is often the only way to make them actually
take notice. So she tweets out her frustrations, and eventually, with the help of Shane Dawson
and Gigi Hadid, Megan initiates a conversation with the Team YouTube Twitter account. However,
this conversation was equally confusing and unsatisfying, particularly with mine to the
emails she was now being sent. But they then also informed me that they will be marking this case
a high priority. Again, the emails we had previously talked about, we were done. It was
done. Nothing had happened, but it wasn't until Shane tweeted, they were like, actually, we're
going to make this a high priority. Make what high priority? I thought this case, did you,
are we doing it again? Prior to this, there was no suspicious activity. They couldn't found any.
Case was pretty much closed. Is it a weird coincidence that this new email comes with them
marking this case as high priority, just a mere hour after Shane tweeted, and also then talked
to his personal YouTube rep about it? What do you think? Seems a little sus to me. Eventually,
over two months after her channel was stolen, YouTube emailed her a resolution on how to
recover her channel. Fantastic. Well, not quite. You see, there was a catch. Hi there, I hope you're
having a good day in spite of the issue you're having with your channel. My name is Tim, and I
will be working on your case for the time being. To get started, we need these information from you
in order for us to transfer the channel ownership back to you. Why weren't these steps going on
before? This is the legal template, and we would really appreciate it if you can fill this out
soon as for us to start the process of transferring your channel to your new email address. I'm sorry,
fast for you, because you took months to do this, and also, you had given up? You can transfer an
account back to me, and you weren't even going to f***ing tell me? Are you f***ing kidding?
Personal Google account slash email address. Please provide the email address if you have it.
Enter address or link. This account cannot already have a channel on it. Please certify that you're
the owner of this channel. Please certify that you have the commercial use rights to all content
contained on the account. Please certify there are no ongoing outstanding debts, arrangements,
or contractual obligations still pending regarding this channel. It's definitely still
in content, but I didn't steal it. Please certify that you're understanding that we will delete
personal data associated with the original channel prior to transfer. That includes the following.
Private videos, private and unlisted playlists. All of my videos are private! You're just gonna
delete them? Why? To the extent permitted by applicable law, I agree to defend,
identify, and hold harmless YouTube, impairing corporation, officers, directors, employees,
and agents, form and against any all claims, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities,
costs or debt, and expenses, including but not limited to attorney fees arising from the
content on this channel, the uses of this account, and or any claim that my content
caused damage to a third party. This defense and indemnification obligation will survive these
terms and my use of the YouTube service. So if you didn't catch that, the email YouTube just sent
is that I can have my channel and they're transferred over to me. I just have to agree to
not sue them, and also I can't have any of the videos that were privated, which is all of them.
Literally why? I don't want beauty to yours videos. However, it wasn't really much of a catch,
because as she would later observe, such an email could not possibly be legally binding for a
multitude of reasons. So the video goes live, and there's a load more debauchery, which I shan't
delve into. If you want to watch the videos, you know where to find them. So after the video,
and after all the publicity, YouTube manages to scramble together two options, presented to
Megan in a phone call. The first option being that, as the hacker has deleted all the videos,
Megan can send them all her old videos, and YouTube will upload them all at once,
following the restoration of the channel. Megan can't really agree to this option as she doesn't
have her old uploads, YouTube was her archive for that content. So the second option, yes,
this one being that YouTube can delete the channel and let Megan make a new one,
an option which Megan doesn't seem particularly thrilled by.
Megan- How is that helping? Also, again, I don't really have plans on uploading to this channel,
I just want the videos. Would I love if the channel was intact with the videos there?
Yes. But would I like to make a new vlog channel? No. Also, I don't need your permission to make a
YouTube channel, Claire. I can do that whenever I want. Between these two options, you are literally
offering me a channel with 500,000 subscribers and a channel with none, neither of which have
my videos, which is the only thing I wanted. They explained that the reason option two even exists
is because they are rolling me protecting it in case something bad happened.
Were you were you not protecting the first one? Apparently, that is a superpower they have. You
just need to know really far in advance before they hack it so they can, like, put you on an
elite list and be like, don't hack them. They're my friends. Also, it's not even that. I think she
just said that. Like, there's literally nothing she could do to prevent my channel from being hacked.
I don't think they care. Now, for many people at this point, I'm sure you're thinking that
there must be some degree in which YouTube keeps archives of the videos themselves in case of this
sort of eventuality. Well, it seems they do, but the YouTube representatives claim that they can
only keep archives of creator videos for 30 days following their deletion. However, Meghan then
appears to disprove that as well. Meghan- Even when I think I must have asked three separate times,
what is the average amount of time it takes for a channel to be back through hacking? They couldn't
respond when they finally said, which is a totally legitimate and fine answer. If you didn't tell me
before that there is a set in stone 30-day time limit in which the time of the videos are fully
deleted and not recoverable from YouTube anymore. How can it vary? It varies from, what, one week to
four and a half weeks? Regardless, if you didn't figure it out in 30 days, that's on you. That is
your fault. A lot of stuff in here, AdSense, things like that, but what I'm going to focus on is that
30-day rule of data retention. She says, and I quote, regarding your question about data retention-
She didn't thank me for asking this question. Regarding your question about data retention,
as we mentioned during our call, we have data retention policies that this is a link to the
Google data retention policy. I then click on the link of the data retention policies, assuming that
it's going to verify in detail everything that they said to me on the call and this email.
Specifically, the 30-day data retention policy that Claire and Walter keep referencing as literal
fact. I assume this link is going to verify everything they've been telling me, and I am
only a few sentences in before I realize that everything they've been saying is not true.
According to this article, there is absolutely a chance that I should be able to get my videos back.
Something that has never been a part of option one or two. Not once in the document does it ever say
there is a set in stone, forever and always, 30-day policy in which videos will be deleted.
30 days is not mentioned once. For being mentioned so many times on the phone call and the emails,
it is not mentioned once on Google's official page of their data retention policy. To this day,
I have never seen 30 days in writing other than these emails. Furthermore,
inserting an exact quote from the policy they sent me, our services also use encrypted backup storage
as another layer of protection to help recover from potential disasters. Data can remain on
these systems for up to six months. This process generally takes around two months from the time
of deletion. I say the videos were not deleted two months ago. If it takes two months for the
videos to be fully deleted, why wouldn't any of the videos be left? Did you halt the two-month
deleting process? When? This often includes up to a month-long recovery period in case the data was
removed unintentionally. To which I specify the wording here is often, not always, or not standard
policy. There is no mention of a hard binding 30-day limit. I then send a link to a video that
Lilly had sent me earlier about someone whose channel was hacked and they got all of their
videos back. The description of this guy's video literally says that someone on the inside of
YouTube was able to get his videos back and it took a miracle. I say why wasn't this my experience?
And with this, some glaring issues begin to become apparent.
Why did it take so long for my channel to be investigated only to be resulted in no hijacking?
Why did YouTube just now tell me that the 30-day time limit, when this is such pertinent information
if I'm frantically trying to recover my YouTube videos, and that has always been my number one
priority, is to recover my YouTube videos? If investigating faster would have improved the
chances of retaining my entire library of content, why did no one intervene sooner? And why is it not
public knowledge? There are multiple pitfalls in YouTube's reaction and response to this situation,
however, it boils down to one key problem. That being, simply put, YouTube relies on templates,
for situations that cannot merely rely on templates.
At any time that I express my frustration and ask a question, the response I would get is
I'm so happy that you could express your feelings. Thank you for sharing that with us.
A fair proportion of Megan's second video highlights YouTube attempting, and mostly
failing, to cover for their egregious oversight through vague, evasive language, which provides
no information for how on earth, when originally investigating, they found no signs of suspicious
activity. In my opinion, this was because their internal team were using a template which had a
set of prerequisites to identify what suspicious activity would constitute as, and what occurred
on Megan's second channel was not picked up, because they didn't know who Megan was. If the
crew over at YouTube had even attempted to branch out into basic logic, then they would have
identified the problem quickly and dealt with it. The internet is one of the fastest evolving
environments, and too often, YouTube has shown that they cannot keep up. To add to this, the
YouTube Creator support team used templates when in contact with Megan, which led to the rather
insulting errors, and what Megan read into as gaslighting. This then inevitably followed through
to the more advanced team members she came into correspondence with, because they clearly didn't
know everything which had been said to her previously, and thus didn't know how to respond
to Megan's comments, which were loaded with her previous experiences. YouTube likes to have a
singular narrative which is based on what they know. The problem is that there are just so many
people at YouTube who hold different pieces of information to deal with such problems, and the
fact that this has been happening for so long, and it took a large creator to bring attention to it,
is unbelievable, yet unsurprising.
I am so tired, and I'm so exhausted with dealing with all of this stuff, and it's been such a toll
on my mental health, especially like... I have to be okay with the fact that I lost my vlog. Like, I
have to be okay with it, because I need to move on. If I just try and find all these other, like,
loopholes and things like that, like, it's exhausting. Like, I need to start the process of
getting over it and being okay.
In a final video on the situation, Megan states that YouTube has since taken responsibility and
apologised for the fiasco, while committing to some serious changes, changes that will be welcome,
but they still don't really acknowledge the amplitude of the problem. Hacking isn't a problem
that's going to disappear overnight. This problem is going to persist as long as there continues to
be people looking to purchase channels with greater financial potential than those which are
newly created, and as we've seen, people who are in the business of mass selling channels probably
didn't come into possession of them by asking nicely. Maybe YouTube has a better system of
identifying this when a person complains about it now, but in times like these, a lot of those voices
will not be heard. Additionally, Megan Rinks had a content manager, which is another benefit that
many individuals are not privy to. When I emailed them recently about an issue, they asked me to
name my content manager, and when I said I didn't have a content manager, and that it would be
really good to have one, the YouTube representative who I was talking to just straight up asked what
a content manager was. When I explained, he redirected me to the Content ID system, which was
not thrilling. So unfortunately, I cannot confirm that YouTube's creator support is improving on the
template front. YouTube need to get with it. There are too many layers, too much incoherence, and too
much impersonality when dealing with creators. As I have said, it's impossible to completely prevent
the hacking of channels when there are so many given YouTube size, but for too long it was treated
with inaction which has led to a lot of flaws being exposed. They have since been encouraging
two-factor authentication, which is definitely a step in the right direction, but I feel that for
many creators unfamiliar with the platform, the request will probably fall on deaf ears.
A lot of people just don't pay enough attention if it doesn't happen to them, particularly when
the channels are only being used as basic comment or like bots. Once again, in spite of the rules
against it, it's often hard to notice which channels are using it unless it's really transparent,
like with Logan, particularly with YouTube's policy which rounds up subscriber counts now.
There are companies that advertise their service, some of which boast that all their accounts are
organic and legit. How do you think they obtain those legit accounts? Hell, recently a large creator
by the name of Deji ended up in hot water after it was pretty seriously alleged that he spotted
his way to 10 million subscribers. The evidence was quite convincing, and his response left a bit to be desired.
You really think I'm that much of a moron? To bot subs? When my views aren't that high, it won't calibrate.
It just wouldn't work. It makes no sense. You guys must really think I'm dumb. My IQ level is
dumb high, alright? I'm not trying to brag. My IQ level is 189. That is a very high IQ, okay?
Without any real behind the scenes technical evidence, you couldn't prove anything to a degree
where his channel would face repercussions, particularly given his size. This actually could be
a topic for another time, so I'll leave that here. In Megan's third video, she explained how she
needed to speak to executive level people with serious clearance to even understand why she
couldn't recover her channels. Megan- And they couldn't tell me, Claire and Walter on the phone,
what day the vlogs had been deleted because they didn't have access, they didn't have that level
make it sound like the White House, but like that security clearance or access. And even the person
I talked to who was incredibly high up at YouTube, they had to go ask somebody who's really high up in
the tech spot to specifically go in and figure that out. And the day that my videos were deleted
was the day that my channel got hacked. Their video count uploader, that's not something that
updates regularly. It takes a little while before it reflects that, and that was the answer that I
was given as to why I didn't get my videos back because it had been more than 30 days. And those
loopholes that we had found in the 30 day process and all of that sort of stuff, they pointed out,
yeah, we're all valid and all really great arguments, but it doesn't change the fact
that those videos are gone. And they were like, if we had them, we would give them to you. That
is such a fantastic white horse, like knight in shining armor story of being able to really clear
our name and make us look a lot better. And there's no reason why we wouldn't give them
to you at this point. Like the videos have blown up, everybody's talking about them, it's caused
quite the fuss in the office, and there's no reason like we wouldn't just keep them from you
because it makes us look worse for the fact that we can't give them back. There's so much we don't
know, so much that YouTube doesn't want us to know, but it extends beyond that to things that
most YouTube staff employed to talk with the creators barely know about their own company,
and thus cannot deal with these problems effectively. YouTube always feels like it's
one step behind the issue. Well, multiple steps.
As much as I thought mine was terrible, I was getting people sending me screenshots of the
fact that their accounts had been dealing with all of this, and they got shut out, and no response for
two years. What? This is a failed system, and it's not working. And also through all of this,
I found it's not working for me, it's not working for so many creators who have much smaller channels,
but also still, it took Shane tweeting for them to care about me. Two million? Not enough.
When people first discovered Logan, it was pretty clear that suspicious activity was present,
and I can't really blame people for theorising about his nature, which clearly demonstrates some
proficiency, but to allege that he was taking control of channels which merely interacted with him
before using them to interact with his own channel was likely giving the guy a little too much credit.
However, at the same time, if it were a case more local to him, this explanation would be the end of
the issue, when really, it was just the start, one that revealed the underbelly of a crooked system,
and those who exploit it. But what can be done? Well, let's tie up this discussion.
Security online. For many creators, large and small, it's a priceless asset, and one that hopefully
we can do a better job of protecting from here on out. I focused on specific examples today,
but so many people have lost their channels unnecessarily, even people who I know,
and those who did manage to recover them often had to go through excessively stressful scenarios
which incurred great cost. In my opinion, regardless of the tricks they've pulled,
people like Logan are just the tail end of the snake, and until we aim for the head,
we will see a repeat of these sorts of situations. I've already spoken a bit about what YouTube can do,
but it's down to them as to how they want to implement prevention measures effectively,
and how much they want their teams to be in the know. YouTube has set policy and structure which
is primed to provide benefit to those who take advantage of it, whether that's merely botting,
or forcefully seizing channels with intrinsic value. Their teams need to have a better grip
on these perils, and how to identify the patterns they take, while disseminating necessary warnings
to creators when these patterns arise. In these circumstances, everyone does better by knowing
a little more. As for the sites, it's hard to really do anything else than make sure the people
who you rate aren't having their channel sold off without their knowledge, and if you see someone
you know, ask them if they're the owner of the listing. However, we're not going to be on these
sites all the time, in fact, I'm sure most of us have no intention to go anywhere near these sites.
The truth is, a lot of smaller channels will never be noticed, and I'd recommend a better verification
system for these sites to utilise if they do truly care about this stuff, which they may not,
so I won't hold my breath. So, what's the final piece of this puzzle? Well, I guess it's where you
guys come in, the crater. At the end of the day, these are your accounts, and although it's impossible
to guarantee a fully secure account, there are definitely ways to protect it that are worth noting.
With that in mind, I think it's time for a feature. When I was a small creator on the platform, there
were a few people within the community who I looked up to. Most of these people have either
garnered popularity, or left the site without a trace. My guest today is someone who had done the
latter for a long time, but recently returned, dropping me a line, and I thought, you know what,
you guys might like to meet him. So, ladies and gentlemen, talking about security vulnerability
online, and how to prevent it, I present to you, my good friend, Mugcup.
Vulnerability online. It's a more prevalent issue now than ever, with classes over platforms like
Zoom regularly having their vulnerability tested and pushed, often past their limits.
So, what's the solution here? YouTubers should just pick longer passwords, right?
No. I mean, yes, you should have a long password, but no, that's not why most instances of YouTube
channel theft occur. The fact of the matter is, Google is a ridiculously secure company,
in the grand scheme of things, which is to say that it takes quite a bit of doing to get into
an account that isn't yours. Brute forcing your way through a password check will just get you to
an IP check, and yada yada. Point being, there's a lot of hoops to jump through, and some of those
hoops are quite small, you know, because they're like, hard to jump through. You get it. Anyway,
so how do YouTube channels get stolen? Well, oftentimes, it's through a process called social
engineering, or SE-ing for short. SE-ing is pretty much just getting people to do stuff for you,
altering another person's actions with your own social stimulus in the pursuit of a favorable
outcome. To try to use this tactic in person, in my opinion, is just neckbeardy bullshit. I know
there are some studies about mirroring and its effect on openness, but I am of the firm belief
that in any in-person social interaction, you will have infinitely more success being yourself
than by playing the game. However, online, because the social stimulus we receive is so vague,
generally occurring through text, we are much more vulnerable to social engineering. And yes,
I understand that this sounds completely counterintuitive, being more vulnerable on the
internet. You would think you would have your guard up all the more, but it's important to
remember that when you're navigating the internet, your goal is not always to keep yourself safe from
information phishing. It's usually either to work or to entertain yourself. And when you're on
YouTube as a small creator, not only is your primary goal not to keep yourself safe from
phishing attacks, keeping yourself safe is actually downgraded to at least your tertiary
goal with your primary being entertainment and your secondary being success. So we've proven
that SE-ing is effective, even though it feels like only an idiot would fall for it. But how does
it actually happen? We touched on this a little before, but on YouTube, given that a password isn't
enough to steal an account, hackers are going to need a little bit more, making their social
engineering attacks go a little bit deeper. While you'll occasionally spot a fake YouTube link,
or merch store link, or another weird tailgating attempt from a misspelled PewDiePie,
generally the kinds of social engineering schemes that put small creators in the face of danger
have a little more nuance. Let's say a guy emails you. He says, hey, this is Chet from YouTube.
I tried to log into your account to fix some issues on our backend, but due to your settings,
I need you to approve my entry into your account. Don't worry, I'm just updating some things. Like
all other Chets, this Chet is a liar. He's not with YouTube. And he's gearing up to get his
buttery little hands all over your YouTube channel, either to sell it or to add it to
his collection of YouTube channels that he can alluringly spam people with and start the cycle
anew with another poor soul. So basically, if you're a small creator, just don't let your
excitement lead to your demise. As a small creator on YouTube, the most exciting things are also
mixed with the most danger. Case in point, sponsorships. They are the best way to make
money on this site these days, but they also come with the most risk, even ignoring all the possible
monetary scamming that can occur in these situations. The risk of malware is surprisingly
high as fake companies like PollBoost and Nexi will attempt to infect YouTubers computers with
remote administration tools or RATS for short. RATS allow the administrator or in this instance,
the hacker, scammer, whatever you want to call them, to view all your saved passwords,
record your keystrokes, view your webcam, listen to your microphone, speak through your headphones.
Any nook and cranny of your privacy essentially can be rifled through by some random guy because
you downloaded and opened a program hoping to make some money. So of course, from there,
the next logical question is, so how do we avoid that? I know it's scary to risk losing
a potential sponsor, but you have to do your research. And if something seems suspicious,
you owe it to yourself to take that impulse seriously. Look for the little things,
the gaps in professionalism that a legitimate company would never dare show. Advertisers
admitting they aren't good at their jobs but will make up for it monetarily is a dead giveaway,
and a pretty common one too, as what employee on any actual company email would ever write that?
And yet we can see this on proud display in the case of Tech it Easy, a man contacted by
a company named Oreo Cleaner Oreo Cleaner. Either way, it doesn't matter. I'm going to spoil it.
It's another made up company. And yet again, we see this company representative openly admitting
that he's not very good at his job, attempting to explain away his own lack of professionalism,
and once again, ensuring that his rat will be downloaded to the victim's hard drive by
promising a monetary reward in exchange for a review, a process that requires at the very least
a brief look at the software, more than enough time for a rat to take root and steal the data
of the content creator in question. Another important point, your phone can get viruses
and has a high probability of doing so if you randomly download every app that any rando
pretending to be a company sends you. Point being, stay vigilant and follow your instincts. You are
not selfish, nor are you stupid for wanting to work with reputable people. A lot of scams will
also try to scare you into stupidity by giving you a time limit to take action and avoid a
negative result like the loss of your channel or in the case of sponsorships, a loss of income.
Even our very own the right opinion had two particularly clever attempts at his channel made
with a scammer using a throwaway email with an altered name to make themselves appear to be a
YouTube employee in both scams. In the first scam, the right opinion was directed to a phishing link
disguised as an altered terms of service with his channel being threatened with deletion. While in
the second scam, he was accused of uploading harmful and violent content and it was declared
that his channel had a strike. And once again, he was directed to a phishing link, but this time it
was disguised as an appeal form. Once again, we see a trend in both of these strategies as they
both attempt to induce panic in order to compromise your judgment. But with all scams like these,
it's important to remember that YouTube isn't just going to email you about anything significant
that happens to your channel. It'll also show up in your YouTube studio or in the case of a terms
of service change, it'll likely appear on your homepage. So rather than following any risky links,
just type youtube.com into your browser and you will get a version of the site that will not
steal your data. Scammers prey on the parts of us that aren't reasonable or rational and loss
aversion, the cognitive distortion of value that it is, is certainly neither of those things and is
thus often exploited by scammers. In addition to everything we've talked about so far due to how
little is known about the wannabe friends comment, a lot of people are suspecting that channels like
Logan are using an exploit in the OAuth token system in order to gain people's account permissions
without needing to obtain their details. So every time you allow an app to manage your YouTube
channel like TubeBuddy or vidIQ, people are currently theorizing that there is an issue
with that system. I'm not trying to fear monger, I'm just trying to make you as aware as possible
because not a lot is known about this particular scam. So long story short, be wary of any app that
you provide with permissions to your account right now as it's being theorized that that system is
compromised or compromisable, but who knows for sure. Maybe a hacker, but hopefully not. So to
sum it all up, if someone sends you a link, even if it's a slightly misspelled Team YouTube,
it's not probably fine. And if you get a sponsorship deal, but it's for a company that
you can't find on the internet, or when you do find them, it looks very suspicious, probably
avoid that too. And we can definitely get super niche and specific here. But for the sake of not
overwhelming you with little things to do on the internet, I'll just condense what I'm saying into
a single sentence. Look around before you type in your information. Make sure that the Google login
page you're about to use looks like a Google login page, and listen to your antivirus or your
browser when it tries to point you in the other direction.
Thank you, Mugcup. Thank you for being such a top lad. I hope we all see you around soon, and I hope
you imparted the viewers with a little wisdom. I'll be leaving a link in the pinned comment if you
guys really did. At the start of this video, we were presented with a problem, one which led to
certain interpretations which seemed quite serious, but also slightly reductionist and presumptuous.
People identified Logan's antics as the problem rather than the symptom. Although it may well be
a problem in itself, it's always good to ask a few questions about how someone could play the system
in the way that Logan has. All over YouTube, there is an abundance of boilerplate content set up on
the foundations of other channels, aiming to acquire the bag through strong clip baiting content
that people won't think twice about. What Logan's, or whichever name they go by at this point,
intentions are is unclear, but they seem to be a mere cog in a greater system.
Behind the scenes, there are people working round the clock to ring out channels from
unsuspecting small and medium-sized creators, those who may not be too familiar with the trickery
operated by these fiends. When these people notice, it's often after they've lost access to their
account and respective emails, and their means of finding help is limited. YouTube's response has
often been lackluster, typically relying on a rudimentary checklist which has occasionally
failed to diagnose the problem altogether, even when it appears flagrantly obvious.
This was revealed most sensationally in Megan Rink's video, but can be attested in the
rants of many other frustrated creators.
The main thing that pissed me off the most was losing my true channel. I went fucking insane in like
the last coffee in six weeks, not gonna lie. Insane as in, I had no control over my emotions anymore.
And they got pressed. That's basically what happened. Depressed to the point where I could relate
myself to a 14-year-old fucking me who had suicidal problems.
Given YouTube is about as transparent as they ever are, it's hard to know whether they've truly
ameliorated people's concerns, but I hope they are at least a bit more conscious of the matters
highlighted in this video, and others.
And Google and YouTube support were just taking me in circles, telling me to do the same thing over and over again.
Completely useless, like, completely useless. So finally, on the tenth day, ten days, the account recovery
comes through, and I get my account back. So, thank you Google, even though you didn't really help that much.
Well, that's faster than before. Nonetheless, it's best not to rely on corporations to look out for you,
it doesn't always end too well.
Take all necessary precautions to safeguard your account from malicious actors, and be sure not to fall
for any of the machinations which may seem credible to the untrained eye. If you do this, not only do you
protect your own account, but you allow YouTube to perhaps dedicate more time to those who have fallen victim.
Emphasis on the perhaps, I shan't speak too unequivocally on their priorities.
The internet is an evolving place with evolving problems, and we need to evolve with it.
It's strange how a simple question from an appearingly unexceptional account can cause so much concern
in a community. That concern is justified, but sometimes misplaced. Sometimes the truth is a little less
far-fetched, and a little more, well, preventable. So, how secure is your account online?
Well, that's down to you. All I'll say is, don't find out the hard way. Before you know it, your account might be
transformed into a comment bot, or even worse, a half-assed top 10 compilation channel.
That is no way for a man to meet his fate.
That's enough, I need to thank my Patrons, the $10 Patrons are up on screen right now, thank you guys for your
support and contribution, I really appreciate it, but also the $50 Patrons, Somehuller Blue, Caroline,
Hypercube, Amanda, Devon, Shirochigo, Vertex Avenger, and Doug Nolan, with extra special thanks to my $100
Patrons, Christopher Karras, and Ileana Banana, what a charming name, thank you so much for your support,
it really means a hell of a lot, you guys are top-notch, top-notch people, keep it up, thank you for your
continued support. Anyhow, I don't have too much else to add, if you wanna find me on my social medias,
they'll be in the pinned comment Discord, Twitter, I'm not using Facebook right now, but you can still follow
if you want. Anyhow, I don't have too much else to say, but I hope you guys take care of yourself,
and I'm The Right Opinion, I'll see you in the next one.
