Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too
much free time, and businesses on YouTube. Whether we like it or not, they're here
to stay, and in many cases, I try not to view their presence as a wholly negative one. It's
important to remember that one of our primary purposes as creators is to bring entertainment
to those who use the platform, and if a channel can do that, whoever it's run by, then we
can broadly agree that it's a net positive for audiences. Businesses will always occupy
a realm of YouTube, and I do believe there can be a peaceful coexistence. At the same
time, there will always be tension. To be honest, it's understandable why more grassroots
creators feel unnerved by their presence. Businesses have so much more power and resources
at their fingertips to outflank independent YouTubers in many aspects of quality control.
They can create high production pieces in a few days that would take an individual upwards
of a month, bombing the algorithm with a myriad of content that often gives what many
would perceive an unfair advantage to them against the humble creator. When market domination
comes from a few large corporations, the outcome for the consumer is generally not particularly
positive. It leads to less diversity in general, and more control of narratives by a select
few people, and in industries that are already prone enough to corruption, it's anything
but healthy. YouTube was built on the notion of allowing a person to broadcast themselves
without the necessary investment of a larger business so they didn't have to dance to
anyone's tunes, and many people would like to keep it that way. Fortunately, there will
always be people who will occupy these spaces regardless of their market success, but at
the same time, it's still good to have individual figures in influential positions who can represent
a human aspect to content creation, and although businesses have certainly made more inroads
on the platform than they used to, there will always be that window of authenticity that
seems to separate many of them from the personally driven passion projects. The truth is, one
thing that is hard to fabricate is that individual enthusiasm one has for a subject they cover,
and although not impossible, many large businesses simply don't see it as a required component
for success, and as channels like Looper, Minit Crafts, whatever they're called, and
the rest have shown, you really don't need that much framework on personality to succeed.
In fact, avoiding building any personal image ensures that they keep any components that
may change disposable, and that ultimately, control of the content is still centralised
on the people who run the channel, and not those they may outsource a variety of the
work to. This formula means that there is a boundary before more independent content
and more detached corporate presentations, however, just because there's a rule doesn't
mean that there aren't exceptions, particularly in the community we're focusing on today.
Commentary is genre that large corporations tend to avoid infiltrating, particularly given
the aforementioned paragraph. Having a personality is almost essential to the content you're
producing, even if you're merely presenting information, viewers expect at least a little
pizzazz. Audience members want to build a relationship based on trust with the person
they're listening to, how can you do that when you don't even know if there's a real
person behind the channel? However, this doesn't mean that there aren't some willing
to take the risk, and one subgenre of commentary knows this all too well, that being the Tea
community.
A popular YouTube channel is about to hit 1 million subscribers, they showed up, out
of nowhere, almost a year ago, and the people want to know, who is Spill?
A few years ago, there was a drama in the community that surrounded a channel called
Spill. Spill is a channel that hosts numerous videos with high production value and an astonishing
upload schedule given those said videos. They also hosted a syndicate of channels alongside
Spill, including Brew, Grill, and On The Hill. I'll speak more about them in the future,
but a video they uploaded covering their origin at the time had made them seem more homegrown
than they actually were.
Spill started out as a two-person passion project, one of us has a background in journalism,
the other has a background in illustration and video editing. We both love YouTube news
and drama, who doesn't? We wanted to create a channel that had a more journalistic approach
to YouTube drama, a thorough recap of all sides of a story with proper citations. On
top of that, we wanted to give something back to the community by contributing to the conversation
with an educational approach. And while a lot of people choose to do creative projects
while being self-employed, as soon as more than one person is working on a big project
together, it's legally the best option to register as a corporation.
The reality was that Spill and their accompanying channels were part of a larger company that
had branched out into the tea community, and although people involved with the channel
were actually quite interested in the stories that they covered, they weren't exactly
how they portrayed themselves, and that gave some in the community reason for pause.
Spill- So my question to you is pretty simple, who are you going to believe? Spill saying
that the corporation was a reaction to their 2018 YouTube channel growing, or the Canadian
government saying that this corporation has been around since 2013.
The tea community appeared to be a target for companies and content farms who had been
looking for a way to capitalise on the evident draw of commentary channels. What makes tea
channels so attractive to businesses though? Well, I think it's because they often integrate
reporting a factual or speculative information in a rather straightforward manner. It's
not difficult to grasp, but in cases like Spill, all they had to do was attempt to cut
out bias from the reporters themselves. So although the channel felt like a tea channel,
it was more over a news channel covering tea topics with a nice presentation, and any
attempts to add personality such as their grill channel have not attracted that much
attention because of it. With that in mind, the Spill family hasn't taken up too much
space despite their impressive collective size, and other up and coming creators have
still been able to carve out a niche for themselves, one of those being the subject of today, a
channel by the name of Anna Oop. Anna Oop is a tea channel who has grown to be one of
the most influential creators in her sphere, with over 2 million subscribers on her main
channel and nearly 4 million subscribers when counting her other channels, focusing more
on true crime.
Did you guys ever see any of the TikTok videos about Isabella? What did you think when you
saw them? I can't wait to read your thoughts and discussions down in the comments below.
Her all-American girl charm and sassy nature is well complemented by editing with real
personality behind it, resulting in content that appears to have captured the hearts of
many viewers, with her true crime content garnering popularity for being a bite-sized
accessible breakdown of often very complex cases. All in all, she seems to be the prime
example of individual success in the face of a climate that is becoming more and more
demanding of creators, with thousands tuning into her channels every day to hear that voice
and the person behind it. But what's there more to this humble 21 year old than meets
the eye? Well, today we're going to be doing some investigating of our own, following Anna
Oop's timeline, and seeing whether this success story was really as organic as it
seemed. Ladies, gentlemen, and all other colours on the light spectrum, let's look into the
mystery of inventing Anna Oop.
The YouTube channel for Anna Oop was created in May 2019, it's hard to re-say too much
about them at this point as many of their videos from back then were deleted, and I
do want to save a bit of information for later, but I think from the off Anna knew what sort
of creator she wanted to be, particularly with a name like that, which refers to a popular
meme that regularly circulates around the beauty and other communities.
The video started off quite modestly, with a star that was similar to many other tea
channels at the time, content that delivered information in a mostly verbally free text
format over copyright free soundtracks, being interspersed with the relevant clips of the
discourse. The topics she chose were also those which were long established to have
proven dividends for creators, these subjects mostly included large influences and even
celebrities such as Ariana Grande or Bretman Rock. Not all of these videos were necessarily
unbiased or journalistic, some of them were heavily opinionated, such as her videos on
Nikita Dragun.
These are all important aspects to building an individual's relationship with an audience,
whether it be positive or negative. There are people who like Nikita Dragun, there are
people who do not like Nikita Dragun, but having people who care is already half the
battle to engage with them with your videos. Such content drives up engagement and encourages
people to like, dislike, and leave their comments. However, if you're only known to be a dedicated
hater, then you're not really going to build much potential with your viewers, your takes
still need to be somewhat reasonable and elaborated from their point of view, and Anna Oop did
that for many people. Her strong skills in production, conveying digestible if lightweight
information garnered her an audience very quickly, and when I say very quickly, I mean
nearly immediately.
By the time December 2019 came around, Anna was already approaching 50,000 subscribers,
something that few creators could really dream of in the first eight months of their content
creation. But subscribers weren't the only thing she was building, most importantly,
she was building a rapport with those who viewed her, and she knew the importance of
this. She'd regularly advertise her Twitter and Instagram so she could prevent fanart
of herself, and was seemingly an active member of the community at this time, talking with
audience members and fellow creators. She had a few gimmicks as well, the most interesting
one was calling her viewers, and people she interacted with love, and intentional misspelling
of a word that could mean a term of endearment in certain places. They were building a persona
with identifiable yet unique characteristics, and people were tuning in for them, yet there
was more work to be done.
Heading into the new year of 2020, Anna seemed determined to take her channel to the next
level, and in January, she switched from the commonly used text format to using her own
voice. Normally, you'd think there would be more of an announcement, or at least some
build up to such a change in format, you'd think there could be some attention in a voice
reveal at least, but it seems that Anna didn't want to make a scene, and I can't blame
her for that. The first documented video to use her voice is the upload on Nikki's tutorials,
and given the subject, Anna's sombre tone appears to be appropriate.
Of course, many people are all pretty mad about this, and want to know who did this
to Nikki. There's been a lot of speculations, and some people are even accusing famous YouTubers,
and some of Nikki's closest friends. There were even rumours that one of the blackmailers
was the company Too Faced, who had previously manipulated Nikki into going into a deal with
them where she lost millions.
Although at first Anna Oop's delivery on subjects appears quite subdued, with each
passing month she seemed to find more and more zest when covering these topics, gradually
transforming into the more bold and brash character people are familiar with today.
However, it wasn't just what was being said on YouTube that was important to Anna, and
throughout the year she said about many ways that would familiarise the viewers with her
as a person.
Hi loves, your girl is back again. So today we're going to talk about Tana Mongeau's
infamous reality TV show on MTV, and y'all, this show really ain't it.
In Spring 2020, Anna's existing Twitter account was deleted, seemingly suspended, and a number
of videos were purged from her channel. The reason being somewhat unknown, as many of
these videos weren't exactly poorly performing, but it seemed to work, as the summer of 2020
found Anna increasing her view and subscriber count at breakneck pace.
However, she wasn't without her challenges. In May 2020, Anna's channel was demonetised
by YouTube, who cited unoriginal content being the reason Anna took to Twitter to dispute
this, highlighting the amount of work that she puts into her channel. Given the amount
of second-hand material used by T channels, this isn't a rare occurrence, as YouTube
often struggles to distinguish the two. Anna also used her platform to stick up for another
creator who found themselves in a similar situation. She also found the time to be outspoken
in support for social causes such as BLM, the Lebanon crisis, and LGBT rights, characterising
them as causes that meant a lot to her. She'd post memes, provide opinions, celebrate her
birthday which was on the 12th of July, and even hosted a Twitter Q&A, all of which enabled
her to build a closer relationship with her viewers. Some of her answers were a little
non-descript, but you can't expect a creator to be comfortable with giving all their personal
details out to the public. With that said, her favourite film series is The Hunger Games,
her favourite animal is a koala bear, and her favourite game is Roblox. They weren't
surprising details, but they were meaningful to those who supported her, and her personality
only became more iconic.
Anna Oop In the space of barely a year and a half, Anna
Oop had transformed the landscape of the T community into one suitable for her. Her strong
production value and excellent upload schedule paired with an identifiable character major
a force to be reckoned with, and Anna knew the importance of retaining people who cared
about her. She wanted people to get to know her for who she was, and she wanted people
to know her appreciation for them, even occasionally tweeting out love and gratitude to those who
helped her find success in an often challenging industry. However, Anna was number one to
rest on her laurels. In fact, her success had only made her more ambitious, and on the
3rd of December, she tweeted out that she was working on a new channel that she thought
her viewers were going to love.
What was Anna Oop cooking? Well, we're about to find out.
Anna Oop Not every case is the same, and plenty of
unsolved cases still desperately need to be solved.
True Crime It's really hard to think of a more significant
development to the YouTube community in the last few years than that of the true crime
genre. Now, true crime has always possessed a presence in mainstream media, it long pre-existed
YouTube, and will probably long outlast it. However, the storytelling aspect appears to
have taken its grasp in the last few years, with many creators garnering millions of subscribers
for their coverage of criminal cases, solved and unsolved. There's always been a bit
of stigma around the inclusion of such topics, particularly given the fact that it's being
published to potentially millions of people, and some would rather have it out of the spotlight.
Nonetheless, the consensus seems to be that if these topics are treated with the due amount
of respect, then there is a place for them. Interestingly, there seems to be a decent
overlap between tea and beauty communities, and true crime, with some true crime creators
having beauty roots, with some still integrating it into their videos, and it seems that Anna
pertained that same penchant for the morbid. It was clear that by the end of December,
her new channel was going to be true crime related. The first video was uploaded on the
5th of January, it followed the story of a TikToker who had slain his neighbours for
It was a suitably macabre topic, though Anna's voice does take a bit of getting used to in
this context. Honestly, she sounded more bad when she was talking about Nicky tutorials.
According to Zach's public defence lawyers, the video shows her telling the neighbours
to get off their property. She told them that they'd better back up, because they were
not going to like what's coming out of the house. Sounds like a threat, right?
Nonetheless, the video was well received, and accumulates a strong view count, with
the channel approaching 100,000 subscribers in the space of a few days, a surprising statistic
all things considered, but it must have reflected the strong cult of personality that someone
like Anna Oop had built, and in the next months, she continued to upload consistently on the
Anna Solve channel. Pretty impressive considering that she still had her main channel to run
as well, and in spite of what may have appeared as time constraints, she also managed to maintain
an upload schedule on there as well. Fortunately, most of these videos were limited to approximately
10 minutes at most, which likely allowed her to divide her time fairly evenly between the
two projects. However, although she was still experiencing growth on her main channel, the
true crime one appeared to be experiencing the greatest proportional success, accruing
over 300,000 subscribers by the time April came around. Now, such impressive statistics,
you might expect one to consolidate their achievements, and focus on how to make sure
that such levels of commitment can be preserved, but Anna had different ideas, and on June
of the same year, launched another channel, this one called Anna Horror Stories, which
as the name implies, comprises of Anna recounting the rather unnerving tales of others, that
recently has pivoted towards more list-style content.
Nonetheless, another channel, I mean, I respect the commitment to the grind, but it seems
like a lot to keep at, though, to be fair, this channel's content didn't seem the highest
effort either. The writing is someone else's, and the footage is pretty standard, Anna may
have just been looking to make a pretty penny. However, barely a couple weeks after the first
upload on this channel, Anna was back on Twitter again, polling people for her next channel,
asking what a good name would be, and quote tweeting another person saying that this would
be looking more into the psychological side of criminal behaviour. On the surface, it's
not unfeasible, but it's certainly surprising given Anna has no apparent background in criminal
psychology, she already has a true crime channel, and more than enough on her plate to worry
about. It seemed like a lot to be planning ahead for, when she barely had any opportunity
to gauge the amount of time she'd be able to balance between her already active three
channels and an additional fourth one, but maybe she really was just that inspired.
However, this idea appeared to stagnate a little, and developments over the coming months
stalled, with a tweet at the start of September explaining that her lack of activity on social
media was due to some personal stuff she'd been going through, and with all things considered
this was understandable. Her status as a large influencer had landed her in some drama, probably
the most notable example of this was her feud with that vegan teacher, a controversial figure
whose promotion of veganism has been overshadowed by her altercations with other online figures,
and accompanying contentious remarks.
Anna's responses weren't the most intellectual, sometimes merely consisting to the genius
content of eating a burger, but that vegan teacher was an easy target, and it allowed
Anna to repeatedly dunk on a person who'd already been widely lampooned by the internet.
If I found this drama interesting, I'd probably say more, but it at least established a more
queen side to Anna Oop, and persisted for the rest of the year. Although drama isn't
known to be the most fun to be involved in, Anna seemed to capitalise on the opportunity
to make sassy comments about all those who were hating on her, all while continuing to
upload consistently on her channels, and initiating work on other projects, including launching
a Roblox channel which would allow audiences to game with her. Additionally, she finally
launched the Anna Uncovered channel, the first video being uploaded at the end of November
with a runtime of 18 minutes.
However, the zenith of her online career appeared to be approaching in December of 2021.
There had long been questions about the person behind Anna Oop's channel, and a face reveal
had long been sought after by the most dedicated viewers of her channel. Anna teased this before,
but with her hitting 2 million subscribers, it felt like a celebration was in order. Anna
continued to drop a variety of hints and clues to all that would be revealed, seemingly with
a song titled Face Reveal, which really could only imply one thing, especially given the
teaser trailers that were posted by Anna herself. Finally, people would have a face to put to
this commentator, and viewers were excited, but on the 3rd of December, the video for
Face Reveal was uploaded, and people were in shock.
What the fuck was that?
Anna Oop's Face Reveal contains a series of call-outs to other creators who she has
previously clashed with and spoken about, but the only person really being the subject
of any criticism during this video was her. Face Reveal was broadly ridicule for its sub-par
production quality and delivery, but also for the simple fact that it did not contain
a face reveal. In the video itself, Anna says she wishes she could, but clearly felt that
it was not the appropriate time, and later expands on this on Twitter, saying that she
was going to, but afraid that she would have to deal with too much negativity. I don't
understand, I suppose, but why would you make a video titled Face Reveal in the first
place then, if the whole point of it was not to reveal your face? Well, Anna said she thought
it was just gonna be a fun little goof. It's hard to buy that someone as algorithmically
adept as Anna would not know the implications of advertising a face reveal on an otherwise
faceless channel, but maybe this stress from other drama had just impacted her judgement
a little, and yet, a few days before this, she had just launched another channel?
On top of this y'all, Anna Hoop is also known for her problematic personality. She's been
in scandal after scandal, constantly getting into drama herself, I mean, I think it's
about time we see Anna actually do a video on herse-
Oh.
This was just too much for one person, and surely she was spreading herself incredibly
thin by doing so, and not too long after, this theory may well have been proven correct.
Now there had always been stigma around Anna's channel, but a lot of the criticisms up to
a point were quite subjective, her opinions were poorly formed, her attitude was annoying,
and her content was clickbaiting. They may have all held some validity, but that doesn't
tend to make a particularly eye-catching discussion to those outside of the sphere.
However, a couple weeks after face reveal, Anna put out an interesting post on her Twitter
and YouTube community tab, complaining that a person had copyright struck her without
justification or ownership of content that she had been uploading. She also singled out
the channel that had copyright struck her, a channel by the name of Truthful Reality,
another true crime creator who had covered some of these same stories before Anna. On
superficial inspection, one can't necessarily claim ownership of topics, and a strike on
a channel for doing so would be wholly unjustified. However, as Anna's tweet and YouTube community
post began to pick up traction, a growing backlash from viewers began to form, many
of whom stating that Truthful Reality had claimed footage that he personally owned and
published solely, and Anna had directly lifted this without any transformative value, not
quite the story that Anna had told. Viewers also did not appreciate the fact that Anna
linked his channel, and although not accompanied by any direct call to action, the risk of
harassment from an emotionally charged post like this was always present, with some even
claiming that Anna had purposefully ignored any chance to peacefully resolve this matter
privately, only now taking umbrage after actions were taken against her channel. I suppose
it's in the nature of some more irreverent people in the community to behave this way,
but this is Anna's soul, not Anna Oop, and many people who are part of these communities
think that respect is an inherent part of creating content in this genre, but that appeared
to be just the tip of the iceberg.
About a few days before all this, a post had gone up on Reddit entitled Anna Oop aka Anna
Solve's At It Again, which documented the alleged plagiarism from a YouTuber named Mr.
Ballum, a channel with millions of subscribers. It was clear that this video had been removed
very promptly from Anna's channel following call-outs from commenters, and any of its
presence had been long erased. Additionally, about a few days after the Anna Solve channel
went live, a couple of comments appeared on her Twitter requesting her to refrain from
stealing content. That was in January, and now we were in December. It seems that rumours
have been circulating regarding stolen content on this channel for a while, but it only seemed
to surface when Anna herself decided to publicly attack another creator for what they perceived
as an unjust copyright strike. I can't really comment on the legality of the copyright strike,
as it can be a very grey area, but it definitely shone a light on what many perceived to be
extensively lazy reporting from a creator who was not actually putting time into these
cases that they deserved. Claims of plagiarism are not that common, particularly given that
the cases themselves can be sourced from a lot of places, so this occurring twice in
the span of a very short time was a red flag for some viewers. Some of the concerns appeared
to address the idea that Anna didn't pronounce the names of people involved correctly, and
regularly made errors in reporting information. This is all important in the narrative of
stolen content, as a person who lifts content may not be familiar with the subject enough
to possess this knowledge, and will therefore make errors in reporting the actual details,
copying content, without actually understanding the subtext.
Today, we're going to talk about Nikocado Avocado disrespecting Veronica Vang.
I had come across this a few times when researching a few of Anna Oop's main channel videos,
and tried not to pay too much mind to it, as I've made more than enough pronunciation
and semantic errors in my time, but there was still something strange about certain
mistakes that struck me off as somebody supposedly so involved in the beauty community. Like,
how could you spell Jacqueline that way when you've literally used the correct spelling
in the title? It just didn't make sense. I'd read rumours that the reason for this
was to drive up impressions by having people correct you in the comments, and although
it's impossible to confirm, it's certainly something to consider with channels this supposedly
deliberate, and particularly relevant with Anna's true crime channels, where such shortcomings
could be perceived as seriously disrespectful.
Given Anna Oop's upload schedule, it seems that her final choice was to drop the matter
entirely and just create more videos, which she did. In fact, approaching the end of 2022,
between her now five channels, she was uploading nearly every day. The tweet regarding truth
for reality was deleted, and no content that was subject to the copyright claims was ever
restored to her channel. However, this situation did place a mark over the genuinity of her
content, and made people wonder how much of her channel was original. After all, it wouldn't
be the first time that this was called into question. Anna Oop's videos were well produced,
they looked nice, they had eye-catching titles and thumbnails, and love her or hate her,
Anna had a personality that provoked a response from audiences. She had a lot going for her,
it wouldn't have taken that much to do just a bit more research to avoid errors and any
risk of lifting other people's content. Yet all that was being put on the line for
videos that Anna didn't need or have to create. It didn't make sense for a person
to behave this way, it didn't make sense for a person to behave this way. Anna's face
reveal may not have gone exactly as many would have expected it to, but by the end of 2021,
many felt they had a better view of Anna Oop's face than they ever did before, with some
wondering whether there even was a face in the first place. Well, it wasn't long before
alternative theories began emerging, alongside some pretty damning evidence.
Now the trail of breadcrumbs seem to point out to this channel, who we are going to lovingly
call Team Anna Hoopoo-Poo-Poo-Poo-Poo-Poo-Poo-Poo-Poo.
Now there are always theories floating around surrounding the identity of Anna Oop, not
necessarily people wishing to have all her personal details, who are asking the question
whether she really was a legitimate individual content creator. However, without real evidence
proving one way or the other, all you could do was speculate. There are plenty of alternative
explanations, perhaps Anna just outsources a large amount of her work and enjoys a feeling
of being super productive, it's not impossible. Outsourcing doesn't necessarily undermine
the individuality of a channel as long as they still have a personal connection to what
they do. Maybe Anna Oop just really likes money or algorithmic success, they may not
be the most noble reasons, but that also wouldn't change her personal identity or connection
to the channel. Anna had once claimed to have watched old videos critical of her, even showing
one which outwardly shows the thumbnail claiming her channel was a company, so she must have
been aware of these discussions.
Don't ask, I've already seen all the hate videos about me on YouTube, but let me remind
you that my only job here is to entertain y'all, and that's why your girl decided
to launch my new channel, AnnaPlays.
However, the drama surrounding the copyright strike did ring a few alarm bells. A large
majority of creators still want to be proud of the work they attach their brand name to,
even if there are significant contributions from other parties, but Anna's posts seem
to convey a lack of understanding of how this copyright strike even came about. They say
it was for no reason at all. Even if you didn't edit the content yourself, the first thing
you'd do is try and establish exactly why this happened. Anna is obviously aware this
isn't just some random bloke or corporation trying to cash in on her content because she
links his channel. This is another true crime YouTuber who probably cares about his reputation
as well, so there was clearly some motive behind the strike, whether you think that
was justified or not, but Anna couldn't put two and two together, which is very strange
indeed.
They had been murmuring since then that there was more to this story, including an earlier
comment that alleged that Anna had ignored attempts to reconcile the matter in private,
but ultimately the story appeared to fizzle out. However, there were other developments
that were going on in the nearby drag race community that would throw the case wide open,
so let's go there now briefly.
Hey queens! Some people found this dig from Carmen to be a little out of line, because
Gottmik's appearance on the show was a big deal. Regardless of the fact that Mick identifies
as male, having a trans queen on the season was huge.
This is Butterface, they're a channel that operates in the drag race community that follows
the famous RuPaul show of the same name. On the 1st of January 2022, another channel by
the name of TopRPDRVideos uploaded a video accusing Butterface of ripping their content
without providing any credit, subsequently profiting off the success of this content.
In our case, this channel went as far as using parts of our videos instead of hunting down
the original material itself, like it happened with this channel not so long ago, which
is not only immoral, it's also very much illegal.
Butterface then put out a response to this video, and although apologising for any use
of the original creator's material, denied that they were a content farm of any sorts,
with a fully documented backstory and a variety of inspirations for their channel. However,
this was further taken apart by TopRPDRVideos and the community as a whole, ripping into
the inconsistencies and insincerity of such a post, with further evidence that the channel
was merely a content farm.
Meanwhile, a channel called Gringey popped up in my comment section. He took a break
from YouTube. He says his videos were stolen as well.
And if I was sad before, now I'm starting to get a little bit upset.
Oh, wait a moment, what the hell is this? I'm lucky Wao hasn't noticed. No legal team,
they don't mind me. They don't mind you? Didn't you just say, oh, no, no, no, no, no, sorry.
That was part of the introductory spin on the narrative designed to gain more sympathy
before trying to perform some good old character assassination.
Emotions over facts, people. Emotions over facts.
There was one key detail amongst this all that piqued the interest of onlookers from
T-channels, and that was the accusation of the involvement of Anna Oop.
It seems like Team Anna Oop, being a famous YouTuber with millions of subscribers, thought
it would be nice to help her friend Team Butterface with her own channel, not by, you know, inviting
her on her channel, do collaboration, helping her develop her reputation and the connection
with her viewership, like we have basically seen happening everywhere else on YouTube
since its inception. No, no, no, no. She helped by designing her thumbnail.
Yes, in Butterface posts, they credit a close friend for helping them get their channel
off the ground. They don't say who, but TopRPDRvideo seems pretty certain that this special someone
is Anna Oop. Although there is no solidified evidence to confirm this beyond a shadow of
a doubt, it's certainly planted a seed for people to start digging, and not too long
after, another creator appeared on the scene, Paige Christie.
Paige Christie Today, we are talking about another bustling
content farm called Anna Oop.
Page Christie is a commentator who has covered the topic of content farms before, most notably
the Spill saga that followed a similar storyline. She had already expressed her doubts over
the legitimacy of both Anna Oop and Butterface's channels earlier on in the previous year,
and now seemed to have the evidence to prove that they were both connected.
Paige Christie Butterface's first video, and underneath
their first video, which is every single time Monet X Change came for Tamisha Iman, which
was posted on the 16th of June 2021, there was a comment. A comment left by Anna Oop,
and the comment read as follows. Hi guys, I see some of y'all are commenting
that my friend is copying me. I love the art of drag, and so does my friend, and when they
said they were interested in making a channel, I wanted to help out where I could, so I helped
them with the thumbnail design, gave them some editing tips. Please, no hate to them.
P.S. I love butter, this video goes off. Butterface responded with, thank you queen, I probably
should have mentioned somewhere that you gave me some tips. I completely understand everyone's
concerns in the comments. Love you too. And this comment, can I just say, has since
been deleted. The admission that the thumbnails were created at that point by Anna Oop was
all I needed to then go and do some dirty investigation.
This is pretty damning information, particularly when combined with the collective research prior.
It proved that there was an undeniable connection between Butterface and Anna Oop, and if Butterface
was indeed as corporate as they appear to be, then unless they fooled Anna too, there
was no real alternative explanation for how such a scenario could have transpired. If
Anna truly was a friend, then unfortunately that friend was a business. I assume this
was a shock to some, but I think most who followed the situation were just waiting for
their suspicions to be confirmed. The truth was that we were seeing one person supposedly
pumping out up to an hour of highly produced yet fundamentally hollow content every week.
It simultaneously was too bad, and too good to be true.
Butterface is not returned, and I think it's because they know that they don't goof, because
the comments underneath a lot of people are beginning to realize that this is a conglomerate,
and especially when it comes down to straight up stealing other people's content, this is
now majorly overstepping a line.
The evidence had been stacking up for a while, but with all of it accumulating in one place,
it enabled people to understand the depth of this masquerade. Behind it, a very telling
story about Anna Oop, that this person who would use their status as a self-proclaimed
human being to tell stories, plead their case with YouTube on multiple occasions, and even
talk about personal challenges going on in their life was simply not a person at all,
and there was no way that anyone involved had merely accidentally acted like an individual.
This was a fully committed facade, filled to the brim with first-person pronouns. They
knew what they were doing, and they were making a killing from it.
But who were they? Well, there was still a little more to uncover.
One channel that kept coming up when I would do a thumbnail search for thumbnails that
look similar to it was a channel called Rumored. Then I went into Rumored's featured channels,
and I came across another channel called This Happened. As you can see, they all have the
same thumbnail style. And then from This Happened, I went and checked out their featured channels
tab, and would you look at it, there are some people there that we should recognise.
One person called Anna Uncovered, in Paige's video, she showed that there appeared to be
a nexus of channels connected to each other. Some of these were channels that did masquerade
as individual creators, whereas others were presented under the more corporate pretense.
However, on researching one of the channel's URLs, Paige found something else.
Is that all of the rest of the channels did not have a customised HTML, so their YouTube
HTML is youtube.com forward slash c forward slash Daniel O Games. Daniel with the O being
massive games, uppercase S, lowercase s. So one of the jobs it shows is female voice artists
for big celeb channels, as well as the second one that was posted 29th of November, which
is an American female voice artist for a celeb channel. So the advert reads as follows, they
need 10 freelancers. Hello, we are a company called Video Creation Hub. We own several
YouTube channels, and one of them is in the celebrity niche. To give you an example of
the style of work that we're after, check out these channels, and one of them is the
channel This Happened, and the other channel is Pop Juice. This layered down a further
rabbit hole which revealed two companies, Creolone and Video Creation Hub, both of whom
specialised in one thing, YouTube automation. So O works for Video Creation Hub, which are
the people who created this Upwork advert. And on LinkedIn, they state that they are
a content writer, a freelance writer, and a contributing writer. But not only do they
work for the Video Creation Hub, they also work for another company called Creolone Media.
So the Video Creation Hub essentially is a company that considers YouTube profiles as
real estate. They do something that they call YouTube automation. In essence, these companies
are specially designed to build and consolidate large channels and their fanbases. They now
have to communicate with the Gen Z mind. They don't really list their techniques on
the page, trade secrets I suppose, but then again, I feel at this point it's somewhat
evident. So this began to paint another very different picture. There may actually be individuals
behind the channels themselves, but the production comes from a third-party company who turns
that concept into a content farm. Page then provides further evidence to support this,
and it begins to look a bit dystopian, honestly.
An editor from Blank. Passionate about music, entertainment, writing, Dee has put her love
for them together, and specialises in music and entertainment journalism. Currently, Dee
is a scriptwriter at Creolone Media Group, where she writes several scripts a week for
the Butterface YouTube channel.
Creolone Media appears to be aiming for a plethora of genres in the coming months, advertising
roles in channels relating to soccer, text phase horror, rap music. They are essentially
shooting for world domination, or the next best thing. This was daunting.
These people essentially create entire automated channels with voiceover artists, with writers,
with researchers, with editors, with thumbnail creators, with graphic designers, with producers,
with literally just everything it is that you could possibly need to have a channel
and make it run.
Though there was very little to add at the end of Page's video, she channels the frustration
of an individual creator who sees many of her peers struggling to keep up with the sort
of farm that companies like Creolone and Video Creation Hub are operating. Not necessarily
being bothered by their existence, but more about the lie that they wanted to present
themselves as one of us. Page also made a follow up video where she briefly spoke to
truth for reality, and gave his side of the story more attention as well.
Yeah, I reached out to her on two occasions. I wasn't going to strike the videos, I just
wanted her to credit my work. No response. So then they tried to threaten me through
emails with a lawyer. The whole thing is a joke. It really wasn't that serious to me.
So then I asked him if he had a copy of the email that was sent by Anna Solves, and he
basically said to me, he said that he doesn't have it, and that the account that they emailed
from tried to email him a PDF file. He says that those are often used for malicious attacks,
so he blocked the account and erased the entire thread. So take that information whichever
way you want to. I'm more inclined to believe this young man, only because it's not just
him who's saying it. There are several people echoing the same sentiment, and several people
who came over to my video unprovoked to tell me the exact same thing, that Anna Solves
steals content from other content creators.
This was arguably the most serious claim relating to the drama, and certainly asked more of
the companies behind the channels. It also placed the ball firmly in the court of Anna
Oop Butterface and the rest of the channel syndicates. However, their response was more
to erase evidence. As noted in Paige's video, the comment from Anna was quickly deleted
after it was discovered. The video that comment appeared on was subsequently set to private
as well, and a large majority of leads that Paige followed in her video were removed or
hidden. Although Anna would later use the phrase, are videos on Twitter, this seems
to be the closest that there is to an acknowledgement that this is more than one person. However,
in a way, sometimes a lack of response can be considered a response in itself. Outside
of the occasional tweet, Anna Oop's social media accounts largely fell silent. They stopped
posting on their community tab altogether on each of their channels, and just returned
to the regular upload schedule. Anna Oop still has a personality, unfortunately, but outside
of the content, there is no real attempt to build a fanbase. AnnaPlays, the channel that
was designed to cultivate a closer relationship between the channel and the audience, uploaded
their last video in May 2022, and has been dormant since. Interestingly, not nearly a
month after, another channel returned to the platform, Butterface, with a video about drag
queen drama. What a surprise. Their video on the topic of a queen pretending to be a
ready to defend themselves was at least somewhat ironic, but the description was what was even
more interesting. Here they drop the guise of being an individual person, and admit that
they are operated by a company, and realise the ethical qualms of behaving in such a way.
They want to do better, and have since adapted to a more corporate format to distinguish
themselves from other individual creators. This wouldn't have been a bad response if
this had been their first response. Unfortunately, they already had one shot at explaining themselves,
and many people considered this apology to be a result of their failure to maintain the
masquerade. I think the apology also rang hollow in the greater sense as well, because
other channels that were seemingly friends with Butterface, and were ruined to be a part
of this syndicate, most notably Anna Oop, were still using personal branding to do just
what Butterface admitted to be unethical. But sometimes, friends have different opinions
I suppose.
Anna Oop I'm sorry, but why does every Kardashian
or Jenner out there try to ruin their memes by profiting off them, and reusing them over
and over again?
TRO Nonetheless, the apology did serve as strong
confirmation for the broader theory surrounding these channels, and ultimately proved that
no matter what was hidden, the explanation remained the same. Anna Oop was not who they
said they were, and they were just one of the many channels that began to infiltrate
and create a sphere. Who knows what these channels are, or if we can even identify them,
but regardless, if Butterface or Anna Oop's presence meant anything, it meant that they
were already here.
It's a pretty simple observation to make, but I think what bothered people the most
was just the lie in the first place. It's not like this was the only way for corporate
channels to survive in the 21st century, there is more than enough proof you can thrive in
your own space regardless of who owns you, and there are more than enough successful
channels to demonstrate that. They just wanted a piece of the pie, and it makes sense in
a way.
Personally fronted YouTube channels have far better audience retention, compare a channel
like Anna Oop with Pop Juice. Pop Juice presently has 129 million views with 220,000 subscribers,
Anna Oop had 440,000 subscribers with half the amount of cumulative views. The whole
reason retention is higher is because viewers think you're a real person, which might
be considered a bit of a deal breaker when you're not.
So who is the real Anna Oop?
As we kinda found out already, there's certainly a degree of deception involved in the curation
of these channels, but when establishing the timeline for this situation, you'll realise
there are more smoke and mirrors that had not been accounted for. Let's start from
the top with one simple factoid that we know to be true, Anna Oop's channel was launched
on the 12th of May 2019. That makes sense in this timeline given the channel's subsequent
success in the following years. However, we also know that around the start of 2020,
Anna Oop conducted an overhaul on their channel, their social media accounts, and a large number
of videos were subsequently deleted. I can't give you the exact reason why without speculation,
but I did say I would return to this point, and that's because there is something interesting
about their original Twitter that has been preserved, and that is the use of plural pronouns
to describe their channel. At first when I found it, I assumed that it could be a typo,
but it kept appearing, and appearing, and appearing, to a point where I assumed that
it must have been intentional. Anna Oop started out as a corporate channel that knew to an
extent it was just that. Although there seemed to be an individual person assigned to their
social media, the channel was quite transparent about it being more than one person. However,
by May 2020, this had completely changed, and even their YouTube description read that
they were a 21 year old girl from America, which I always found such a strange detail
to include in their channel because I don't think that many people could care enough about
their about page to update it with every passing birthday. I switched to voiceovers that start
the new year also changed the game with respect to how Anna operated. They moved towards this
more personal bond with their audience, and began to integrate things like birthdays,
Q&As, things that would draw people in. It was the next step of the business model. This
one didn't raise too many abject suspicions at the time because it seemed like a natural
progression, revealing something personal about yourself, it all seemed fair and square.
However, with the next step, the expansion, some more evidence of suspicious behaviour
emerges.
So their YouTube HTML is youtube.com forward slash c forward slash Daniel O Games. Daniel
with the O being massive, games, uppercase S, lowercase s.
When watching Betty Page's video, I was surprised when she mentioned Popjuice's URL, that being
of Danielo Games. I struggle to rethink what Danielo and his games had to do with a social
media channel covering trending topics, but more interestingly, I'd noticed this when
researching the Anna franchise earlier on in the day. What do I mean by this? The interesting
detail about Anna's secondary projects is that Anna Solve's, Anna Uncovered, and
Anna Horror Story's channels were seemingly founded before Anna Oop's own channel was.
This wasn't something dubious beyond doubt, plenty of people of old channels may revamp
for content production, but it certainly made one curious, and then you go to the archives
of these channels, and on each of these accounts you will find an old screenshot of the channel
belonging to someone who seemingly has no relation to Anna Oop whatsoever. These channels
typically display around a five-figure subscriber count, and seemingly all relate to Hispanic
content creators, which are also found to be a very strange connection, so it appears
the people behind the Anna Oop channel purchased these channels as they believed it would maximise
their chances for subscriber growth, which also explains why Anna was so close to reaching
100,000 subscribers so soon after their first video on the Anna Solve channel.
However, when returning to this theory today, I hit a roadblock, because the Anna Horror
Story's channel that I pulled up said it was created in June 2021, which would have
been around the time the channel went live. I took a moment to wonder whether I'd just
made a mistake, it wouldn't be the first time, but I thought I'd retrace my steps
to the tweet promoting the channel. I followed the link on the tweets, and then it hit me.
There are two different Anna Horror Story's channels. Has anyone ever noticed this? It
appears the second Anna Horror Story's channel had picked up where the first one left off.
I was mobbing on the first channel in May, and resuming on the second channel in June.
My guess would be monetisation issues as I didn't see any ads on the first channel,
but it's still an utterly bizarre situation. Normally you'd expect Anna to take to Twitter,
but there's just this strange period of radio silence, and no evidence that they ever attempted
to have the lack of monetisation on that channel changed, which is also surprising given they
regularly complain to YouTube when they feel they've been maltreated. Perhaps this time
they kinda knew what they were doing was wrong and didn't want to attract attention to
it, but that's just a guess. Beyond the assumption these channels were bought, I mean I doubt
Anna was also a male Mexican gamer in their spare time, the Anna Horror Story's channel's
URL was advertised in a forum a few weeks before the Anna Horror Story's channel was
launched. The link speaks for itself.
Now on principle I don't really mind people trading accounts, people can cultivate what
they want and pass it on for all I care, however buying accounts often does beat a very dangerous
side of YouTube, the one where people hack accounts to sell them on. I'm sure we all
know creatives had their channel turned into a Tesla fan page recently, it's not fun.
And although I doubt the team behind Anna Oop is hacking these channels themselves,
it definitely speaks to the corporate approach of content farms they wouldn't consider the
trade they're participating in. In the case of the Anna Horror Story's channel, despite
previously being a Spanish speaking channel, it was being advertised by an American or
Canadian user whose approval for monetisation message was written in English. It's not
evidence beyond a doubt because Spanish speaking people do live in America, but it's food
for thought, yet it's not something that Anna's team would ever think or care about
themselves.
As they expanded, they assumed they'd hire more and more people for these channels, and
having less ability to actually critically stay in touch with the content they were creating.
In a way, ironically, this worked somewhat to their advantage, whereas a channel like
Spill's content drew suspicion for being too good for a single person, Anna Oop and
their accompanying channels never had to worry about that, they occupied this position where
they could pull off the act of being human through what appeared to be human error. So
just because something's human doesn't mean it's good. In the meantime, their social
media started drawing with a variety of creators, especially easy targets that would embolden
their status in the community, calling out others and using a face reveal bait to launch
a distract on their detractors. It all pointed to one thing, Anna Oop et al weren't just
a content farm, they were a bad content farm, and the only way they were able to keep their
feet on the ground in this genre was pretending to be a singular person, and simply outmaneuvering
all the actual people by rigging an algorithm in their favour by buying channels and strafe
running content, while holding hollow opinions that align with yours to keep them watching.
And the worst thing about it, is that it completely, 100% worked.
There's one more point I want to make regarding Butterface's apology, and that's a video
that was published alongside it.
Fans wanted to get to the bottom of things themselves, and even one fan tweeted Trinity
and asked her point blank if the account was hers, to which she responded,
Oh yes, I'm still on Reddit.
You might be thinking, ooh girl, that sounds like a confession. Well, it is, but it also
isn't, if that makes sense.
It's not exactly an objectionable video, but it's so strange seeing a channel that
is a self-admitted corporation trying to use jargon with intonations that it doesn't
feel like they can ever truly understand. Sure, they've dropped the guise that they're
a real person, they've said they understand why it's ethically questionable to do so,
but they're still trying to pull off that attitude that garnered them the attention
in the first place. With the knowledge that there are people behind the scenes pulling
the strings to make this video appealing to you, it just feels rather weird.
Audiences like to feel they're in control of the content they consume, and that's
why the difference between a rather generic corporate channel, and one that's trying
to yassify their view count comes into play. A middle ground corporate channel just wants
the view, the click, it's a transactional thing that both parties are aware of. These
channels though, they do something different, they commercialise the viewer's connection
with the community and the culture that comes with it, so they appropriate parts of it to
appeal to people. To be honest, it's not that I think it's inherently immoral to
do that, but I think it does make people uncomfortable, and I don't think people are often willing
to support a channel like that, which is probably why the guise of an individual person is always
going to be more effective, even if you gave a corporation personality. Unfortunately,
it's just not believable that there are a bunch of guys in suits who are genuinely
shook over whatever's being said between online influencers. Companies just don't
have the merit to appear legitimately interested in certain circles of culture, but it can't
stop them from trying.
As a corporate channel, Anna Oop had very few defining features, no exceptional research,
no great wisdom to impart, but as a person, their personality perfectly fit into a community
that welcomed the characteristically audacious creator who just says what she feels and doesn't
have a damn who tries to stop her tea-spilling endeavours.
Anna Oop We all sat through hours and hours of cringe
music this year, and I think we all understood that influencers should not make music. Unless
you're the hypocritical b**** that is me, of course.
TRO Say what you want about Spill, I think many
gave them their fair share of criticism back in the day, but they weren't necessarily
bad at what they were doing. The least I can say about them is that in the general discourse
of corporate-based channels, they did a decent job at keeping their audience informed and
maintained. They presented content in a way that many channels simply could not, and those
are two of the key tenets of any YouTube channel that I mentioned in the introduction.
Anna Oop, on the other hand, was just mass-produced junk food content. I think that's what bothers
me the most about their channel as a concept. Corporations do have the ability to do what
many individual creators cannot, and they can achieve great feats with their resources
and manpower. Have the team behind Anna Oop settled on purposely being less than that
because they wanted the illusion of humanity? All these opinions about who was in the right
or wrong in their content, possibly fabricated to play to a crowd. It's risky business
doing that, and easily leads to contradictions that could harm people involved or mentioned.
The truth is that everything is an algorithm to some extent, even personal values and expressions
of those that can supposedly organically draw an audience in. It's an inevitability, and
plenty of creators have been called out in their time for expressing opinions they may
not truly hold. Playing to the crowd is common. However, when you engineer channels with the
sole intent to play into the crowd, not only do you reduce the realm of critical thought
in that genre, you also may make a lot of damn additional mistakes. The majority opinion
isn't always the right one. Making errors is part of life as an individual creator,
we're only human and we strive to grow. At the same time, I think most creators' lives
would be easier if we didn't make those errors and didn't have to deal with the
guilt and shame that comes with them. To have a corporate network, the creative formula
to enable those errors is just insulting to the people who spend hours trying to avoid
such pitfalls. It also amplifies harm that can be spread through falsehoods and misrepresentations
that may not have spread otherwise. This was especially valid with the true crime genre,
a section of YouTube that demands meticulousness and dignity for all those involved. The incompetence
of Anna Sols could not have just prospectively damaged other creators in the domain, but
also victims and their families as well who are often the subject of these stories. That's
why a personal connection to the content is often important, because that connection will
provide you with an inherent motive to be sensitive to the world around you, otherwise
the only real motive that exists is the one the numbers, and sometimes the numbers will
tell you to do something different to the people. Sure, the best way to attract clicks
is to exaggerate titles and thumbnails, while dramatising the story and asking viewers what
do you think about this mass murderer, but not all content should be treated that way.
When Anna Oop moved from the T to true crime, there wasn't any real acknowledgement of
the sheer differences between the two realms. Too many businesses don't distinguish that
one genre may have different rules to another, because they lack that personal connection
to understand the nuances, which is what caused so much unrest in the true crime community.
People felt that Anna didn't respect those cases, and they may well have been correct.
The other problem with seeing matters only through numbers is how you interpret the absence
of others, and how you interact with criticism. The Truth Through Reality situation showed
us that, separate to the point of copyright altogether, the Anna Solves community post
projected the intention of a channel like theirs onto a channel like Truth's, who
for all intents and purposes doesn't actually sincerely care about the stories he covers.
It's particularly illuminating the comparison of the response to someone like Truth, a smaller
creator, and Mr Balan, a larger creator. One video is taken down swiftly and silently,
the other resulted in a public campaign that only stalled when people called them out for
it. And alright, maybe they would have been able to pass as a person with less outrage
if they'd merely created content and avoided any outside interactions, but they used this
perception as a human to instigate drama with other creators and elicit sympathy from their
viewers. It gave them the ability to use those human emotions to leverage favourable outcomes
and just attention in general. How that sort of attention could only yield so much good
when your own shortcomings become more noticeable, and the channels around you begin to falter
as well. Even businesses stretch themselves thin trying to cut corners, and the same numbers
that tell you the more content the better make you forget about the other numbers that
gave you those numbers in the first place. In the end, even without an admission, people
felt the mask had slipped, an inhuman schedule with an inhumane approach. All was undone.
Nothing was real.
I suppose behind the scenes there are many ways that the AnnoOops squad could have responded
with which we would not necessarily be aware of. They could have found a person with a
bit more experience in the community, and given them greater reins over the research
and production. They could have centralised the channel's presence more on an individual,
given them control of operations, or at least helped them oversee the work being done on
their behalf. They're never gonna be as organic as some, but for all we know these
are steps that could have been taken since being called out, which is why I don't want
to presently malign them too much when not entitled to know exactly everything someone
is doing to improve themselves. However, it's hard to say that outside of that, any individual
passion has been developed for the content they're creating, although avoiding any
large scale controversies have still occasionally been called out and criticised for a lack
of originality in their content. A recent video, in particular from a YouTuber by the
name of The Asher Show, alleges that they have copied his topics multiple times, without
providing any credits.
Two months ago, November 5th, I made this video the history of the most hated person
on TikTok. It did quite well, 889,000 views, but here three weeks ago, January 6th, the
childish TikToker who got cancelled for being annoying. It's getting a little too coincidental
at this point. November 26th, 2022, I posted this. Anna Oop posted this January 9th, 2023.
And the weirdest part about this, nothing in the description, no references here, but
everyone just take a listen, and who is speaking at the beginning of this video?
Baguette! Baguette sauce! Meatballs!
Hate people that waste food, why do you have to waste food on TikTok?
No thanks! Come on! Just a little bit.
It's like, the more food you waste, the more views it gets. Why?
Idiot!
It's not funny, you're just being completely wasteful. Am I on the Anna Oop payroll now?
Now I'm voicing your channel?
There are a few examples here that I think fall into a grey area, and I'm not sure
they point to the degree of plagiarism previously covered, but together they definitely do paint
a picture. I don't think this is exactly content theft, but it does kind of represent
what Anna Oop is without the pretense that they're a real person, just a hollow machine
that can't produce original thoughts or ideas for themselves. Another notable example
of this was Anna Oop's video on Technoblade shortly after his death.
Hello everyone, Technoblade here. If you're watching this, I'm dead.
Given that Anna hadn't really shown much investment in the Minecraft community, this
video just seemed really out of place for the channel, and the video itself just felt
like they were regurgitating information they read elsewhere, and adding a delicate piano
to provide it with an illusion of poignancy, with a lot of people calling it out in the
comments.
Alex had rarely shown himself on his YouTube videos, as he made it clear to his fans that
he prefers to present himself as an avatar instead, and guys, his own fans even recognised
Technoblade as his real name throughout the years on YouTube.
However, even with content that you'd expect Anna to be a bit more familiar with, you see
a lot of comments deriding Anna Oop for their rather obnoxious clickbait, luring people
in with borderline false statements. I'd probably have more to say if the topics didn't
bore me so much, but it is absolutely amazing what some people can turn into an 8 minute
video today, but then again it's amazing what some people can turn into a 4 hour video
too.
Do y'all love the sound of peace and quiet? Do you wake up in the morning feeling content?
No? Yeah. Me neither. Y'all.
To me it doesn't feel like anything's changed at all, and it's hard to change sometimes
when you have a formula that's working, and outside of a certain sect of people in
the T community, the greater YouTube audience don't tend to watch such content, and majority
people don't care for the drama, they don't read the comments, they don't watch the
videos, they simply don't care, and who can blame them, there are only so many hours
in the day to spend indulging in drama content, and those viewers are probably more interested
in Selena Gomez than they are the person talking about them. The only person to blame really
is Anna, and well they're not really a person, they're part of a company doing what they
know best, they say and they do what is best for themselves, they don't relate to that
moral obligation that other creators may do, because from their point of view, what does
it matter whether they are who they say they are if they can deliver content that people
want to watch? Being an influencer on any platform is profitable, they're celebrities
of their own kind who don't have to provide every single detail of their existence if
they don't want to, they don't have to show their face, they don't even have to talk,
it's the perfect combination for someone looking to make a few bucks, you can create
celebrities without proving they're even real. The problem is that when you do that,
you force out individuals who actually are who they say they are. That's why Anna Oop
really was the worst kind of business venture, in their head what they were doing was merely
trying to fit in, succeeding in an area where there wasn't massive competition by corporate
channels, but really what they did was take over a market whose sole existence was based
on individuality, and directly competing with creators who could never dream of keeping
up with such a production line. It's like asking IBM to create a computer for your amateur
chess tournament, sure the computer is gonna win, but what was the point anyway? They have
their own realms where they can compete, domains where they can succeed and flourish, and generally
facilitate the creation of technology that a single person may struggle with. Although
owning all the casual chess players is something they can do, is it something they should do?
Beyond the conceptual problem of having companies in control of public opinion, it's bad for
other creators as well, we constantly have the discussion on YouTube regarding creator
burnout, the fragility of mental health, but a creator's first priority will nearly always
be to keep their channel alive, and if they're competing with people who have infinitely
more resources to do that then they will struggle, their channel will either fall to the wayside
because they know they can't keep up, or the creator will run out of fuel trying to
do so. There's no winning option for the individual here other than to attempt to be
a better content farm, and we've already seen the distinct problems with that which
can really harm a community. If content is watered down to meet people's expectations
then the quality of discourse suffers too, then the only option left for people craving
a higher standard of information is for better content farms like Spill. This may well happen,
and if audiences choose it then so be it, maybe people enjoy content farms, but I'd
like to advocate for the power of the individual creators, the ones who are gonna talk about
these subjects because they care about them. Over time plenty more Anna oops are gonna
pop up, and they're gonna masquerade as people because it's their market that can
be tapped. The power of social bond that can be formed is priceless for them, but it's
always a one way relationship for a business like theirs. Many of these channels will completely
lack a personal connection to their content, and the community that has instilled a social
status on them, which is why it was so easy for a channel like Anna's to lie about their
identity in the first place. That's why individuals matter more in these spaces, because
there's an expectation to care, an expectation to listen. There's nothing right now I could
say to this company, but there's always something you can say to a person. Anna Oop is the sort
of channel that I just don't really enjoy, and I honestly wouldn't have too much to
say outside of that if Anna was a real content creator, a biased YouTuber who plays with
the crowd and is careless with details they should be more diligent with. What's new?
But the truth is Anna Oop was more than that, they were a channel that built themselves
on a fundamental lie, utilised all the advantages of a well invested company with pre-purchase
channels and conveyor belt content, while utilising audience sympathy by complaining
to others about how oppressed they were as an individual creator. They really had their
fingers in all the pies. Following these successes, the Anna Oop team had the choice to be better
as channels as they branched out into more sensitive subjects, and just chose not to
be, using their increased money to just pump out more content rather than improving what
they produced as a whole. I think the most sinister fact about the plagiarism case was
that Anna Oop took advantage of that humanity, that belief in their identity, and warped
into a way to attack a creator who had no motive to maliciously take their content down.
Anna Oop has removed countless videos from their channel before, it would have been a
drop in the corporate ocean, and yet they went down swinging. When the whole network
was called out, they just scaled down the project a little, still passing their content
off from a first person perspective with tons of tea spilling opinions to this day. It's
all a crock of shit, a big crock of shit, and part of me expects I should be more bothered,
but in the end this just feels inevitable, there's only so many arguments I could make
surrounding their existence, and all I'd finish on is why would we need companies pretending
to be YouTubers when we already have YouTubers? What does Anna Oop really offer? Businesses
on YouTube, for better and for worse they're here to stay, and in many cases I try not
to view their presence as a wholly negative feature, but they can be, especially when
all they offer is a highly processed form of content that is propped up by communities
they'll never truly understand. Anna Oop is an example of that, and one can only hope
their formula isn't one that is duplicated too often. However, if they are here to stay,
I hope they remember there are some things you can't, and shouldn't, invent. Thank you.
average of one to two videos per day so it's quite literally physically impossible that
Anna Oop doesn't have any help with at least to prove to you guys without a shadow of a
doubt that Anna Oop, one of the biggest T channels, one of the biggest drama content
creators here on the platform is a part of a massive content farm. Anna Oop!
Ok guys, that was the video, I hope you all enjoyed it, thank you if you made it this
far. I'd first like to give a big shout out to the editors, once again their names will
be on the screen, and in the pinned comment they do a great job, if you wanna check out
more of their work it'll be down there below to have a look at. I wanna give a big thanks
to my patrons, $10 patrons on the screen right now, thank you so much for your contribution
guys, and also my $50 patrons, Laura Woodward, Sari Tish, Esther Bedoya, and Hypercube. Thank
you so much, these guys have been around for a pretty decent amount of time now so I really
do appreciate it. What else do I need to thank? I feel like I'm missing something. Big thanks
to Thumbnail by Starpo, big thanks to the artists who do wonderful art, great in the
video, if your art is featured in this video and you're looking for credit then just let
me know. Merch, as I said we're still doing merch, I really like the mugs we do, if you
wanna check them out, once again, link will be in the pinned comment, and it's getting
a bit hot up here so I'll probably wrap it up quickly, but hope you enjoyed the video,
and I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.
