So while my channel was offline, the 2018 Game Awards happened. I streamed it live with my
roommate on my Twitch channel, which I did keep up and running during the two weeks that I was
tack feared off YouTube. That stream is up on my archive channel, by the way, along with all the
others. At this point, though, I'm sure we've all seen this segment of the awards.
Sonic Fox won Best Esports Player of the Year, and good on him. But he spent his time on stage
in his fur suit, mumbling into the microphone about how being a black gay furry made him the
enemy of all things Republican. I love watching the Game Awards. Jeff, I know you try really,
really hard to run a serious show, but something always seems to go off the rails every single
time. But let's go beyond just laughing at this clown for the absurd display he put on.
It really seems like progressive journalists wanted to make this guy a hill to die on.
A black furry video gamer just won the world title, and instantly came out as gay. Came out
as gay, like he hasn't been screeching about this as the only thing relevant to his personality,
and that's where we get to the problem. Quick, without looking it up, can you remember what
game Sonic Fox plays, or the specifics of how he plays it? I can't. I watched the awards live.
Hell, I rewatched it in making this video, and I still can't put my finger on it. But do I know
that Sonic Fox is black, is gay, is a furry? You bet. Believe it or not, I'm actually a minority
myself in a few ways. I don't bring it up constantly because they're usually not relevant
to the situation, but also because I'd like to believe I have a more interesting personality
than the boxes I can check off on the progressive stack. Your identity, your demographic, is not a
substitute for having a personality. What you are is never going to be as important as who you are.
The traits you were born with are never going to be as important as the choices you make.
Imagine having all of those developmental years to shape a personality, and when you come out of
it as an adult, all you can muster is, I like sex with the partners of my choice. This is why
anybody with a brain makes fun of all those ridiculous social media bios that are loaded
with pronouns and proclivities. The bio isn't actually saying anything, it's simply showing
the person to be so boring and underdeveloped that they believe membership within a race,
or a gender, or a class of people counts as being a fully-fledged individual.
I think this is why the progressives became enraged beyond comprehension
back during the height of the NPC meme. It was a great shorthand way of describing the commonplace
habit of substituting an actual personality for describing one's place on the identity politics
hierarchy. But the choice not to cultivate a personality by these people isn't benign,
it's effects don't end with them. This is just some armchair psychology, but I think a lot of
them know and feel their deficiencies deep down, without really understanding what to do about it.
That's why, whenever you dig into the past of any of these people, you almost invariably find
violence and rage, or at least, the advocacy for it. Like Sonic Fox himself, his identity is black
gay furry that Republicans hate, and his personality is support social justice men who
attack pro-life women without provocation. Maybe if he focused less on identity and more on
personality, he wouldn't feel the need to cheer on a public assault. But rather than do the hard
work of journeying inside of themselves and making the attempt to find out just what the hell is
wrong with them, the progressives would rather double down. This gay black furry is esports
player of the year, and he's teaching the far-right a lesson. What's the lesson? That people who rely
on the superficial qualities of themselves are themselves superficial people? Ian Miles-Chung
and fellow right-wing YouTuber Jeremy the Quartering Hambley quickly tried to smear Sonic Fox
by claiming he thinks it's cool to assault women after he enjoyed a video of a pro-life camerawoman
accidentally getting punched by a pro-choice activist. And this is how I know the author of
this article, Anna Valens, probably has the same identity personality problems. You have to be
willfully blind to make that many mistakes. Ian and Jeremy aren't right-wing. They're not claiming
anything about Sonic Fox. Sonic Fox said it himself in his tweet. The woman in the video was clearly
not punched, and even more clearly, it was not an accident. In any case, despite Sonic Fox's
appearance at the Game Awards, as well as the show being generally more inclusive than ever before,
SJWs on Twitter still weren't happy. Jeff tweeted, gaming has been marginalized and dismissed for
far too long. Dirtbag Boyfriend tweeted in reply, marginalized and dismissed. This is what happens
when we educate our oppressors. They use our language as a shield. I don't know what Jeff
is posturing about, but people like him terrify me. White cis men nerds adopting the language
of the oppressed would be ridiculous if it weren't so pervasive. And let me take a guess at what this
Dirtbag Boyfriend's profile looks like. Yeah, exactly the type of garbage account I thought.
Also, I'm blocked by him, and I've never even spoken to him before. I'm not surprised.
I can recall during a previous Christmas season meeting up with a cousin of mine who had just
had kids. I asked her how she was, and I shit you not, she said, oh my kids are fine, and then
launched into a lengthy description of what all of her kids were currently doing. She didn't say
I'm fine, she didn't say I'm fine and my kids are fine, not a single peep about herself. I
understand having kids is a big deal, but if you have no time for yourself, if you allow your
personality to be completely subsumed by your identity, it's not healthy for you,
and it's not healthy for the kids. It's the same with social justice.
If you were to ask somebody you know, tell me three of your personality traits, and their first
three go-tos were black, gay, and furry, you may want to sit down and have a serious discussion
with them about where their life is heading. Not because being black, gay, or a furry is bad,
it's not. But because being the type of person that believes identity markers substitute for
a well-developed personality is not only bad, it's self-destructive.
I would hope that that was true.
