7 AM—the alarm rings, the president wakes, and the shades pull back to reveal an unseasonably
warm Monday morning in Washington, DC.
First up is a walk across the hall to the dining room, where breakfast is served by
a team led by longtime executive chef Christeta Comerford.
Also provided are reading materials—a packet known as the bulletin, which staffers curate
to include the news that, these days, Joe Biden wants to read—both as the president
and as the person.
In addition to the biggest national and international stories, it's known to disproportionately
include those from his home state of Delaware.
But minutes later, the president walks upstairs to the White House's rarely pictured third
floor.
Nestled on its northeast corner is a small workout room, where he starts his days by
working out with trainer Drew Conteras—one of the many returnees from the Obama administration.
Quick shower, quick change, and it's 9 AM—time for the commute downstairs and across the
West Colonnade to the fabled Oval Office.
$755,580,000 is dedicated to running the presidency in 2023.
Even excluding attributable costs borne by other areas of government, and despite sitting
at its lowest in years, this figure translates to $2,070,079 a day, $86,254 an hour, or $3,593
per minute, meaning spread out evenly, before the president even arrives for work, the American
taxpayer has paid three quarters of a million dollars for the job that day.
One eye-popping sum, but one that could be worth it depending on what happens with the
rest of the day.
The most crucial role of the president is as the go-to when big decisions need to happen
quickly.
Therefore, they have to be informed on just about anything that could boil over and reach
their desk.
That's why almost every day starts with the most important regular meeting—the daily
briefing.
On this Monday, the 13th of February, 2023, that starts exactly at 9 AM, and considering
she might need to stand in for Biden at moment's notice, Vice President Kamala Harris was all
also included, having made the far longer commute down from her residence at the Naval
Observatory.
The central document of these meetings is prepared by the major American intelligence
agencies, summarizing what they think the president should know, and so it's been
described as the quote, most highly-sensitized classified document in the government.
Clearly then, there is zero chance the public can legally view any from any time recently,
but the CIA did declassify some—the most recent of which from January 20, 1977, the
final day of the Ford administration.
It starts with a summary of protests against rising food prices in Egypt and the dramatic
effect it was having on President Anwar Sadat's popularity.
This intelligence proved accurate—he was assassinated four years later.
Next is coverage of stalling peace talks on Cyprus, a still-classified section about West
Germany and France, news about an upcoming trip by Soviet leader Podgorny to India, stalled
price negotiations within OPEC, a trip cut short by Yugoslavia's president, and finally
a status update on tensions in Benin.
The report's short, the point's brief, but that's the point—the president's
supposed to be the generalist, not the specialist.
Next Biden meets with his brand new chief of staff, Jeff Zients.
This role is tough to define because it's so all-encompassing, but at the simplest level,
the chief of staff is essentially the manager of the White House—they deal with coordinating
all the operations of the president and their office, even extending to developing policy,
and therefore it tends to be one of the most powerful positions in perhaps the most powerful
nation on earth, and yet its holder is rarely well-known outside Washington.
But quickly, a minor crisis.
Mayor of the House Kevin McCarthy tweets that he's lost confidence in architect of
the capital, Brett Blanton.
This is an even less-known position leading the agency that runs the Capital Complex—therefore,
responsible for some 2,500 employees and an $800 million annual budget.
But Blanton was facing mounting pressure as a recent Inspector General report highlighted
a series of missteps—he had accrued 19,000 miles or 30,000 kilometers of prohibited personal
use on his government-issued vehicle, even driving it to Florida on vacation, costing
the taxpayer an estimated $12,500 in additional wear and tear.
He also outfitted the vehicle with lights and sirens, misrepresenting himself as a law
enforcement officer, invited friends in for so-called Patriot Tours while the capital
was closed to visitors early in the pandemic, and allegedly did not even show up to work
on January 6, 2021, as the building he oversaw was invaded by a mob of election-denying rioters.
McCarthy was the most powerful voice asking for Blanton's removal yet, and having done
so in such a public manner, it was time for Biden to act.
Now, we don't know the exact details of how this particular decision was made because
the minute-by-minute details of a President's day, at least within the White House, are
not a matter of public record.
We get what's called the public schedule, but that only includes what the White House
wants us to know about—usually events open to the public or press.
Mondays include few of those.
They tend to be fairly boring—nobody really schedules events on the first day of the work
week, so no matter the administration, archives of public schedules indicate that, unless
scheduling, Mondays overwhelmingly focus on the kind of internal policy and planning work
that we, the public, don't get to know the details of—at least not for a while.
You see, the White House Office of Appointments and Scheduling does keep track, and like most
non-classified government documents, eventually the public can get access through the rights
granted by the Freedom of Information Act.
Still, there's a FOIA exemption restricting access to presidential records for five years,
then there are months or years of processing time on top of this, so the most recent minute-by-minute
understanding we have of a president's day dates back to the Bush administration.
On a similar boring Monday in February, Bush, a notoriously early riser, arrived at the
Oval Office by 658 and immediately jumped into a series of meetings with his inner circle
before his 8 AM daily briefing.
After was another quick huddle before loading onto Marine One for a quick flight over the
river to Mount Vernon, for a ceremony commemorating the 275th birthday of George Washington, and
then the president was back at the Oval Office just 75 minutes after stepping out.
The rest of the day was a continued cascade of calls and conversations, the most exciting
of which a 90-minute conference with the Prime Minister of Australia, potentially in relation
to the day's announcement that the country would send additional troops to Iraq.
Finally, the Monday wrapped with a small event—a screening of the movie Amazing Grace to Commemorate
Black History Month—before the president finished with dinner in the diplomatic reception
room at 637 PM.
February 13th, 2023 likely looked rather similar for Biden—just a succession of short, unscheduled
meetings with key administration officials, largely in preparation for the rest of the
week, with the exception of making a decision on what to do with the architect of the Capitol.
That clearly happens quickly because, by 3 PM, it's announced—Biden fires Blanton.
Finally, the last task the public knows about is a 4-30 call to Colonel Paris D. Davis,
informing him that, after decades of waiting, he would be awarded the Medal of Honor for
heroism in the Vietnam War.
As usual, the president returned to his residence by 7 PM, finishing the day with dinner and
a read of a collection of ten letters his staff selected out of the countless more sent
to him by the general public—an unexceptional finish to an unexceptional Monday.
The rest of the week, however, would lead up to perhaps the most exceptional day of
his presidency—Tuesday, slightly busier.
It begins with a daily briefing and a call to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to
celebrate the day's announcement that flag carrier Air India would purchase over 200
American-made Boeing aircraft.
Elsewhere in the West Wing, press slowly amble in.
The White House originally told them to arrive at 7 AM, but in the early hours of the morning
their call time was pushed to 930.
While we can only speculate, perhaps the administration wanted them on hand when the months of inflation
report released at 830, but then decided it unnecessary after a tip-off that the numbers
would prove rather negative for the president.
Inflation wasn't slowing as fast as they'd hoped, so there was no reason to amplify the
news with a surprise presidential statement, for example.
But there was still plenty for the press that day, and considering the demand for access
to one of the most powerful people on earth, there's quite a system to manage newsmaking
at the White House.
Three main areas are dedicated to the press—the briefing room, the press corps offices behind,
and the so-called Pebble Beach.
This is a section of the North Lawn where about two dozen television networks have a
near-permanent setup for live shots.
If you've seen a report from the building, it was probably filmed here as the White House
essentially requires it—no longer allowing crews to trample the lawn as they did in decades
before.
Now, these journalists are collectively represented by the White House Correspondents Association.
While they have no codified rights, by tradition, and in recognition of their power in shaping
the public image of a president, the White House awards the association the role of managing
press access to the facility.
But considering there are thousands of association members, decisions need to be made as to who
gets access to what based on the practical limitations of space and time.
For example, it would be entirely impractical for the entire press corps to travel with
the president at all times, but some of the press needs to be with the president at all
times.
If not, we would not have as confident an understanding about how unexpected events
like 9-11 or the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan played out from Bush or Reagan's
perspectives.
So, each day, top association members take turns to compose a smaller, 13-person press
pool—typically composed of a collection of a few wire reporters and photographers,
a TV correspondent and crew, a radio reporter, and a print journalist.
The wire reporters and photographers provide content for their subscribers, which, in the
case of AP and Reuters, is essentially every news organization, while the print journalist
is tasked with writing pool reports for the day, which instantly go out to a massive email
list.
Tuesday's designated pool reporter was Shireesh Dateh from the Huffington Post, who first
informed everyone that the pool was in their vans at 1226, waiting to roll out in their
motorcade with the president.
Weights and vans are a constant for the press pool, as motorcades assemble long before a
president is ready to depart, and today's totaled almost an hour as the next report
indicated the president walked into his limo at 1 21 PM.
With the knowledge of their departure, anyone at the destination knows to get ready if they
want to film the motorcade's arrival.
Further reports circulate who's writing with the president, who he took photos with,
and then a two-minute warning informing recipients to get ready for Biden's remarks—be it
a reporter watching back at the White House briefing room, or a TV director waiting to
cut to a live shot of the speech.
Eventually the moment the speech ends, another report goes out summarizing it, including
one of the most crucial elements—color.
The rest of the press corps can watch the speech from the White House or online, getting
an idea of its content, but it's tougher to interpret more subjective things like audience
reaction.
That's why reports often include notes on this, like the strong response to Biden's
remarks against assault rifles and high-volume magazines.
The corps even gets information on Biden's outfits, like this note that he was wearing
his trademark aviator sunglasses stepping out of his limo upon return to the White House.
But quickly, the travel pool scrambles to the West Wing as the day's briefing is about
to start.
Now, given the question and answer format, where reporters sit matters—the further
forward, the more likely they'll get called on.
The front seats also give a better shot talking to the broadcast cameras at the back.
Even just getting a seat at all is a big deal in that it guarantees access to the room even
on the busiest days, and bestows the right to use the offices to the rear.
That's why the Correspondents' Association has to decide who most deserves one, and therefore
the seating chart essentially acts as a year-by-year ranking of the prominence of various media
organizations.
In 2008, city papers like the LA Times, Chicago Tribune, and Houston Chronicle took up seats
in the rear.
As the economics of print grew more challenging, and therefore budgets increasingly excluded
a White House correspondent, these seats started to get filled by digital outlets like the
Daily Beast or BuzzFeed.
Today's chart includes more outlets than ever as publications have begun the practice
of splitting seats, allowing them to trade off days.
But the prime seats in the first and second rows have stayed consistent through the years,
still fully dedicated to legacy media organizations like CBS, the AP, ABC, and NPR.
Shortly after the briefing concludes, the pool reporter calls a lit—essentially,
communicating that the White House has no more planned public appearances by the President
or their representatives that day, and therefore that reporters can head to the office or home
without worry.
Wednesday was more of the same—internal work, a trip to Maryland for a speech on the
economy—than an early 3.50pm lid.
Thursday, a little more.
At 9am, the President boards Marine One for a short 13-minute flight to Maryland's Walter
Reed Medical Center for his annual physical.
According to a letter released later that day, Biden was recovering well from his COVID
infection in 2022, had occasional issues with gastroesophageal reflux, exhibited a notably
stiffened gait compared to before his foot fracture in 2020, and had a few other minor
issues but in all was a quote, healthy, vigorous, 80-year-old male who is fit to successfully
execute the duties of the presidency.
The President returns to the White House at 1226, and quickly after, a pool report goes
out informing the press that finally, after days of pressure, he would address the spate
of recent shootdowns of unidentified aerial objects above the US.
Once that was done, at 515 the President delivers remarks to open a screening of the movie Till
in the White House's theater in commemoration of Black History Month, and with that, a lid
was called at 530, finishing a relatively busy day leading up to an incredibly busy
weekend.
By Friday, February 17th, the week was winding down.
Without any public availability on the docket for the day, any news coming from the President's
office came in the form of press releases.
Then, at 3.18 in the afternoon, a press lid.
Oddly, though, for a light day and a weekend without work travel, the Bidens decide to
stay in DC, rather than making their regular weekend retreat to Delaware.
In retrospect, though, we know it was due to a quiet meeting, held sometime during the
Saturday, where advisors and Biden decided to add an unannounced, perilous stop to his
scheduled trip.
Despite an impending departure, the Bidens made the most of their Saturday in the city.
The two attend mass at Georgetown, then take in the National Museum of American History.
Closing the night, they head to dinner at the Red Hen, a trendy restaurant in a trendy
area, but the image effect they might have hoped for was overshadowed by the internet
debate they set off by both ordering the same dish.
By 8 PM, they're back at the White House.
For the President, though, the night had just begun.
It's 3.30 AM.
Without any notice or fanfare, a motorcade quietly rolls out of the White House, turning
what had been a rather standard week into a truly unprecedented one.
Normally, when the President heads to Joint Base Andrews to board Air Force One, they
do so by helicopter.
It's safer, it's quicker, and it's less disruptive to motorcade-fatigued DC residents.
But Biden's not supposed to be traveling—he's supposed to be sound asleep in the residence
and a fleet of five Marine One helicopters over downtown DC just sticks out.
Within an hour, the President's airborne.
Accompanying him is an unusually small traveling party composed of three aides and advisors,
a security detail, a medical team, and just two journalists.
Not only is the press pool for the trip unusually small, with only the Wall Street Journal's
Sabrina Siddiqui and the AP's Evan Vucci aboard, the reporting's also on delay as
each handed over their cell phones upon arrival.
Still abnormal, there is some precedent here.
For the sake of image and morale, Presidents have often made trips to active war zones.
Typically these are kept under wraps.
The planning of President Trump's 2019 trip to Afghanistan, for instance, was so quiet
that when he left Mar-a-Lago, some of his Secret Service thought he was still on premise.
On President Trump's trip too, only a precious few knew of his departure, press members'
forfeited phones, and plane windows were blacked out.
Until Biden, though, no American President had visited an active conflict without an
American troop presence, or even a safe airbase to land at.
Slipping into war-torn Ukraine without the presence of the planet's most powerful fighting
force, without direct American air support, vehicles, or troops providing security is
an extreme risk, but a risk deemed by the President as worth it, and a risk deemed by
his security personnel, best minimized by speed and secrecy rather than largess and
brute force.
This cloak-and-dagger planning extended to what plane the President and traveling party
flies to.
Normally Air Force One, the callsign reserved for whatever's flying the President, is
assigned to one of these easily distinguishable VC-25s.
But because these are exclusively used by the President, they're anything but stealthy.
In fact, it was a photo of an airborne VC-25 by a British plane spotter that tipped off
Trump's secret trip to the Middle East in 2019.
Learning from this slip-up, Biden and team boarded a C-32 for its relative anonymity.
Unlike the VC-25, if a C-32 is spotted, it could just as well be the First Lady, the
Vice President, or a cabinet member—not necessarily the President, as these often
carry a host of high-ranking officials.
And it was spotted.
Not long after the C-32 took off from Joint Base Andrews and pointed towards Ramstein
Air Base, this tweet surfaced.
Inocuous enough, using Flightradar24 and publicly available transponder data, the tweet had
identified an irregularity—an oddity.
And now, oddities were beginning to stack.
After the trip to Poland was announced, press members had asked whether the President would
be visiting Ukraine.
Biden had, after all, visited Poland just 11 months earlier, and such a quick return
seemed suspicious.
And zeroing in further, the Twitter user who had spotted the C-32 initially had now dug
deeper and posited that it very well could be President Biden aboard the flight.
For their part, though, the President and company weren't waiting for the rest of
the world to catch on.
Having landed here at 8 PM, a stealth motorcade whisked the President to Przemysl-Gulny train
station.
While the Ukrainian train's interior lent it an air of stateliness fit for the office,
these were not cars overhauled by Biden's team for Biden.
It was simply a renovated luxury tourist train, now repurposed to sneak world leaders in and
out of the country.
Of all the high-risk maneuvers undertaken on this trip, it's likely that this is the
most dangerous of all, as the idea of an unarmored train passing eastward, ever nearer to the
front lines, left American intelligence navigating a minefield of uncontrollable variables.
In the weeks and months prior, this discomfort was made evident as White House planners pushed
for safer, more predictable alternatives, like Biden and Zelensky meeting somewhere
along the border or in the western city of Lviv, farther from active conflict and nearer
to potential intervention.
While the exact security detail and contingency planning is still unknown, we do know that
the White House did communicate the trip to Russia ahead of time, and that three separate
American surveillance aircraft tightly looped overhead as the President crossed the border.
Sunday is now Monday, as the 10-hour, 400-mile, 650-kilometer journey comes to an end in Kiev.
After a briefing to refresh the President on the city's history, Biden steps aboard
a modified white Toyota Land Cruiser.
What was a secret is no more, as streets across the heart of Kiev close to traffic and speculation
hits fever pitch.
Some 30 hours since his last sighting by the press, and after 24 hours of travel, the President
pops up nearly 5,000 miles or 8,000 kilometers away from the White House—all for this.
A public embrace of President Zelensky, a statement, a laying of a wreath at the wall
of remembrance, and a quick stop at the US Embassy.
Within five hours, he's already back on the train, heading towards the border, reading
briefs, and preparing for tomorrow.
Before even completing a trip that will be remembered in history books centuries on,
it's already on to the next task—more motorcades, more meetings, and more handshakes.
The executive branch understands the power of minor, yet regular, action.
Each day in their daily briefing, the President learns a small amount about an ongoing issue,
and as that sums up over the days, weeks, and months, they become one of the most informed
people in the world on that subject.
Our sponsor Brilliant uses the same principles to unlock the ability for anyone to learn
some of the most daunting subjects out there.
Learning complex subjects is actually rather straightforward—you just have to break them
down into smaller chunks that you can understand, and Brilliant does that for you.
With their clear explanations and interactive challenges, you learn the chunks, then they
build them back up into the broader subject.
And on top of making it easier to learn these subjects, this structure allows you to learn
as fast or slow as you want—the chunks are small enough that you can learn a component
of gravitational physics, for example, just as you're waiting for a meeting or class
to start.
Then, if you do that enough, eventually you have a confident grasp of subjects that incredibly
few others do.
I think my favorite courses are the two on logic, because it's just such a fascinating
subject, but they have others on mathematical thinking, statistics, computer science, and
most of the complicated STEM subjects that you'd want to tackle.
I can't recommend them enough, and I feel incredibly grateful that I get to promote
such a worthwhile service to pay for these videos, and you can actually try everything
Brilliant has to offer free for a full 30 days by clicking the button on screen or heading
to brilliant.org slash wendover.
And then, the first 200 of you to do so will get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription,
and you'll be supporting Wendover while you're at it, so thanks in advance.
