So if any of you see someone spreading creepy, perverted things that they made up in their
mind about my life, about Lainey's life, about Sarah's life, you can send them the link to
this video to expose how incredibly stupid and gross they are.
Kill her, God.
I don't even know if I can do this.
Like, please leave me alone.
Like, I've asked.
I asked you to stop using my name and my information in your videos.
And you told me that you would.
You asked me to stop contacting you.
And again, today you posted a video.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome back to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and I hope you are settled in today as you join me to enjoy this second installment on this wonderful series.
If you haven't watched my first video, I would implore you to do so, not just for context's sake, but for
the entertainment value as well.
However, if you did join me, you'll know through the measures of controversy and the intertwining of
narratives, the subject of today's video cultivated and crafted an audience incredibly carefully, one that
was catered to him only, and then used that audience in question to solicit various favours.
It was a game of control to our onion friend.
However, if it had stopped there, we may just call him out for being an exploitative creator to a worse
degree than normal, of which there are a few on the platform.
No, you see, it wasn't just a control thing over his audience, it was something that he wanted to bring into
his personal life, and that which could be found in all of his relationships, often to a degree in which
questions would be asked.
That's where we're going now, and I don't think this part needs too much of an intro, I suggest we make like
DeFranco and jump right in.
If you watched my part on Jay Albury's video, you'll likely know that I have the displeasure of researching
a large majority of Onision's relationships while on YouTube.
Back then, however, it was a matter of tackling the subject from the standpoint of neutrality.
Now we are back on my channel, and we have already discussed a strong level of theory as it is,
I feel we can take the evidence that was shown, and use it more inductively.
Onision is a control freak, he wants to shape his life around the fantasies, many of which involve YouTube,
and involve people. Having control over a fanbase is one thing, having control over a partner is another.
As said, physical proximity works in very significant ways, and by creating relationships he can
manufacture new conflicts to present to his audience, but he had his preference on the younger side.
I don't know if his choice to enter relationships with younger girls was a kink thing, or more a control thing,
but going after people who are lacking direction in a vulnerable position, and open to receiving support
from someone, often led Onision to relationships with those between the ages of 16 and 18,
though there is deviation. Over the years, as he aged, and as he got through a fair few relationships,
the age gap increased, showing that he was still targeting the same people. What exactly did he want?
Let's talk about the relationships of Onision.
Onision's relationships while he was on the platform started with a person he was actually married to prior
to the creation of his YouTube account, a person named Sky. This relationship, despite Greg's habits
of putting all his problems about it on the internet, did seem to be mildly functional at one point.
However, all this began to fall apart when a new individual was introduced to his life. Her name is Shiloh.
Shiloh was a Canadian punk artist who actually had a charting hit at one point, it kinda slaps,
even if it's a tad dated. However, in 2010, she was pulled into the Onision rabbit hole. Shiloh allegedly
started looking into Greg's channel after seeing his I'm a Banana video on TV, truly a love story
for the ages. They began communicating, they developed a friendship, that friendship eventually
turned into an emotional affair, and by the end of 2010, Greg drafts up the divorce papers for Sky.
The original divorce documents are shown here, they included the assertion that Sky forfeited
her homeownership rights, and that Greg would pay her $1000 a month for 12 months if she moved out.
Greg has regularly cited this and claimed that Sky did not honour this signed contract, but Sky has responded
saying that given she signed the contract under emotional stress and verbal abuse delivered by her friend
Gregory here, the court predetermined it as null. Now, there are a load of messy details regarding his divorce,
and it's trimmed to Sky that is a much more in-depth story that we will partly cover soon, but the truth is
that it seems she was not invested in his YouTube channel in a way that he wanted her to be, and Shiloh was,
so for him it was not a difficult decision, and once he had demonstrated his commitment to Shiloh
less than a few months after the divorce, Onision introduced Shiloh in his Onision's Girlfriend video.
All very jolly and joyous, but this does not last, as this relationship quickly devolves into rather grim
territory. One of the first controversies occurs with the video Shiloh Forgot Me, when Shiloh allegedly suffers
a seizure which invokes memory loss. Onision decides to film it and upload it to YouTube like many normal people would.
Onision's Girlfriend video.
Unsurprisingly, the then normal people in his audience called him out for this, apparently there were people
in his audience with sense. He deleted the video due to backlash, but also uploaded a video called
I Respect Her Wishes, in which he defends the decision to not have her see a medical professional,
because they had already worked it out themselves.
The reason I didn't call an ambulance is because I wouldn't want someone to call an ambulance on me if I lost my memory.
I don't see what doctors are going to do to help Shiloh.
As mentioned, this distrust in medical professionals isn't coincidental, he didn't want anyone actually advising on his personal life,
especially people who are astute enough to see what is going on.
The saga then continued barely a couple months later when he uploaded videos called Shiloh Threaten Me and The Truth,
which both frame his then ex-girlfriend as unstable. In between this, he has another relationship with a person called Adrian,
and this is when Onision uploaded the videos, which led many people to question whether he was suffering from borderline personality disorder or not.
Onision's relationship didn't work out, I'm gonna be single for some time, and I have no idea if I'm even willing to put another girl through the rollercoaster that is Onision,
because I am a douchebag. Truth is, I don't think he did, I think Adrian was a person that Onision had more trouble controlling than most,
and therefore took to social media to attempt to manipulate her back with public show's remorse and regret.
He was looking for a new person to play his game, and Adrian didn't.
And I don't even want to point a single finger of blame at Adrian. She's a nice lady. She really is. She deserves someone much more like herself, not like me.
Because, I don't know, we're just so not compatible, it's ridiculous. And it was my mistake for... Well, it was my mistake for being a dick.
As this crumbled pretty quickly, he left a string of failed endeavours to win her back, including numerous voicemails that would eventually become very notorious
and symbolic of Greg's attempt to reconcile relationships that he was losing grip of.
And, just so you know, everything I said publicly, there were never attacks on you. I was just living my life.
Like, it's kinda like how you were just living your life when you had the same essential massage. You were just being you.
I know I was busy blaming you for a lot of stuff, but that's not my fault.
Fortunately for Onision, it wasn't too long before Shiloh got back together with him, and this gave him a platform to publicly call out Adrian,
even implying she had STDs.
The home that I ended up in was smaller than the first home. It's much prettier. Much more clean.
He likely did this out of business because he couldn't control her, but also now he had Shiloh back, he felt secure in having another person he could take advantage of,
and believe me, he really did go to town this time.
Firstly, there was the issue that Shiloh was expecting. Originally, Onision did this weird celebratory video,
and then there was this miscarriage, and then Onision uploads a video announcing Shiloh has sepsis,
then he removes it and re-uploads it to his archive channel, blaming Shiloh for lying to him,
and then Shiloh goes back to Canada for treatment regarding her case, and once again she is beyond reach.
So what does Greg do? Well, he goes back to being sulky, sad, and forlorn. He uploads a goodbye Shiloh video,
and makes multiple sad hour posts into the public sphere. Also in this time, Shiloh's mother mercifully hides her passport,
and although Onision sends Shiloh money to purchase a new one, she does not. Maybe she worked out what was good for her.
Onision also starts multiple feuds with his other exes in this time, I assume to try and show some sort of proxy loyalty.
He's off attacking his exes, and yet only has commitment to Shiloh and everything she represents.
Sounds a bit sketchy, does it not? Well, let's sketch a little more to create an even clearer picture.
Onision misses Shiloh so much, and he's once again showing how loyal he is, but she is gradually slipping away.
Greg seems to have this algorithm of measuring how worthwhile the pursuit of a relationship is.
In Shiloh's absence, he clearly felt, to an extent, there was something redeemable,
they had a breakup the year before where Shiloh went back to him as mentioned, and so in my opinion,
Onision viewed a repeat of that completely viable, thus explaining all this sad regret posting.
As said, Shiloh's mother hid her passport, and some distance had clearly given Shiloh time to make her mind up,
and eventually, at the start of February, Shiloh and Onision ended their relationship.
Immediately, however, Onision's tune changed, very shortly after he released a video called It's Over,
suddenly calling Shiloh out for all her lies, in musical form of course.
Now once again, it's plausible to say that Onision may have had a revelation himself,
but really what followed felt rather contrived, added on top of the fact that when Shiloh admitted to
quote, emotionally cheating on Greg when confronted with various pieces of evidence,
Greg once again used this to emphasise how evil Shiloh was, branding her as cheating scum,
and although of course that sort of behaviour isn't endorsed, it's hard to ignore the fact that as far as he knew
at that point, Shiloh did to him exactly what he did to Sky with Shiloh, which was basically overlapping
the end of a previous relationship with the start of a new one. So his fury seems somewhat hypocritical
and contrived to say the least, even more so considering the drama that would occur a few years later,
but we'll get to that in a bit. None of Greg's reactions ever seem particularly natural, everything seems
designed to elicit some outcome he desires, which often requires swinging between contradictory
standpoints. It seems he will do his best to maintain control over a person until they are out of reach,
and then flip the switch. Let's talk about that a little more then.
Alright, so we've had a decent analysis of a large amount of real-time evidence thus far,
this is what was observed at the time, but there's still a lot more to discuss.
Onision was not a man with great ambitions, he just wanted to control you under every circumstance,
and when you weren't under his control, he'd play a variety of mental games, I think you can categorise
them into the five stages of Onision relationships. The first one was bait, he'd reach out to people in a
caring way, perhaps even in a vulnerable way that would suggest that he needs someone, he needs a
person to a reasonable extent. This tricks the unfortunate person into believing that they would
have some conducive role to play in Onision's life. Onision is also a person with a decent amount of
resources, so if you can help him, maybe you can be a part of his kingdom, how inspiring. And then
he shows you how committed he is, he invests in you, he makes you feel like he cares about you
specifically, he spends time and money to come and see you, and before you know it, you're in his
arms, and you can live out his dreams together. Of course, I emphasise, his dreams, not yours.
Over the first few years on this time on YouTube, it's clear he wanted someone he could use in a way
that he wanted to, someone who he could manufacture conflicts around, and with Shiloh, he really found
that, he found someone who would play his games, someone who would play into the drama, threats, and
testimonies. Then comes the third phase, if you're lucky you have some distance from Onision,
he suddenly feels remorseful, he misses you so much, he's afraid he might never find another
girl like you again, you weren't like all those other women, they didn't compare to you, you were
special, he's gonna post all these sad statuses onto the internet, he might even upload a video or two.
Sometimes this might pull you back to stage 2, but also, the distance might allow you to see the
situation more clearly, and finally make a decision that you don't want to ever interact with him
again, and that's when we reach stage 4.
Suddenly, in fact, you were just like all those who came before you, you were a cheat, you were
a slut, you were a liar, you were taking his money, you probably had STDs for all he's concerned about,
and now Onision is mad, because he thought you were different, and now he's gonna stress to his
audience that you weren't, and you hurt him just like the rest, and now he's so broken, oh and now
he wishes that someone would come and rescue him, oh if only there was someone out there who would
save him. Meanwhile you're sat there, shell shocked from the relationship, and you just wish he would
stop talking about you. He did this with everyone the audience could identify, primarily with Sky,
Adrian, and Shiloh in the first few years, he simultaneously would keep in contact with them,
while demonising and shading them at every possible opportunity. Eventually many of these girls would
reach the fifth stage, but I will talk about that in due time, I think I have more than enough.
Onision had an assemblage of individuals who either partially or went through this arc, and that was
because he wanted them to play his game, and many of them, although vulnerable, did have some sense
to escape this. However this changed when we introduced the character called Kai. Kai, who was
Lainey upon meeting Greg, is Onision's current husband, and another highly controversial person
whose details we'll delve into in a bit. Onision- I proposed to her in probably the least classy way
possible, I proposed to her via video over the internet, in such a weird way, I basically said it
like this, you know I'm gonna marry you right? That's how I did it. Like many of the people who
Onision involved himself with, Kai found his future husband through the fan infatuation,
and like a jigsaw falling into place when Onision put out one of his post Shiloh tweets asking where
his soulmate was, Kai replied here, and Onision, smelling the potential from a mile away like a
blissfully basted Christmas turkey, moved into the DMs, asking why he exactly felt this way,
so the communication elaborates, and a new relationship begins to flourish. Of course,
this relationship is kept private, likely because Kai was underage at the time.
As the cycle begins, Onision wants to show his commitment to Kai, but this time the relationship
takes a slightly different approach. Whether Onision had identified that Kai was pretty
infatuated as it was, he proposed to him less than a month after they started dating. This
sort of thing may have felt romantic to someone like Kai, but as Onision probably recognised,
it placed a lot of pressure on him to be committed to the relationship, and saying yes would tighten
their bond in a very special way, and Kai said yes, and Greg moves out to New Mexico to live
with Kai. A fair few people notice this, and although he avoids the topic, some people begin
to put the dots together. After a bit of back and forth where it fluctuates between being long
distance and close proximity, Onision rents out a place to secretly live with Kai while his parents
are under the impression that Kai is staying at college. Kai turns 18, and less than a month later
they are married and living together in Washington. Now of course, this relationship wasn't without
its drama, but it was mainly related to loyalty, which says more than enough. In this time,
Onision also impregnates Kai, and they have a child, and they also have another child later
by the way. Now reflecting back on Kai though, it wouldn't surprise me if Onision saw having children
as a way to cement that loyalty, and increase the cost of leaving him to Kai. On top of this,
Onision had feuds with Kai's family over their very legitimate concerns. I didn't think this was
particularly relevant at first, but these feuds would distance Kai from his family, thus making
him and Greg more isolated in their relationship, thus once again affirming this theory of control.
Onision- Mr. Grump wanted to meet me at Olive Garden. We'll say that's in Olive. Does that even
show up on this? Stupid green. So Mr. Grump is sitting across the table from me at Olive Garden.
Our conversation was kind of chill at first, but then his eyes started turning red, and he started
getting teary, because Mr. Grump decided to threaten my well-being. Despite my relationship
with Laney being legal, he also threatened to put me in prison. Despite, again, our relationship
being totally legal. So he threatened to seriously harm me and possibly kill me, as well as threaten
me in other ways. F that guy. That was a reference to Greg's father-in-law, by the way. Delightful.
By 2015, everything seemed to be going fairly solid. They were one real happy family. However,
happiness seldom lasts forever, and the beginning of what has led up to the events that we observe
today was about to occur. I suggest we talk about the next stage of this relationship.
He's sitting across the table from him, and he's probably going to threaten to sue me for this
video. He's already threatened to sue me before, but that's fine. I'm allowed to tell stories
about people without using faces or names, etc. But he was being hard on me for my age
gap with Laney, and I had a nine-year age gap with Laney. And he told me to come back in 10 years,
like, not till Laney was 25, to date Laney. And I was just, like, thinking, how much power does
this guy think he has? Like, this is kind of nuts. Back in 10 years, like, not till Laney was 25.
Back in 10 years, like, not till Laney was 25.
Back in 10 years, like, not till Laney was 25.
Wait, what? I'm gonna hope that was an error on his part, and, uh, continue regardless.
Onision gives me the impression that he has this stage of plans in his head, and once one is
satisfied, he can move on to the next. So now we have this marriage with a person who was clearly
rather attached to him, he then moved on to exploring another character for their Fifty Shades
of Fukuri. Most of this probably occurred initially in 2015, though it was definitely conceived prior.
It seems that this plan involved finding other younger individuals, and involving them in their
little project. Now, I'm going to save the spiciest details until the end, but there is a lot on our plate,
so it's best we get started now.
Hehe, boi.
In this time, Greg and Kai had reached out to various girls, however, none would really enter the public
light until a person by the name of Billy. During 2015, Kai comes out as bisexual and genderqueer,
and by the end of 2015, Billy begins talking to Kai privately, and very soon, Gregory becomes involved,
encouraging Billy to date Kai. Now I know what you're thinking, wait, isn't Greg married to Kai?
Well, yes. You know that clip earlier?
I'm coming for you.
Come to me.
Almost there.
Wait, what?
That's right, baby.
Your lips taste like cherry.
Oh my god, no.
This feels so right without whiskers. No more sandpaper except down there.
Mm-hmm, that's where we're approaching.
Onision clearly had a phase where his kicks were derived from publicly watching himself be
Now of course, if someone wants to upload that content onto YouTube, then they're allowed to,
as embarrassing and pathetic as it may seem to me. However, there was more degeneracy to come,
as Kai apparently didn't consent for Greg and Billy to date, and when Greg got a bit too
intimate with Billy in an instant known as Cuddlegate, the relationship temporarily broke
down which led to the legendary I Betrayed My Wife video, once again highlighting Onision's
nature of publicly self-shaming when it's beneficial for him.
Now I told Lani what happened and it ripped everything apart. I was stupid and I thought
that cuddling and a full body massage was harmless. Lani's position is, it wasn't the
cuddling and it definitely wasn't the full body massage. It was really all about the fact that
she clearly indicated she did not want me cuddling with this person, yet I manipulated my way into
cuddling with her anyway, so she saw a huge betrayal in that. After distancing Billy for
a bit and trolling her with a fake video before exposing her text, expressing feelings, and
framing her as a homewrecker, Onision and Kai once again tighten their bond. However, after this
extremely stressful and tense ordeal, they did what any rational couple would do and gradually
began integrating Billy back into their life. This occurred over 2016, and eventually this contrived
love triangle was reignited, but this love triangle was also very quickly extinguished
again by the end of November with the Onision video titled We Broke Up. However, it wasn't
actually over and they got back together in December, and then they broke up again in January
with another set of videos, one from Billy's side illuminating Onision's tendency to have
weird sexual motivations amongst many other things. Alongside this were some beautiful DMs
and a video explaining her perspective.
So, Onision, please stop harassing me and my best friend. I am tired of seeing your tweets,
tired of being tagged in your tweets of you just harassing us, telling us we're awful,
druggy people. Please leave me alone.
Because of this, she got the full Onision Stage 4 treatment with a 40 minute video that has
tragically been eviscerated from the internet. But it seems that Onision wasn't happy with just
framing her as a homewrecker, no, he went in alleging that she was a full-blown criminal,
which is slightly ironic, but I digress. What was this crime? Well, it was indulging in the
Devil's Lettuce, which was against the contract he had written up.
Now you may understand why I personally dumped Billy for committing a crime in the state of
Virginia. Here's the contract I proposed. He also had some additional comments to make.
You're a bad person, a liar, an illegal drug user. You were raised by criminals. You lied
to us repeatedly. You, a person who scores lower on IQ tests, who didn't even graduate high school.
You cheated on my wife. You act like you're the victim. You got dumped so many times.
You're awful, druggy people. You do illegal drugs in the state of Virginia. You are a cheater,
Billy. And you lie, an awful druggy. So I told her to get a tramp stamp of I'm a liar
because she's a liar. Now, once again, might be a controversial opinion,
but I personally find writing a contract up for a relationship slightly stranger than smoking
weed, and using that in the title as if it makes for a terrible person. Technically speaking,
if she was in breach of a contractual agreement, then you could be obliged to terminate the
relationship, but I don't think relationships should be built on contracts regardless.
And anyway, it was clear this was a move motivated by the desire for control, something that Billy
had expressed herself. I do also hypothesize that this may have been a case of liability.
As we know, Onision keeps tabs through the law very closely, and given that he was a more
experienced adult, it's possible that he was aware that if there was an incident with the law, and he
was linked back to the case, he would be held more severely accountable. A contract may help him avoid
that, as sad and tragic as it is. I personally think Onision has a habit of turning legal concerns
into moral concerns, often as a way to boost his own credentials. Fortunately for many people,
they realized that marijuana indulgence wasn't really the worst thing, and didn't really justify
the stream of vitriolic abuse that Greg heard of Billy. Billy was another person who just couldn't
tolerate it any further. Billy's decision was also backed by another person called Ayala,
so she reposed his ex-girlfriend, who Greg had some previous conflicts with. Her video demanding
that Onision cease and desist is actually still up.
Like, please leave me alone like I've asked. I asked you to stop using my name and my information in your videos,
and you told me that you would. You asked me to stop contacting you, and again, today you posted a video
with a screenshot of our email conversation with my name in it, and like, obviously,
you think that you're right and justified in all the things that you're doing, and no,
I don't feel bad for the fact that I smoked weed, but it is scary.
This drama was definitely one of the first situations where the cracks began to really appear,
and commentary channels began to take notice too, and although many of them didn't provide the most
inspiring commentary, attention and publicity are always important. With Kai by his side, Onision
didn't need to worry about being alone, so this made him more confrontational, and more dismissive
of those he felt did him wrong, and anyway, he had another great friend too, a person by the name of
Sarah, and boy oh boy, they were really doing a favour for her. So emerging from the very stressful
drama that Onision was clearly bothered by, he thought the best thing to do was to make a video
responding to other people that were bothering him regarding another situation relating to a person
by the name of Sarah. Now Sarah hadn't been involved in too much drama herself, she wasn't
a person particularly indulgent in conflict, and there was no public falling out, so what was the
problem? So I posted a picture to Instagram of myself just hanging out in a car with Sarah today,
and I got a lot of familiar comments. Why are you living with a 16 year old? Ah, Sarah was 16,
and at the time, she was living with Onision and Kai. Was that really the best idea? Well,
according to the individuals of interest, it was. Sarah was from what appeared to be a rather
troubled household, she had been following Kai since a couple years prior, and had began speaking
to him when she was 14. However, by the end of 2016, her home life appeared to have deteriorated,
and apparently, in an extremely low and vulnerable moment, Kai and Onision offered their home as a
safe haven for a girl who felt like she had no other option. Now many may ask why they didn't
look at other, less radical options, or perhaps understand the situation more carefully than just
rushing in and basically temporarily adopting this person, and to that, I'd say, good question.
As we know, Onision doesn't like to involve himself with the authorities. If you're wondering
why people didn't call Onision out for that at the time, well, it's because he wouldn't really say.
Onision- You may ask why she's living with us. Well, this is where I kind of hit a roadblock,
because we're talking about Sarah's private life, which she doesn't want to share with all of you,
and she has a right to not have that shared with you. In fact, I told her I was going to make this
video, and she very clearly communicated that she doesn't want people to know about her private
life. So because she clearly showed disinterest in me sharing her private life, slash information
about why she's here with all of you, I feel it's not appropriate for me to speak further of it.
This was the best option for him. Although he states it was in Sarah's best interests,
it was also in his best interests, giving the audience as little information regarding these
stories gives people less scope to pick them apart, and if people tried to pry too much,
he'd be able to accuse them of being intrusive, and not respecting Sarah's privacy. How dare you
do that? But hey, you know, it was a misguided favour maybe, but nothing remotely implicative,
and anyone claiming so were creeps. You people were the real perverts. This man who has done
nothing more than direct his own fetish films has kindly taken in a 16 year old from a troubled
household. You should be grateful that he's out here doing God's work.
But because you guys are so perverted, and because your minds are so screwed up,
you just make up all these creepy scenarios, and you go spreading them around the internet
as if they're the truth. So to those people, understand that I've consistently discussed
about the fantasies that you create inside your head about my life.
Yeah, you stick it to them Gregory, you put them in their place. All this around the same time as
this drama that Billy and Ayala are stirring quite frantically, it all becomes quite hard to follow
for many viewers, but the facts remain that something was up. In February 2017, Kai and Sarah
conducted a live stream to decry the allegations, and generally Onision and Party were mainly
focused on preventing this perception from spreading.
So not too long after, Sarah went back to her home, but then she came back less than a couple
months later in April, and then she went home again, and a few months later she came back again
in August, and then she went home again in November.
So if any of you see someone spreading creepy perverted things that they made up in their mind
about my life, about Lainey's life, about Sarah's life, you can send them the link to this video to
expose how incredibly stupid and gross they are.
In the video defending his perspective, Onision creates this strawman that people have a problem
with the fact that they're living with a 16 year old, which I'm not sure is the core issue.
Quite simply put, when someone is a rich, famous, influential YouTuber, even if they are unpopular
or controversial, they still hold a level of power. I don't think that people, especially
the YouTube community, with its incredible diversity within reason, have a problem with
people casually hanging out with others of different ages if they have a similar level of
mobility. When I worked in retail in my teens, I would hang out with older individuals, and there
was no tension. The situation here is that people know the implications. When Sarah first left after
the set of controversies involving Billy, Onision made this video, basically blaming everyone else
while making some very interesting comments himself.
You could say we are kicking Sarah out, but I don't consider that the case. It's more like just
sending her home, and it's not exactly anyone's fault, unless like the internet were a person,
and then it might be the internet's fault, because really, if the internet wasn't weirdly involved
with everything going on, then things would most likely be fine. Apparently Sarah also stated to
me that she remembered saying something about her one day being in a relationship with Lainey, and
that was super confusing to me as I had made it clear to the public, as you've seen in previous
videos, and I also made it clear repeatedly to Sarah that was never going to happen. So seeing
Sarah say these things really freaked me out. I mean, she's 16, I'm 31, this is creepy. And I know
a lot of people are going to ignore what I'm saying right now, so I'm going to say it again.
There was never a romantic relationship between Lainey and Sarah. Even her mom has told off the
internet regarding this issue. There's nothing weird. Lainey and Sarah are and have always been
just friends. I want you to keep these in mind. Over the next couple years, Sarah would visit,
and then leave and visit again. It was pretty suspicious, but at this time Onision was also
attracting plenty of drama elsewhere, particularly due to his outlandish statements on people like
Shane Dawson and Eugenia Cooney. It did honestly cross my mind if he was doing this as a method
of distraction. I do believe that Onision can be very calculated when needs require him to be,
such as him hiding Kai from the public eye until he was nearly 18, because he knew he would be
scrutinized from both his audience and Kai's parents. I wouldn't put it past him being rather
shaken by the Billy situation, and wanting to distract from these statements, and thus making
videos on people he knew would stir up outrage and reaction, while steering them away from what
actually mattered. Now as always, when drama takes off, it has either the momentum to snowball,
or die down, and with the Sarah drama, for a bit, it died down, mainly because Sarah herself was
quite a reclusive person, and was clearly in a sensitive situation, but the uncertainty lingering
over Sarah's status probably meant an air of caution in people's approach. Nonetheless,
with what we know now, we can say with confidence that Mr Onion here wasn't acting completely in
good faith. On one hand, Sarah may have felt fortunate to have someone like Greg in her life,
who can offer her this home away from her own, which I have no reason to not believe wasn't
trouble to an extent. Why would she want to stir that up? She's still very young and vulnerable,
but that was the point. However, at the start of 2019, she had also defended Greg and Kai herself
fairly consistently over this time. For example, this clip from the start of 2019, in which she
argues in their favour. People are saying that we had sexual conversations, or were planning on
having sexual relations when I was underage, and we never did. I don't know why people are now
saying this, and bringing up old screenshots that have already been addressed, but Kai is one of the
sweetest people I know, and he doesn't deserve this, and it's not fair to me, and it's not fair
to him, and I wish this would all stop. Assumedly, this is what left many people rather quiet at the
time. However, something that both Greg and Sarah knew was that eventually Sarah would reach a stage
of mobility and sanity where she wouldn't necessarily be confined by the same chains,
and at a point she would have the option to break free. It was just a case of whether she'd let
herself. Let's talk about it more. You remember the clip I told you to keep in mind?
Apparently Sarah also stated to me that she remembered saying something about her one day
being in a relationship with Laney, and that was super confusing to me as I had made it clear
to the public as you've seen in previous videos, and I also made it clear repeatedly to Sarah that
was never going to happen. So seeing Sarah say these things really freaked me out. I mean,
she's 16, I'm 31, this is creepy. Yes, that delightful one. It's a bad enough clip as it is,
but why on earth would you bring attention back then to these details when no one else was aware
of them? Well, in my opinion, it was because he knew he'd eventually be called back on these
details, and having already addressed them as confidently as he did, he could say, see,
I already spoke about this and no one challenged me on it. Not even Sarah. Onision always wanted
to be one step ahead of the drama. He wanted to set the record straight, be the voice of reason
and truth. So over the last 48 hours, some interesting things have gone down and I need
to talk about them because if I don't talk about them, then naturally with the online community,
rumors will run rampant and no one will have a video correcting those rumors with facts. So here
is that video. But the truth was going to reveal itself very soon because Onision, in spite of
suppressing these allegations, was holding back a river of sorts. And now we're going to talk
about why that dam was eventually busted. Earlier in the video, I spoke about the first four stages
of relationships with Onision. This is stage five, and I will now explain how it transpires in the
way it does. The first phenomenon is what I like to call the Bishop Brennan effect. Although there
is probably a more formal title, I quite like it because I think it's easier to explain. Bishop
Brennan was a character in the British comedy Father Ted, and in the third series, there is an
episode where Ted has to kick Bishop Brennan up the arse as a forfeit for cheating on a football
match. You really have to kick him up the arse, Ted. I lost the bet, Dougal. I have to do my
forfeit. Now Father Ted has no clue of how he's going to get away with it. Eventually, after some
scuffed attempts, he comes up with the bold idea that if he just acts as if he hasn't done anything
at all, then Bishop Brennan will be so shocked that he'll have no reason to question it. He
carries out this plan, and it works. So, off to see the Pope in Rome. I bet you're really looking
forward to that. Well, did you see anything? No, nothing there at all, sadly. You were right.
It was a wild goose chase. Where's Father Jessup? Maybe he went on ahead. Okay, so see you soon,
Your Grace. Come back as soon as you can. Bishop Brennan leaves in complete shock, but because the
shock and trauma of being kicked up the arse does not think to challenge Ted. This is the first
stage of the Bishop Brennan Effect, and something that can be observed in patterns with the people
today. A lot of people either out of shock, avoidance, trauma, and many other valid reasons
have avoided making a concerted effort to take Onision down. This does not mean there hasn't been
drama, but it means that the scattershot nature of it has led to Onision being pretty unaffected
at the core. Now, the second stage of the Bishop Brennan Effect is when Bishop Brennan has had the
time to think it over, and it hits him. He didn't kick me up the arse!
He goes back to confront Ted, who once again reasserts a different version of events.
Are you sure you're not making a terrible, terrible mistake? Do you think that could
be possible? Of course it's not! I mean, you know, it did occur to me that it was a bit, um,
a bit unbelievable, you know? It's unbelievable because it didn't actually happen.
This also confuses Bishop Brennan, to the point where he backs off again, and in fact he only
finds out when the evidence stares him right in the face. It's obviously exaggerated to a
comedic extent, and probably wouldn't pass in practicality, but I've always found it a good
example of how gaslighting can alter a person's own recollection of events. With Onision, his
constant documentation was almost a mechanism to try and explain things in the moment so they
wouldn't be pulled up against him later, and when people, particularly those he had subjected this
misery to, returned to these videos, they probably began to buy into Onision's explanations.
Equally, this is why, in many cases, many people turned away from the public eye themselves and
chose not to go for Onision because many felt they probably didn't have the influence to stop them.
He had control of the narrative. This concern they'd just be another victim of Greg's stream
of content was completely understandable because, to be frank, it had worked successfully enough in
the past, but Sarah was different. Sarah had her Bishop Brennan moment in mid-2019, and with the
help of other individuals, she moved in. As mentioned in the five stages of Onision
relationships, once Greg has given up trying to win you back, he'll go in the opposite direction
and relentlessly smear you. In some ways, this wasn't any different with Sarah, less than a month
after Sarah broke up with him on his Patreon, he uploaded a video called I Need To Talk About BPD,
where he frames anyone suffering from the disorder as suffering from memory issues and thus being
untrustworthy in their narratives. Now, at the time, Onision was under the impression that Sarah
had BPD. This was revealed to not be the case, so his point wouldn't have stood anyway, but the intent
remained the same. Although this was a clear attempt to keep his main donors on his side, he didn't
actually go public with this, like with many other females hoping to win her back. Maybe it was
because he was worried that the public would bring attention to him, maybe he felt like he had already
covered himself in the past, maybe he didn't think he had that much to gain from his public viewers,
maybe these were all valid reasons, and even though he was probably right in that regard,
he had a lot more to lose, because for the first time, he had left an open goal for Sarah to take
control of that public narrative, and when you have as many enemies as Onision, any error could
be fatal, and his handling of this particular one was just that. Onision knew that his comments would
provoke, maybe he was hoping that if he provoked her into stating these allegations in response to
his comments that he'd made about BPD, he would be able to publicly frame her as unhinged, and thus
proving his point. The idea of, look at this girl, I told you she was mentally unstable, and now she's
gone and proven it by accusing me of these heinous things that I would never do and she never said I'd
do either. It was Onision at his most manipulative, but it was also Onision at his most stupid,
because instead of allowing herself to be isolated in a sort of personal spat, she vowed to never be
silenced, and organised a response that would eventually start a domino effect of seismic proportions.
Onision had enemies, that much is true, it was like a list, and he just couldn't stop adding to it over
the years. Having such an expansive list of enemies will affect many people in different ways, I think
for Onision though, it made him complacent. For many, they will be afraid of making enemies,
particularly for the grudges that may be held, and how that may be used against people in the future.
I think at a point, Onision began to feel that no matter how many enemies he had, they didn't levy
any particular power over him, because the audience he held at close quarters were so unbelievably loyal,
he could essentially get away with anything, but in August 2019, this was beginning to turn.
Let's reintroduce Ayala. We obviously know Ayala from the Billy situation, but she decided to be the
person to start the ball rolling on the new set of allegations, this time being the first to publicly
call Onision out for his behaviour with Sarah, tweeting that Onision had had sexual intercourse
with her. Now obviously, this could be considered inappropriate given it was probably Sarah's story
to tell, but Sarah quickly came forward corroborating Ayala's statement. This was then followed by statements
which implied they were working together, and that they were going to be delivering swift justice to
Onision. This was then followed by a stream in which Sarah talks in a lot of depth regarding her
relationship with Gregory, and as this followed through into the next few weeks, the Rolling Stone
finally gathered momentum. There were a lot of allegations, each holding their own weight,
regarding what both Onision and Kai did to Sarah while she was living with them. These claims
reflect what many people had cited as concerns when people originally took issue with Onision's
behaviour, but few had sought to push him further due to lack of information. Now, there was more
information, and the claims were just as bad as many have believed. In fact, everything that was claimed
there fits into the worldview that Onision had presented. For example, this screenshot which claimed
that Onision took pleasure in various sexual behaviour, that once again appears to fit in with that
cuckold fantasy clip we played earlier. It seems that Onision enjoys screwing around with relationships
and fantasies that involve rather deplorable behaviour. I won't be necessarily singling too many
examples out because at the end of the day, they all tell the story we expect it to. The quite simply
put, Onision was grooming younger individuals for sexual purposes, and he was using his relative
power to their powerlessness to tighten his grip and solicit what he wanted from them. I also wanted
to focus on this string of tweets that Sarah made on September 3rd. Now, on the one hand, this may
seem like someone making a variety of claims, in addition to what they'd already gone public with,
but to me this was the breaking of a wall that Onision has regularly used against people.
Remember what I said about Onision's smear campaign, with people like Billy for example, he would
regularly cite the fact that they conducted some behaviour that Onision deemed as morally
inadequate. It would not surprise me if while living with Onision, Sarah had been coerced into
doing actions or substances that Greg hoped to use against her in the future, either into shaming her
to keep silent, or in an attempt to discredit her when she spoke up. It's often hard to admit to
these sorts of behaviours for that exact fear, but the fact that Sarah unapologetically owned these
actions and even pushed the responsibility of these actions onto Onision didn't just give Onision
a lot less to defend himself with, but it also allowed Sarah to close the discussion on these
various elements and focus on the allegations, avoiding the traps that Onision probably laid
there for a reason. One of the biggest recurring themes that we have observed is how Onision appears
to ruin people's sense of self-worth, particularly illustrated by Billy's video.
Onision- I hope you're happy, you completely destroyed all of my pride.
What would serve as further evidence to this theory was the detail that Billy was shamed for
her association with marijuana when Onision decided to use it against her in his response
video. However, one of the things that Sarah alleges is that Onision actually tried to
convince her to bake weed brownies. Of course, this is just an allegation, but if true, it very
much fits into this idea that they were presenting. I personally believe the intent behind this was
exploitation, and using the fact that he exploited them as arguments for their weaknesses. On his old
site, one part that has regularly been referenced is how he blames victims who don't come forward.
That's not coincidence, he shames people for suffering, and he'll blame you for letting
yourself be exploited by him. Onision breaks you, and then convinces you that he's the one
to fix you, thus keeping you in this constant cycle. It's one thing to break the cycle,
it's another to actively be able to turn it on his head. But what about that video we showed
earlier, you know, the one where Sarah denied the allegations? Well, she apparently posted
a little blooper which sent a slightly different message.
On top of this, she also reveals texts in which Greg persuaded her to make the video,
and also suggests in another text that she sign a non-disclosure agreement. I must also add that
I really dislike the language he uses in these DMs. When he wants something, he never shows any
concern for how the other person feels. He never even seeks to reassure them when they show
demonstrable guilt, but he often seeks to reinforce that guilt by focusing on the feelings
that have provoked that guilt in the first place, thus mentally weakening them. He's already proven
his point in this conversation, and yet he's continuing to dance on this great. This theme of
making Sarah feel bad clearly worked for a while, in fact it worked for a significantly long time,
but these things seldom work forever, and it's just about what you decide to do when you realise
the lie. It's easy when you feel distanced from the situation to not want to return to the source
of that pain, and for so long the post-relationship conflict had burnt out, often because Onision
managed to make it look like some 50-50 squabble even when many hated him. When this happens,
you may lose hope in holding him to account, you may tell yourself that you're the only person
hurt by this, and if you just leave it, it'll be a part of history, and you can move on,
but Onision wasn't stopping, and Sarah epitomised that continuation, so this time round his accusers
came out in force, with the testimonies piled up on top of each other, and it was not something
that Onision could fight easily. Let's talk about these allegations, what they tell us,
not just about Onision, but the people he targeted.
We've already partly talked about a fair few people in this story, particularly on how Onision
used them publicly, but there were even more details to be revealed, and details that paint
a picture are slightly more worrying. Some of these were based on mere allegations, but many
are also backed up with a lot of screenshots which seem verifiable, particularly regarding
Onision's communication with many of his accusers. Needless to say, it seems that Gregory has been
a busy bee. There's a lot of overlap, but I will be focusing on certain details which I find the
most illuminating. First to come forward was Skye, and her sister Netunesa. Skye was, as you should
know, Onision's first wife. Both these individuals' relationship with Greg preceded YouTube,
alongside some very assertive statements regarding Onision's sexual activity and behavior
towards her, the main recurring theme was that of the alimony. Now, Onision has made no secret in
the past that he was not a fan of paying alimony, even comparing it to slavery in one video.
Onision- Hey, do you support slavery? Like, do you support another person working for something that
they cannot profit from whatsoever? Do you support that? Okay, if your answer is no, then you don't
support alimony. And this was just one of the many statements he had made both in YouTube and tweet
form. Now, as mentioned in the first video, I don't believe Onision is poor, and if he is, it's definitely
a result of his own actions, so as part of the divorce settlement, paying Skye's alimony shouldn't
have been the most laborious task. However, to Onision, it was a terrible sacrifice, and his language
in these emails clearly demonstrate this. He started paying alimony in September of 2011, and by 2012,
it had become too much of a task for him. Now, to many who followed it back then, he had already
alluded to suicide by alimony in a video around that time. Onision- The only thing it says is basically,
I have to be dead in order to stop making these payments. I have to be dead. Talk about incentive
of suicide. Well, if I kill myself, at least I don't have to pay my ex-wife anymore.
However, building on this, it seems he had sent multiple emails to Skye as well, including one
where he emailed her, stating that he planned on killing himself if she didn't halt the alimony
payments. This is a rather scummy tactic against something that he signed up to, but clearly thought
he could escape through other means. Besides these threats, one of the things that pervades
these emails is the tone of enslavement, he just wants to be free. Judging from the language he
uses, it's once again about the control, and he hates the fact that someone has power over him
in a way that he can't change. He uses multiple different tactics, including regret posting,
love bombing, even stating that he's spoken to his lawyer. We've already gone over these
tactics, but he switches from one to the other in an attempt to reach Skye's sympathies, fear, guilt,
anything that will make her give him what he wants. Fortunately, she was wise enough to identify them,
and in spite of a very painful relationship that she had encountered, and Onision's attempts to
reframe the situation in future blog posts, Skye had dealt him a hard L, and the emails show that.
Quickly following after came the testimony of Netunaza. Greg had known Netunaza from when she
was relatively young, in fact, in another tweet she claims he had tried to make out with her when
she was 15, which isn't a good look, however unfortunately there are no screenshots to
corroborate that. However, there are some additional ones which are quite entertaining.
In Netunaza's published screenshots, Onision asks how she's doing, and venting about the Shiloh
situation, a few months later he reaches out again as Shiloh returns to Canada for treatment.
This continues over 2012, including him offering her money to come on his tour, and even signing
her channel over to him, at one point saying that she'll make more money than she ever has before,
despite being allegedly broke as he claimed in his alimony emails, he really knows how to pull out
the money when it matters. This continued well into 2013, and although on the surface it seems
like Greg was trying to pry another victim, she does seem like an exception to the rule in the
fact that she's not a fan, and she never showed explicit interest in the first place. It was a
pretty lost cause. Why was Greg doing this? Well, once again, maybe a matter of control, maybe even
attempt to elicit revenge on Sky. He hates that he's lost control, and thinks maybe he'll be able
to bring it back into his life by involving Sky's family, but in all honesty, it might just be one of
his fantasies to, you know, something about getting back together with someone's sister.
In another email, he does suggest this very strange scenario, which I can only assume
came from the pits of his mind, and even in a later video said this.
But if I didn't, if I wasn't to wind up with the spouse I have now, I would have actually wanted to
pursue the sister to date her, because we had so much more in common, and I would have had to wait
a few years because she was 15 and I was 18. At the time, she even tried to kiss me at one point,
I dodged it, because one, she was intoxicated, and two, again, our age gap, well, I'm not sure was
legal. I think it was legal, actually, but either way, I still dodged the kiss, so I wouldn't even risk
something illegal happening.
Oh well, there it is, Onision was the one with the self-control, it seems. Of course, he was just
waiting, that thing he said he'd never do, but oh well, tomatoes, tomatoes. Also, in this video,
he spoke about the time he searched out pictures of Netuneser from when she was modelling, lovely.
Because my ex-sister-in-law, uh, eventually became a S-U-I-C-I-D-E girl, okay, so that is a website
where girls take photos, or have someone take photos of them, and they get paid money for it.
It's artistic, it's typically girls with tattoos, so yeah, so she was exposed a little bit,
and everyone got to see the shape of her areolas.
Oh, I'm sorry, I mean, everyone got to see them, and he just stumbled across them too.
Sky and Netuneser's stories show us what Onision would do when he feels like he's losing control.
On the other hand, Shiloh's story tells us what Onision does when he has control.
As we spoke earlier, judging by his content, he wanted people to be a part of his little spectacle.
We've spoken about a lot of this philosophy, but Shiloh's testimony does create a narrative
around the calculated nature of Onision, often checking legal restrictions, and behaving in a
way designed to deceive people who may have advised her otherwise, such as isolating Shiloh from her
parents, and keeping themselves to themselves. We already spoke about how Onision breaks people,
and Shiloh once again pays testimony to that, going into details that you can read here.
One re-upload is this very chilling clip.
Shiloh- So, he took the scissors to my ear in my sleep, and now I'm bleeding.
But, I mean, it's a great look, it's gonna scare all the kids, you know?
It hurts a lot, actually.
Shiloh- I know this video is never going to be online, right?
No one will ever know how much I abuse you.
It's ridiculous that you think you'll be successful.
How many times do I have to tell you, everything that you want to put online goes through me first?
Now, I don't know what the exact explanation is for this, I assume it was uploaded at some point
as some intent of a joke, but there's something very personally discomforting about it for me,
and a lot of other people. It says more than any testimony really can.
One of the more interesting outcomes of this situation was Shiloh's crowdfunding campaign
to remove a tattoo with Gregory imprinted on the back of her neck, which although it may have
seemed romantic at the time, now in reflection, seems like a painful reminder of a damaging
relationship. For someone who once decried the use of tattoos, Greg very quickly changed his mind on
them, maybe due to their permanence, or the commitment that they implied. As mentioned earlier,
it seems that Greg likes to make people feel attached to him, however, she recently had a new
tattoo placed over the old one, and I hope through that she does feel liberated.
I don't really wanna just read out the statements, but as always, there will be a reference sheet in
the pinned comment. What it does is, it confirms the timeline that we could see in Onision's
content, how he often manipulated the environment, and how this had an often effect on someone like
Shiloh. However, it not just frames Onision as exploiting our troubles, it paints him as
instigating them too. To say it again, Onision breaks you, and then tells you that he's the
one to fix you. Shiloh's testimony was anecdotal, but I do believe her, that's a personal opinion,
but I think it's a well backed one. However, Fred wasn't the only character in this story, Shiloh,
Sky, and Netunasa all tend to predate this next individual, but with Billy and Sarah's stories,
we can't go letting them off scot-free, can we?
If you think anything ill of Kai, you are retarded. He is one of the most amazing people
on planet fucking Earth. If anyone gives anyone shit about anything in this relationship between
Kai and I, it should be me. Kai is a fucking angel. And you know, you could ask pretty much,
uh, fuck, I don't even want to talk about it.
Kai, known as Laney pre-transition, is Onision's current husband, and someone who Onision would
probably regard as his successful project. I already said how the star-crossed lovers met
through the rinse and repeat of Onision's twitter replies, now it's hard to say exactly what has
happened behind the scenes, but Onision cemented that loyalty in many ways over the years.
Throughout the various people entering and leaving their lives, Kai is the one who has remained
consistently by Onision's side. He's made a few statements himself, but mostly keeps off the
internet. Nonetheless, with the swarm of new allegations and details, it seems that he was
not just another victim. September the 14th of 2019 brought us Billy's testimony, and others
were not too far behind either. Billy stated that she was brought into the household under
the precipice of getting to know Kai. In fact, these DMs show Kai fully stating that Onision
would not be involved. However, this was soon contradicted by a conversation at the dinner
table where Greg proposed the idea of a three-way relationship. Billy also showed DMs of Greg
pressuring her to ask Kai out, once again paying credibility to the idea that this was one of
Greg's pursuits as well. In another statement, she talks about the cheating situation where Greg
states he's gonna do whatever he wants, and although Kai told Billy to not let it happen,
Kai then said to Greg that he can do whatever he wants. It basically set up the situation which
allowed them to blame Billy for the cheating that we spoke about earlier, and the subsequent
contract which was such a great idea. Kai's position appears in this as someone who may be
enabling Greg's behaviour, and not standing up for those around him, but also someone who may be
equally as afraid of Greg. One of the things that you can identify is that Greg often likes to
weaponise Kai and speak on behalf of him, regularly telling people how Kai feels in an
attempt to guilt trip individuals while seeming like a selfless husband, such as these emails
where he says that Kai's crying, and that's why you should care. Ah, my heart weeps. Kai is used
as a human shield for Greg's interests, a way to try and pull people back into his life, such as
these emails where he basically tells Billy that even if you hate him, you could at least come back
for Kai. What about Kai, guys? Kai also sent some emails to Billy, but as Billy noted, they
resembled Greg's language a lot, and seemed like another manipulation tactic. Many have noted Kai's
tendency to not just excuse Greg's behaviour, but even defend it. In a way, Onision has found his
perfect cult member. However, many also said they saw what Greg does to Kai, and if it's anything
like the other testimonies, then I'm more than willing to believe there may be a great deal of
turmoil involved. So far we know that Kai probably acts as a pawn, as a shield, and as an enabler,
but they're also all things that can be completely true of a victim, and people suffering from severe
mental entrapment. If it stopped here, then we might be able to draw some sort of line that Kai
just needs to break out of the mental clutches of Onision, and to an extent, he may still need to.
However, nonetheless, what will be spoken about next cannot easily be excused by even Gregory
Onion Man's manipulation. Often the most loyal cult members will be on a job to get new recruits,
and even mimic the behaviour of their leader. And well, if Onision had grooming problems, then
Kai wasn't too far behind. The first story comes from someone by the name of Regina, who wasn't
heavily involved in Greg's life, but was one of the first people who Kai started talking to.
Now this was before Kai was openly bisexual, and given his relatively small internet following,
a lot of people probably overlooked this. Regina had been watching since 2009, and they began DMing
in around 2012. There was a two year age gap here, with Regina being 15, and Kai being 17.
On the surface, you may be able to give that a pass. When you consider it in the context of the
next person, Sarah, and the greater plan that some people clearly had, then it does become worrying.
I would also add that some of the tweets would certainly raise a few eyebrows to say the least,
and Regina testifies that Kai had appeared topless in a Skype call, which is not good.
Regina was invited to Kai and Greg's wedding at one point, but their mother declined on behalf of them.
The first time I remember vividly was to come to visit for their wedding. I was young and I was very
into photography at the time. That was a really big aspiration of mine, and I would always show Kai
my pictures I took, and Kai said, would you want to take pictures for our wedding? Luckily, my mother
would not allow that to happen, and I never got a proper date on when the wedding would have been,
so they carried on without me. Probably for the better. There were also a lot of DMs released,
which, although may be typical in some relationships, this wasn't a relationship,
and with the context that this is more of a game to Kai than anything else, playing with these
younger person's feelings is pretty sickening. This has been alleged to have been repeated with
other people as well, even people not particularly well known to their channel, which is a tad
concerning considering how far this actually extends. However, if we do want someone a bit
more well known, we'll talk about Sarah. Obviously, as the person who set off this chain reaction,
it's appropriate that we end this where we started. Sarah, like Regina, like Billy,
met Kai first, back when Sarah was only 14, and Kai was 18. Now that's a gap that is slightly
more concerning, especially if there were implications, which there were. At this stage,
there was also a rather strange three-way dynamic. In this instance, I'll just let the tweets do the
talking because there isn't really too much subtext. However, as the years passed, Regina was
gradually pushed away. Despite wanting to remain in contact, it appears that Onision and Kai had set
their sights on both Billy and Sarah, with Kai crudely cutting Regina off in 2016, only bothering
to justify this in 2017, around the time of the controversy with Billy, I wonder why.
Reading the DMs is kinda sad to be honest, seeing Kai disregard the investment that Regina had,
that Kai cultivated, clearly discontinued for no discernible reason. Make no mistake,
it was for the best, but it shows you how much of a project this was, how they were willing to
discard people who they didn't feel fit in with their greater plan. It cemented what was ultimately
most insidious about this whole relationship, the fact that to me, Kai was being mobilised by Greg,
and maybe even to a degree of his own volition, to rope these people into their household,
and involve themselves with Greg in some additional twisted sexual way. We saw this with
Onision's own content with Billy, and we see it in the testimonies of people who would experience
both these unpleasant characters. In 2018, while still underage herself, Sarah states that Kai
sent her nudes, and although she was 17, so a bit older, Kai was 23. Truth and context prevailing,
these details leave a nasty taste in your mouth, and go firmly against this theory that Onision
and Kai considered her merely as a friend while she was a minor, alongside all the other evidence,
including this very romantic picture on girlfriend's day, and of course, these hilarious old tweets
about grooming individuals. Such great banter. Kai did make live streams defending himself at the
time, but with a clearer documentation of the evidence, those defences haven't aged very well at all.
To add to this, additional people came forward stating that they had similar experiences,
while those individuals called Hayley showed additional DMs in which Greg attempted to pressure
into a relationship with Kai. He once again talks on behalf of Kai, and is very coercive in his language.
It's the same story, Hayley started talking to Kai, and not too long after our friend Gregory moves in.
In this instance, Hayley declines, and notes that she feels like she's being used as a distraction,
which she probably is to an extent, but looking at the pattern, what it represents is much greater.
To many of Greg's accusers, Kai was the gateway drug to Onision's worst behaviour.
He has regularly roped in others under the precipice of something more casual and friendly,
maybe a nice little romantic thing between two people, but it hasn't been long before other forces
have come into play. When I first started reading the testimonies, I was open to consider that maybe
Kai was just a person under Greg's influence, given how much control he likes to wager,
but I don't believe that Kai is without his investments, and the amount of emotional upset
that this has caused does not give many people reason to exhume Kai of his own responsibility.
In the recent months, Kai has spent a large proportion of his time off social media,
and we might get a bit more into that in the future, but whether he's here or not,
the consequences of his actions remain the same. Let's wrap this part up then.
I want to emphasize that this is not every last detail. There are many more people with many more
claims, and the fact that I've chosen to cover the ones I have today does not necessarily discount
any others, but I think the stories we've covered today tell us what we need to know about Onision
and his behavior. In the first part we covered how Onision cultivates a cult status, in this part
we've spoken about how many have been entangled in this web, and how it has subsequently affected
them personally. Greg's outward demeanor expressed in a few select videos may have captured people's
attention, his openness and accessibility may have made people feel endeared, they may have reached
out to him in the hope of filling a hole created by their own vulnerabilities, but Greg wasn't
interested in that. He was interested in finding and pinpointing the weakness, exploiting it, and
making people attached to him so that he could use it for his own gain. There were many various
psychological tactics he would employ to make sure that this was facilitated. In a way, he's a bit like
Pennywise, depending on a person's proximity, their behavior, and the way they reacted to him,
he would manifest into various forms of himself, often with mind to which one would be the most
successful, and when he was faced down with defeat from individuals like Sky, he would malfunction and
try becoming everything at once, but unfortunately, many people did fall for the versions of himself
that he presented multiple times, and went back, often to more suffering. He would typically use his
channel to portray a narrative that he was this person, trying to help others out when they were
merely struggling, and he ended up on the wrong end of things, but behind the scenes, he was the
instigator of that exact conflict. This content would be used to deceive his fans, and even his
partners, into probably believing that they may share some blame, and it only took distance
and sobriety to realize the influence that he controlled over them. In the meantime, Onision
would often use his platform to control the narrative over them, when he had exhausted all
his methods of entrapment, he'll switch his narrative over how awful these people actually
were for him, often showing himself as blameless, but also vulnerable, maybe in a way to encourage
other people to reach out. This didn't work for a while until the person named Kai, I'm not sure if
Greg did anything exceptionally differently. He started the relationship by showing his commitment,
kept it down to the critical public art as long as possible, and moved in to cement the loyalty
as soon as possible. Kai was just the first person to be completely complicit, it seems. He stood by
Greg under a large majority of criticisms, under a large majority of circumstances, and eventually
became Player 2 in the Onision game, continuing to pull in new victims who would be subjected to
more of Greg's mental formula. When they pulled away, they'd be regularly subjected to Greg's
deluge of public and private rants which were designed to swear pinion in his favour,
a position that he could now take comfortably with a spouse already by his side. Overall, this
formula was predominantly successful for the approval of those that Onision concerned himself
with, and even when it failed, it would typically not amount to anything more. However, in recent
months, with the universal sentiment against Greg mounting, and his hesitancy and subsequent failure
to actually attempt to control what was being said, combined with some old enemies returning,
the allegations against him finally organised themselves in a comprehensive fashion where the
discussion changed from who was in the right, to what punishment is suitable for this behaviour.
Greg's position of being accused of various heinous behaviours before, in many ways, shouldn't
be the most unfamiliar territory for him, but this time it's been coordinated in a way that makes the
claims insurmountable, and whereas there was a level of grey in the past, many have felt that
today's evidence has proven beyond any doubt that Onision's behaviour as a creator, and as a person
has been unequivocally deplorable. Fortunately, in September of 2019, and the following months,
many people came forward to illuminate his treatment of them, and others around them. Videos
began to gain more traction, and more commentators jumped on the topic, thus providing more publicity.
With the walls closing in, and more spotlights coming onto him, not just from the YouTube sphere,
he began to capitulate in ways unseen, yet many still feel that there is unfinished business given
his actions. Join me for the final part of this painful saga, as I go into the fall of Onision,
his responses, and how they've evolved in the last year. However, it won't be just that, so I also plan
to delve into, and deconstruct his broken philosophy, and make the argument for why his place on this
platform should be seriously reconsidered.
So yes, that was the video, that was a great fun video, I wanna give a big shout out to the editors,
because if they've had to experience this as much as I have, then they'll probably be reeling too,
and they deserve credit for their commitment. Heaven knows we need it sometimes. I also wanna give
big thanks to my Patreons, my $10 patreons are on screen right now, they do a fantastic job.
I also need to give big thanks to my $50 patreons, some hullabaloo Nico Deschamps and Caroline,
with a very special thanks to my $100 patreons Brandon and Stanton. Thank you guys for your
support, it is deeply appreciated, especially in times like these. If you wanna reach me,
reach me on Twitter, at TheRightOpinion, reach me on Facebook, TheRightOpinionOfficial,
reach me on Discord, link in the pinned comments, and even Instagram though, I'm obviously,
my life isn't exciting enough for that a lot of the time, but I have fun at least. Don't really have
too much else to add, I wanna thank everyone for the support of recent, and this will probably be
the first video after Christmas, though my first video of this will probably be out on Christmas
day, so I just wanna say that I hope everyone's had a good year, and let's hope for better things
in 2020. Other than that, I don't really have too much else to say,
and I'm TheRightOpinion, I'll see you in the next one.
Bye!
