Hey you, so nice of you to join us.
We want to tell you about something that changed Kurzgesagt forever.
Kurzgesagt started out as a small-scale passion project,
but creating animated science videos that are free for everyone
doesn't pay the bills. Damn you, reality.
In order to make ends meet, we had to take on real jobs during the day
and create Kurzgesagt videos at night. It was tough,
but our dream of inspiring people all around the world kept us going.
Then, in 2016, everything changed.
Kurzgesagt's founder, Philip Detmer, had an idea.
He wanted to create something inspiring that would extend beyond the digital YouTube cosmos.
Something tangible.
Something that would represent Kurzgesagt's view of the world
and our belief in humanity's potential for greatness.
His idea, the Kurzgesagt Human Era Calendar.
It establishes a New Year's Hero to include all people and cultures around the world.
This New Year's Hero, roughly 12,000 years ago,
signifies a time when humans first started working together on a larger scale,
laying the foundation for modern society and, eventually, our future ahead of us.
The first Human Era Calendar was a huge success.
It sold out within a few hours and inspired thousands of burbs around the globe.
Every year since then, we've created a new edition of the Human Era Calendar,
each one more spectacular and successful than the last.
It has enabled us to grow our team, improve our video quality and research standards,
and still release our videos for free for everyone.
This year's calendar is extra special.
Join us as we conduct a series of space experiments
to see how they would affect the development of life.
What would a creature living near an orange dwarf look like?
Could life still exist after a supernova explosion?
And what the hell is this?
Join us in 12,024 and find out.
And, of course, you can also use it to plan humanity's next steps towards greatness.
To celebrate what may be our most glorious calendar yet,
we've prepared a few spectacular limited deals for you.
Thank you so much for being a part of our story
and for coming together every year to make all of this possible.
