A clever few of you noticed that, in my last video, I mentioned a thing called the Pronouns
Wiki.
And yeah, that's real.
I was confused about the difference between Neopronouns and Xenopronouns.
Neopronouns are any set of singular third-person pronouns that were directly created or adapted
within the language instead of evolving with it, and are frequently not officially recognized
in the language they're used in.
In English, there are four sets of recognized exipronouns, she-her is considered feminine,
he-him is considered masculine, and they-them is considered neutral, and less controversial
than the fourth set, it-its.
In my original recording of that passage before doing another take, I expressed shock at the
existence of the word exipronouns, but I let that hook dangle.
Not today, though!
Let's fully dive down the rabbit hole of the Pronouns Wiki.
Exipronouns, also called Palaeopronouns, archpronouns, or tradpronouns, is a term to refer to the
standard traditional existing pronoun sets of a language.
Someone who uses exipronouns would be called exipronominal, oh jesus christ.
The term exipronoun was coined by Tumblr user anacrossic on June 30th, 2020.
Also on that post, tradpronouns was coined by Tumblr user transkian.
Why is this a wiki?
Like, why does this thing exist?
Is it just to document Tumblr stupidity?
Here's what Xenopronouns actually means.
Xenopronouns are a type of hypothetical neopronouns that cannot be understood by humans and or
expressed through human language.
Theoretical examples of xenopronouns include pronouns that involve concepts that humans
don't have words for, pronouns whose meanings cannot be translated into any human language,
pronouns that include sounds that would be impossible for humans to make if spoken, pronouns
that include movements that would be impossible for humans to do if signed, pronouns expressed
through a form of communication that humans can't use.
If I were trans, I would be fucking embarrassed at this, I'm not gonna lie.
Like let's say you're the average trans woman, okay?
You're born male, and as you get a bit older you're attracted to more feminine things,
you view yourself as a bit more feminine, you get pushback from those around you for
this and it makes you feel bad, you get older still, and you realize you want to present
and behave as the other gender, and eventually you do.
You're not interested in any of this crazy shit, you don't want to deconstruct gender,
you don't want to be viewed as an eldritch abomination from beyond the stars, unknowable
by normal human minds, you just want the other gender identity than the one that aligns with
their biological sex.
I think this is why the most successful, popular and emotionally stable trans women present
and behave like cis women.
No specific examples of xenopronouns can be provided because, by their nature, it would
be impossible to express through human language.
For those that do use xenopronouns, for communication in human language they may use auxiliary or
alternate pronouns, or wish to be treated as null-pronomenal, oh what fresh hell is
this?
Null-pronomenal, also known as non-pronomenal, un-pronomenal, a-pronomenal, pronounless,
void-pronoun, or impronoun, is the act of not using third person pronouns of any kind.
Oh my god, they've got flags for all of this shit too.
You know, for being so anti-nationalist, leftoids love to divide themselves up into camps and
wave banners signifying their allegiance.
The Phrae-pronomenal flag by fandom user femboyquinn.
What the fuck is Phrae-pronomenal?
It is a form of pronoun non-conformity and may be considered a de-human pronoun depending
on the user.
What the fuck is a de-human pronoun?
Being non-pronomenal may overlap with name-self pronouns.
What the fuck is name-self pronouns?
I wanted to go back to the auxiliary pronouns page from the last passage, but every link
I click on, there's three more terms I don't understand.
This is worse than link-surfing on TV-tropes.
Denny-pronomial is a term for someone who is normally null-pronomial but occasionally
uses pronouns.
This may overlap with one being pronoun fluid, however it doesn't have to.
I'm going to guess that pronoun fluid is that you change your pronouns sometimes, right?
Pronoun fluid is the act of switching or transitioning between two or more pronoun sets over time.
One's pronouns may change over the course of hours, days, weeks, or months, and the
gender of the person does not matter and does not have to change with the pronouns.
Oh, okay, so you can be a girl, fully biologically female, gender is woman, not even a trans
man, you're a cis woman, and you can use he-him pronouns because you're pronoun non-conforming.
Wait a second, pronoun non-conforming is something different, it's just using pronouns in a
non-standard way.
Okay, okay, what I'm talking about is what this wiki calls cross-pronominal.
Fuck me, dude.
The cross-pronominal flag looks like a candy you might have found in a cheap paper bag
at the corner store back in the day.
It was made by Beyond Mogai Pride Flags.
Is this your greatest contribution, dude?
Making these fucking flags that will never actually fly anywhere IRL?
Is this how you spend your time?
Alright, let's jump a few stages back.
Cross-pronominal to pronoun non-conforming to pronoun fluid.
Core fluid, no, core fluid is a term for someone who is both gender fluid and pronoun fluid,
and whose pronouns change to correlate with their gender.
Pronoun fluid, also known as neofluid, is when one is pronoun fluid only between neopronouns.
A neofluid individual may also have exipronouns so long as they are only fluid in neopronouns.
Muto-pronoun, or mutopronominal, is a term used to describe when one's pronouns change
in certain situations or contexts.
Okay, this one I kind of understand.
It's like how drag queens out of drag use he and him, but use she-her in drag.
I've got it.
The reason, though, is because Naomi likes to watch Drag Race.
Emotopronounfluid, also known as emotopronominal, is a subset of pronoun fluid where one's
pronouns change depending on one's mood, emotions, or state of mind.
Oh, is this the source of the was-were joke, when your state of mind is dead?
Pronoun fae, or pronoun doe, is the act of switching or transitioning between two or
more pronoun sets over time, but only feminine pronouns.
Pronoun fawn, or pronoun fawn, is the act of switching or transitioning between two
or more pronoun sets over time, but only masculine pronouns.
Um, excuse me, but the very act of even considering pronoun sets masculine or feminine is inherently
oppressive.
Thank you very much.
Pronoun floor is the act of switching or transitioning between two or more pronoun sets over time,
but only neutral pronouns.
Oh, I guess they already have that one covered.
Pronoun soros is the act of switching or transitioning between two or more pronoun sets over time,
but only androgynous pronouns.
It actually sounds more like dinosaur pronouns, frankly.
Pronoun soros people can have any gender.
For example, a pronoun floor person may go by she shim one day and shy hire the next,
and then a week later switch back to she shim.
Oh my god, what is the fucking point?
Why does she shim have an entry but shy hire doesn't?
I can actually kind of intuit what she shim means as an androgynous thing, but I actually
want an explanation of where the fuck shy hire came from.
Also, look at the bottom of this page, coined on December 13th, 2021, coined on November
1st, 2020, January 7th, 2022, October 2021.
These are just people who have been locked down for too long during coronavirus and have
had nothing to do.
Fray-pronomenal is a term for people who lose their connection to a set of pronouns the
more the set is used to refer to them, and become more likely to change their pronouns
as a result of this lost connection.
In other words, after a set of pronouns gets old, you change them.
This is literally just being a special snowflake.
Jesus Christ, there's libra-pronomenal, hemi-pronomenal, grey-pronomenal, proxy-pronomenal, CAD-pronomenal,
someone who was allo-pronomenal but no longer relates to pronouns due to past trauma.
Is this even possible?
Like, how would this happen?
Would a rapist have to write the person's pronouns on their dick before he does it?
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Meyer-pronomenal, mere-pronomenal, someone who has multiple null-pronomenal labels.
Yeah, we covered null-pronomenal earlier, didn't we?
Null-pronomenal is the act of not using third-person pronouns of any kind, right, right.
If you're not using any pronouns, how are you fucking using multiples of them?
Multiples of nothing?
You know, after all of this, that auxiliary pronouns page I wanted to check out earlier
seems quaint by comparison.
Auxiliary pronouns, also known as alternate pronouns, are a pronoun set or sets that one
likes less than their primary pronoun set, but still allows others to use to refer to
oneself.
Yeah, this is just the whole she-they thing that you see on Twitter sometimes.
Where...
Emoji self-pronouns?
Emoji self-pronouns.
Emoji self-pronouns are a form of gender-neutral neo-pronouns.
They are similar to noun self-pronouns, but instead of using letters, they use emojis
or other pictograms.
They may be used for a number of reasons, such as liking the way the emoji looks, liking
the way they may sound in their head, or because one feels the emoji describes them or reflects
something about their gender well.
Emoji self-pronouns are meant to be used in text-based communication only.
They cannot be pronounced and are not intended to be pronounced, but some may have spoken
alternatives.
I'm trying my best not to laugh here, guys.
Most emoji pronoun users have pronouns to be used in spoken conversation.
Some emoji pronoun users will use a noun self-pronoun set based on the emoji.
Other emoji self-pronoun users may use pronouns like he, she, they, or other pronouns that
are unrelated to the emoji in spoken conversation.
Others may go by no pronouns in speech.
An example of emoji self-pronouns is, this is if the pronoun is a strawberry emoji.
Strawberry went to the store.
You're not supposed to say it.
You're supposed to have the picture of the strawberry emoji in your head, I guess.
Strawberry went to the store.
I met strawberry today.
Berry walked berry's dog today.
Spoken alternatives to the above set of emoji self-pronouns could be be b berry self straw
strawberry self fruit fruit self.
Yeah, I would not be surprised if you were a fucking fruit, dude.
The noun self-pronouns page that we skipped over, though, brings us full circle.
Noun self-pronouns are a type of neo pronouns that are clearly derived from a pre-existing
word to be used as a gender neutral pronoun set.
Any word can be turned into a pronoun set, so this allows there to be theoretically infinite
sets of noun self-pronouns.
The word in question does not have to be a noun.
Oh, all right.
Some of the earliest sets of noun self-pronouns are the fairy themed set fe fair and the bunny
themed set bun buns.
And of course we now have dog self, cat self, and many others.
Remember the deer gender people that hit the spotlight a year or so ago?
Nice and soft.
Round to the back of the head.
Yeah, them.
I think they use doe doe self-pronouns, and I'm guessing they're part of this shit.
The issue with fad pronouns like these isn't that they're artificially constructed and
socially imposed for a political benefit.
Well, no, that is the issue, but there's a bigger issue.
It's that it adds a new unnecessary dimension of complexity.
I can already hear the progressive reply to this herder.
You can remember hundreds of Pokemon, but you can't remember a couple dozen pronouns.
That doesn't matter.
Trust grows when you don't have to think about something and you can just simplify it.
We do this to objects and we do it to each other, and it's not bad that we do this.
It's in our nature as tribals.
We didn't need to know the intricate details of the biology of the tiger that is about
to eat us.
We simplify it to big roar teeth scary when I trade with you, I don't need to know your
life story and you don't need to know mine.
If I hire you to build my house, I don't need to know every detail of how you grew up and
became interested in building houses and who taught you how to do it.
I just need to know that you can do the job that I pay for and you just need to know that
I can pay you for it.
For some things, you may need a bit more detail, but you never need to know all of the detail.
I may need to see the credentials of somebody who's building a very complex house.
I may need to see examples of his prior work, but I will never need to hook myself up to
his brain and experience second by second the entire process of how he learned to do
it.
Trust may come from knowing somebody intimately, for example, in a romantic context, but trust
between business partners, between citizens, between friends comes from not needing to
know, from simplifying the other person in your eyes so that you only need to engage
with the public part of themselves that they put forward.
Everything else can remain private and unknown, and that's okay.
We evolved to handle complex environments by simplifying what we can trust.
That's why we say, I trust him, he'd never betray me, even if he actually has the capacity
for betrayal.
Because what you're doing is you're taking a leap of faith and assuming that all of those
possible futures where he betrays you won't happen.
Even if they could happen, resources spent on fallback plans can be better spent elsewhere.
So if your trust isn't misplaced, that's less time spent on the possibility of being betrayed
and more time spent on your actual goal.
This is why high trust societies end up more prosperous than low trust ones, regardless
of access to resources, because you're spending way less time on periphery plans that are
only relevant if you get backstabbed.
All of these crazy gender identities and pronouns, and moreover the strict insistence on their
constant use, adds unnecessary complexity, which adds chaos, which reduces trust.
I don't need to know the gender, or the biological sex for that matter, of the person who's serving
me food or scanning my groceries.
And including this stuff as a necessary component of the interaction, bogs down that interaction.
Some people take glee at the idea of breaking other people's automated cognitive processes.
Fair enough, subversion can be fun, being the outsider can make you feel special.
But those same people also complain about not being accepted, or how people treat them
weirdly and how it's everyone else's problem.
And it's like, yes, what do you think is the natural end result of breaking people's
automated cognitive scripts?
You're not being abused, you're breaking the mold, and then complaining that you no
longer have a mold that contains you.
Shut up and do your fucking dishes.
Here's my final take on it.
Men and women, fine.
Trans men, trans women, also okay.
I can completely understand adhering to regular gender norms and just wanting the other one.
Feeling both masculine and feminine at the same time, I can see that, sure.
Feeling agender, like you don't align with either man or woman, fine, okay.
Men, woman, both, neither.
I can conceive of these options existing, even if the options for biological sex are
literally only male, female, and various deformities.
But all this other nonsense is just meaningless garbage.
The legitimate options already map on perfectly to he, she, and they, as is.
Deer gender, cat gender, whatever, none of that shit is fucking real.
These people have debilitating, crippling mental illnesses that are preventing them
from being happy and joining normal society.
