Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the right opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and today we talk about the madness that is Black Friday, well it
is in the US at least, in which people have been trampled, injured, and in some cases
shot because of the intensity of the event.
On face value it would be easy for me to rant about how this is representative of the worst
of humanity, and to an extent, it is.
But I'm gonna be defending Black Friday and I'm not sure why, but as I script I'm sure
the reasons will come to mind eventually.
Okay so this is how I view it, Black Friday is a good day for buying stuff that you'd
buy anyway, that's my perspective, and that's how I've always dealt with it.
I purchased an Xbox One a couple years back, for some damn reason, but I got it at a good
price and not one that I would have attained at any other time that year, and I was looking
to buy one at the time.
And yes, the primitive drive that it brings out in certain people is rather disgusting,
but this is a symptom of consumerism that has been pushed, a mentality that I've always
been against personally, but one that is unfortunately unstoppable in modern society.
Okay you say, but I criticised Apple when they exploited their consumerism very strongly,
and that is true.
But in the instance of the new iPhone, the only thing that their consumerism included
was basically hiking prices ridiculously.
The only winners from that situation that Apple presented were Apple themselves.
In the instances of Black Friday and Cyber Monday, you can actually win, because instead
of hiking prices, they're cutting prices, and although there are many idiots out there
who will buy a shit ton of stuff and then quickly regret it, you can actually buy certain
devices for better than standard expenditure.
Black Friday is an exercise in natural selection.
Those who know when to spend their money and how to spend their money survive and do well
out of it, even though there are exceptions.
With the thought of those exceptions, I'm going to pass over to the grumpy whelk to
demonstrate the correct utilisation of Black Friday.
Greetings, I am the grumpy whelk, so named because of my grumpiness and resemblance to
everyone's favourite boucan day.
No, that's not a category on Pornhub.
Today, I'm here to educate you about how to do Black Friday right.
It may surprise you to note that this is not another day where us oppressive white folk
direct our efforts to our darker-skinned compadres as penance for years of injustice.
No, in fact, Black Friday is for bargains, bargains, bargains.
It's a day for joy and celebration, and the purchasing of items for which you have no
godly purpose possessing.
I myself picked up a bow tie and a delightful pair of espadrilles.
Now tighten your bumpkins and follow these six easy steps, and maybe you can do Black
Friday right.
So you want a new jacket with tweed elbows or a new wife?
This is how you make it happen.
Step one, location.
Now you have two options, don't you brave the mad rush of consumerism and venture forth
to the marché knowing the shop and item you wish to purchase, or do you peruse the interweb
using buzzwords to locate the best deals?
Take your time with this decision.
It really is location, location, location, but don't take too long.
Before you know it, Cyber Monday will have passed and you will be groveling to your mother
scraping two cents together to make a third, and besides, who goes out to shops anymore?
Step two, knowing the dangers.
Ensure you remain zen, there's no use engaging in a bout of fisticuffs over a half-off blender.
The only fighting you should be doing is with your wife when she burns the quiche.
Step three, put the kettle on.
These bargains are thirsty business, and what's a good deal without a good brew?
Besides, your sister just bought that new kettle on the eBay's after following these
six simple steps.
Link in the description.
Step four, purchase the item.
So now you've added the item or items to your basket, ensure the quantity is correct.
After all, who needs two chrome-plated dildos, aside from me of course.
Select checkout from the drop-down menu.
By now we've established none of you leave your house to shop, and if you do, well, aren't
you silly?
Input your card details ensuring there are no cat burglars or rapists looking over your
shoulder, and use your neighbour's address so that the MI5 or FBI remain in the dark
as to where you hang your jockstrap of an evening.
Be sure to select first-class delivery, you're not a peasant, and patiently wait with a good
Chaucer novel by the fire sipping your gin and vermouth as DPD do their thing.
Step five, enjoy.
Step six, profit.
Upon realising the item you purchased only seems desirable when discounted, like a shag
with a lowbrow hooker, wait for the market to come and sell your discounted item for profit.
Well, my work here is done.
Ta-ta, kids, and happy shopping.
Back to you, discount colossal.
Thank you, grumpy twat.
I appeared in a video with vanilla rice where I spoke about Patreon, and I said in it that
the responsibility lies with the person paying the money, and as long as they have received
what they pay for, then all is well.
That is the same with Black Friday, it's just a tactical cut in the prices that leaves the
individual to decide where to invest their money.
It's not anyone's job to nanny it and dictate people how to spend it, and if I can save
money on it, and you can save money on it, then I have no reason to complain.
Also, I've only mentioned it once, but my opinion on Cyber Monday is much alike.
I guess I like opportunities to save money, considering I barely spend any money anyway
because I'm a stingy twat, but it's nonetheless a great initiative in my opinion.
Big thanks to a grumpy cunt for featuring in my video, and his channel's going to be
up and running soon, hopefully, so go and sub to him in anticipation of the great content
that he will be pushing out, as my channel would not be anywhere without him.
Also would like to thank everyone, whenever you came across my channel, for helping me
to reach 500 subscribers, it wouldn't have been possible otherwise.
Also to Vanilla Rice, Jack Rami, and anyone else who has assisted my progress, it really
does mean a lot.
Anyway, I'll try and do something for 500, although I can't guarantee anything too soon,
as I've already put other videos on the conveyor belt first.
I'm The Right Opinion, and here's to 500 lads.
