Have you ever heard of the tale of Icarus?
Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time and electronic arts,
ever the champion for affordable gaming content, with no catch, none at all, no.
They always provide the most in-depth storylines and emotionally resonant characters filled to the brim with content,
an online multiplayer that leaves nothing to the imagination, and DLC that only expands on those fantastical concepts.
That's what I would say if EA had a respectable reputation, but they don't.
EA, as I've known for a long time, as most people here I assume have known for a long time, are a bunch of sneaky twats,
and they have been at it for a while. Over the last few years, anyone with a critical enough eye knew that they were heading in this direction,
so let's give that direction a bit of background.
Microtransactions are a controversial inclusion in a fair few AAA games of recent.
They tend to serve as a way of using additional payments as a gateway to certain in-game content.
Often this might be additional content released at a later date, or it might be stuff that was there from the get-go.
It could be maps, characters, weapons, or just stylistic stuff like clothing or skins.
Microtransactions aren't a particularly new addition to the gaming world, but they certainly have increased in prominence over the last few years.
What we've understood is that they've been increasing in volume and frequency, and have been percolating into the game industry much more recent.
Another popular inclusion in the last few years has been the spin-to-win content.
Though not exactly like the example we'll be using today, a lot of pay-to-win games in the industry like CSGO Lotto have been setting up shop all over the gaming community.
These, admittedly, are more recent additions. They're a bit of a variant on the microtransactions.
They combine the concept of mystery boxes with in-game purchases, and they haven't been spoken about too much,
apart from a few scandals that included gaming advocates such as Syndicate.
Another reflection of loot boxes could be the mystery packs of FIFA games, another EA franchise.
So this brings us to the Electronic Arts gents.
The infamous game developers have certainly been incrementally involved with the addition of microtransactions in their content of recent.
Another development of the recent years was their acquisition of the Star Wars franchise.
They released their first instalment, Star Wars Battlefront, and it was met with mixed reaction from audiences.
Of course, gaming critics love it, because gaming critics love anything that sparkles, basically.
But for people who actually make an investment, it's natural to look at a game a lot more critically.
A lot of people noted the rather restricted content and omission of single-player campaign mode,
which many felt was an important component to the Battlefront series.
I never bought it myself, because I simply felt it wasn't worth the price tag, and I was still pretty involved in GTA V at the time,
and that gave me, infamitely, more substance.
And given the very mixed reviews from people I trusted, I decided to leave it on the shelf.
There was this general feeling of suspicion after the first game, but I think individuals still had a bit of vague optimism.
After all, EA had taken in a lot of criticisms for another one of their games, Titanfall, on board,
and actually turned out an improved sequel that received a lot of praise from people who were critical of the first game.
Could EA take on that ethos and refine Battlefront II to a similar effect?
The answer was a resounding no.
Yes, the beta was released, and there was almost an immediate universal backlash to many of EA's decisions.
The first one was the loot boxes, a truly genius initiative.
They were harpooned by gamers who noted the ridiculous advantages they granted people with the dollar,
and that characters would require days of grinding to attain the equivalent amount of in-game credits to purchase them.
EA did the genuine and honest thing that EA always does.
Firstly, they said they did it to enhance a feeling of pride and achievement, which is a load of bollocks.
And then, after having their response become the most downvoted in Reddit history by a fucking country mile,
they cut the cost by 75% to purchase the heroes.
What they didn't say is they also cut the rate at which you could achieve credits.
After even more backlash, they pooled microtransactions altogether,
but only temporarily, because you can only suspend the dollar. You can never cancel it.
EA knew exactly what they were doing.
They knew that they would force people into a dilemma where they would either have to spend their hard-earned cash or be left behind.
For people who don't want to rack out on the green, they would either have to buy loot boxes with their credits and play the risk game,
or they could preserve the credits and play for a very, very, very long time.
I also like how EA told their investors that the removal of the microtransactions wouldn't influence the money made by the game
after the game took a hit in the stock investments.
If that's the case, why the fuck did you include it in the first place?
It certainly wasn't out of goodwill, I'll tell you that much.
I'm gonna say it to the gamers, if people have a problem, they have to be more active with their withdrawal.
If people held EA to account in the first place, controversy like this may have never happened.
There will always be hardcore Battlefront fans who will purchase shit no matter what EA does, but they're not as abundant as they might seem.
Companies need to be monetarily reminded that you don't want your games turning into corporate shells.
For some reason, people like to bend over and just take it all sometimes.
If you can live without Star Wars Battlefront II and you think it could be better,
and you've been hearing the corroborating opinions between your acquaintances, just don't fucking buy it.
Don't feel insignificant, the internet amplifies these previously unheard voices in new ways.
I'm starting to sound like a socialist firebrand, but you can stand up to these people, we are connected now.
So if something is unsatisfactory, be the change you want to see in it.
I spoke with my wallet many years ago, and if you think they can do better, and they're not even trying, then speak with your wallet too.
It's all they have. They don't make the game for their grandchildren to play, they make it for the green.
I was modestly inspired by the recent movement of the community to hold EA to account for their shameful business practices,
but there's always more work to be done, and it's important to make sure they don't just subtly creep it in again and again and again.
What's happened here is that EA have moved too quickly.
What we can't let them do is let them in seriously sneak it under the radar, because that's what, essentially, they want to do.
But to people who did actually notice it this time, and did tell them to sort their shit out, good work.
And maybe you'll cause EA to make a game in the future that I might be interested in buying. Miracles can happen.
Until that though, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
