Hello everyone and welcome to TikTok Tuesday. Listen, I know last week's show,
there was a video where a guy was, what was it? He was jumping up from a subway and it was coming in.
Yeah, it was in reverse. I'm sorry. Every single comment who said on that last one,
it's in reverse. I get it guys. I get it. I know. All right. I'm not perfect. I'm not perfect.
These things happen sometimes, you know? Sorry. Sorry. But we're here to check out a different
batch of TikToks that I can be wrong about. I don't have audio on this one. My son who made
me a pregnant grandma at 33. What? What? Okay. This has to be a troll. I don't, this is the first
video of the day and I've already like hit zero on the dev gas tank. There's no way. My son who
made me a pregnant grandma at 33. Hold on. I got to parse this. Okay. She's a pregnant grandma.
That means that she has a child who already has a child. I assume that's her son.
So did her son impregnate her and that's why she's pregnant or is she pregnant with her third kid
and her son impregnated somebody else? Listen guys, this shit only ever happens in Alabama
or in anime. Oh, okay. There's an art piece. Yeah. It's clearly the holding Jesus thing,
but it's this person. I mean, uh, oh, look at all the spilled paint. Yeah. This is definitely
a modern art gallery. Isn't it? I mean, listen, yeah, that guy, he looks, uh, that fellow looks
pretty strange. Doesn't he? The art world is a very strange place, guys. There's a lot of weirdos
hanging around in there, but that's, uh, that's not my scene. That's for sure. Happy Friday,
it's Tuesday actually. Okay. The book didn't say majority though.
Oh, we have the protect trans kids pin right there. Why? Like if we're really getting serious
about what people think teachers are doing in the classroom, why is that? Why is that on a book?
What's wrong with that? A picture representing families. What's wrong with it? I'm just asking
on this Friday. You're just asking, but what are you implying? Like, hold on, let's go back. This
is the majority families, but it doesn't even say that it says multiplication and division
fact, family practice book. It doesn't say majority. It just has a picture of a dad and a
mom and a kid. What's the problem. Is it because it's not a gay couple? Is it? Cause it's not like
an interracial couple or something. What's the objection here? You just not like seeing white
people in media. There's definitely a shit ton of people out there who are just like, man,
there's a black woman in this game or whatever. It's gotta be woke. It can't be good,
which isn't true. But now we see the opposite of people just not liking the fact that whites exist.
Whoa. Oh my God.
Dude, this, this midgets probably gonna actually die of snoo snoo. God damn. That's,
that's one way to go out. Isn't it? What do you think? Fellas? Would you yes or no?
Wait, is it deep? Put, wait, is that gas in the cup?
Are you fucking kidding? Why dude? Like there's, there's so many humans on the planet at this point
that I guarantee you, someone has done something, anything, you know what I mean? It's like,
no one would ever have been done enough to do that. Like drink a shot of gasoline
right out of the pump. Nope. There's the guy who did it. Oh my God. Paying parking tickets and
pennies. Just dump it all out. Fuck you. Yep. Here you go. Enjoy. Here's all your fucking money.
Oh, there you go. You know,
I understand the reason for parking tickets before. So unless you have it counted by the
bank and they have it out, you don't have a counter here. Oh, I'm sorry. It's too bad.
It's all yours already though. $75. You don't have a counter here. They won't accept it.
Okay. Well, here's what I'll do. Do you have a, I guess you can use this pen here. Can I see the
ticket for a sec? So, okay. So if there's any problems, you're more than welcome to call me,
but as of right now, the payment's been made. Have a nice day.
I love malicious compliance. Yes. I am somewhat of a Redditor. I do go on to their malicious
compliance server that sometimes, yes, you can crucify me, but that's always fun to watch. Isn't
it? Oh, got to mute it. Wait, what is this? Is that like, is that minced meat,
like ground beef or something? He's just plastering.
Okay. I think, I think you guys are just sending me troll videos now. Like there's no,
there's no reason. Okay. All right.
Whoa. Microwave man?
Is that his helmet? Okay. So was that like a superhero or was that his helmet or was
it just a crack head? Maybe all three. Oh, some more music. I'm going to do that again.
This is like a Joe Rogan doing a UFC thing.
Oh, he's not looking. Don't look, Joe. Don't look. Your wife is watching. Don't do it.
Don't do it, Joe. You're going to get in trouble. That, okay. The face that he had on looked like
a face that he's been in trouble for it before. And his wife was like, listen, when those girls
are undressing for their way in or whatever, you can't be doing that shit, dude. You know,
I thought we weren't going to get any weird trans stuff in this round of TikToks.
We almost did with that teacher, but I finally, I finally dug one up. Here we go. This is from Kat
who whose pronouns are fae fem. All right. Let's, let's see what, let's see what this person has to
say. Microaggressions, guys? Oh, Jesus. Hold on. Maybe my foot's in my mouth. That's a,
that's a bit crazy if true. I just had a man in public.
Bam. He can't wait until he can legally hunt us down.
So. This is not okay. You guys think this is true? This is not okay.
Cause here's the thing. I've definitely seen videos of people saying that, right? Like there'd
be, you know, a guy who looks like a griper or something. He, and he goes up to someone who has
like dyed hair who has like a trans flag or whatever the fuck. Right. And then says,
I can't wait until we can take away all your rights. In fact, I included that clip in, in
the three forms of fascism video, there's a bunch of clips like that. I'm just guys going around
saying, I can't wait until open season begins. You know, it's like, Jesus, that's pretty fucked up.
But also people like this are not known for their honesty. So I, I don't know.
It's going pretty far, dude.
Oh, oh, wait. Is that like on the field now?
And there it is. Oh, is it? Yeah. Oh my God, man. That's probably the most fun that's ever happened
at a soccer game. I'm not a sports guy. I don't know if you guys can tell I'm definitely a video
game guy, not a sports guy. Cosplay as a Nazi. Oh man. Oh, mega clips.
What did you say? I hate gay people or black people.
What's the matter with you? You're disgusting. You don't take care of yourself.
Oh my God. I don't want to take care of myself. What do you think I'm doing right now? I'm doing
my hair. That's not taking care of yourself. Eat less, move more please. I had breakfast.
I worked out this morning. What else do you want me to do? I think you had a bit too much breakfast.
Oh my God. I don't like you anymore. People ask us why we hate white people.
Oh, okay. Okay. I know that I'm already scraping the bottom of the barrel
when it comes to doing TikTok content, but should I do Omegle content too?
Because that was ridiculous. Oh my God, dude. I think that's the end. That's the end of the line
for old dev today. Listen, new videos are coming. Dave is in fact working on right now while I
record this because I posted on Twitter and on Discord and I think in the community notes
or no, the community tab of my channel that a big video was recorded and is currently being edited.
So that's what Dave's doing right now. You'll see dev videos soon. Okay. They're coming. They're
coming soon. Things are looking up for old dev. I'm back on the upswing when it comes to getting
work done. So I will see you guys there. Oh, of course. Stream tonight as well. Make sure
you're there. I'll see you. Okay. Have a good one. I love you.
