A lot of England is coming out of the lockdown into a worse condition than when they went into it
from the perspective of, say, personal liberty.
It's mad. I thought we had a lockdown to stop this virus, and then we had another lockdown to stop this virus.
And now we're going into a worse lockdown, like, semi-lockdown than before?
It's like, okay, I think if there's one thing we've worked out after a year of having to deal with this virus now,
is that lockdowns aren't the solution. They don't fix it. They don't fix it.
Don't know what to tell you, didn't work, and now we're stuck with a bunch of really pressing concerns
about how we seem to be in a fascist state, and I kind of hate it.
I kind of hate knowing that the government can just be like, fuck you, and I've got no particular recourse.
It obviously is not a modern legal document, right? But that's not what we're talking about.
When someone says, oh, I've got the authority of the Magna Carta behind me,
what they are saying is that as a free man in England, and that's a specific term,
that's not me saying a free male, that's a free man, is a particular category that we all fall into now.
If you're not an aristocrat, you're a free man, you're a yeoman.
It's the spirit of the thing. It is that the governing authority will not have unlimited power
to arbitrarily treat the subjects beneath it without their consent.
That's the essence, the kernel and the spirit, the will behind constitutionalism right there.
That's where it begins. That's where the English tradition of it begins.
And this is important. This is why we have human rights now.
It's Anglo-Saxons in the woods, as Robert Conquest described it, right?
Where they're figuring out how they should be governed.
And they realize actually we can govern ourselves and should govern ourselves.
And in fact, giving the king unaccountable, which we'll call arbitrary,
when people say arbitrary, they don't actually mean without reason when talking about this, they mean unaccountable.
So arbitrary power of the king. So the king, you could just wake up that morning and go,
you know, I'm just gonna take everyone's land. Fuck you. You can't do anything about it.
I've had the authority. I'm the king.
Well, it's the same with the state. And it's any relationship between the individual and the state falls into that category.
Whether you are a baron in 1215 or you are an English tattoo artist in 2020 or a salon owner in 2020,
it's the same principle that applies. It's exactly the same. And it means exactly the same thing.
I didn't deserve this because they don't deserve this. And the government therefore should not have the power to do it.
The government should have limits. And this is the essence of it. This is the spirit of the thing.
It's deeply shameful. All of England should be in revolt against this.
And just carrying on their lives. Just carry on as you choose.
Because fundamentally the government can say whatever they like, and I'm sure they can send their stormtroopers in to enforce it.
But at the end of the day, they don't have the right. They just don't have the right to do it.
I mean, everyone could divest from these people and be like, no, I'm not going to that tattoo shop.
I'm not going to that salon. I might catch the coof. I'm not going in there. I'm fine.
That's fine. You do that. You know, that is your goddamn choice.
I totally respect your authority in making that choice in your autonomy.
You should be able to make that choice. You don't have to go in their tattoo shops,
but you also don't get to tell them they can't fucking run them.
