Today is the day where I do a fun little video about a tiny drop of internet nonsense, like
my previous video about how progressives pushed the super inclusive term Latinx to the point
of making the Latino community absolutely hate progressivism, or about how the easily
triggered tend to use the star symbol to censor words on Twitter.
Not just slurs or swears, and remember kids, you can say the word fuck online, but going
so far as to censor people's names so that their public statements are harder to be discovered
outside of their friend group.
Yep, this is a silly little video like that.
Why?
Well, the main reason is because I'm currently juggling like four scripts in various stages
of completion, each of which are at least an hour long and involve tons of editing,
and I still want to at least try and stay on my one video a day streak, so today is
just going to have to be a gimme.
It's okay though, we'll still have some fun.
Here's another bit of terminology that terminally online progressive Twitter culture warriors
tend to regularly deploy, the word normalize.
Whenever you see this shit in a tweet, you know you're reading some garbage dumb fuck
nonsense.
Normalize is a pretty simple word.
Even if I don't give you the official definition, you probably understand, but it means bring
or return to a normal or standard condition or state.
So as a quick example, the normal internal human body temperature is 37 degrees Celsius.
That's 98.6 in freedom units.
If you have a fever, you're likely to be several degrees higher.
When your fever breaks and you return to normal, that is your fever normalizing.
Normalization is the process of taking an abnormal value and returning it to baseline.
However, that's not how progressives use the word.
When a progressive says normalization, they're describing the process of taking an abnormal
value and making it the new baseline.
For example, being trans is pretty rare, ranging from 0.1% to 0.6% of the world population.
The normal value of gender identity is being cis.
If we were to use normalize per the dictionary definition, the phrase normalize transness
means literally to make trans people cis, which is not what progressives want.
When they're saying normalize transness, they mean to say that being trans should be
considered normal.
It should be the default, the baseline, and we should work to make that situation a reality.
In some ways, to normalize something literally means to make it the new normal.
When progressives say this, most of them mean that both transness and cisness should be
the baseline.
But few radicals do genuinely mean to make transness the only baseline and push cisness
to be the outlier.
The terminology they often use in this case is centering.
There can only be one center of a circle.
Everything else is necessarily periphery.
So when you center transness, you are necessarily othering cisness.
It's for this reason that, as a general rule, people who tell me that I have a moral obligation
to center something that isn't already central, I tend to just outright ignore them because
they're simply trying to browbeat me into servicing their politics.
But most progressives who use the term normalization don't actually intend to displace the default
with the beneficiaries of their activism.
They simply want the default to be expanded in order to include them.
Whether or not that's actually possible is a different story that is heavily dependent
on what exactly we're talking about.
The first time the word normalize was ever used in this manner, as in, to describe some
sort of social change the speaker deemed necessary, was in 2019, when this fella said, normalize
apologizing to children.
Okay, this doesn't seem too crazy.
We've all known instances where an adult was mistaken, their kid was correct, and when
the truth came out, the adult didn't apologize in order to maintain authority.
And to be honest, that's pretty shitty to be on the other end of.
So okay, I get it.
But after this, we started seeing calls to normalize random political shit.
Things to normalize for men.
Asking for help, being feminine, going to therapy, encouraging them to talk, seeking
help for mental health, crying or showing emotions.
I get it, I get it.
Men's mental health is in the shitter right now.
And some of this advice might help in some scenarios.
But there's absolutely a type of woman out there who will immediately and permanently
friend zone you if you do any of this shit.
Yeah, those women are terrible and you shouldn't fuck with them.
But you know what?
Despite all of this being kind of true, there's also still a lot of value in stoicism.
Things to normalize.
Same sex relationships, female masturbation, non-binary pronouns, public breastfeeding,
androgynous fashion, not wearing a bra, women in positions of power, guys showing emotions.
This is just your random feminist grab bag of positions.
Most of them have already been normalized.
And the remaining ones are just kind of dumb.
But this really does reinforce the notion that saying normalize X is just a slightly
more academic way of saying I want X.
It ain't just Twitter, this is seeping into journalism too.
Like normalizing conversations about periods at the breakfast table with a uterus shaped
cereal.
Why in the fuck would you ever want to do that?
Or the extremely grotesque, we need to normalize abortion, which is probably the most blatant
example of somebody trying to engineer what the norm is for their own selfish benefit.
There's a round of famous posts where the target being normalized is repeated over and
over, as if saying it many times will make it come true like it's a magic spell.
Like normalize sexist relationships, normalize dating sex workers, going from one extreme
to the other there.
Normalize incest, the front page of PornHub shows us we've been there for years, dude.
Normalize pigging is, uh, this one a joke?
I can't tell.
Reminds me of the dude who engaged in a very similar meme from like a decade ago, I need
feminism because, where he's cited enjoying his girlfriend's strap-on.
The point of all of these is that these are all things that are not normal, and the person
making the post believes they should be, likely for some political or social end.
But this rapidly turned into a very common joke, meant to make fun of these types of
activists.
Like, for example, normalize shitting in the shower.
Normalize singing sea shanties in pubs.
Normalize using XD again.
Normalize leaving after the first red flag, I won't but y'all should.
And then there's the very famous one, normalize platonically telling your bros they look submissive
and breedable, which actually spawned the submissive and breedable meme, as well as
utilizing both the normalize meme and the hand clap emoji between every word meme.
The meme density is high on this one.
Everyone got tired of this whole thing pretty quickly, with people starting to say normalize
shutting the fuck up, or normalize not saying normalize.
We all know what's going on here, it's just a newer, slightly more academic way to
talk about your desired political and social change.
You still see people using the term unironically sometimes in that initial progressive way,
but for the most part nowadays it's just considered a tired joke that pops up every
once in a while, and nobody blinks an eye at it.
In fact, you could say it's become pretty normalized.
Here's a pretty common meme that cuts to the heart of what's going on here.
Listen here, partner, if something has to be normalized, then it ain't normal.
The caption implies that the things that are truly normal are just naturally normal, or
they were normalized not through the activism of a specific political class at one specific
moment in history, but instead by standing the test of time and becoming a tradition.
This combined with the fact that the meme depicts a cowboy, even though he's also
a dog, implies that you should just know what the normal is through simple intuition.
It doesn't need to be academically calculated, or explained, or somehow created, you just
know it when you feel it.
I don't completely agree with this, but I don't disagree either.
You can sort of see this play out when you take a look at what progressives demand that
you don't normalize.
Check out this braindead take from Thought Slime.
Attempts at recuperating Nazi memes seems to often have the effect of normalizing those
memes because now when people see them they aren't instantly repulsed.
It's even worse when the meme format is premised on Nazi ideology, and only the surface
logic has changed.
Like the square jawed yes guy with the chinless drooling guy.
That meme is inherently ableist.
Trying to make the drooling guy Richard Spencer and the buff guy Antifa or whatever doesn't
change that.
It just lets the ableism ooze into leftist messaging.
Okay, uh, if your followers can't tell what's going on here Thought Slime, that might actually
be about their average IQ, not the use of the memes.
But look at what he's saying here.
Memes that the far right use, or whatever this guy considers to be far right, which
is probably everything not part of his specific political circle.
These memes are so inherently far right, that even when non-far right people use them, they're
normalizing far right ideas.
Even if the content of the meme is changed to show Antifa to be the chad and the Nazis
to be drooling wojaks, the framing itself was originally far right, therefore all uses
of it are also far right.
In a video many years ago, I forget which one, it was in the early Trump era I think,
I described this as being like the Midas touch.
Everything a far right meme touches turns far right.
And he's not the only person who thinks this.
It's a pretty common thing to go on about.
Like this here.
Stop memeing about the trad girl wojak.
It is literally based on white supremacist ideals of femininity, and by trying to subvert
it, you're actually making an alt-right meme relatable.
No, I'm not reading another insufferably long twitter thread on this.
That right there will do.
Or how about this person, who wants a little girl beaten for normalizing Nazism because
she likes to draw Pepe.
The logic here is the same logic behind not showing swastikas in a historically accurate
manner, or censoring old works with language considered okay back then but offensive now.
They're thinking that if the current generation has this normalized for them, they'll start
to believe it's okay.
You flip that logic around, and you've now got explanation as to why they demand, say,
black representation in stories where it doesn't make any historical sense, or make sense in
the lore.
To them, normalization, or preventing normalization, is more important than the integrity and accuracy
of the art.
As always, watch my Gramsci video.
The issue is, even by the standard of the pursuit of their own goals, they're still
wrong.
If you change the alt-right meme to not be the exclusive domain of the alt-right, which
did eventually happen to good ol' Pepe even in the minds of the left, you strip it of
its alt-right power.
If a normie looks at Pepe, they're not being transformed into a neo-nazi or whatever, they
see a funny frog, and they laugh about it, and Pepe's status as a symbol representing
the alt-right weakens.
If you want to defeat your enemies, then at least part of what you do is take their symbols.
But if you want to keep the spectre of your enemies around, so that you can virtue signal
about yourself and then use them to draw up support, well, in that case, I can see
why you'd object to taking them down through mockery.
The common leftist objection to the message in that it ain't normal meme is that nothing
is actually normal naturally.
Everything is imposed by the dominant politics of the era.
Check out how this message is worded.
Cisgender heterosexual representation in society is so normalized you don't even recognize
it.
If we inject some color into our otherwise black and white society, you feel like it's
all you can see.
Don't worry, it won't make you gay or trans or kids.
There's a lot of problems here.
But for our purposes today, the assumption being made is that being cisgender and heterosexual
isn't normal, but normalized.
It's not the natural state of humanity, it's imposed by our current politics.
And that, presumably, it's possible for a different world to exist, where a different
politics and culture imposes being transgender and homosexual instead.
In other words, most people are straight and cis instead of gay and trans, not because
of their nature, but because of our culture.
Yes, this completely destroys the moral underpinning of the born-that-way narrative that pushed
for gay marriage back in the 2000s.
But these people either don't understand that or just don't care.
When somebody says that they want to normalize a thing, they're relying on a purely social
constructivist view of the human condition.
That with enough planning, knowledge, and power, the things that conservatives call
human nature can be changed.
Of course, in the real world, that's not how things work.
Not until we develop perfect gene editing or something like that.
The final point on this topic is that the term normal is often used with this undue
moral weight.
It simply means conforming to a standard, usual, typical, expected, without a moral
weight attached.
The assumption of this moral weight, in recent times, is derived from the definition of abnormal.
Often, abnormal does come with a moral weight, deviating from what is normal or usual, typically
in a way that is undesirable or worrying.
The logic is, if the moral weight of abnormal is bad, then the moral weight of normal must
be good.
Therefore, if we normalize something that the dominant culture considers abnormal, we
are also granting it a positive moral weight.
In other words, if we normalize being trans, we make being trans a moral act.
And as long as being trans remains abnormal, it is immoral.
This logic doesn't sit right with me.
And I think it's because as an edgelord millennial who doesn't suffer from trolls' remorse,
being abnormal was actually the goal when I was younger.
The outsiders of my generation, whether that was the nerds or the stoners or the punks,
didn't try to make what we were the normal thing, the dominant culture.
We knew that would ruin it.
We knew the normies would come in and fuck it up.
We didn't want to normalize our differences.
We reveled in being abnormal.
I've done several videos now on the whole conservatism is the counterculture idea.
And what I'm talking about now really seems to resonate with what's going on over there.
The punks of nowadays are parroting progressive orthodoxy, same as most governments and institutions
out there.
So definitionally, they can't be the outsider.
They can't be the abnormal.
If they ever once were, they've since been normalized.
But frankly, it was just better before.
Milo might be a nutjob now.
Before he drove himself off the conversion therapy, Copium cliff, he made an offhand
joke that gay sex was a lot more fun when it was taboo.
And now that everybody's doing it and accepts it, it's just kind of boring.
There is something to that, you know, when you normalize the abnormal, yeah, you end
up bringing people on the fringes into the center, but you also lose everything fun about
being fringe, esoteric knowledge, closed communities, gate kept fandoms, secretly violated taboos.
These things are fun to engage in.
They're actually edgy, not just safe edgy.
Meanwhile, universalized knowledge, inclusive communities, open fandoms, normalization of
the taboo, this is all just lame.
I know that one chick talked about adding color to our black and white world, but it's
actually the opposite.
You're turning those colorful parts into black and white.
The best example that I can think of for this effect is the word queer.
If you read any old literature, you'll know that for a long, long time, queer meant strange
or odd.
In the early 20th century, queer came to refer to people with a strange or odd sexuality,
aka gay or trans people, and it was used as a slur.
It has since been reclaimed by the LGBTQ plus movement.
See, it's right there.
It's the Q.
But what does queer mean to progressives nowadays?
Well, sometimes it simply means being gay or being trans, but that meaning is rapidly
falling out of usage.
Most gay people just call themselves gay.
Most trans people just call themselves trans.
I mentioned in my link as a twink video that there was this concept of the trans umbrella,
that trans activists are now claiming any type of gender nonconformity as being nonbinary
or genderqueer and therefore they're trans.
So tomboys are trans, not because they experience dysphoria or they transition, despite the
attempts of the egg hatchers sometimes, but because their gender presentation is non-traditional
and therefore they're not just tomboys, they're nonbinary and therefore they're trans and
therefore they're part of being LGBTQ.
This is retarded logic, but it is becoming more and more common.
Allow me to introduce you to its equally retarded brother, queer heterosexuality.
It's very easy to find articles and blog posts all over usual lefty spaces talking
about this concept, but here's the TLDR.
In queer political theory, there's this concept of the rehabilitated heterosexual,
the straight person who, while still being attracted to the opposite sex, does not uphold
cis-normative heteropatriarchy through his presentations, actions, or political affiliations.
These people are cis and straight, but nonetheless have non-traditional gender expressions and
adopt alternate gender roles.
In other words, it's the final stop on demon mama's gender is just an aesthetic logic
extended to all of sex, gender, sexuality, and identity.
Gender is a category of self-identification that means what you want it to mean.
And it means what you engage, it refers to how you engage socially and how you assert
your own identity.
So yeah, it is fair to say that gender is essentially an aesthetic.
We've seen bi lesbians and straight lesbians before.
If you can identify as anything you want, why can't you identify as a queer straight?
Here's an excellent practical example of what I'm talking about.
I mentioned recently on the Archcast that there's a Linus Tech Tips series where Linus
gets $5,000 from AMD to build the ultimate PC for one of his employees.
The videos involve getting to know one of the employees who is usually behind the camera,
seeing their home, talking to their spouses, while building the PC.
And in one of these videos, this guy's girlfriend proclaims that she's queer as
fuck.
What does that mean?
She doesn't appear to be trans.
Yeah, I know you can't know 100%, but I'm pretty sure.
And she is in a straight relationship.
Does that mean that she's bisexual?
Why not just say she's bi as fuck?
Is it because she's got the big glasses and the curly hairstyle and the bright yellow
garish overalls and probably a closet full of hoop earrings and flannel shirts and other
queer fashion aesthetics?
That's how this entire segment comes off to me.
If gender is simply an aesthetic, as Demon Momma claims, then queerness is also just
an aesthetic.
And if queerness is just an aesthetic, then straight cis people can wear the aesthetic
and claim all of the moral righteousness of being a part of the LGBTQ plus movement.
That is what normalization is.
That's what it does.
We have normalized being LGBTQ to the point that straight people are ironically queer,
as long as they believe in the correct things and present themselves in the correct manner.
Again, this flies in the face of previous waves of gay and trans activism, which were
interested in assimilation.
One day, I am truly going to have to do that queer theory video.
But for now, the point is, the end result of the normalizing process is the destruction
of everything unique about a thing and its reduction to only its surface level components.
I'm not saying that I want to go back to an era where gays were being persecuted or something.
If you want that, then I've got some real estate in the Middle East to sell you.
I'm saying that normalization destroys all of the good things about being not normal.
The fun.
The edginess.
The sense of community.
The sense of specialty.
The value of these things is in their particularity, and the universalization of progressivism
is anathema to the particular.
