Starting the evening off right with an evening coffee.
How do you feel about it, Naomi?
Stop having coffee and staying up till like four.
Yeah, well.
Stop it.
I got work to do.
Then fucking wake up earlier instead of staying up so late.
Hey, you can't swear in the first minute of a YouTube video or else I get demonetized.
Oh shit.
You can edit this out.
Okay, so I'm here doing a movie thing.
Take a little Naomi, by the way, in the movie video artwork.
Yeah, it's cute.
Yeah, take a little plush.
I also appreciate how they have me in sandals because apparently the artist knows how much
I hate socks.
So ever since Kenobi, I've decided to dip my toes, my little toes into the idea of covering
some media, not all media, but like as we know.
I wouldn't call them little toes.
I haven't really been a media guy, but when we did Santa ink last year, I kind of wait.
I haven't been a media guy used to do anime reviews and also did the film school thing.
I know.
I know.
No, no.
I meant in terms of this channel.
This channel is always like, here's the thing.
People in my sphere of the Internet, they cover like politics and they'll cover drama
and they'll cover media.
But in the context of, wow, this show is terrible and there may be a political or a drama reason
as to why.
Isn't that why you started doing it?
Yeah.
I was avoiding that basically until we, you and I watched Santa ink and then earlier we
watched cuties and even though cuties sucked and Santa ink sucked, the experience of watching
them with you and like doing a video is actually pretty fun.
So I was like, maybe I should, I should do this a bit more.
So then we did Kenobi and come, he was a big fucking, it was way too big of a project.
It's a huge project, but I enjoyed it.
And so I was like, Jesus, there's like four awful shows coming out right now.
There's the star Wars and or show, which looks okay, but I mean everyone is going to be bad
and it might be Star Wars is always bad, but there is the Lord of the rings, the rings
of power show with, with, with Eminem, with Eminem is sour on.
And then there's she Hulk, which I did watch.
And Oh my God, watch the first episode and then showed me clips and I was like, why the
fuck is this so cringe?
You walked out.
With me.
No, no, no.
I'm turning it on just for a minute.
Okay.
Watch this.
And you're going to cringe instantly.
Okay.
I'm already cruncher.
See you later.
Little Gator, bad-ass woman, a Ruth Bader Ginsburg fucking, um, bobblehead.
And I am not already, I'm just experiencing why I am right, but that should be you on
a t-shirt.
But like this, this entire show is literally just girl boss.
And then, um, there was this show, which is the game of Thrones house, host of the dragon
show.
The thing about house of the dragon is it kind of snuck up on everyone.
Like everyone, I think game of Thrones final season was so God awful.
And the last few seasons before that were like so middle of the road compared to like
the first five that everyone forgot their show was coming.
It looked like shit when the trailers came out like a year or two ago and then everyone
forgot.
And then it is like, it just, it just, it just happened.
Like I, I look on Twitter and it's like, Oh, how's the dragon?
So like the day, the day it happened, here's the thing.
I don't think anyone forgot.
I think that everyone just got burned by game of Thrones.
So fucking bad that they were just like, no, they, the, the entire internet was actually
when no, we're not going to pay attention.
Yeah.
Like the first one of the few times that's happened is this, it's like an inverse Morbius
where like they actively willed it into existence again, they actively willed how's the dragon
away.
Yeah.
Um, I was pleasantly surprised by house of the dragon in that it was like a solid, okay.
It wasn't amazing.
It wasn't as good as game of Thrones at its best, but it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't,
it wasn't nearly as bad as I thought it was going to be.
I am not going to hold out hope just in case, no, no, I do, I see the thing is I've learned
over the years that if you have no expectations, you generally feel happier.
Is that how you do with me?
No comment.
No, no, but like I was like, I wasn't exactly pleasantly surprised.
Like I had a feeling it was going to be okay and it was okay, but I do not hold out hope
that it's going to get as good as game of Thrones did.
No, I don't think it will either.
But I will say that Matt Smith was not as bad as everyone thought he was going to be.
He looked awful in the trailer because like the wig doesn't fit him.
His face doesn't really fit.
In the trailer or the first episode?
Uh, the trailer.
Okay.
Cause I was just like, the wig doesn't look that bad in the first episode.
You made that comment and I was just like, I mean, to be honest, I have a terrible eye
for these things.
Like, like apparently I know someone who wears a Japan and I can't tell.
By the way, I guess at this point we should probably get, like we should now probably
say we're gonna get into spoilers because we haven't spoiled anything yet.
Yeah.
Spoilers by the way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Now, now click off.
You know what?
Don't watch.
Why are you even watching my fucking video?
If you, if you don't want to be spoiled.
Fuck you.
Okay.
So listen, don't read any of the comments because you're, you're going to get spoiled.
I talked to Mauler and Mauler was like, yeah, she Hulk is awful, but, but house of the dragon
was actually like, it was a pleasant surprise.
I talked to arch and arch was like, no, how's the dragon still awful?
And here, here's the reason that he gave, here's the reason he gave.
He said that the, the young princess being kind of like quasi lesbian with her hand,
her handmaiden that that that's like progressive shoehorning, which I didn't feel that at all.
That just felt like that felt like a more natural lesbian, the relationship than a lot
of the ones that we're getting right now.
It would have been shoehorning if, you know, I can't even think of a good example, but
give me a good example of lesbian shoehorning.
Um, Steven universe, okay, fine.
Um, the finale of my little pony, they just made two of the ponies together.
I mean, I guess, I don't know though, like every, every time someone talks about shoehorning
stuff in like it, but they just give an example.
That's just a surprise.
It just happened off screen and I'm like, yeah, that's bad, but I've never really felt
like a shoehorning.
It's like, like you wouldn't have the same comment if two of the characters were a guy
and a girl and still got together, you know?
That's true.
So I never feel like it's shoehorning when someone like, I agree that it's bad because
it happened off screen.
Well, also like, like there's, there's the stereotype of girl power, we're together and
fuck the patriarchy, which the show didn't really do.
No.
Yeah.
Like I think that would have been in this show specifically a more like, obviously she's
going to her and her beautiful lover who is a, who is another lady or fucking gonna
like plan to kill the king or they're like Mary Sue their way out of some.
They didn't do that.
No.
Yeah.
That's the second thing though.
Is that Arch, Arch, I think Arch called her a Mary Sue or something similar to it because
we are told that she's intelligent, but we aren't shown.
And I'm like, hold on.
No, we are shown that she's intelligent because there's that they do the exact scene with
her, that in the first episode of Game of Thrones, they did with Bran.
So you will go all the way back to the first season Game of Thrones.
There's, there's a, there's a scene where Bran is sitting around and he's being taught
by the Maester and he's like, you have to say, what, what, what, what's the house?
What's the, is it Bran or Arya?
It's one of the two.
But anyway, it's like, what, what's the house?
Arya.
Is it Arya?
Okay.
Well, either way.
No, but the name, you said Arya, Arya.
Okay.
Anyway, the Maester was like, okay, what's the house and what's, what's their sigil.
And you have to, you have to know all this stuff because it's important.
And the person, whichever, whichever, whichever person, whichever kid, whichever kid it was,
I was like, yeah, I know this already.
I know what I know and like didn't care.
And the Maester was like, yeah, take this seriously.
He's like, I already know it.
And then like, and like, they just rattle it off, right?
They did a very similar scene where they're lying in the Godswood and the, it's not the
Godswood, it's just a tree, isn't it?
I don't remember anything about Game of Thrones, any of the names anymore, but you know, this
episode, they were lying in the forest.
Okay.
And, and they had the book open and the princess was like, I already know this stuff.
And the handmaiden was like, you have to know this stuff.
And then she's like, all right.
And then she just rattled it off.
It's the same scene and it's meant to show that she's actually intelligent.
She just doesn't care.
She's not stupid.
Some people are saying that she is being treated like a Mary Sue and I don't think so.
I disagree with that statement.
I think that they definitely, they definitely established her as one, being neglected by
her father and two, therefore being rebellious.
And three, she seems to be quite naturally intelligent and they, they showed all of that.
They didn't, it wasn't, it wasn't a problem of show, not tell.
They showed that.
Let's do a quick TLDR of the show's plot.
Okay.
You have the king and he's, he's, he's not really a weak king necessarily, but he has
like his problems and they seem to be kind of getting to him.
You have his wife, his wife, the queen, and she's been, she's pregnant and she's trying
to give him an heir cause he doesn't have any male male heirs.
You have his brother and his brother is, is the prince and he's next in line since the
king can't produce a male heir and the brother's kind of sadistic and he seems to be kind of
a bad apple.
And then you have his daughter and his daughter is the princess and the prince, this is the
intelligent, you know, not a Mary Sue, but people are calling her a Mary Sue lesbian
character.
Okay.
Maybe lesbian.
Maybe.
There's, there's hints.
There's hints of it.
You think they're slamming clams?
Well, here's the thing to like broach off until like, since we're doing a TLDR to broach
off and do a different part of it is that like there's hints of it, but also the character
that there's hints with seems to be very much into dudes.
Well, they both seem to be into dudes, they just all seem to be into each other.
I could, I mean, I guess, but it's, it's, I like how you're bi and you're like being
bi is unsatisfying.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm not saying it's not satisfying.
I'm saying that because Hollywood forgets that bi characters exist unless they are shoe
horning them in for some reason.
Sometimes.
Yeah.
All the fucking time.
But to be fair, Game of Thrones is pretty good about that generally, about not doing
that shit.
Yes.
But this Game of Thrones is bad.
So, okay.
I, I, yeah.
So who the fuck knows?
The story is basically they're trying to have an heir.
The king is very much like, I need a fucking heir, dude.
And like, there's like a bunch of tension surrounding this.
Yeah.
They hold a tournament and the tournament is supposed to be to celebrate the birth of
his child.
Yeah.
Cause the wife is like almost due.
Her belly is big and super gross.
Yeah.
No offense to pregnant woman.
I just, I can't, I can't.
So they, she goes into labor during the tournament.
It goes poorly.
They have to cut it out of her.
Okay.
That was a graphic scene.
That was a really graphic scene.
And it was legitimately upsetting.
Yeah.
To watch.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
Like if, if you or your girlfriend, uh, like are not okay with like really graphic, like
harm to pregnant woman, you might want to like kind of fast forward through that scene.
But it's a long, long scene.
It's actually pretty long scene.
Yeah.
There's a lot of blood.
Yeah.
Because they cut into parts of the really graphic part.
You'll know it when it starts to come up.
The really graphic part, two parts in the tourney, which is also graphic, but honestly
was better.
Yeah.
We're like beating guys faces and like cutting off their hands and shit and it's not as graphic
as the pregnancy scene.
No, like it was extremely upsetting.
Like you guys just heard me say, I don't like, I know I was like, I was not okay.
I was totally, but like you guys just heard me say that I did not like the look of pregnant
woman's bellies and I'm still just like, holy shit, that was really upsetting.
Well yeah.
So they have to cut it out of her.
She dies.
The baby survives a bit, but dies.
Yep.
And so this is like a major tragedy for the kingdom and the kingdom is kind of falling
apart and there's no air.
And however, the air, the, the, the legal air, you know, the council comes together
and was like, listen, you can't have your legal air be your brother because he's fucking
crazy dude.
Because, because what happened earlier was that there was, um, he, he, he, he, he, he
is, he is the Lord commander of the gold cloaks, which is the city watch, which is new.
It's new.
And at this point of the history, it's, it's a 172 years before the original game show.
And we don't remember anyone's names by the way.
Sorry.
Damon was the, but I don't remember anyone's name.
Anyone else?
Yeah.
I don't know anyone's names.
I barely, I didn't even remember his name to who said it.
I don't know anyone's names.
Well, anyway, anyway, there's a, there's a scene where like in order to prepare for the
tourney, uh, he, he gets all the gold cloaks and they go out into King's landing.
They find all the murderers and kill them.
They find all the rapists and castrate them and they find all the thieves and chop their
hands off.
And then the council is like, dude, you got to get hold of your brother because he's going
way too fucking far with this stuff.
He's going so far that they needed a cart pulled by two horses to drag all the fucking
corpses and bodies and parts away.
Yeah.
Fuck.
Like that actually made me laugh.
That was, that was just like, so, um, they're like, listen,
you can't, you can't have your brother be this crazy.
He can't be the king.
If you die, like he can't be your heir.
And the King's like, he's still my brother.
And then like his brother goes off and celebrates with the gold cloaks.
He celebrates the death of the King's newborn son by calling him.
Was it air for a minute?
No, it was air for a day.
Air for a day.
Yep.
And then the King finds out, the King finds out he's really pissed.
He's royally pissed.
Royally pissed.
And so he banishes him back to Dragonstone and then name, yes, he does.
Isn't Dragonstone?
No, it was back to the Vale with his wife.
Well, either way you banishes him.
And then the King names his daughter for the first time, the first time a woman gets to
do it.
His daughter is now the heir to the throne.
And then the King is like, listen, dude, uh, here's the secret passed on from all the Kings
is that one day in maybe 172 years from now, we are going to have to fight the White Walkers.
No.
Okay.
No.
And also, and the King is like also by the way, uh, this entire prophecy that I'm passing
on to you is actually completely false because Arya kills him anyway with, with, with the
dagger.
Yeah.
Actually, I think that's going to be a thing because if you notice the King had the dagger
that Arya used to stab him, what the King actually said is that the first Targaryen
King of Westeros had a dream and the dream is a prophecy and it's that winter is coming
and that there's going to be the army of darkness will march down from the North, which is by
the way, what happens in Game of Thrones.
I don't think he actually said army.
He just, he literally just said the darkness is going to come from the North.
He was actually super vague about it, which I appreciated, but the cringey part was what
the prophecy was called.
It was called the Song of Ice and Fire.
It was cringey.
But that's what called the prophecy that that's what it was called in the original books.
Okay.
And it's like a medieval.
George R.R. Martin.
That's cringey as fuck.
Don't call the prophecy that well, that's, that's why the book series called the Song
of Ice and Fire.
If you can just call it a Song of Ice and Fire and then not have the prophecy be named
that that's just cringey.
It just sounds like a terrible name for a prophecy.
That's my issue with it.
Everything was recorded in ballads and poetry and stuff.
So it makes sense.
I don't care.
It's just like, you just dislike the medieval times.
You know what?
I've never, I've never been to medieval times ever.
Okay.
I'll go without you.
Not allowed.
Fuck a hot lady.
Fuck you.
Okay.
Um, so yeah, like that's the TLDR of the plot and I don't know, like the, the actors that
they chose for the roles, they seem to be not quite right.
Each of them.
Yeah.
It's like the princess, the King, the brother, they all, they all like it strangely feels
not like the thing with the Game of Thrones, the one I think, I think one of the reasons
why everyone liked it so much is because with the first episode you were just drawn
into that world, like with the actors and the sets and the, I think still kind of bad
CGI back then.
It has some better CGI's that went on.
There was bad CGI in this.
Holy fuck.
The cart, the backgrounds.
Yeah.
Who?
Yeah.
You just get drawn into the world because of how like lived in and grungy and like everything,
how people looked, you know, and like how they sounded and how they acted.
I think it was because like in the original Game of Thrones, they were pretty high tier
actors and these ones, they probably aren't so high tier.
Again, probably budget issues, like except technically Matt Smith, I guess.
I think part of it though, is also the fact that in the first episode of Game of Thrones,
you have, you get to see everyone's perspective.
Okay.
You get to see high born and low born characters.
There's Kings and princes and there's princesses and there's Queens and there's Royal ladies,
but then you also get to see, yep, there's bastard.
You get to hang out with Jon Snow, you get to hang out with Tyrion, with Theon, you get
to hang out with Arya when she's like running around, and Bran when they're like running
around with like basically being street rats.
Like there's instances where we get to see the points of view of people who aren't royalty,
even if they might be a little bit.
And there's also non-royal characters directly as well.
Yeah.
Like the prostitutes.
But in this show, there's not much of that.
It's all...
It was only the prostitutes.
It's all like court drama, which is fine, but you need to establish the world first.
Like if this was a standalone show and they hadn't made Game of Thrones, this wouldn't
have gone anywhere.
Yes, I agree.
I think, because that's the thing to branch off also, a lot of the first episode felt
really rushed.
Like it felt like a lot of stuff.
Like it was like, what, an hour long?
How long was it?
It was an hour long.
Yeah.
It felt like, and that's the thing though, it was an hour.
A lot of stuff happens.
Well, to be fair, a lot of stuff happened in the first episode of Game of Thrones.
It didn't feel rushed is my point.
I don't think this felt rushed.
It did to me.
I don't think so.
It felt like a lot of stuff just like happened.
And I think that to fix the, like not having commoner issues problem is to not banish Daemon
before the first episode and have him like be, while kind of a crazy person, like show
his interpersonal relationships a bit with the commoners.
Like episode two.
Yeah.
Because he made the comment when he was in the council meeting that none of them left
the Red Keep.
Except for him because he's the city commander.
To go down and like be around the commoners is one of the reasons he stated that he had
to like fucking do all the shit that he did.
Which is a bit of a, a bit of a cope.
I know what you mean.
I think that would have actually solved an issue because it felt really rushed.
I don't know.
You guys got to go watch it and tell me if you agree with me, but it felt rushed.
You could have had him like be banished by the end of the second episode.
But I understand the point of view is that they wanted to get the main conflict of the
show started, which was going to be, by the way, the civil war that is already in the
lore of the book.
So they're doing that story of the civil war between the King's brother and the King's
daughter.
So they wanted to make that the central story of the show.
So they wanted to actually show the event that kicked it off, which is the death of
the Queen.
The fact that there's no male heir and then Damon, even though he is like, here's the
thing.
He's clearly a bad person.
Yeah.
He's not good, but he made a good point when he was having his final discussion with the
King where it's like, listen, I'm your family.
Everyone else in the council is just sucking up to you and not telling you the truth, which
actually seems to be the truth, which was correct for a thing.
I actually don't want to spoil because it's pretty good, but like that happened before
that scene where it's like, Oh, I was like, Oh, I didn't say it out loud, but I was like,
Oh my God, look, he's right showing all the points.
And they already showed that that was good storytelling guys.
Yes.
Yes, it was.
Even though Damon is not a good person, there are still moments where it's like, listen,
you might be making a mistake sending him out in the cold, especially because he's dangerous.
Yeah.
Like it was, it was a weird feeling of like, he's very obviously not a good person, but
also just like, Oh, cute moments with niece, you know, like, like trying to like protect
his brother and obviously feeling, um, uh,
yeah.
Yeah.
No, by his brother before the banishment, right?
Cause he, cause he had said that, you know, you haven't made me your hand with what, why
you,
yeah.
Yeah.
And that's one thing that I think the show did very well is that it, it had that, it
had that it has those gray characters that Game of Thrones is really well known for care.
Like no one's really good and no one's really evil.
Like you have characters that are more evil than good for sure, but everyone has,
they're small moments of you sympathize and then you're just, you look at yourself and
be like, what the fuck?
Why did I sympathize?
Meanwhile, when you have fucking She-Hulk where She-Hulk is just right, where She-Hulk
is just correct in every circumstance and the Hulk is just considered like a fucking
moron even though he's been doing this for over, Oh God, that show was bad.
So actually you're not talking about, no, we're not, no, we're not.
Here's the thing.
Here's the thing.
Um, I expected to have to be like, Oh God, we got to make a terrible fucking video on
how bad house, house of the dragon is like how I'm probably gonna make one and She-Hulk
eventually or on that halo show.
Oh God.
You know what?
I'll finish watching.
Fuck you.
We watched the first episode of the halo show and then we walked out and she's like, this
is so fucking bad.
So fucking bad.
You know what's funny?
You love halo.
Well, yes.
To, to a degree.
Not as much as people who play halo all the time.
I have a good, I have a few good memories of halo and so I do enjoy the games.
But anyway, um, I will say this about halo since dev decided to mention She-Hulk is that
I think it would have been an okay series if it hadn't had the name brand halo and all
the halo things.
I don't know about that.
I think it would have.
I didn't think good.
I said, okay.
Anyway, what ruined it was that it said it was halo and it wasn't.
So my point is though, is that I was expecting to have to make a review or a video on how
awful house the dragon is and here's how bad the CG is and here's how they ruined this
and here's how they ruined that.
And there might even even been a political element to it where you get like the get woke,
go broke thing.
But we're talking about it like this right now in a more off the cuff manner where it's
not an edited video because I was pleasantly surprised.
I can actually recommend it to you.
I can say, you know what?
Even though every single fucking thing coming out, whether it's a re a reboot or a remake
or a sequel, no one wanted or a rehash or even just a new show, even though they all
fucking suck every single one of them, I can actually recommend this.
And so I'm not going to do any sort of big in depth review unless, unless the show like
craters in the next few weeks, I'm not going to do any sort of big in depth review like
Kenobi or anything.
I think I'm going to say you should watch this one.
Yeah.
I mean, I do recommend it, but I also part of I'm, I'm, I'm torn because part of me wants
to recommend it and be like, give the show a chance.
So they get a better budget and can do better CGI.
Give peace a chance.
However, however, I also don't want to recommend it because the show is okay and it's going
to do either one of two things.
One is going to get better and that means it's going to be better than game of thrones,
which is just going to make me sad because game of thrones is really good and then got
torn to torn asunder or, or it's going to go real bad.
I'm going to go real, real bad and I'll be like, I can't watch anything anymore.
Well we watched anything on, we watched Star Trek, strange new worlds and we were both
surprised that that show was actually good too.
Yeah, but even by the end you're like, Oh, this is a good show.
I'll go all the way through.
It was a good show.
It was still like, yeah, but like it was still only on par with like the okay episodes of
TNG.
That's pretty good for compared to fucking Picard.
Yeah.
Well you know what?
My fucking view wouldn't be so fucking destroyed if you hadn't made me watch Picard.
That was a fun time.
We never ever watched Picard.
We should do a Picard video.
Fuck you.
No, I refuse to live through any of that ever again.
My soul hurts.
You're just talking about it.
No, my soul hurts.
I have actually like mostly gotten rid of most of Picard.
I don't remember most of it anymore.
Remember the part when like the autistic girl is the Vogue queen?
There was, there was actually an article put out where the showrunner of strange new worlds
pitched the show to the studio by saying, why don't we just do the classic Star Trek?
Like you don't need some kind of big long, you know, like, so you don't need some kind
of huge plot where the entire galaxy, the entire universe is at stake and there's like
constant Starship battles and crazy shit going on.
And at last the entire, just do standalone episodes.
And have like a reasonably well liked cast doing adventures every single day and resolving
them by the end of the adventure.
And maybe you have a little morality tale in there, or maybe it's like a little science
fiction thing, or maybe it's like a puzzle problem, like whatever, but they just do Star
Trek.
And that's what they did.
And it was good.
Yes.
But they also do, they do do this more modern storytelling thing that I do enjoy of they
have episodic episodes that are small tie-ins to past episodes because there's one character
who dies and he's actually gone.
Yeah.
Like they're, they're, they're small tie-ins and I've always enjoyed it.
I like how modern shows have done that cause I found a lot of old shows just don't do that.
They're so episodically, nothing ever changes.
And it annoys me so much.
I mean, that was the big problem with Voyagers that it got too episodic where like, Villana
Torres was dealing with being half-cling on the entire seven fucking years of the show.
And that got old pretty fucking quick after you did it like 10 times.
Yeah.
Anyway, Host of the Dragon is okay.
It's okay.
You know what?
I'm not really gonna, I'm not going to do a video on it unless it like massively tanks
in the next few episodes.
I think I, I think I will wait.
I'll talk about She-Hulk probably at some point and how terrible that is.
And I'll probably talk about, um, we all know Lord of the Rings, Rings of Power is going
to be fucking abysmal.
I don't want to watch it.
Oh my God.
It's going to be abysmal.
I haven't even watched the, like the new quote unquote movies yet.
Here's the thing.
Like our arch movies, I haven't seen them.
I think like Arch and Kibbs and Lilith and I are going to do like a four person watch
party of, of Rings of Power.
You guys should.
I, you, you watch the first episode and then tell me how it is and I will give it a chance
because honestly I just, I'll just say it's great.
And then it'll be fucking like so bad.
Don't kick the computer and then you'll be single.
Anyway, um, if you like Game of Thrones, give Host of the Dragon a chance.
It's not bad.
This is the first episode that we're doing this in, so give at least the first episode
a chance.
Give it, give it a chance.
And you'll have to forgive it for the terrible CGI because I don't care about those sort
of things because I watched terrible looking anime because I do things I'm not allowed
to talk about on YouTube.
I guess that's the end.
How does, how does Red Letter Media usually end these things?
By throwing beer at things.
Oh yeah.
Da da da da da da da da.
