So, E3 has come and gone for another year.
That's the Electronics Entertainment Expo, by the way.
It's the year's largest video game trade show, where companies gather in LA to show
off their upcoming games and hardware for the new year.
My friends and I watched all the major conferences on our gaming channel, in fact, including
the absolute shitshow that was Devolver Digital's conference.
But the game that stood out the most to me was The Last Knight, and you can probably
see why just by looking at the trailer.
I know that the 2D pixel indie thing is certainly a huge trend right now, but this is different
than say Mega Man 9, Shovel Knight, or Stardew Valley.
Those were all good looking quality games in their own right, but The Last Knight, in
my opinion, is on another level entirely, with the amazing lighting effects, the perspective
and scaling, and the sheer detail of the pixel art.
In fact, The Last Knight ended up being one of the most talked about games of this year's
E3, with only the Metroid Prime 4 announcement significantly surpassing it on social media.
It was, by far, the most talked about indie title of the convention, but as we'll soon
see, not all of the social media buzz regarding The Last Knight was positive.
The Last Knight was a surprise out of nowhere hit during the Xbox conference.
This conference was unique among E3 conferences in that it had very little showmanship, with
the exception of a car on stage at the beginning as advertisement for a new racing title that
most gamers probably don't give a shit about.
You can generally tell when a company has very little to show at E3.
They'll pad the conference out with something like a sitar band playing in front of a waterfall
light show, or a nostalgic montage that tugs at an old gamer's heartstrings but brings
nothing to the table.
On the flip side, when a company has actual content to show, they often proudly announce
that they're just going to machine gun fire game trailers at the audience, and The Last
Knight made its first debut as one of those many bullets during the Xbox conference.
So right out the gate, The Last Knight was up against some pretty hefty competition,
and yet still managed to be the sleeper hit of the show.
And that got a lot of people talking.
As well as looking into who exactly was responsible for the game's development, which is where
we hit our social media snag.
Meet Tim Saray, one of the two Frenchman brothers who run the indie company Odd Tales, which
contrary to my initial knee-jerk reaction has nothing to do with the Oddworld franchise.
Tim Saray, years before The Last Knight's trailer took E3 by storm, made a few tweets
that some people might consider wrongthink, but that the rest of us just see as healthy
skepticism.
Let's look at them.
I'm against feminism, because it's getting more and more skewed.
I am for egalitarianism.
I don't care boy, girl, alien.
And feminism now forces you to think from the woman point of view, whereas egalitarianism
is really universal.
These tweets tap into the larger conversation of feminism versus egalitarianism.
Proponents of feminism claim that it is inherently egalitarian, because they believe that women
are disadvantaged, and that egalitarianism is achieved by lifting women up to the level
of men.
Strict egalitarianism proponents, meanwhile, claim that feminism's exclusive focus on
women is anti-egalitarian in nature, as it fails to take into account instances where
men may be disadvantaged, where men face problems unique to their gender that women have no
experience with, or where both genders face similar problems, but only women receive assistance
for it.
In essence, the argument boils down to this picture.
The frame on the left is equality, where each person is treated the same, regardless of
their individual needs, and the frame on the right shows an uneven distribution of social
assistance, represented by crates, according to each individual's needs.
The right frame does paint a compelling argument.
For example, of course the sick or the homeless should receive social assistance that a healthy,
wealthy person may not need.
But when this idea falls apart is when you apply it to gender.
Do you really believe that this taller individual is an accurate representation of men, as a
class of people?
Do you really believe that the child accurately represents women?
Applying this form of equity to gender simply means that the person doing the application
believes women are inherently weaker or inferior, and that they need society to lift them up
to equal standing.
I don't think I'm reading too much into it when I say that Tim Saray's tweets are
part of this argument.
He doesn't mention the crate metaphor, but he doesn't have to.
His belief in strict egalitarianism over feminism here is a stand-in for a much larger
conversation that won't fit into 140 characters.
That Tim believes that individual women can be just as strong, powerful, and capable as
individual men.
And it is vitally more important that society treat everyone equally, aka equality of opportunity,
rather than force equity simply for the sake of quotas and representation, aka equality
of outcome.
And this is one of the big reasons that SJWs went after him like a pack of hyenas after
the Xbox conference.
But it's not the only one.
People who blame art and entertainment for society's ills are always on the wrong side
of history.
Hashtag gamergate, hashtag not your shield.
Oh my.
If conservative Christians campaigning against D&D, rock and roll, and video games still
had any political clout, they'd be coming after you right now, Tim.
Oh well, I guess our friend Anita Sarkeesian will have to do.
She's ideologically close enough.
Our game The Last Knight will take place in a cyberpunk world where modern feminism won
instead of egalitarianism.
I find it interesting to show the danger of extreme progressivism in the background of
the game, the characters, and the story.
Finally, we'll have another take on cyberpunk oppression instead of Big Brother, 1984, HAL,
and big companies.
What if the surveillance, bullying, marginalization won't come from governments, but from the
internet?
That actually sounds like a really, really interesting idea for a game world.
Maybe not an entire game on its own, because I have a feeling that it would get way too
preachy.
If a game tries to be a critique of a specific method of constructing society, it often trips
over its own soapbox, the Bioshock series being a great example, but I'm still extremely
interested in this concept, and I hope it survives to make it into the release version
of The Last Knight.
That may be in jeopardy, however, because after the Xbox conference, Tim Sarkees got
absolutely dogpiled on social media for allegedly shoehorning an anti-regressive left message
into his game.
But wait, Kotaku, and other shitty regressive game journal sites, I thought it was important
for game devs to include politics in their games.
In fact, I thought it was ridiculous of Gamergate to want games to be apolitical.
Oh, oh, does that only apply to your politics?
Is it suddenly gross, or not okay, or some other bit of childish terminology, when somebody
takes your ideology, your pet projects, and extrapolates them into the dystopian nightmare
and result that they would inevitably lead us to if you and your kind ever got ahold
of serious institutional power?
I guess somebody like that absolutely would need censoring, wouldn't they?
The next day, PC gaming conference went live at E3, hosted by the Hearthstone streamer
Day9.
Or about two thirds of Day9.
Good job at losing the weight, dude.
When The Last Knight's PC version was scheduled to be shown, Tim Sarkees hit the stage and
profusely apologized for the aforementioned tweets during the height of Gamergate.
He also tweeted about it later, stating,
And I'm more interested in judging people by the ideas that they hold than the labels
they define themselves with.
I do, in fact, personally know people who are absolutely egalitarians, but call themselves
feminists.
And I've also met feminists who are more interested in female supremacy than gender
equality.
Often this comes down to a case-by-case thing, and I don't think it's inherently immoral
or anything to critique feminism.
Tim, this is not something to apologize for.
3.
The fictional setting of the game does challenge techno-social progress as a whole, but certainly
not trying to promote regressive ideas.
This honestly sounds like he's trying to do a PR spin.
Technosocial progress refers specifically, in this case, to automation, and the universal
basic income that some people believe society must adopt in order to prevent massive societal
collapse.
Know how I know this?
From this old description of The Last Knight that has since been pulled.
Humans first knew the era of survival, then they knew the era of work.
Now they live in the era of leisure.
Machines have surpassed human labor not only in strength but in precision, intellect, and
creativity.
Stabilized by universal income, people struggle to find their calling or identity, and define
themselves by what they consume rather than what they create.
The Last Knight immerses you in the everyday life of Charlie, a second-class citizen living
in a city brimming with augmentation and citizens living a gamified existence, none of which
Charlie can experience himself due to a childhood accident.
Apathetic and disheartened by the seemingly pointless world around him, Charlie is presented
an opportunity to take matters into his own hands.
But at what risk?
This does sound like a really interesting concept for a game world.
Assuming the real-world effects of universal basic income is well beyond the scope of this
video, I'm not sure it would completely destroy everyone's passions like this description
says it would, but I think it would absolutely do that to at least a section of the population.
A future video topic, maybe.
But as far as The Last Knight is concerned, it's a great setup.
Humanity wants for nothing, but in the process, has lost something core to its being.
It sounds like it's got people jacking themselves willing into a Matrix-style VR pleasure parlor,
which the hero bitterly cannot participate in.
It smacks of Fight Club with meaningless consumerism desperately and unsuccessfully filling an existential
void.
And of course, there's Blade Runner.
Lots and lots of Blade Runner.
If The Last Knight continues to challenge techno-social progress, as originally described
in the game's first background blurb, Tim Cerae's vision still may be intact in the
final release, regardless of the social media backlash from SJWs and the regressive left.
In fact, I decided to go and see what Tim's original vision for The Last Knight was for
myself.
It's not commonly known that The Last Knight was originally a Flash game made by Tim years
ago.
It's certainly cruder than its newer counterpart, but the heart and soul the game persists.
The original The Last Knight was envisioned as an entry to the Cyberpunk Jam, a contest
run by Deviever that spanned from March 1st, 2014 to March 12th, 2014.
In that timeframe, indie developers were invited to quickly create a game from scratch, with
all entries using the Cyberpunk theme.
The Last Knight was awarded first place in the Cyberpunk Jam, with sub-rankings of 1st
in Aesthetics, 4th in Synergy, 4th in Polish, and 31st in Relevance.
As a quick side note, those of you from the old days of Gamergate will recognize the
name Deviever, but really, there's not much of a story here.
She's also gone by Grace Lynn, PixelGoth, and a few other names.
She used to make guitar pedals, but sold the brand, and then maybe re-bought it back?
She used to be pro-GG, and then was anti, and then was pro again.
She started Patreons and Kickstarters galore, and played both sides for a few small sums
of money.
She used to be involved in real life with Chobitcoin and Battlefield Trip, two other
gamergate flip floppers who used the hashtag to raise money for unrelated shit, like dental
surgery.
Honestly, I think the whole thing is just personal drama, with their entire crowd being
made up of a bunch of cancerous fraudsters.
She even stole a shoe on heads trademark choker.
But in the end, there's nothing here.
No corruption or collusion, just a familiar name that brought back a few memories.
As for The Last Knight's original Flash incarnation, it's very simplistic, but you
can absolutely see the original ideas of Tim and Adrian Saray begin to take shape.
In just two short minutes of gameplay, The Last Knight conveys the idea of living as
a permanent outsider in a decadent futuristic culture, surrounded by constant surveillance.
It almost feels like a very primitive Deus Ex in its theming.
But is it a generic anti-big government or anti-big corporation cyberpunk dystopia, like
most others of the genre?
Or does the very specific World War Xtreme Progressivism I idea shine through?
It's hard to say either way.
There's just not enough to go on in the Flash version.
But nonetheless, it's very well done.
In the end, I have no problem with stating unequivocally that Tim Saray did nothing wrong.
Maybe he's legitimately changed his views between 2014 and now, and no longer wants
to make an anti-radical leftist cyberpunk game.
If so, that's entirely fine with me.
I'll still play and probably enjoy The Last Knight, but I find it more likely that he's
been browbeaten and censored by the very vocal minority of GamesPress and Twitter SJWs
into either giving lip service to the ideas that The Last Knight is critiquing, or removing
the critique from the game entirely.
And if that's the case, Tim, I'll say to you what I said to many other small indie
devs back during Gamergate's height.
You don't need to rely on them.
The shitty journos, the regressive SJW devs with their connections.
The clique.
The clique does not have to be your audience.
The clique is over.
Look at the hype your game has garnered.
You went from winning a game jam nobody had ever heard of, to hitting the stage of two
E3 conferences this past year.
People are talking about your game all over the internet.
And despite what's bubbled to the top of your feed, it's been mostly positive.
YouTubers will be lining up to do reviews and day one let's plays of The Last Knight,
myself included.
It's only a small vocal minority that actually cares about this shit that's been slung
at you.
And they really are very, very small, with only a tiny amount of influence that continues
to wane day by day.
You want proof of this?
The On Good and Evil 2 announcement trailer was great in many ways, but when they mentioned
diversity it was only a small crowd at the back of the auditorium that gave the tiniest
chirping of a cheer.
That's not because everybody else in attendance was against diversity or something.
It's because everybody else knows that diversity in video games, or more broadly diversity
in sci-fi, has been a non-issue ever since Kirk Kistuhura back in 1968.
It's been a non-issue elsewhere as well.
It is completely disingenuous for young feminists to let out a long sigh and a FINALLY at the
new Wonder Woman movie when film is filled with strong, principled female leads.
And the same goes with the animation scene as well.
Japan, of all places, has seen to it that women take the center stage as heroines, protectors
and dispensers of justice for an extremely long time now.
What I'm saying, Tim, is that if you haven't changed, and you still hold the view as you
used to, you do not need to bend the knee to these people.
They hold no power over you.
Don't let them beat your artistic vision into submission with their baseless threats.
Your audience will play your game regardless.
YouTubers and streamers will promote it regardless.
And honestly, even with your apology, these dying outlets with their dead inside supporters
will likely slander you anyway.
In my opinion, that's the biggest difference between those who supported Gamergate, or the
skeptic community or whatever you want to call them, and the SJW crowd.
We generally have a capacity to forgive that they lack.
When Ian Miles-Chiang apologized, and worked extremely hard to rebuild his reputation and
brand among gamers, we accepted him back into the fold.
When Laci Green decided to simply hold a dialogue with us, not even change her position, just
speak to us, we accepted her, and her former supporters burnt her at the stake.
And this is already happening to you, Tim.
You've apologized, and they haven't forgiven you.
They expect you to toe their line anyway, of course, but they haven't forgiven you,
and they never will.
The Last Night comes out on PC and Xbox One in 2018.
Regardless of how this whole thing plays out in the future, or whether or not the original
theme is still in the game, I plan to play it.
And based on the trailers, I hope you do too.
And I stand with Tim Saray, whether or not he's actually changed his opinion, because
I believe that artists should be free to create the works of art that exists in their hearts.
All I ask of you, Tim, is that in making The Last Night, you be true to yourself.
Anyway, I can't wait for it.
It's gonna be awesome to attend some of these in-game parties.
I can't wait to grind up on some pixelated women like some misogynist pig.
Actually, if we're speaking of being true to myself, it would probably go something
more like this.
