Emma Watson looked shame in the face and won, stunning and brave.
Yeah, this story is floating around right now,
regarding Emma Watson approaching 30 years old while still single.
In an interview she said,
I never believed the whole I'm happy single spiel.
It took me a long time, but I'm very happy being single.
I call it being self-partnered.
Why does everyone make such a big fuss about turning 30?
This is not a big deal.
But as an actress.
Cut to 29.
And I'm like, oh my God, I feel so stressed and anxious.
And I realise it's because there are,
there is suddenly this bloody influx of subliminal messaging around.
If you, if you do not have a, if you have not built a home,
if you do not have a husband, if you do not have a baby,
and you are turning 30,
and you're not in some like incredibly like secure, stable place in your career,
you're still figuring things out.
There's just like this incredible amount of anxiety.
And you know, fair enough.
There's nothing wrong with being single.
It's possible to have a fulfilled life without a romantic partner, for sure.
But just because it's possible doesn't mean that it's easy or common.
Sure, for some people, a different life path will lead to lasting happiness.
And maybe Emma Watson really is one of those exceptional individuals.
But for most of us, we will eventually need a partner to be fulfilled.
Well, not just a partner.
Obviously it's better to be single than to be in an abusive relationship or something.
But you know what I mean.
But this is less about Emma Watson herself,
and more about what The Guardian is calling the single positivity movement.
More and more people are throwing off outdated stigmas
and embracing a happy life on their own.
Well, good for them if they're actually happy,
but it's not really about outdated stigmas, is it?
Nonetheless, this article talks about a lot of female celebrities
who are completely satisfied going without a partner.
Emma Watson, Selena Gomez, Ariana Grande, Abby Jackson, the list goes on.
The push for a singles positivity movement is coming at the same time
as a whole bunch of articles are being published
about women's dating woes and how it's all men's fault.
Women are struggling to find men who make as much money as they do.
The dating gap.
Why the odds are stacked against female graduates finding a like-minded man.
Broke men are hurting American women's marriage prospects.
Oh no!
Well, if the single life is truly amazing,
if the singles positivity movement is to be believed,
how can these articles justify what they perceive to be
the lack of dateable men as a harm?
Unless Emma Watson is lying to herself,
and subsequently lying to the people who interviewed her,
it seems like she is legitimately happy being self-partnered at 29.
And for the sake of this video, let's take her at face value on this.
But let's also discuss a celebrity that is not happy about it.
Charlize Theron says she wants somebody to step up and date her.
I've been single for 10 years. It's not a long shot.
Somebody just needs to grow a pair and step up, Charlize Theron said.
I'm shockingly available.
Oof.
Doesn't sound like she's happy with a single life anymore.
Here's the kicker though.
When Emma Watson or whoever comes out as self-partnered,
when a woman says she specifically does not want a relationship,
it's framed as singles positivity.
It's about casting off the shackles of outdated stigmas and such.
What about when a man does it?
Well, that makes them a MGTOW, a man going their own way.
The MGTOW philosophy, as I understand it,
is the idea that men are checking out of the dating scene entirely.
Sometimes because they just don't value a relationship.
Sometimes because they don't believe a relationship is worth the risk or the hassle.
Sometimes it's because they're actually misogynists,
though I think this reason is pretty rare overall.
If you asked radical feminists though, they'd claim that as the only reason,
and that MGTOWs, MRAs, and pickup artists were all simply misogynist patriarchs,
even though pickup artists directly engage in the sexual marketplace specifically to game it,
believing that MGTOWs are cowards for checking out of it entirely,
and MRAs are pussies for wanting to change what they see as the rules of the game.
Oh well, I guess it's easier for the radfems to just assume all of these
disparate groups opposed to them are united despite being ideologically separate.
Anyway, if Emma Watson and the singles positivity brigade are the female mirror of the MGTOWs,
then Charlize Theron's somebody-needs-to-step-up problem is a female mirror of the incels.
You know, the incels, the lonely unattractive men at the bottom of the totem pole,
the people who are so maligned they've retreated into their online echo chambers and safe spaces,
which the media subsequently labels as hotbeds of misogyny.
The people that the rest of society are really afraid of right now because they
seem to be a bit of a powder keg, with multiple shootings already under their belts.
When you really boil it down, though, the incels are a group of men who are
depressed because they can't find girlfriends.
That sounds like the equivalent of Charlize I'm Shockingly Available Theron to me.
When men can't find girlfriends, they're treated like they've committed some vile crime,
even if they actually haven't shot anyone up yet.
But when women can't find boyfriends, it's treated like she's the victim.
Oh no, this poor innocent woman can't find a good man.
But in the end, the actual event is the same.
Somebody who can't find a mate.
Ellen Pao famously and stupidly tweeted,
CEOs of big tech companies, you almost certainly have incels as employees.
What are you going to do about it?
As if being a man who can't get laid was the same thing as being guilty of a crime.
Imagine the outrage if somebody demanded big tech CEOs monitor the sexual activities of female
employees and asked what are you going to do about it if it was determined they weren't having
enough sex.
It would be virgin shaming of the highest order.
In fact, I think that's why Ellen said incels and not virgins.
She's smart enough to understand that while both labels refer to shaming people for the
lack of sexual experience, one is almost exclusively used to describe men and is therefore fair game.
And that's what this boils down to.
Charlize Theron's problem is not considered to be the same as the incels problem,
even though they're quite similar, solely because she's a woman.
MGTOWs are problematic, while Emma Watson is empowered because she's a woman.
At one time in our past, sexual norms dictated that older male bachelors were acceptable
oddities, while older female bachelorettes were unattractive, pitiable spinsters.
The sexual equality line we were all fed led us to believe that the objective was to simply
grant everyone the freedom to do what they like, a goal that I personally agree with.
But instead, we all had the wool pulled over our eyes.
The sexual norms were not equalized, they were simply reversed.
To progressives, female bachelorettes are now proud independent women who have bucked
society's expectations and are bravely forging a new path to lifelong happiness,
while male bachelors are deserving of fear mongering, mockery, and pity.
And, weirdly enough, homophobia as well.
Because the only reason a man would ever reject a woman to her face is because he's gay, obviously.
But you know, maybe there's another way to conceptualize this whole thing.
Because after all, even as Charlize Theron wants a relationship, she still doesn't want marriage.
Not tying the knot is innately her truth.
Meanwhile, back in that CNN article, Emma Watson does say that it took her a long time
to be very happy with being single, almost as if she had to talk herself into it over time.
Maybe I've got this all wrong.
Maybe Emma and Charlize actually aren't that different after all.
Maybe it's more like, being single does come with some benefits over being partnered,
and it is possible to be happy living a single life.
But that doesn't mean that it's better than being in a committed relationship.
And maybe all these women fluctuate between wanting a relationship and not,
because they operate under the mistaken belief that they can have it all.
And all necessarily includes the benefits of two contradictory existences.
Well, the hard truth is, women can't have it all.
Because contrary to popular opinion, neither can men.
There's a reason that most people find fulfillment in things like relationships and kids,
while only a small minority of people flourish without them.
Talking in a very general sense, of course, men are more likely to value completeness,
while women are more likely to value wholeness.
Completeness means a total dedication to the perfection of one personal trait.
This would explain the reason that men overwhelmingly make up the top tier of almost every field.
For example, if you're a top tier scientist, you're spending 80 hours a week in your lab,
and that's how you get to edge out every other scientist in the field.
It's the only way you get to do it.
You operate unidimensionally and sacrifice everything else to this one virtue.
Meanwhile, that wholeness that women are more likely to value
refers to not the perfection of one trait,
but the juggling of many traits of roughly equal importance.
They don't get to operate any one of them to a level of near perfection,
because there's just not enough time in the day.
But they do get to have a more balanced life overall.
This would explain why women prefer not to take excessive amounts of overtime,
or why they prefer to cultivate a relationship and have children,
or why they rarely exist at the top tier of any field,
and frankly, why they live longer.
It's a healthier way to live your life, even though it's not hyperproductive.
Again, I'm obviously talking in very general terms.
But my point is, men don't have it all.
We have always understood the necessity of sacrificing a family life
in order to be able to provide for that family,
and our civilization probably wouldn't exist without men everywhere making that sacrifice.
Meanwhile, women chasing the dream of having it all seems to be absolutely destroying them.
That's a more generalized sentiment, though, relating not just to relationships,
but also work and pay and many other things.
In terms of just the relationship game, let me leave you with this.
If it is the case that Emma Watson and Charlize Theron hold opposing positions,
then it is telling how well society treats them in comparison to their male counterparts.
Emma Watson's admission sparks a singles movement,
while single men are treated with hostility and suspicion.
Charlize Theron is a victim of the lack of available men,
while incels are the victimizers of women, even as they both simply desire a relationship.
But if Emma and Charlize are actually more similar than they initially let on,
if they actually desire a relationship but nonetheless feel an urge to not desire it,
I would frankly chalk that up to something approximating feminist conditioning.
You keep hearing about this kind of thing all the time.
Articles about how women miss catcalling even though they know it's objectifying.
Women feeling guilty about their sexual fantasies because they
involve a voluntary loss of their own agency, stuff like that.
And I think that type of thinking has taken hold specifically because of that desire for wholeness.
Desire to have a bunch of different things at once, even if they're contradictory.
Maybe this idea even explains the whole
Beta Orbiter friendzone game that some especially trashy women play.
You know, where they string on multiple men at once just to have backups.
Who knows?
And hey, Emma, don't worry about the whole self-partnering thing.
Because if there's one thing I've learned about people who marry themselves,
it's that they also cheat on themselves.
But in the end, if ten years down the road,
you ever find yourself asking where have all the good men gone?
Here's the answer for you.
The good men have gone to marry the good women.
You are just not one of those good women,
the same way that incels are often not one of the good men.
