Have you guys ever browsed Instagram and wondered why everyone looks so beautiful?
Why does everyone have such a perfect life?
I'll tell you why!
Because they're faking it!
No!
No!
That cannot be the same person!
Dude Coachella versus open casket funeral.
You said I look like a corpse in like an open casket funeral.
Yeah, you did!
Well, my friends, here we are.
They said it would never happen, me and Trisha making a podcast and frankly, I thought they
were right.
But let me explain, first of all, how what brings us to here, which is a pairing of very
bizarre.
I've been wanting to make a podcast with like another comedian for a while and I don't mean
that to compliment you.
I think I mean like two big personalities and in my mind, when I kept trying to think
of people to do it with, I always thought, you know, me and Trisha have a really funny
chemistry and I thought, well, you know, fuck it, let's just do it like that.
Let's do a live.
Fuck it!
All right, we're done.
Thank you guys.
We shouldn't have got pizza.
Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the right opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time and podcasts, something that I have a bit of a patchy record on.
In principle, there's always something enjoyable about being able to present a more raw version
of yourself, being able to speak casually without having to filter your mind so rigorously.
It's also a less demanding job in many regards, and although the result is never identical,
you can go into recording with a clear idea of who you're presenting to the audience.
For me, I guess I'll always be someone who requires the rehearsed nature of scripts to
maximize my full potential.
And although I'm not adverse to making appearances on podcasts here and there, I think I need
to focus my efforts on my content first and foremost, given how I have regularly failed
to do that of recent.
However, it is a thought that has taken up residence in my psyche.
What if I was to drop everything I was doing now, set up a new channel with the resources
I currently possess, and do something that doesn't require me tearing my hair out?
In a way, it's a decision that Ethan and Eda Klein, also known as H3H3 Productions,
made a few years ago when they decided to launch the H3 podcast, but let's rewind for
just a moment in case anyone here is not fully equated with the YouTuber Viathan that is
H3H3 Productions.
Game assassins out there, you think I was born looking this cool?
No, I used to look like you, losing to noobs every day.
That is until I discovered gamer gear that got my fashion on point, and I never lose
to noobs anymore.
Gamer gear glasses, help you see the game and look cooler than ever.
And our trademark item, gamer water.
Dude, fuck yeah, man.
H3H3 Productions is the YouTube channel run by the aforementioned Klein couple.
They established a presence on YouTube for content that often parodied their subjects,
usually utilising Ethan's offbeat sense of humour, alongside editing that put a somewhat
amusingly absurdist twist on the content they were lampooning.
Nonetheless, many of these videos also had an underlying moral message that resonated
with many viewers, often calling out many of the creators of their time for their often
shallow exploitation of YouTube culture.
They're funny, they're well made, and many of them are still relevant to this day.
They're videos I grew up with and will always find a place in my heart for, however a few
years ago, as many of you probably know, they themselves became the centre of attention
after one of the subjects of their videos, a gentleman by the name of Matt Hoss, decided
to sue them for copyright infringement.
It had been regularly debated on how much commentary constituted fair use, and with
H3's videos there was an uneasy trepidation that maybe, if the ruling went in favour of
the plaintiff, that a new gauntlet would be set down for further lawsuits in this domain.
Fortunately the case was won by our protagonists here, and they triumphantly returned to the
platform, cheered on by the platform itself and many creators whose livelihoods seemed
to depend on the verdict, however you can't really undo the stress that such a case would
cause you, and in the aftermath it seemed difficult to return to that content with the
same sort of gusto that they'd previously bought, and it's hard to blame them.
If anything, a lawsuit which required such an investment would inevitably sap the fun
out of the content that in many ways served as an escape at one point, so over time they
seemed to distance themselves further from the formula they had once been inseparable
from, venturing into new pastures, including the one we mentioned earlier.
The Podcast
The H3 Podcast was founded on the 8th of April 2017, with the first episode being broadcast
on the same day, a few months before the lawsuit was settled.
This format seemed rather unexceptional on the surface, Ethan would bring on a guest,
often someone with a pretty well established media presence, sometimes a real A-list celebrity,
and they would shoot the shit.
It's a concept that's been tried and tested over and over again, and although not always
yielding groundbreaking results, you'd typically expect it to be a mostly uncontroversial formula,
and at the start it certainly was, but then something began to happen.
I think in a way it's a peril with any commentator that has a tendency to say what's on their
mind at a specific moment, but something about H3 in the podcast environment didn't
always hit the best notes for certain viewers, and fellow creators.
There were moments that just seemed a bit out of step for his image, and eventually
people began to express their frustration which generated controversy in itself.
Now, H3 often did take time to address specific dramas, even occasionally admitting their
flaws and shortcomings, and pledging to do better, however they seemed to also have
an inexorable nature to be drawn towards the flame of conflict, and this is where we introduce
the second character in this convoluted story.
I feel like such a DIY right now.
If we can make this fattuccini pink I will be so happy.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and, hopefully don't get this all over me.
I don't know what food coloring really tastes like.
I don't think it's supposed to have a taste?
Whoa, first of all, it's sporting literally everywhere.
Can't relate.
This looks more red, but the cap is pink.
Okay, we're gonna try and not... This looks like... not appetizing.
This is Trisha Paytas, they are a veteran creator and no stranger to this channel.
It's difficult to talk about what they do at length, because they tend to be more of a YouTube socialite at this point,
renowned for their own involvement with the platformer elites and dramas that these dynamics occasionally precipitate.
They're outspoken, often unapologetic, and quite unpredictable.
In many ways, they're not the prime candidate for the co-host of a podcast that seems to be trying to clean up its act.
In many ways, they were the polar opposite of someone like Ethan who seemed to care deeply about his public image, and yet...
Ethan- Well, my friends, here we are. They said it would never happen.
It happened. In fact, its life cycle was longer than many probably predicted, with a total episode count just shy of 40.
However, to nobody's surprise, there was still no lack of fireworks, and even when the podcast soared to its highest peaks,
it could only have forebode its inevitable demise, and yet it didn't even end there.
In fact, it seems to have only escalated.
There's a lot more to the story of H3 and Trish's relationship that underlines the characters of both parties involved,
a few that long existed and will long outlive many other dramas.
If you're interested in the story, then I suggest we follow it a little further, but to unravel the story in its entirety,
we need to first head back to 2019, where these two strangers first became acquainted, and sowed the seeds for their ill-fated podcasts.
Let's see how these frenemies became, well, friends and enemies.
But first, ad time. The following ad is region and age specific, so if you're under 21 or live outside the United States,
then this is unlikely to apply to you. The following ad also contains depictions of recreational drug use,
so if that's not your jam, you may want to skip to part two. For those who are still here, I hope you enjoy.
Okay, guys. I need a video done by tomorrow. Does anyone have an idea right now? Anyone?
Lenuski. I need an idea now, Lenuski.
All right, yeah, that's cool. I have like a few dozen of them. All right, so because kale is like a superfood and we want to like lean into that element,
since, you know, the product is kale, I feel like we could capitalize off of like the Marvel Cinematic Universe,
so like induce like a lot of the super based puns and whatnot. And then that way we can appeal to all the children and their dads who never grew up.
Do you seriously think we're going to do a video about kale?
Will you hit me again if I say yes? Shut the fuck up and get out.
What the fuck do you think you're doing? Get the fuck out, right? I need more ideas. Aubrey, give me an idea now.
An idea for the video. Aubrey, idea now. Video idea.
Okay, so hear me out. So the Minecraft dream, right? So he's green, like the product for the sponsor.
So they kind of tie in together. Dream, green, kind of rhyme. So we got the green, green fans and the dream fans.
You know, a lot of people like dream and the color green. So I think it ties in together nicely, wouldn't you say?
Yeah, yeah. Do you think that's a good idea? It's a shit idea, right?
Yeah. Do you want to say that idea again? I don't think I do.
Okay, so I was thinking we could make a video on experimental cloud rapper, Blady, because he smokes weed all the time.
I don't have a fucking clue what the fuck you're talking about. Does anyone know what he's talking about?
It's Blady. Blade. Blade. Blade. It's a strange game, guys.
Another idea, now. Alright, so we make a video on experimental cloud rapper Echo2K.
Who the fuck is 2K Mecco? I don't want any more SoundCloud rappers from your mouth.
We make a video on experimental hip hop.
Coach, you better fucking have an idea. It's now you.
Oh, make it good. Please make it good. A lot of the stuff we get is like shit that happens on Twitter.
Like if someone getting canceled, maybe you could go with that. You know, people need that.
And who should we cancel? Alright, hear me out. Maybe, maybe, maybe Tro gets into some shit and like,
what's the contents around that? I feel like this is out of my, like, I might kill someone right now.
I don't think you should go that far. We kind of need him. It's Tro. Okay.
Hello? Yeah. Yeah, okay. Cold. Yeah. Basement.
Okay. Kind of you. Thank you. You're off in there!
Five minutes. Five minutes.
You know what? I think I got it.
Oh yeah? What about a four hour video on Frenemies?
Whether you're looking for a good time with friends, creatively drained like my indentured servants, or just looking to relax,
Lance Global's wide variety of cigarettes and gummies are there for you. Use code WRITEOPINION and you can get 20% off any order,
or use WRITEOPINION30 for a 30% discount on a subscription, whether you are a new or returning customer.
So, head to vance-global.com or scan the QR code on screen right now to check out their extensive product range.
All Delta 8 products are federally legal and shipped discreetly to all 50 states, and obviously, a reminder,
this is a region and age specific deal. For those living outside the US or under the age of 21, this does not apply to you.
Aubrey, I'm sorry man. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. I love you.
I love you too, Deckard. I'm sorry.
2019 was a curious year for H3. Emerging from the drama of the previous 12 months, they had maintained a pretty strong
upload schedule on both their podcast and their main channel. These videos certainly didn't evoke the energy of the
main channel's supposed heyday, but the truth is that times have changed, and so have they. However, one video
seemed to be a departure from not only their previous content, but in my opinion, their channel as a whole.
Comedy has certainly evolved on YouTube, particularly in the last few years. There's a lot of talk about what jokes one
can and can't make these days, and although there's definitely been a clamp down on certain creators in the
commentary genre, there are still liberties you can take, and on the 8th of May 2019, I'd say H3H3 Productions
exercised those with a video named Instagram vs Reality.
Have you ever browsed Instagram and wondered why everyone looks so beautiful? Why does everyone have such a perfect life?
Why is everyone having so much fun, has perfect skin, is always laughing and smiling?
Why is my life so boring as I sit here in my underwear covered in breadcrumbs, sad and alone?
Why? I'll tell you why. Because they're faking it. That is not you.
The one on the left is on the beach, the one on the right just washed up on the beach.
Oh damn, Tana's looking pretty good these days.
Oh.
I can't believe it's the same day. She looks like a Twinkie.
Now as the title implies, it's about how many individuals tend to airbrush and edit their content to make it conform
more with society's superficial standards surrounding beauty. On the surface, this is quite a progressive message,
and there's nothing overtly wrong with calling that out. The video itself doesn't pull any punches when addressing
these individuals who are thought to be participating in these shenanigans, one of those in particular being Trisha Paytas.
This girl tried to use a face filter on Instagram and her phone blew up. There's another one of her.
Ah, she is the best. Isn't she not the best? Would people even recognize her if they saw her on the street?
I mean, she is unrecognizable. This is Coachella vs throwing down in the McDonald's parking lot at 3am.
This is Coachella vs World Star Hip Hop. No, that cannot be the same person.
Dude, Coachella vs open casket funeral.
I have a lot of thoughts on this video as a whole, but I don't think it's necessary to the story we're constructing.
All I will say is that at the time, regardless of Trisha's own reputation, this video did draw a bit of backlash.
I think the main reason is because although it is completely fair to attack society's beauty standards and those who prop it up,
attacking that person's appearance somewhat undermines the message in people's eyes,
because then you yourself are using those standards as a stepping stone for your own point against it,
which seems somewhat contradictory.
How you interrupt the video ultimately comes down to what you think of these people's intent,
whether they are just another victim of unattainable beauty standards or they're knowingly contributing to that toxicity.
If we want commentary on Trisha's own intent, however, we are guaranteed to at least receive it from one source, Trisha themselves.
Don't understand that there's so many more things that go into it than just stop eating, start exercising, stop being lazy.
That is so much more to it.
Oh my God, if people could even understand 10% of the mental struggles that a lot of overweight people go through.
And I'm going to speak on myself, like, if you could even be inside this head for like a minute, a minute,
and to see why I use food as like a coping mechanism, like, and it sucks.
Now, Trisha had already responded once to Ethan's comments the previous year relating to society's beauty standards
when H3 had made comments surrounding the model test holiday.
It was clear that there was some disparity between the opinions each held about how they think the matter should be approached,
but with the crosshairs shifted towards Trisha, the spotlight was firmly on them to respond.
Trisha first put out a series of tweets that attacked H3H3 for their video, calling it predatory and harmful,
and labelling Klein a disgusting piece of shysa.
Nevertheless, of the belief that such tweets were not sufficient retribution for the Klein's misdemeanors,
Trisha uploaded a video, further chastising H3H3 for their comments and depiction of sensitive issues that could impact many young girls growing up.
In very typical Trisha fashion, it takes whatever valid criticism or responses could be made
and blows them wildly out of proportion. Additionally, it meshes a variety of points together,
including technical points about whether the photos Ethan compared were taken on the same day,
or more emotional points about how this has affected them and other vulnerable individuals.
You're not taking something from that day and showing it from a video clip in the same hair and makeup,
you're taking all my photos he showed. One he showed a side by side was one I posted myself to show how different
My whole point of that post was to be like, yes, I can be glam and I feel good about myself and also I can be like how I was looking and just like selfie down,
like not the most attractive and I was doing that to show like, yes, to show what I guess he was trying to prove,
but he did that in such a way of like, it was bullying. It really, really upset me. It really upset me.
It's not that I don't understand how such comments could upset someone like Trisha if they feel as vulnerable about their appearance as they present.
However, as a public figure, you're going to be the butt of these jokes, and Ethan's point, whether you agree with it or not,
is that all of our appearances are flawed, and that trying to cover it up is only going to do more harm.
This was a difference in perspective that neither side was going to compromise on,
because they both seemed to believe that they were starting from the righteous premise.
Trisha in empowering girls to post pictures of themselves online free from stigma from judgemental parties,
and Ethan in tearing down the unrealistic thresholds of natural beauty pushed by many of these people.
There was never going to be a compromise, yet it could have just ended here.
Instead though, not happy with the response their video was receiving, Trisha pursued the feud online,
once again escalating the comments, now directing them at Ethan's wife and child,
providing some invaluable couples counselling on their marriage as well.
Ethan, unfazed by these comments, continued to dunk on Trisha and the photoshop employing their content.
At this point, Ethan took the W, because he avoided taking the comments to the personal level that Trisha did,
and maintained his stance pretty staunchly. This is where the direct interaction appeared to end though,
with Ethan delivering a final address to it on his podcast a few days later.
First is, why are you on your kitchen floor? There's gotta be a better setting for this.
Although brief, this exchange highlighted the contrasting dynamic shared between the two.
Trisha, a person who really behaves on that emotional whim, the person who will readily bear their teeth at those
that they wish to, and take their comments to places that many would consider beneath them.
Ethan, on the other hand, may make provocative content from time to time, but also has a grasp on his own opinions,
and in this case, maintain control of the conversation, not falling for the outrage base set by Trisha.
Trisha pages said before that they will often chase the behaviour that guards them the most attention,
but in this instance, they kinda hit that brick wall, where they didn't manage to elicit a rise out of their opponent.
With this in mind, barely a couple days after their explosive rage, their tune changed, and they began posting somewhat
strangely worded praise for Ethan, even asking if they could make an appearance on their podcast.
As far as I'm aware, at this point they had not collaborated, so this tweet may have been a bit tongue in cheek,
though I have to say I'm not sure where the tongue or the cheek are, but I digress.
This was the first time that Trisha had signaled interest in collaborating on the podcast with H3H3,
however this interest wasn't initially reciprocated by the clients who didn't respond to these tweets,
and continued with their routine podcast schedule, seemingly paying no mind to Trisha and their antics.
However, if anyone thought this quarrel in question was quite quelled, well, they were in for a little shock.
That was an epic collab, I totally didn't anticipate it, like this came so out of left field,
but I think I enjoyed it, I think deep down she enjoyed it as well.
Something about Ethan's comedy and Trisha's desire for attention seemed to bring them together,
and as the capers continued to increment, these characters were set on a collision course that could not be averted.
Over the next few months, not too much of note happened, there was the occasional acknowledgement or mention of either party,
but otherwise it seemed that this had mostly cooled, however all this changed when Trish decided to post a video coming out as transgender.
So, in my head I feel like I'm a transgender female to male, but also like a drag queen.
That's kind of how I've like rationalised it in my head, because like, okay, let me just tell you why I identify as a boy more so,
and from an early age. I don't like to be centre of attention, except when I want to be centre of attention.
Once again, I think we can keep this relatively brief, but this video was met with a lot of controversy for how it handled the subject matter
and the communities that it references, regardless of whether Trisha truly was transgender.
The day after, in light of the less than supportive response, Trisha posted an apology video,
which unfortunately seems to have been lost to the sands of time.
This was once again received fairly poorly, and provoked another response on the 8th Street Podcast.
She just kind of describes like a lot of people, she says, I don't know, some days I don't wear makeup and I just wear comfy clothes.
Trans, that means she's trans.
I really relate to men, and I like to hang out with men more than women, and so therefore she thinks she's a guy.
So take a guess what happens next, I'm telling you, it will shock you.
Trisha took to Twitter to insult Ethan, however in a twist, this time posting some rather sensitive images that we shan't go into detail about.
Ethan responds fairly unamused, and then Trisha brings up Ela like clockwork.
Oh, and what would a situation be without a Trisha video?
Apparently she came out recently as a trans male, so I guess she would know something about s**t.
Although I bet you Trisha's got a large s**t that's bigger than my s**t.
Hell yeah I do.
She's got one of those weird girls, she's got like an engorged s**t.
It is a meaty, I have a meaty ass s**t.
It is so meaty and tight, it's like biting into an Arby's roast beef sandwich without the beef curtains.
However this time, instead of the dispute dying a death like the previous altercation,
Ethan responded to the Twitter publication of the video by inviting them on the podcast, if they were man enough.
At first Trisha, seeming hesitant to commit, requests an advance payment of $18 million,
a fairly regular sum for most H3 guests, I'm sure.
However, Ethan calls Trisha on their bluff, stating that they'll do it for free.
Chief negotiator Trisha then makes a minor amendment to the condition, stating that they may appear if Ethan apologizes for all his dumbass trolling,
something which Trisha is obviously a stranger to.
A few days later, on the 16th of October, Ethan uploads another video which includes a parody apology to Trisha,
mocking their often melodramatic setup, providing the implication that negotiations had perhaps broken down.
I wanted to basically apologize to Trisha Paytas, who is such a sweet, genuine person,
and I just really, like, I wanted to first of all apologize for saying that she looked like she was at an open casket funeral,
like she was the corpse inside of a casket.
That's not true, that's just not what I meant at all, you're so beautiful, you're such a queen.
And I also wanted to apologize for saying that you have, like, a 5 to 10 inch engorged clit that's bigger than my dick.
I mean, that would basically make you a guy, that would basically mean you had a penis,
and, well, I guess I'm kind of confused because you said you're trans, I don't know, I just am sorry, I don't want to offend you.
I'm sorry for saying that you're not trans, man, even though you have, like, cup f jugs that are always on display.
With the unpredictability of Trisha, it would be normal to assume that this interaction would fizzle out like many others had.
However, in a surprise turn of events, approximately a fortnight later, a photo was posted on Twitter
that showed the two parties together alongside a link to Trisha's debut on the H3 podcast.
Well, first of all, Trisha Paytas is here, are we here to squash the beef or roast the beef?
Ooh, I would love to squash it, but I like you guys talking about me, so maybe we'll roast more.
That's what I figured, thank you for saying that.
It's now a half of the two parties addressing and appearing to mostly settle their differences.
On the one hand, Trisha handles themselves pretty well, in fact responding to certain questions with a degree of eloquence not typically associated with them,
such as certain gender-related queries, where their responses actually add a lot of nuance to their prior content on the matter.
A lot of people are transphobic, me coming out transgender is not gonna help my dating life, it's not gonna, why would I put that on myself?
I'm trying to date, I'm trying to get married, why would I put that out there just so people can look up that I'm a transgender if I truly don't believe that?
It always fascinates me how the internet can be surprisingly hostile to those who may just be expressing confusion,
and although Trisha did make some insensitive comments, their confusion was nothing to write off on their own basis.
In fact, I think many only responded the way they did because it's Trisha.
The podcast allowed them to make their own defence, and I think that was a positive thing.
On the other hand though, it kinda reminds me of James Merritt's interview with Nikocado Avocado.
You appear to have two parties engaging in casual conversation, however when you know both parties relatively well,
particularly Trisha, you begin to pick up on certain details that others may overlook.
In this part Trisha says they go to Israel all the time, which just isn't true.
It's such a trivial detail to lie about, so trivial that you don't feel like it's worth even pulling them up on it.
When it comes to other points though, Trisha was caught with their trousers down.
I'm not trying to expose anything that's private, but...
It's all demonetised.
Hold on, hold on, hold on. Where is it? Apology, and then it's coming up regarding my...
I am transgender, 3 million views, green icon, monetised, and I'm gonna tell you exactly how much money she made.
She made $8,000 for that video!
It's a fascinating watch in many ways because it outlined that character that Trisha Paytas has cultivated,
and places it in an environment where it can receive direct scrutiny.
I do want to save some analysis for the end of the video, but it certainly illuminates how differently Trisha views the consequence
of their own language and behaviour in comparison to a lot of other creators.
However, this podcast appearance wouldn't be possible without two people, namely Ethan and Hila.
I mean, clearly not all men are violent, I mean, like that.
But some are.
And a lot are cheaters, a lot are perverts, a lot of underage girls, like, yeah.
So do you, are you ever afraid that it might be that your choices drive these bad characters into your life?
My choices is how?
And men. The men you're attracted to.
I feel like I date everybody, like anybody who wants to date me, I'll date them.
So I feel like I don't, I'm not picky, I just date whoever wants to date me.
So maybe the image you put out to the world attracts the wrong kind of guy.
I've heard that. Oh my god, this is like therapy now.
Oh my god, it's so deep.
You are like a dad, even though you're only 34, you're like a 45 year old dad.
I am a dad.
Ethan has the energy of an accommodating yet critical host, and although patronising and slightly presumptive at points,
he doesn't just endlessly grill Trisha like some probably would.
He lets them say their peace and challenges when he feels necessary, catching them out a few times.
At the same time, there's this still somewhat standoffish nature between the two parties,
particularly with Ela's presence, who still seems somewhat sceptical towards Trisha,
and their nature to fluctuate between flirtatious and insulting towards Ethan.
I love that we're on a three-way date right now, we're like eating and talking.
We're like coffee. Ethan is the worst, I have to say that.
You're kind of just the worst. I think Ela...
Wait, hold on, so you hated me, you came in liking me more, but now you hate me again.
It's a mesmerising experience, these two internet veterans dissecting an individual
who has in many ways occupied the spotlight for so long, yet seldom been understood by those attacking them.
By the end of the podcast, although it felt like any dispute had been placated,
you weren't really sure if there were seeds for a future relationship.
Some tension in the air still lingered, and with everything in mind, that was to be expected.
But somewhere deep down, there was the potential for something truly great, and I think people knew that.
As I mentioned at the start, Klein had been involved in a fair bit of drama relating to how he handled himself on the podcast,
but also how he interacted with guests.
And he also had a zillion kids, so I mean, yeah.
Really? How many siblings do you have?
I don't know, dude. The internet's too fucking weird to give out all that information.
Oh, you don't even want to say how many, because you're afraid that it will not compromise your privacy.
Yeah, by all means, keep talking about it. Is there anybody who can cut this out?
I'm honest, dude.
Seriously?
Yeah, no, dude. Yeah, there's fucking lunatics out there.
Okay.
Well...
Off the air, off the air, I'll tell you.
Alright.
Jeez.
There were a lot of theories as to why this was, but many at the time were under the impression that he was not a naturally talented podcast host,
particularly when he appeared with certain people, and that's completely fine.
The transfer from video content that can be scripted and edited to a podcast where you really have to devote your full attention towards each and every moment
can be an exceptionally difficult one.
However, sometimes it's about who you're doing the podcast with, and Trisha Paytas was someone that you never ran out of questions for,
and if you're an inquisitive person like Klein is in a way, then it was quite easy to maintain and engage in conversation,
even if it does seem more like a case study at points.
It doesn't taste like anything to me. The squid I got is like a transparent squid, so it just doesn't taste like anything.
It was a wild goal. I mean, I used to eat like goldfish as a kid, I used to like swallow goldfish, so I don't think you're supposed to do that either.
But I would just eat the fish out of the bowl.
Why would you do that?
I don't know, I thought it was honestly food. I was young, I was like five.
For a while it seemed like this was the most confab we were going to see, as the two turned back towards their own ventures over the following months,
until the start of 2020 that is, when they returned to the podcast for another session of antics.
I love this.
So it is like a throuple.
It's not a throuple. It's definitely not a throuple.
I think of it like parents, but now I think of it like a throuple.
I feel like this because me and Hila are getting along good.
Please don't think of it as a throuple.
It's like a little date right now.
Definitely not a date.
One of the constant struggles that Trisha has been quite open about on her channel is their often fruitless endeavour to find a relationship,
and during their appearances on the two episodes of the podcast, Trisha had a nature to make certain comments that seemed to seek validation for intimacy with those they were around.
These include the numerous rather pointed flirtatious remarks towards Ethan, and referring to the podcast's collective presence as a throuple.
Ethan and Hila weren't completely sold in this dynamic though, and had their own plans for Trisha going forward.
The year prior, the clients had conducted a dating game of sorts with an individual known as Ian the Intern,
where they would peruse dating profiles and attempt to set him up with some lovely ladies.
They compared this setup to the show The Bachelor, a show that I am unfortunately completely oblivious to, and have very little interest in learning about.
Unfortunately, Ian seemed to undermine the show when he messaged one of the participants, and then decided that he didn't want her to come on the show.
Nonetheless, the concept was a hit with the audience, so clearly the clients thought they would bring it back for season two,
this time branding it as The Bachelorette with You Know Who in the starring role.
I brought Trisha back here, and the reason that Trisha's joining us today is, as you all know, Ian's had a season of The Bachelor, with an H3 instead of a...
It's a capital H in a three, Bachelor.
And so Ian actually found true love on his season.
We had some ups and downs, we had some controversies, but in the end, Ian has been dating a girl for how long, Ian?
For about, since last September around there, October.
Since last September, Hila came through.
Wow.
So he's in love.
And he met up on the show?
Yes. So the show worked.
Wow, I didn't know this.
The show worked.
Oh, I had no idea this was a thing.
And so we take this very seriously, love is very important to me and Hila, and our community, and we thought, Trisha Paytas, now that's the next season of The Bachelorette.
With so many eligible young gentlemen falling at their feet, it was clear that Trisha was spoiled for choice.
However, Trisha seemed to have eyes for one person in particular.
I thought, I don't know if I can say this, and you can cut it if I'm not supposed to say this, but I was low-key hoping,
because originally I was expecting the idea to come on as a contestant, and Hila's brother is going to be The Bachelor,
and then I thought maybe he would apply to be on My Bachelorette.
He was supposed to, I don't know what happened.
He said that he wanted to apply.
I found it on Instagram, it's fine.
We could take a last minute submission.
He said he wanted to, I think he's honestly super busy.
He's like a fucking mega, hard, he's like a, he should make time though, right?
He should make time.
He should make time.
He looks so hot, I was like low-key impressed.
I was like, holy shit.
Like he's strikingly hot.
Okay, we'll make sure.
This is Moses Ackman.
He's an Israeli-born artist and architect who is relevant enough to have his own Wikipedia page, so that must mean something.
He is best known for his work Faces of Water which uses an artistic technique involving liquid iron,
all in all he seems like a reasonably talented artist who possesses some prestige in his field of operation.
However, he is also the brother of Hila Klein, and a Bachelorette entrant that Trisha seemed quite drawn towards.
Trisha had been known to have a somewhat strange interest towards humans of Jewish background,
and therefore it was probably not particularly surprising given their reputation that they liked Moses.
However, it was still a strange dynamic, and one that Hila at least didn't seem too eager to foster.
We'll get- we'll get Moses in here too.
Now-
Moses!
That's his name, yeah.
Fuck that name, that's crazy.
You better fucking Moses, holy shit.
And he looks like Jesus.
The hell of a thing.
Like, write the three commandments on my pussy.
Sorry, what was that?
What did she say?
I don't know.
Like, nevermind.
Nevermind, it's fine.
His name is Moses, he might spread your red seed.
Ooh!
Is he into that?
Yeah, he'll eat you out when you're on your period.
He's into that.
I don't want to see him right now, I wouldn't want to deal with him today.
The rules of The Bachelorette were set so that Trisha was advised against contacting any of the participants privately,
particularly with the season one incident in mind.
However, if they were to do so, there would be full disclosure with Ethan and Hila.
It seemed there was some understanding between everyone that would help make the show a success.
But then it happened.
Yes, lockdown.
Caused by our good old pathogenic friend.
And the H3 podcast was put on hold while they worked out a new arrangement compatible with the then present restrictions.
However, even if the H3 podcast was on hold, there was no stopping the Trisha show,
who decided that they had to take matters into their own hands.
And just over a month after the launch of The Bachelorette season two, it came to an abrupt end.
On her Instagram stories, in bed with somebody, and we see a hand, and I'm like...
Again, cryptic. I think that's his, I think it's his arm.
It looks like it.
It could be.
It definitely is.
But the evidence piles on as we continue forth here.
She posts pictures of, she says, quarantine date night.
Okay, now.
Okay.
So let's just, so okay.
This is a separate day, so whoever this is, has come back to her house, a date night.
She calls it a date night, and whoever it is brought dinner.
Yes, on March the 23rd, Trisha posted pictures of them with Moses,
with the somewhat oxymoronic statement that they were social distancing together.
Ethan did not see the funny side of this, but Trisha continued to openly flaunt their rendezvous,
much to the dismay of Ackman's sister and her husband,
with them asserting that Trisha had ruined the show with their mischief.
I have to tell you that I don't know what he's up to.
Right.
This isn't some inside joke.
Look at the way he's looking at, so this is what Trisha posted.
Look at his face.
What is he doing?
It's like he's goofing on us.
Like, look.
Well, it's hard to tell.
Nice place, by the way, for Trisha.
Nice view.
You can't tell.
Hollywood Hills, by the way.
It could be just him smiling.
Bro, what are you doing?
What are you doing?
You know what's my biggest fear right now?
Is that this actually becomes serious.
So both of these people promise me to keep bit 100 billion with me.
Yes, they promise.
Like, I'm most disappointed in your brother.
Trisha, whatever.
You know, we serve at her pleasure.
I mean, you don't know which personality you're showing up from which day.
I'm just happy when she comes in.
I mean, I expected her to work within the guidelines, too.
Your brother, though, is on our side, and now I don't know whose side he's on.
Needless to say, I can understand why the two were frustrated.
Notably, given that this was the second time this had happened.
However, when you're dealing with love, you can't really put a contract on it.
And this was going to be inevitable with something as loosely structured as The Bachelorette, and with someone like Trisha.
This was just not a great idea from the start, and the circumstances only exacerbated that.
Although in many ways Trisha was the perfect podcast guest, their appeal was also your Achilles heel.
They were not a person who was going to play by your rules.
So when you impose these sorts of expectations on them, then you need to manage your own expectations as well.
That doesn't mean you can't find it frustrating, but it's somewhat inevitable when you deal with someone who you know is notoriously unpredictable.
H3 needed to think about this, but in the meantime, chaos reigned once more.
Although in a way it felt like Trisha was closer to the Klein's than they had ever been,
this only really intensified the tension between the creators, who openly criticised each other over the coming months.
In the meantime, to cement their commitment to the relationship, Trisha began learning Hebrew, and yes, uploading videos on the matter.
When the relationship was good, it was great, and the Klein's were trying to break an inseparable bond between soulmates,
and when the relationship wasn't working out, the Klein's were the cause of its demise. They really couldn't win.
Ethan and Hila seem to display some semblance of disapproval,
though I think there was a point where you have to begrudgingly accept that there is very little you can do to control a person like Trisha.
Trisha is someone who will put their own impulsive desires first, and will only play your game when they have a chance of winning,
and as Trisha said themselves, they won.
Of course so many people are like Trisha, you're not Jewish, and to that I say I was not born Jewish,
but I tend to gravitate towards Jewish people in my life, that have taught me a lot.
Once more, it went rather quiet for the next few months as the stalemates seemed to persist between the parties.
However, with everybody involved still one degree away from each other,
there was that sense that the dating show was far from the last we'd see of them together.
However, they'd really need a catalyst to bring them together. Who or what on earth could do that?
But the internet, there's nothing going on on the internet, so I decided to have you on anyways.
Sounds good to me.
Allow me to introduce two new guests to this very fun little house party.
Gabbie Hanna and our beloved Keemstar.
Gabbie Hanna is no stranger to controversy herself, and is a common talking boy for many commentators.
Her feud with Trisha Paytas is no less contentious, with Trisha accusing Gabbie of slander and harassment,
even threatening to take a restraining order out on her after she allegedly told Trisha's boyfriend Jason Nash that Trisha had herpes,
as explained in their now deleted video, Why I Don't Trust Gabbie Hanna.
When me and Jason started hooking up in 2017, I did a video called YouTubers I've Hooked Up With.
She, by the clues, guessed that I was hooking up with Jason. I was.
She texted Jason, and she told Jason, or I guess, I don't know if she texted him or told him in person,
but basically she told him, hey, be careful, Trisha has herpes and you're sleeping with her and blah blah blah.
Gabbie, have we slept together? Did I show you my STD results? Are you my doctor? Did you swab my vagina?
Gabbie did not debate that she had told Nash about the possibility of herpes,
and testified that she was merely warning a friend about certain health risks,
however she challenged the claims of harassment and stated Trisha was attempting to blackmail their mutual friends,
and since then any spirit of friendliness has been extinguished,
with Trisha making further videos asking Gabbie to leave them alone.
But it likely they're not chums, though some may be forgiven for thinking it's just another Pater's drama,
and there's nothing particularly exceptional about it.
Keemstar on the other hand, well honestly I would describe Ethan's attitude towards Keem quite exceptional,
at least for Ethan.
Keem, uh, clownstar, I know you're watching this because you're obsessed with me,
you're on every word and your blood is boiling, you're thinking to yourself, how am I going to destroy him?
How am I going to make a Twitter rant and then find some shit?
This guy literally got it, I don't need to keep going on about Keemstar,
it's not the first time he's just made actually slanderous lies about me, but that is that.
Ethan and Keem have a long history on YouTube, mostly hostile, with the occasional ceasefire when a greater cause united them.
But at the start of 2020, H3 released three videos that sought to malign Keemstar from the platform once and for all,
even criticizing those who willingly associated with him.
Keemstar's got a bottle of G-Fuel somewhere in his house that's actually a horcrux.
How is G-Fuel still sponsored by this guy by the way?
G-Fuel brought to you by false pedophilia accusations!
Check out G-Fuel!
Get it now at Gfuel.com
Keemstar responded to these videos with his own perspective, framing Ethan as a dishonest opportunist hack and all-round hypocrite
who didn't really care about the issues that he was speaking about.
There are a lot of valid opinions that one can have about this mess of a drama,
however one thing I would probably say is that if you were familiar with either of the creators,
it was unlikely to change your opinion on them.
At its core, the videos were a showcase of how much these guys truly detested each other,
and this continued over the next few months, with nobody really emerging as a clear victor.
So what is the relevance to these two people?
Well you see, in September, bored as hell at the fact that there was no news,
Keemstar decided to invite Gabbie Hanna onto Drama Alert to talk about writing a diss track on Trish,
which as you can assume went down like a lead balloon with our good friend,
who sent multiple tweets to Keemstar for platforming those who they had deemed pieces of f***,
even going as far to imply that their life could be on the line over this matter.
Hey Keemstar, from one fat f*** to another, get your f*** together.
Don't blame Gabbie Hanna for my death because she's mentally ill, you have no idea why I had to hire 24 hour security,
you sick f***, you think bringing up drama is all fun and games until you're egging on a mentally ill person,
saying I'm star d***, saying I'm insatiation, I'm f***ing scared for my life, you dumb son of a b****.
Now it's hard to really establish a motive for why exactly Keemstar decided to have Gabbie come on Drama Alert,
maybe he was genuinely bored, but Ethan appeared to back Trish's response, while continuing to speak ill of Keem.
Keemstar noticed these and subsequently went off on Twitter about it himself.
After this went nowhere, Keemstar reached out to Ethan offering a truce, framing it as the smartest thing to do.
In the coming months, more people were educated and they realised, oh wait, Keemstar's right, H3H3's a bad guy,
and now you're losing, and I'm winning, but the truth of the matter is that there's no winner, right?
We both lost, the lesser of the loser is not the winner. This is stupid.
And we're both going to continue to lose the more we fight.
And the smart thing to do is to make peace.
I'm inviting you, I'm Moms Basement, my podcast, to attempt to talk this out and to make peace,
if you don't want to come on my show, I'll go on your show, but we need to make peace.
This is affecting our companies, our careers, and not really my mental health,
but you said that it affected your mental health, so it's time to make peace.
Hypothetically, you can understand why Keemstar wanted to do this,
but logically it was something that H3 was very unlikely to agree to.
Maybe Keem knew that, and he wanted to appear to be the reasonable party,
but Ethan wasn't one to negotiate with someone he wanted to truly present as a terrible person,
given the lengths that he had gone to emphasise how bad a person Keemstar was,
and still was at that point, he had more to lose by patching up the drama with our bearded buddy.
However, what happened next seemed to cement his position.
Ethan- I've been wanting to make a podcast with another comedian for a while, and I don't mean that to compliment you.
I think I mean two big personalities, and in my mind when I kept trying to think of people to do it with,
I always thought, you know, me and Trisha have a really funny chemistry on all of your visits,
and I thought, well, you know, fuck it, let's just do it like that, let's do it live, fuck it!
Trisha- Oh, but this isn't live though.
Ethan- No, it's just still.
On September the 15th, Trisha made their return to the H3 podcast, however this wasn't just any old appearance,
and the way this was presented and discussed, this was the start of a new era,
a series featuring both Ethan and Trisha, where they discuss various dramatic and miscellaneous content,
whatever took their interest, based on that core appeal that had worked so naturally before.
Although many hypothesise this had been brought on by their mutual dislike of Keem,
they refrain from mentioning him until the end of the show.
Ethan- We can talk about Keemstar, whatever you want.
Trisha- Love you, much drama alert? Should we shout it out, promo?
Ethan- Drama alert?
Trisha- Yeah, what up?
Ethan- You wanna give a shout out to drama alert?
Trisha- Nothing but love, we're all peace and positive here.
Ethan- Yeah, Keemstar's the best.
It was welcomed with opened arms by their audience, but with circumstances and characters in mind,
I'm sure many wondered if it was going to survive beyond a couple episodes.
Ethan and Trisha's working relationship often seemed borne out of a mutual cause,
and it's not that a cause like that can't be worthwhile,
but the question is what happens when that cause is ultimately fulfilled,
like it was with The Bachelorette?
If this podcast was the result of other factors like Keemstar,
what happens when the influence of those factors inevitably lessens?
There had to be something deeper between Trisha and Ethan,
but could they ever find it?
Well, let's talk about the centrepiece of Ethan and Trisha's tumultuous relationship.
In a way, Frenemies was a concept that was constructed of Trisha and Ethan's established rapport.
The fact that on one hand they'd had friendly conversations,
they'd had productive discourse on certain matters,
but they'd also had their fair share of drama and fallings out after they had seemingly record-styled.
The question on many people's minds was how do you keep a podcast going
with two people who may hate each other on a certain day,
who may not talk for months?
Well, money maybe, but even then, if you're not really committed to something,
it tends to shift.
Even then, if you're not really committed to something, it tends to show.
However, in the first episode, there clearly was a commitment involved.
They even had their impersonalised set to contrast between the two creators,
Ethan on that brooding dark side, and Trisha with their pink-spirited jollity.
I mean, to be honest, that's not an accurate representation of their style,
but I suppose that is the sort of energy they tend to emanate at least.
In that introduction, Ethan emphasised that these two were drawn together for that unique chemistry,
seemingly debunking the idea that this was a tactical decision on his part.
There was acknowledgement that this could go pear-shaped very quickly,
but both seemed to have an understanding of the potential outcomes,
intrepidly embracing them, and from the first minute of the first episode,
that quirky chemistry that everyone seemed to identify was on exhibit.
In a way, though, this time it was intended.
It's not like Trisha didn't mean what they had said in the past.
It meant that this environment was actively fostered in acknowledgement of its subsequent public release.
A friend of his episodes is basically a compilation of the conversations you have with your friend.
In all honesty, you'd be afraid to ever provide a public platform.
But Trisha was that friend who already had the platform, so in a way, people almost felt more permitting,
because it wasn't like they had much to gain from it.
In return, Ethan Handel gallantly found an aspect for his podcast that he had been desperately missing in the past.
That raw chemistry.
He'd finally shown his critics that he could actually do something that many doubted he could.
I think the problem with his previous intues was that Ethan and Hila aren't the best at starting conversation,
and when dealing with more stoic guests, this tended to lead to some awkward interactions.
Trisha was probably the most world-curious guest they had,
and Trisha always provided Ethan with at least ten zany comments to find one response to,
which Ethan could always do.
The highs yielded quality banter, excellent repartee, and chemistry for the ages.
However, with the sunshine came the rain.
Surprisingly, the first four episodes went without major incident.
However, the fifth build as a Halloween special is where the greasy wheels appear to detach from the ramshackle machine.
Trisha has a habit of going nuclear rather quickly, and I'll discuss why in a moment,
but whenever they feel slightly attacked, they seem to fight back with a thousand times the ferocity of that which was initially launched on them.
In this case, during a discussion on transparency, Trisha brings up the subject of Ethan's substance abuse to prove that he's not as open as he claims.
Ethan, feeling blindsided by this comment, accuses Trisha of weaponizing his problems against him.
This strikes a nerve with Trisha, and it quickly goes downhill from there.
I've never said anything like that to him.
I've seen your group chats. I literally see his phone.
Well, you bragging about looking through his phone isn't exactly the best look.
I'm not bragging about it. I'm stating something because, once again, I'm open.
Well, I've never said anything like that. I'm trying to resolve this because-
The more we talk about it, the worse it's going to be. Like, good luck. Honestly, good luck.
Thanks for having me on five episodes. Love it. It was so much fun, and I'm over it.
Good luck, and I'm sorry about your family situation. I'm sorry about your situation.
I know you're miserable.
No, it's not true.
You are. I can tell. I can tell, and it's sadness.
And I see you when I was around your family that you have sadness in you, and it's sad.
Okay.
And that's why you're so mean to people on the internet, and I get it,
but also don't take it out on people and call them crazy and shit.
Well, we're going out on a high note here, folks, all for your viewing pleasure.
Just wire me for this later, and we'll talk never.
Because I just- I hate people just like- that are you. You're the person I hate in this world.
Really?
That's so just offensive, but they do nothing wrong.
And when people are provoked, oh, they're crazy, calling girls crazy and stuff like that.
It's like- but taking no accountability, no responsibility.
You think everything's just an attack against you, everyone's against Ethan.
Like, oh my gosh, I'm always right.
It's like, ugh, you and Jax won't serve each other, so.
Jax? I can't believe you're going after Jax. He's such a sweet guy.
Bye, love you.
All right, Trisha.
All right, bye. Thanks for the great episode.
It's quite a sight to behold Ethan perched there in his Uncle Fester costume.
But visuals aside, this did spawn a situation that clearly troubled those involved.
For some, this would be drama, this would be funny.
But for the podcast, this was the surfacing of a problem that has been present with Trisha for years,
and it definitely brought into question whether this dynamic was healthy.
I'm gonna try to do a post-mortem on this.
I don't know, maybe she's just having a bad day.
I haven't spoken about it too much yet, and I don't want to speak about it too much in general,
but Trisha has been quite open about their struggles with Borderline Personality Disorder,
a condition that alongside other symptoms can cause intense emotional instability and impulsivity in individuals affected by it.
This has obviously been demonstrated in certain scenes of the podcast,
and when you see Trisha storm off, some would draw that what you're actually witnessing is an episode of BPD,
and question whether it's actually ethical that we're even witnessing what's going on.
Everyone accepted that this time around these sorts of interactions were a very real possibility,
and in an attempt to preserve that raw nature to make sure that we're receiving the full picture,
even the ugliest parts are left in.
Yet, although that rawness was in itself an appeal for many viewers,
it also led some to question whether this was really fair given Trisha's own personality disorders,
given that these outbursts were thought to be a symptom of the condition in question.
It's a commonplace discussion because on one hand, you never want to rob an individual of their agency,
and let me make it crystal clear, Trisha consented to be on the podcast from its inception to its cessation,
however at the same time when you're walking around topics that could trigger someone,
when you're on a podcast that actively acknowledges that it could become nasty pretty quickly,
you also have to make sure you're not just carelessly exploiting that.
Although I think anyone would be pressed to say that Ethan ever went out of his way to torment Trisha,
also doing nothing about that sort of dysfunctional environment could be seen as passively allowing that toxicity to thrive,
which although spectacular points, doesn't really do much good for you, Trisha, or anyone else who works on the podcast,
and the moment you stop taking those outbursts seriously, then you risk enabling that behaviour as well.
This was an emergent problem that was going to cause a very imminent demise if something wasn't done about it.
If these were normal podcast episodes, then these disruptions would have likely been the end of Trisha and Ethan's friendship
for at least another few months, and at first it did seem like Trisha was not going to be returning to the podcast,
however given that they had this partnership going, this was something that worked to an extent,
I think it gave both parties a greater impetus to try and maintain it.
At the same time, doing nothing wasn't the best option either, and in the episode following,
the tension between the two was still palpable, with Trisha reluctant to open up to Ethan again after their heated exchange.
Although there was progress throughout the episode, it felt like something more needed to be done to keep this alliance healthy and productive,
and by the next show it seemed like Ethan had found the solution.
Allow me to introduce you to this man then, his name is Drew Pinsky, but is more informally known as Dr Drew.
He has a renowned media personality and internist, which basically means that you specialise in treating a variety of elements
of the body without the need for surgery. Some people use the term physician interchangeably with it,
in case you're more familiar with that term.
Dr Drew is recognised for a plethora of programs, most notably Loveline, a phone-in show where he would provide
relationship, medical, and miscellaneous advice to listeners and callers alike.
At its peak, it was incredibly popular, and Dr Drew was generally perceived as offering pretty decent guidance to those who requested it.
Since his discontinuation in 2016, he's continued to make appearances on a variety of broadcasts,
and has established himself online and on YouTube. On the surface, it seemed like he was a man with fairly solid credentials,
so with all this in mind, he was the sort of person who may be able to resolve, or at least ease the conflicts between Trish and Ethan.
So, on the 27th October, he was brought on for enemies to help address that rift that had grown between the two hosts.
Would he be up to the test?
On one hand, the discussion appeared to go pretty well. Drew showed an interest in Trisha that allowed them to open up,
and they appeared to make progress on perhaps patching up old wounds. There's discourse on drug abuse,
and as an expert on that front, Dr Drew really comes into his element. In many ways, I can see that this was useful for the two.
On the other hand, there is a glaring issue. Dr Drew is not a therapist, and although he's knowledgeable,
he lacks the tact that is typically aspired for by those in that profession.
I feel like we have amazing chemistry, and I see the goodness in you, and I know that you're always fighting to bring that out,
more than when you get upset, or you do this and that, and the stuff you regret. I don't ever see that as who you are,
I know who you are, and I love that person as a friend of mine.
Okay, well thank you.
I said it was Ethan's idea to bring Dr Drew on because he seems to take credit for bringing him on at the start of the video.
However, if this hadn't been explained, you would be forgiven for thinking that this individual was drafted in by Trisha.
I don't want to do that, I don't want to hurt anyone, even in my relationship now.
I am trying to sabotage it to not make it last, because I don't want to be harmful to anybody,
and I am, I'm dangerous to myself, I'm dangerous to other people, and it's bad.
Okay, so Ethan, can you see how when you say something like this is a weaponized, you're attacking me,
that's tough territory for her right now. You got it?
Yeah, no.
You understand? Okay.
Yeah, for sure.
So here's the deal.
Now I don't want to necessarily place all the responsibility onto Plinsky immediately,
because I accept that there was the possibility that Ethan briefed the Doctor in a specific way that would make him more drawn to sympathy on Trisha's end.
However, even some of the comments that he makes seem to be slanted or strangely passive aggressive.
Oh damn, Tana's looking pretty good.
Okay, stop it, stop it.
Okay.
Oh my goodness.
So, so, Immerse, so, I didn't know her at all, I didn't even know her name, and then I did that.
You're one of those people on the internet, my man.
Wait, me?
No, no, he is.
Oh, thank you.
Feeling free to attack people he doesn't know.
Exactly.
Wait, what do you mean one of those people?
One of those people that I'm swatting off every day, that doesn't understand that people that are out there on the internet are actually people.
I will preface by saying that I'm not a therapist, but I have experienced therapy, and I'd like to think I know a thing or two about working with people,
and one of the things that you should be doing as a therapist is helping someone open up.
Immediately antagonising someone publicly, even in semi-jest, is not going to do that.
It's not the only snarky remark he makes, and it really feels out of place for what he's been asked to do, however my issues don't end there.
One of the endless problems with Dr Drew are these closed statements that fail to explore a person's feelings.
I really don't want to go too much on a tangent here, but it's really important that a patient can find closure in their own judgement,
even if you've directed them there in a way.
The problem is, when you end the discussion of a particular topic prematurely, even if you think you've wrapped it up,
the discomfort in that person will linger, whether it's discomfort with your judgement, or doubt of their own judgement.
It's not a healthy place to leave someone, particularly if you directly conflicted with their own opinion.
Drew, you could tell me if I need to apologise or not on this one.
She looks like a Twinkie!
Alright, this is what Bonnicon was promoted as.
Apology warranted?
Um...
The yellow outfit was the...
In a weird way, that's making too much of nothing, which is, guess what, photographs lie.
And if we don't know that by now, then caveat emptor, you know what I mean?
And I think, I don't know that woman, I mean if you feel like you hurt her feelings, you should apologise.
You don't want to hurt her, I'd assume.
I don't think I've hurt her feelings, I think you just...
Yeah, I don't think she cares.
Right, so I don't think it's a big deal, but there is something to be learned from that, which is that photos lie, videos lie too.
Dr Drew kinda establishes himself as an authority in providing opinions on topics throughout the episode, and that's not really right.
Ethan doesn't handle this the best admittedly by thrusting the emphasis on whether he should apologise to Pinsky,
but at that point you as a therapist need to step in and say,
hey, it's not my job to arbitrate these specific situations, it's my job to help you arbitrate them yourselves.
Nobody needs to know Dr Drew's opinion on this subject to find resolution.
This isn't to say that he can't express feelings about certain matters,
and in many places he speaks with power to subjects that are helpful,
but he often seems too driven to make a judgement before all the facts are on the table.
Case in points?
Okay, there was an issue, this is a whole different issue, but I had an issue with my boyfriend, which is his brother-in-law,
with private DMs, he exposed all these private things, so there's no boundaries when it comes to me.
No, I get it.
But as soon as I bring up something private with him, then what triggered me was his like,
whoa, you're weaponising, oh my god, you're being abused and crazy now.
Yeah, I never weaponised anything against him.
No, no, no, you told me I was weaponising when all of a sudden I thought that was our relationship,
just saying whatever, just everything's out in the open, so I was like, okay.
That's what I thought, so she's confused.
It confuses her to not know where you're supposed to draw the line, right?
Yeah, I was shocked.
Okay, but don't you see why me now would never say anything like that to you in private?
I can see that, but the same thing, you read private text messages I sent only to you.
Hold on, hold on, Ethan, Ethan, not saying things in private to her because of that does not make you an open person, right?
You can't say, I'm totally open about everything, but I can't trust you, so I'm not going to be open.
It's okay, you don't have to tell everybody everything, but don't claim that you're wide open and telling everybody everything.
She's the one that's really wide open, too much, too much so, right?
I agree, I do agree with that.
Ethan has expressed a direct disagreement with what Trisha's recalling.
At that point, you have to unravel that, otherwise you can't be certain that the image that is being projected is an accurate one.
Instead, Dr Drew takes Trisha's word as gospel and moves in with his thoughts,
but without addressing the fact that this judgement may be based on presuppositions that aren't exactly true,
there's no guaranteed validity, and once again, no guaranteed closure.
If there's a sensitive personal subject that had previously been publicly revealed, that's very different to one being exposed for the first time.
In a way, Dr Drew is somewhat disadvantaged in judging these situations.
He is unfamiliar with the podcast, he clearly hadn't watched the situation transpire as he is approaching it with fresh eyes.
However, when you do that, you also need to know that someone's word may not be completely accurate,
and if you assume it to be right, you risk never bridging that divide.
Oh, and I've gotten help for the past year because I had two mental hospital stays where I was put on a 5150.
So like, I go into these, like...
These states.
Yeah, like, it's like a blackout where I'm like, not that person.
Yes.
And like, that was the first time that happened, so now that that's out there on the internet,
like everyone thinks that's just me, that I just like, abuse people, and it's like, it's never been that far.
It's difficult when dealing with Trisha because you don't want to risk triggering an episode,
but at the same time, you also want to be careful when dealing with someone whose narratives can be somewhat unreliable.
You could be providing life-changing advice, but it wouldn't matter if it's under false pretenses.
The presentation of this is couples counselling, but by the end it has really transformed into Trisha's counselling,
with the occasional input from Klein, and maybe it makes sense given that Trisha has more issues,
but when you're trying to repair that bond, there has to be some semblance that you're keeping a couple on even footing.
They have to be in this together.
Yeah, I can see why your relationships don't work out.
I can see why you've been with the same person for 12 years.
Thank you.
You have no other options, and quite frankly, I don't blame you.
Ethan may have had problems in how he interacted with Trisha.
He knew that friendlies needed conflict, but it's a fine line to walk,
and it's fair to say that at points he may have crossed a few sensitive boundaries.
However, it was a shared change that needed to be undertaken,
and even with the understanding that Trisha was working on themself,
they still had a commitment to the podcast as well if they wanted to maintain it.
Nonetheless, towards the end we appear to be moving in that direction,
as there seem to be heartfelt comments from both co-hosts,
expressing remorse for previous hostility, and expressing desire to build from that.
I do, I feel horrible.
I do apologise for being so nasty, like from the pill thing,
because I know how that feels, and I apologise for trying to be tough and badass,
and talking about Ela and everything.
I always feel bad, like I feel bad about it,
when it's not in a joking mode, when it wasn't, when you triggered me, I felt bad.
When I was like, good luck, trying to get your wife pregnant,
it was just a mean thing, I don't know what it was, and I'm sorry,
and I feel bad, like that's not me.
It's not the last time you'll do it.
At the end, you may have been given the impression that this was actually a proper reconciliation,
with Klein and Paytas thanking Dr Drew, committing to another episode with him in the future,
and the podcast ending on a considerably triumphant note,
but it all felt a bit hollow to me.
Maybe that's with the context of where we are right now,
but even then it's very difficult to take anything at face value,
because even becoming invested in this progression requires an assurance that we wouldn't end back in this place
that caused this episode to occur,
and I wouldn't think that everyone was prepared to invest themselves in that,
especially given the difficulty of acquiring the truth,
and how Trisha even presented that in the podcast.
It felt like we could end up here again,
and lo and behold, we did.
Yeah, Hila was watching and she said,
why didn't you tell her that she had powder on her lips?
I was like, I mean, I was staring at it the whole time.
You're so mean.
On my screen it just looked like a glint on your lip gloss.
In the beginning I said you have powder on your lips,
but then you didn't get it all off, and the whole episode I was just staring at.
Can we have Hila as a guest on our podcast?
No. She's busy. Don't talk about Hila.
We're cutting this part out. She doesn't want to be talked about.
Are you fucking serious?
We have to cut this.
That's fucking crazy.
Like, what's even the point in the one we talked about?
Because she doesn't like that you're always bringing her up
and saying how she doesn't like you and all this shit
because it's not true and she finds it annoying
because she doesn't want people to start thinking that she doesn't actually like you.
Well, she doesn't. Whatever. It's so fake,
and that's why H3 is not what it was,
because you guys are fake as fuck and cut things out.
Okay, you're like on a thing now.
I'm not. I just think it's so fake. It's so bullshit.
It's like, oh, let's talk about everything.
Ask not to be included.
And I'm respecting her request.
Ben, I'm not talking about anything personal anymore.
I won't talk about Moses. I won't talk about me.
Like, it's just, whatever. Who cares?
Should we...
Cut it. I didn't cut all of it. I literally couldn't kill us.
It was approaching Christmas when another frack has occurred,
this time over the topic of Hila not wishing to be spoken about on the podcast.
Both involved seem to try and fail to de-escalate the situation at different points,
causing discussion to rapidly intensify,
culminating in Trisha storming out
and making some exceptionally strong comments.
Over the next few days, Trisha put out videos elucidating on their feelings.
These videos were long-winded and not the clearest.
Some of them are very angry, some of them are sad,
but they all highlighted one thing,
that Trisha was struggling with their identity,
and often didn't know what portrait they wanted portrayed on the podcast,
yet they didn't feel like they had a choice in many capacities.
I don't like pushing myself for the sake of drama for the show.
I don't mind it to be.
I don't mind, obviously, I love Ethan and find Ethan funny.
I like our dynamic.
You know, it's very similar to when I was friends with David Dobrik.
I liked the poking.
I think it's fun.
I think it's entertaining, obviously.
People find it entertaining.
And I like it.
I find it somewhat stimulating to have an opponent, if you will.
But I do think Ethan pushes me to get this reaction of me walking out.
Me walking out is something I don't like.
This seemingly caused a lot of anguish within them,
and in many ways it looked like the only solution was to quit,
with Trisha even acknowledging it as a viable option.
However, after the success of Dr Drew's first appearance,
our expert was once more called in to settle their feud,
this time alongside Dr Mark Young,
an expert on entertainment and business.
Well, Dr Drew was already pre-booked for this appearance,
it just coincided with the pair falling out,
so I guess it all fell into place.
However, this episode was definitely more contentious than the last.
There are obviously tonal issues that I've previously discussed,
but many of people's problems come down to the core message of the episode.
It's two hours, and I'm not going to be talking about all of it.
Watch it yourself if you dare.
Arriving a wedge between Moses and his family.
There's one more piece that I think is important.
When I ask Moses, when Hila asks Moses about it,
Moses says, I didn't say that.
Yeah, that's actually not important.
The main question posed is how these two should be dealing with Trisha's outburst.
Now on Trisha's front this is a difficult question for sure,
but this is why you need someone who's actually an expert in this field.
Dr. Drew for all his abilities and qualifications is not,
so the focus often turns to Ethan,
where the discourse quickly becomes focused around how he should deal with Trisha,
but Dr. Drew's advice on this front also falls short.
You just will.
And Ethan, your job is to not respond to splitting.
Yeah, but she's driving, but I can't, if she's my wife.
I gotta get on your case for this one.
You are allowing the wedge to be put in the place.
She is doing what she does.
She is doing her splitting thing, and your job is to go, uh-huh.
You know also, Trisha, that one of your things is unregulated aggression, hostility.
Once it gets going, it goes, right?
Yeah.
And then Ethan somehow can't handle that when that happens.
I can handle it.
Well, no, you escalate it, as opposed to just containing it.
You gotta watch the clip.
The whole mantra of merely moving on from inflammatory behaviour seems rather disagreeable.
Maybe if they were both 10, it would be some wise old parenting adage, but they're not.
You are allowed to assert boundaries at this stage of a supposed friendship.
It's almost like Drew believes that any other action other than rolling over is innately provocative,
and that's just not true.
As a matter of fact, you could well be enabling toxic behaviour by not at least challenging it.
Personality disorders may make you more predisposed to certain behaviours,
and it may help understand and explain actions,
which is why it's important to approach these situations with sympathy,
but it is never an entire explanation,
because the moment it becomes that you're not only painting all those people with personality disorders in a bad light,
but you are giving a person a blank check to let it happen again.
So you shouldn't take offence when you don't know what's what.
You just can't take offence to stuff when people are just talking.
Later, if you're able to substantiate these things and find out that Moses is not trustworthy,
or does feel the way that Trisha's telling you, well then it's something to talk about.
But in the meantime, it's just whatever, don't react.
In a way, I think the problem comes down to the fact that Dr Drew has been brought on to save the podcast,
and maybe the only viable option in their mind is for Ethan to appease Trisha,
but it's not a healthy option long term,
and maybe in this scenario, the only way to save their actual substantive friendship
is to seek real therapy for each other,
and maybe not have every single interaction be a public spectacle.
I think, first of all, I'm willing to admit my mistake.
I should have definitely talked to you about this before we started recording.
I should have said, hey-
Can I stop you right there? That does not feel like you mean it.
Oh, it doesn't? I do mean it.
Make it really clear that you mean it,
because this will come back around to hurt you if she isn't convinced that you mean it.
One of the greatest issues of this generation of Hollywood experts and wannabe therapists
is that they are better at being media personalities than they are at dealing with real people
who wouldn't typically deal with their issues in the public spotlight.
I think it's completely acceptable to provide live advice in a format
that allows you to keep the person seeking advice anonymous,
or at least not make them the centre of the matter at hand.
However, when you're applying a very personal type of therapy,
you need more than charisma to make sure that what you're saying is actually helpful
for those who will inevitably take those words to heart.
Especially someone like Trisha.
What we were watching wasn't therapy, it was theatre,
and it was questioned whether the people involved were better off for it.
But I feel like with each of these blowups, you guys get,
I wouldn't say closer together, but it helps you guys manage your relationship better.
Also, this is the bullying builds character of 2020.
What a ridiculous statement.
Tell me what you think about the truth about what I mean by that.
You're asking me right now.
Because you're not being honest.
Okay, but do you want me to reply? I will be honest,
but I don't want you to be like, you're attacking my parenting.
Do you want my honest opinion?
No, because you said, well, okay.
You say, okay, well, your mom should be here then.
I do think I would have my mom watch over a nanny.
I don't trust strangers with my personal experience.
I don't think your nanny's the worst.
I'm just saying my personal experience.
This is not the exact conversation that happened,
and I don't think it's productive to go over it now.
Well, you just asked me.
Did you not just ask me to give you my opinion on this?
And that's what I'm saying.
Do you really want me to tell you?
I will.
I have no problem with it.
We already talked about this.
Okay, but you just asked me to give you an opinion again about it.
I heard your opinion.
I heard it.
I don't care to share it again.
I'm just saying like, if he wants me to reply, I will.
Because it's very obvious that she was in that moment digging as deep as possible.
I was not digging it.
He was pushing it.
Okay.
Okay.
Now, a lot of Frenemy's audience really resented Trisha immediately after this episode,
particularly given that Dr Drew's advice seems slanted in their favour,
but I find it hard to blame them in many ways for the actual advice they received.
The buck stops at self-proclaimed experts in this case,
and it's not like they're completely in the wrong.
Trisha does deserve sympathy, but just not in a way that invalidates how Ethan feels.
If Ethan was the therapist type, then maybe he'd be able to handle Trisha in a way that doesn't affect him,
but he's clearly bothered by Trisha's behaviour because Ethan is not a therapist.
In fact, sometimes he can be quite the opposite.
H3 is a hypocrite, because he said n***a on his podcast.
It's like, dude, you are fucking, you call yourself a news source, like get fucking real.
You know what, if you think I'm wrong, if you think that I'm a racist and a hypocrite,
if you didn't bother to watch the podcast and you downvoted and you left a mean comment
and you called me a hypocrite, fuck off.
Unsubscribe.
Don't watch.
Because we'll have a lot less of that shit to deal with in the future.
Team Star, the pinnacle of logic and sanity on YouTube.
I have a strange relationship with Ethan Klein.
I was always a massive fan of his work with H3H3 Productions,
and I don't think my appreciation for his content has ever fully dissipated,
but I do think the podcast kinda revealed to me that he had a few more layers than those which were displayed on the original channel,
and in a way, it's not exactly a massive surprise.
He always had the ability to be quite pointed towards people,
I mean, that's how he first came into conflict with Trisha,
but when it's in that environment, you can always write it off as comedy.
On the podcast, it didn't always feel like that, it can come across as quite cynical and trenchant.
I think sometimes that can provoke people, mostly people who aren't there,
but still, if you're doing a podcast with a person who is easily provoked,
then maybe you should be more considerate,
but at the same time, you also need to retain some sort of sense of self,
otherwise you're gonna be holding yourself back,
and I think the challenge posed to Ethan after this episode was one of great magnitude,
yet although I've made it clear that I think Dr Drew's advice was subpar,
I think Ethan seemed to find his own resolution that worked quite well for a bit.
What we have here today is the steamies, as if drinking the piping hot steamy tea.
Oh, I thought it was like a steamy dump.
Yeah, that also went through my head.
You can think of it either way, it's a steamy dump, it's a steamy tea.
What it is, is the real award show of 2020 that you wish was here,
but the steamies are too much cowards to actually cover what matters.
The next episode after Dr Drew was the steamies, a self acclaimed honest spin on the streamies,
an award show where all the fantastic influencers celebrate their successes.
However, in the steamies, these awards were a bit more ironic,
with Trisha even being in attendance to pick out their award for the most dramatic creator,
what a coincidence.
47.1% Trisha Banks!
Wow, you won, here it is.
Most dramatic creator of the year, they love you, they really love you.
And we have a very own Frenemies styled rhinestones steamies presented to you.
We're going to have to get this engraved for Trisha Paytas, most dramatic creator of 2020.
Congratulations.
Their first video of the new year seemed to follow in a similar direction,
and it helped they have the substance to work with.
Frenemies is under attack, that's going to be the title, it's going to be really good.
Frenemies is under attack, okay I like that.
It's true though, it's true.
Most two of YouTube's most controversial personalities is creating new conversations about mental health.
That sounds good, right?
I don't like being a poster child for like mental health, all of a sudden it's like BPG and mental health.
I agree, I don't like it either, we're just two friends doing a podcast.
I did watch your H3 live a little bit about someone saying like,
I just hate that that's what it's about, like how dare he collab with a girl with a mental health issues.
It's not like I killed somebody and I should be like locked in prison forever.
You see, over the Christmas parade, their squabbles and subsequent attempts to patch it up
had caught the eye of certain publications and creators,
who felt that the content published on the Frenemies podcast bordered on exploited.
Ethan as the chief organiser of topics comes in with the spin that Frenemies is under attack,
maybe a bit hyperbolic, but it provides a springboard for them to reinforce their bond.
I think in this case it works, uniting them around a cause.
Ethan also goes out of his way to reassure and support Trisha.
A lot of people really appreciated this,
they used this momentum to transition into a really good segment in it where they just watch old clips of Trisha on TV,
something that I absolutely adore, maybe it's just my love of game shows, but it's really wholesome.
The entire episode is actually quite great,
and many people commented how refreshing it was that they genuinely seemed like friends here,
and I began to think, maybe Dr Drew's advice wasn't the best, maybe his tone was too blase for most,
but maybe it's what made Trisha the happiest, maybe it's what made them the most confident going into the podcast,
and maybe it provided a sense of resolution on that identity issue that they had expressed conflict over.
Therapy isn't a one-size-fits-all method, and if Ethan's main goal was to keep the podcast going,
and he still seemed to have a good time, then who was I to judge? Maybe I was being too critical.
Yeah, they're like, if you touch her, you'll be escorted off, like mid-show, we don't care.
I was like, okay, and then I touched your own ass, and I was like, oh no!
What a diva, you're just Ellen, you're just a TV host, you're not the fucking queen.
I know, I was so nervous.
Wait, I didn't, okay, see, this is great, I'm glad we're doing this.
The episodes after this seem to be continuing in this vein, and people actually seem to be preferring this style.
It still seemed pretty sharp and witty, but what a change.
What about all the Beatles?
Well, I think John Lennon's the only one that said that they're bigger than God.
They all corroborate with it.
To be honest, they kinda are bigger than God.
I think God is the biggest.
Okay, name one song he's made.
Well, not much on the surface.
Ethan didn't seem to become a shell of himself like some were probably worried, and Trisha seemed a lot more optimistic going into the new year.
However, I do think the awards show illustrated one of Ethan and Trisha's greatest combined strengths,
that although their spontaneity had its own appeal, they worked their best when they were building off and reacting to other material.
It's a very simple observation at its core, but all of the worst arguments seem to begin when Ethan and Trisha become too fixated on themselves,
and their own conduct, procedure, and sometimes that of the podcast and those close to them in the moment,
typically when one of them took it personally.
Sometimes it's a hard discussion to avoid, given Trisha's nature to go off on tangents about their personal life.
Nonetheless, I think that Ethan came into 2021 with a refreshed sense of focus.
Although they both were still somewhat easily distracted, he would often bring the video back to the core thesis.
He didn't allow himself to be pulled away towards subjects that could lead down a problematic path, and I think that was definitely beneficial.
I also think that with the new year and the new drama, there was a new purpose.
Things seemed to be looking up for once, and whoever was responsible for it should have given themselves a pat on the back.
Maybe Dr Drew was the therapist we didn't want, or the therapist we needed, but were we missing something?
Here's the thing, there were a lot of theories at the time that Trisha and Ethan played up that drama for the camera,
which is in a way what they were responding to that episode.
Some believed there was a financial incentive to do so, and it's not like that theory holds no water,
those moments did tend to receive more publicity from the podcast and other sources,
but they were so successful without that conflict, it wasn't necessary for their collaboration subsistence,
and often with the fate of the podcast on the line, it's not a boundary worth pushing, the long term trade-off was not worth it.
If anything, the content at the start of 2021 showed that frenemies have the ability to be just as successful without hostility,
and I think this movement towards a more cemented friendship was almost enough in itself, and very satisfying for audience members to watch.
Now make no mistake, they were also helped by an influx of drama which covered creators that Trisha and Ethan both had interactions and history with,
ranging from Shane to David Dobrik to James Charles, and when pickings were this plentiful, they didn't have to skimp out on topics.
She was upset that I was going to make out with Seth, and so I flipped out.
You being mad about the Seth make out thing is crazy. It's crazy. It's crazy.
Is it?
Was that real? Like him saying it's crazy three times, or is that edited?
No, that's the clip, unedited.
Not being comfortable with it, and here's the footage, and not only you saying you're not comfortable with it,
but David was, I mean, look, people misuse gaslighting all the time, this is gaslighting.
Right, right, right.
Because you know something's wrong, and he's trying to convince you that you're crazy.
Right.
However, this didn't mean that they didn't share more personal moments or tackle difficult subjects.
In fact, as I've shown, Ethan really went out of his way to support Trisha.
They even had an episode where Trisha spoke about many of their struggles growing up, which at the time seemed pretty riveting.
We weren't close. My dad was in California when we lived in Illinois, and my mom, I had issues with my stepdad, so that was my main focus.
Well, not my stepdad, one of her boyfriends, and so that was my main focus at home, and then I tried to say stuff, and then I was like, oh, I'm not going to say anything.
My mom worked for a job, so we were by ourselves all the time.
She worked at the country club. She was a bus driver. She was a substitute teacher.
She worked so much, and so her boyfriends would be home or whatever, but it was bad.
It was, you know, I thought if my own principal doesn't believe me, no one's going to believe me.
You're not a pathological liar anymore.
Pathological? What's that?
You said you're a chronic liar.
Oh, like you think I'm lying about this now? No, I'm not lying about it.
I just am asking because I know people are going to be like, she admits she's a pathological liar, and you can't trust anything she says.
Um, like when I was younger, but I'm not now. I don't lie. I make a really conscious effort to not...
I believe everything you say. I don't think you're a liar.
Many people really felt like Trisha was beginning to change as a person, and in a way, they definitely were.
They were being nice to Ethan, tolerating his assertive comments, saying a lot of genuinely sweet things that many viewers found legitimately endearing.
However, I'll bring it back to Dr Drew, and the notion of mutual change that I felt was a bit neglected.
At the end of the day, Ethan certainly was capable of doing more to accommodate Trisha,
and if you would rather cater to Trish than ask more of them to keep the podcast going, then I think that's justified.
But there was still one element that I think Trish needed to provide, and that was trust.
I think my trust with, like, influencers in general, like, I really thought they were my friends, so when you kept being like,
I'm here for you, I'm your friend, and I was like, uh, you know what I mean? I feel like maybe a lot of that is...
I think there's plenty of other things that caused trauma in your life before that, though.
I think that they really... I went to a mental hospital for the first time in my life after David and Jason.
It should be no surprise that with their history and their dispositions, Trisha isn't a very trusting person,
and in a way, it's not like I blame them. I think it's very difficult to trust people when you've had that trust abused in the way that Trisha seems to express it.
However, Ethan isn't like those other people, and I have my problems with Ethan, make no mistake,
but sometimes a weakness can also be a strength, and one of my criticisms is that Ethan can play favourites a little too much.
Now everyone is biased, however, I think Ethan is unreasonably harsh towards some people, and far too lenient with others.
Particularly in the episodes where they were covering drama, Ethan really used an aspect of himself to go at many people Trisha had expressed issues with,
really asserting his loyalty, but Pater's reaction often showed there was still an inkling of doubters to Ethan's sincerity.
It always just fell short of the heartfelt moment, at which point you began to wonder if there was anything Ethan could do to break through.
Trisha isn't a stranger to making sassy comments, but they always seemed like a way to shift the tone of a conversation
and prevent themselves from showing that vulnerability and trust that may allow someone like Klein in.
You could tell their wall was built high, and in a normal world, many would say that this is profoundly illogical.
Even if you loathe Ethan, all logical roots would point towards his desire to maintain good terms with Trisha, beyond the podcast as well.
The personal investment was significant, especially given Trisha was now Moses's fiance.
Hell, they even did a whole couples episode, with Hila making an appearance as well.
Alright, Ethan and Trisha first.
In many senses, Ethan was bending over backwards to stand up for Trisha.
He gave them a platform to speak on certain matters, he believed them, he advocated for them at every opportunity.
This caused backlash of points, particularly when he went toe to toe with other creators over dramatic matters,
particularly when people didn't believe Trisha's testimonies, which outside of the H3 fanbase was still a significant online presence.
In numerous episodes where David Debrick and the Vlog Squad are addressed, Trisha has a lot of history and baggage with them,
and much of that is aired to the point where Trisha claimed that lawyers were becoming evil.
Ethan was prepared to antagonise himself to certain audiences if it meant backing his partners,
with Skep soon billing him as opportunistic and only siding with Trisha because of their status and the revenue it brought.
Now, I'll give my own subjective opinion on it in due time, but it was divisive then,
but between that divide, Ethan sided with Trisha. Was Trisha completely on Ethan's side?
Well, in episode 29 there's this interesting interaction where Ethan makes a comment directed towards Trisha about their weight.
Trisha then retorts by insulting his hair, this then leads into a rather elongated discussion about which one of them is fatter,
all in all it seems like a pretty inconsequential conversation, until around 40 minutes later when Trisha decides to retract their statement and apologise for their previous comment.
At that moment it seems like quite a nice gesture, but there's a catch.
Now, if you believe that Ethan should have apologised for his comment then fair enough,
but it's a strange situation because those sorts of jokes never seemed off-limit prior,
and as Ethan points out, the expectation that someone else should apologise for something isn't a good motive for an apology.
The point is though that he didn't apologise, and there's a moment of awkwardness while Trisha processes Ethan's response,
and you just have this feeling that something still isn't quite there for them.
Ethan was only prepared to compromise on so much, and it was unclear whether Trisha was fully satisfied with that.
The End
With acknowledgement to the previous part and everything life said in it,
The Frenemies episode still seemed headed in the right direction, with an energy that did become more positive.
It still seemed viable that Trisha would finally settle in the place that they were,
with the people they were with. The absence of those more large-scale conflicts would make many believe we were perhaps
approaching calmer waters, and no one could really be blamed for expecting anything else.
At the start of episode 37, Trisha seems in rather high spirits.
They mention that there had been an argument with Klein, but both parties express reluctance to delve into details,
and they seem happy to move on from it. Maybe people noted how exuberant Trisha was during this episode,
maybe even a bit too exuberant.
So anyway guys, head on over to Trisha, or sadboy2005.com
This is our first collab, we have four more collabs coming out this year, and then we're gonna start our own in-house stuff.
Daddy First is definitely an inspiration. I've always wanted to do a clothing line, but I never saw anyone do it.
Not that it's easy, but seeing you guys do it, I was like, this could be attainable. You know what I mean?
I feel like, I don't know. Anyways, I'm really excited. I feel like the quality is good.
Everything's hand stitched, hand printed, like this is hand dyed, this is hand sprayed on, yeah.
They dyed this, this purple and blue.
Someone questioned a few of the comments made during this podcast on whether they were completely alright,
with someone wondering if they were having a manic episode.
Regardless, as good as their mood appeared to be, there was one talking point they did briefly stop on.
They're about they're about equal kind of a point for me. Oh, my God.
Technically, we because you didn't actually anyways, you know, I pay logistic, but you get a little extra from front of me said to pay the crew. So we pay them for Mondays. You did tell me that. Oh, so I pay them to from our earnings of interesting.
The arrangement between the two split the podcast profits 55% to 45% in Ethan's favour, with 5% going towards production costs.
In exchange, Ethan also claims that he organises the episodes and does the rest of the work.
Trisha decides that this isn't really a topic for discussion right now, and although Ethan persists a little longer, the conversation subsides shortly after.
It seems like a mostly trifling detour, one of many, but I'll put a pin in it for future reference.
The next episode is a mostly entertaining, albeit uneventful vlog, where Trisha continues to impress people with their encyclopedic knowledge of Hollywood.
They're actually right, fair play. Anyhow, I digress, though once again Trisha does scold Ethan for not coming in costume, it all seems fairly friendly, and I shan't dwell on it.
I think we should turn our attention to the next episode.
In this episode there is a pretty significant development in the client's personal life, that being that Hila is now pregnant.
The podcast's reaction seems fairly elated, and Trisha seems equally excited for the both of them, even being surprisingly self-aware about their emotional response to the news.
I think a lot of people have retrospectively tried to read into Trisha's response here, but honestly nothing seems particularly out of the ordinary.
Trisha seems pretty hyped about the release of their new music video, which is an homage to My Chemical Romance, and it was Pride Month as well.
Maybe everything was turning out just as we had hoped, two couples, both happy and healthy, making their way in the world and rooting for each other.
In spite of all the uncertainty, this may have been the completion of the arc that we had followed, but not all endings are as happy as we'd like them to be.
It's difficult when you're watching these videos at that moment to really know exactly what's going on between them,
and it was completely understandable that people had the impression that Ethan and Trisha were consolidating their friendship.
The topics yielded a lot of unifying moments, and they seemed closer than ever in many ways.
The incidents that I have picked out in the previous part didn't happen on a rather regular basis,
but they still underlined that failure to take the final step to put that trust in Ethan's hand.
There was still that doubt as to whether Ethan could give Trisha what they wanted, but what did Trisha want?
One point that I've covered a while back was one of Trisha's first appearances on the podcast.
They've always had a slightly strange dynamic with Ethan often switching between an I hate you stick and an off-puttingly flirtatious vibe that wasn't always met with approval by those who interacted with it.
Now, I'm not here to say that I think Trisha ever hailed strong feelings for Ethan, although some people hypothesised it.
I think their often quirky behaviour in that domain could be put down to past interactions.
At the same time, I think there was definitely an expectation that at that point of the podcast, they would be the priority.
I don't mean this in a romantic sense, but I think as they became more and more familiar with each other,
Trisha seemed to develop a belief that they would have more influence on the general identity of the podcast itself,
and they would be able to direct it rather than being this guest for hire.
Trisha is an extremely distrusting person, and wherever there was something that seemed to bother them, some discrepancy in their mind,
they would use it to fuel their own doubts, and to cut themselves loose from the person that they believed to be the source of that.
I think Trisha, like many people, almost became enslaved by their own expectation, that expectation for the podcast to crash and burn.
Every now and then they'd make these comments that invited Ethan to rise to the insult, or escalate them even,
in a way that would provide them with some justification of completely severing that tie, freeing them from the obligation.
It was a technique that often died down, and was even sometimes resolved shortly after,
but if the mood was right, or wrong even, it was the sort of thing that could spiral, and in episode 39, it did.
Alright, so anyway, I mentioned the name of the person who's finally ready to talk about Gabbie Hanna today.
Talking about Gabbie Hanna, what could possibly go wrong?
Unlike other episodes with instants, what we were about to witness wasn't immediately apparent judging by the thumbnail and title.
This may be due to the fact that Ethan didn't want to make it seem like he was cashing in on the conflict,
or perhaps because Ethan didn't view it as second to the much more prominent conversation relating to the titular subject,
Gabbie Hanna, a person who may have helped bring Trisha and Ethan together in the first place.
Episode 39 starts like many episodes do, unexceptionally.
Trisha doesn't seem to be quite as energised as previous episodes, but it's not out of the realms of normality.
Ethan is ominously dressed in an unconfessed costume again,
have barely a few minutes in, and Trisha is already dissatisfied at the affairs relating to their costumes,
seemingly frustrated by the lack of control they have over its selection.
This goes on for a couple minutes before they reach some sort of resolution where Ethan commits to doing more Trisha's costume suggestions,
and the next half an hour passes without major incident,
though Trisha does make a few comments towards Ethan about the procedure of the podcast.
However, one comment in particular that should have set up some red flags was this one.
Here Trisha is setting a mark up, they are not in a good mood, they have a lot of hate in their hearts,
and at that point Ethan tries to ease any tension by jovially reassuring Trisha,
though they don't seem particularly heartened by his attempts.
There's a skit shortly after which seems to cut through any agitation in the moment,
but the topic of Gabbie Hanna, someone who Trisha has only stated they do not really like to discuss typically,
given they believe Gabbie is stalking them, is a bold choice.
It certainly seems to play into their sense of paranoia,
how the conversation manages to tangentially end up at the ever-popular topic of pizza, and they bond over that.
It seems the mood has been restored, and all is well once more,
but then we cut to the ad segment, and we notice an empty chair alongside our festery friend.
He explains the situation, and he doesn't seem too distraught about it,
describing the incident as a little blowout, and proceeding with the routine ad reads.
However, regardless of the scale of this clash, it was obviously a departure from the conflict-free record,
and many were left anticipating the inevitable, and what exactly would spawn it.
While the topic of Gabbie Hanna continues, and while they both seem to have some sort of rational grasp on the topic,
they do venture through some subjects that Trisha clearly finds triggering,
particularly regarding an interview which they felt wasn't completely in good faith.
Trisha seems to take this quite seriously, but also quite soberly,
and Ethan provides his standard support,
though they do seem to dwell on points that may be considered a little morbid for someone of Trisha's paranoid disposition,
perhaps not the best choice.
We can't, there's no steamy nomination for her either, we cannot mention her ever again.
Most likely to assassinate Trisha Paytas.
Stop!
And the winner is...
And then we invite her up, and we give her a knife as a reward.
Stop! That's why I bring security, I have security guards that come with me everywhere, I'm not kidding.
She will show up.
Most likely to kill Trisha with this knife.
So scary.
With all that said, there is the idea that Trisha being able to vent may have been able to lift that weight off their shoulders,
and they seem to express this sentiment of greater stability as well,
since cutting certain toxic people out of their life.
Even my aura, my stability in my mind, the fact that I can handle triggers.
Good auras.
Do you know what I mean? Yeah, and I've gone to therapy, I've been going to therapy since 2019, so you could say therapy,
but at the same time, I'm like, I really think since I really left that, everything's been so much better.
Very interesting.
Yeah, everything, like health, like money, like everything just flows friendships.
But then, not too soon after the pizzas arrived, there were signs of discontent.
No, I got black olives, pineapple, and jalapeno, and it's insane. So good.
Wait, no, not my discontent, Trisha's discontent, though we are gonna have words about those pineapples, Ethan.
No, the real problem arises when Trisha begins to talk about Brokeback Mountain,
a romantic drama about two cowboys who've become romantically intertwined in a rather unaccepting environment.
Trisha was clearly very invested in the plotline, and also the narratives that were still relevant to this day in their mind.
Ethan, however, becomes a little distracted by the pizza, and the awkwardness radiates through the screen.
There's still, people are still like that, like trans people arguing feet in their face to death.
Oh, I'm so over that shit.
And so like watching it, I was just like holy shit, and like Heath Ledger, Jake Gyllenhaal said Heath Ledger refused to make like gay jokes about it like during the Oscars, and I don't know.
Is there a third pizza?
You're so not good about this.
I just want to make sure that everyone got pizza.
I don't like this segment, just for the record, fan advice is so stupid.
It's a little rude on Ethan's part given the subject, but it's nothing that needs to escalate.
How Patricia, clearly feeling wronged, decides to go in.
I never pick the costumes, I never do the vlogs, I give so many ideas, I say dancing for the vlogs, I give all these ideas, and you don't.
What's wrong with the advice?
I don't think it's a good segment.
The people want to hear from us.
Okay, do it.
I'm telling you my opinion and all the vlogs we've done, I've suggested other vlogs and like that never does.
Well if you don't like it, then we shouldn't do it.
Okay.
In terms of the show about me and you.
No, but you're saying I do all the work, but I'm telling you I don't like all the stuff you do.
I'm just kind of go with it because I'm like, okay, I guess this is what you want to do, but I have to start saying no, because some things are just not good ideas.
Although this feels like a rather dramatic change in tone, you can tell that these are frustrations that have been boiling up, particularly given their prior mentions.
Although Ethan feels like he does the heavy lifting, Trisha clearly doesn't feel like they've been given the chance to, and is quite blunt about it.
They also don't think the material for the podcast is original enough.
But you're asking like, we do all the work.
It's like we spent one friend of me rehashing all the stuff you said about Keemstar and H3 Live, which was two days prior.
Okay, it happened one time.
No, it's happened before where you just like bring up stuff that you already mentioned and it's fine.
Why are you attacking me?
You asked me, you said tell me, and I'm telling you like all your, just because you guys come up with everything doesn't mean it's good.
It's recycled, a lot of it, so it's like I can come up with new ideas.
Not a lot of it.
A lot of it.
No.
Mm-hmm.
If you have ideas, I'm all ears.
I watch H3 Live and we talk about the same thing, and I'm happy to talk about it.
It's not always like that.
It's happened before, I agree.
It happened last time.
It's happened a lot.
Sometimes I forget what I've talked about, honestly.
But you're saying you have all this crew that does all this work for you, and nobody could remember that you talked about that two days prior?
I agree.
Somebody should have said something.
I was like, guys, why don't you tell me when I'm talking about the same shit over and over?
Because I tell to them, I go, yo, make sure to include this.
And they go, okay, but I go, oh shit, I talked about the same thing.
Ethan defends himself on this front, though conceding on one point, while asking Trisha to be a bit more honest with their emotions,
something which then prolongs this tension, eventually leading into the dreaded discussion surrounding revenue split,
which once again comes back to the notion of control.
But I feel like you're so angry about this.
I'm literally not, but it's so funny.
At least you are.
I'm not, I'm angry when you say something.
You need to admit when you're angry.
Ethan, I promise you, this really is gaslighting.
I go to a lot of therapy right now, and this really is.
When I say I'm not angry, I'm not.
I'm just trying to tell you that you're like, oh, we do everything for the show, and I'm saying it's not always good.
I'm not angry.
If I was angry, I would leave or something, but I'm not.
But you're telling me I'm angry?
You're upset or something.
I'm not.
People we hire.
Why would I ask you about people I hire?
Because it's front of me, and you take the budget for paying for the crew.
That's what you told me.
You take highlights, you take 5% to pay the crew.
So why don't I get any input on the crew or what we do?
These are employees of our production company.
So why are you taking highlights and 5% in front of me?
You told me that it was to pay them.
It's for production costs.
Okay, but you told me at the beginning, it's like they could be working on other things.
So I made that argument, too.
I'm like, well, they're already age 3.
Oh, they could be working on other things.
So I'm like, okay, in that case-
It's for production costs.
I take 5% extra from the podcast revenue, and I take the highlights revenue, and everything else we split.
Right, so for production costs.
Yeah, and so we had to buy-
But that was the first time we ever spent money on production costs.
It's not about that, dude.
It's literally about we are producing the show, and I'm taking a cut.
I feel like that's beyond reasonable.
All the highlights.
Beyond reasonable.
5%.
5%.
Do you realize how much 5% was of our last one?
That should be enough.
But also highlights, and then you weren't the membership I had to fight for because you weren't-
Oh, I forgot to tell you about the members.
It's crazy.
I'm giving you 50% of all the members.
Trisha seems rather irritated, despite proclaiming that they're not.
And when Ethan expresses this, it only seems to worsen their mood, with Trisha believing they're being gaslit.
This then causes them to express doubt regarding Ethan's intentions.
And then Ethan, once again giving up, concedes that he must have gaslit her.
Because you can be upset and still show up.
But I'm not upset, and that's what gaslighting is, because you're saying I'm gaslighting you by saying-
I'm gaslighting you. You're not upset. You're perfectly-
Oh, wow.
You're in a perfect condition right now.
But this was a great mistake.
Wow. Holy cow, that's crazy.
I mean, I don't know how you- I just don't see what you just did. That's really crazy.
What did I do?
We have to end it now. Like, really.
What did I do?
I'm gonna stop for real. Really.
Okay.
Please. Please.
Trisha, let me just say, I'm sorry.
The fact, Ethan, that you just did that, you're right.
You're right. Nothing's wrong with you.
That's- but I go- you don't know how much therapy I go to a week.
I go to four Zoom sessions a week.
I understand, but-
Ethan, what you just said was, you're right, Trisha.
Everything's fine. That's insane.
The fact that you did that to me is like-
This is one of the problems with the rollover strategy.
Sometimes it's completely the wrong thing to do.
In this case, Trisha is expressing a doubt, a product of paranoid thinking.
There is no doubt in my mind that Ethan was not trying to gaslight them.
He just wanted clarity on how they are feeling.
But Trisha continued to push that theory,
and in the hopes that admitting it would make it die down, Ethan does just that.
The problem is that Trisha doesn't want that.
They didn't want to be right in that case, because what they were expressing is something that
represents their worst fears, that Ethan is just taking advantage of them and reaping the rewards,
and psychologically deceiving them whenever they bring it up.
In this case, their thoughts were that by framing their behaviour as angry or frustrated,
Ethan was trying to use their emotional response to discredit their legitimate criticism.
Although in a difficult spot, Ethan should have stood his ground,
explained his perception, and tried to calm the situation through a rational de-escalation.
But he did seem tired, and his concession, despite perhaps being a mistake,
may have been a reflection of his own mental exhaustion of trying to upkeep a podcast that was taking its toll.
With that said, given his sponsor segment, he clearly expected this to be resolved by the next episode.
After all, we had seen Trisha evolve a lot as a person in her time on the podcast.
Alas, this appeared to actually be the podcast's final episode,
as the following morning Trisha announced that they were stepping down from Frenemies indefinitely.
Trisha- I get it, I get now he's saying that H3O produces, and he deserves that as a producer,
but it's like I would have loved the opportunity to pitch in half for the set to, you know,
because I really do feel like I built this show like with them, like at 50-50,
like I don't think I'm the main reason because God knows my channel
and my podcast doesn't do like what Frenemies does, you know what I mean?
But at the same time, like H3O, it wasn't doing what it's doing now either.
I feel like I helped build that, like I thought Frenemies, we were building together,
like from the beginning was like 5% goes to the, to help the crew,
and then the other goes to production class, so I thought we were like building something,
like building, it was going to be like a bigger set, bigger things, bigger vlogs,
but it's just like, if I knew I was coming in as a third H3O show,
like I swear hand to God would not have done it.
And then yesterday just, you know, hearing that like, you know, he's the producer
and he does everything when I just, I really tried hard to contribute
and I really tried hard to like bring my own stuff every week and I feel like I did,
I feel like I had topics and stuff and it's just like, it hurt me.
As a video, it is extremely incoherent, but it's not hostile.
Trisha expressed great regret over the decision they're taking
and vents many of the frustrations that seem to be creeping up on them in the final podcast episodes.
They felt that Frenemies had become such an independent force of content
that they deserved a balanced input, something they didn't have.
They in hindsight admit that they were frustrated, but didn't feel like they were in that moment,
and obviously didn't respond well to Ethan's comments.
They've also felt generally uncomfortable with the crew, and certain incidents have certainly underlined that.
With the knowledge that this feeling is mutual, they don't want to return to that environment with anyone walking on eggshells.
Although they stand by their gripes, they're clearly upset with how they handled it,
and they wish it hadn't ended like that, and they hope they can remain firm friends with Ethan and Hila.
I will say for the record, Ethan and Hila have been so freaking kind to me.
And I hope it doesn't affect our personal relationship.
Because obviously, they are, like, gotta be family.
I really love them.
But at the same time, I always say, don't work with family, don't work with people you're close with.
I kind of feel that, you know, right?
As a video, I can understand why some may have issues with its presentation and maybe its message too,
but I honestly think that maybe stepping down was the best thing to do here,
and Ethan seemed to reluctantly yet graciously accept their resignation,
putting out a couple tweets on the matter which expressed disappointment,
yet acceptance, stating that he had done all he could.
Anyway, it was a bittersweet moment.
With this in mind, we could finally bring the Frenemy saga to a close.
A nice, peaceful close where everyone remains friends and we can all move forward together.
This crazy yet flawed experiment was finally over.
May it rest in peace.
Yeah, right.
There ain't no rest for the wicker though,
and as quickly as it seemed the drama came to a peaceful conclusion, it reignited once again.
Ethan was clearly unhappy that Trisha announced publicly that they were stepping back from the podcast
before speaking to him, which I can understand,
and he reached out expressing his own frustrations.
Trisha responded to this by posting another video called One More Thing,
not the title of their new sad boy song, admittedly.
The H3 employees have nothing to do with Frenemies as far as our 5% salary.
The 5% thing.
Yes, Ethan gets an extra 5% from the main channel, but he also gets 100% of the highlights,
so technically 105%, and the highlights make a shit ton of money.
I add up the views of our Frenemies highlights,
I'm not talking about the H3 highlights, I have our Frenemy highlights,
and that's like, it's literally probably half of what we make.
It's a lot, I would guess.
Anywhere from $50,000 to like $80,000 a month, that's just a guess.
I don't know, I don't see the numbers, I never do.
And I'm not asking for the crew to be fired, the crew have been so great to me,
I'm asking, and Ethan and I came to terms with it last night to have a producer,
even if they had a new hire, I would love my sister.
There's a couple couples working on a show or whatever,
or people related to each other, the 5%, and talking about their salary,
and the crew only gets 5%, I have no idea what the group gets paid,
I lashed out that I didn't like the ideas, and I lashed out on Ethan,
because Ethan is the one that presents me the ideas.
I don't know how it works with them, I don't know who comes up with it,
I don't know how they brainstorm, I don't know any of that,
because I'm not included in any of that.
The video is meant to be a clarification on the money matter,
though once again, Trisha goes off on various tangents,
and it seems mostly unexceptional as Trisha videos go,
certainly a departure from the angry Trisha that we had seen before.
Ethan, however, feeling that Trisha's responses were quite unsporting,
tweeted his frustration, claiming that the video was causing undue hate towards the crew.
Now, as a video, it's more defensive than aggressive,
and I would be surprised if it changed that much,
but once again, that was their experience.
Trisha, however, obviously felt hard done by because they believed
that Ethan was using the crew as a shield to try and attack their voice.
I can understand why this may have bothered them in the moment,
but the best thing they could do in that case was to make sure they didn't prove Ethan's point.
We all know that when Trisha feels Ethan isn't being just, it will spiral,
and from here there were a series of tweets by both parties,
mostly Trisha, arguing their case.
Many people were urging Trisha in particular to take a step back,
especially after DMs began to be published,
which actually ended backfiring when people pointed out Trisha's curious use of certain terms.
In this case, both sides seemed to relent momentarily,
with H3 stating that he needs to take a step back on the night
and expressing regret over his tweets,
and Trisha doing the same the following morning.
Many wanted them to hash this out in private,
and with both sides seeming to warp back their conduct a little,
it was thought that maybe this would be the opportunity.
The problem is that I think Trisha did legitimately feel like they were being treated poorly,
and when they're trapped in an environment with someone who they feel is acting without the best intentions,
they don't want to combine themselves to that space.
Yet, instead of consulting a friend or a reliable third party,
they decide to make the internet their trusted confidant,
a generally bad decision, not just for yourself,
but for the other person who feels that you're betraying their trust by taking it to such a public platform.
Social media for Trisha was event space, and not one that was very healthy.
The following morning, though, Trisha posted a video titled I'm Sorry,
where they channel those regretful sentiments,
they apologise a lot and believe it was a misunderstanding,
and insist they don't want to be viewed as that hateful monster that they may have appeared as the day before.
This is something that they genuinely felt bad about.
With both sides back to a more sympathetic stance after a brief moment where emotions overflowed,
it seemed that maybe both parties could find closure on this matter.
This was the conclusion that we needed.
However, it was not the conclusion that we deserved.
Why did we forsake God?
Hello everybody.
Not a typical episode, obviously.
Now, for many, episode 39 is technically regarded as the last episode of Frenemies.
However, there is one more video in the Frenemies playlist,
a video uploaded on the 10th of June 2021,
two days after Trisha officially quit,
by then addressing much of the drama that had been occurring.
He comes into this video with the intent of correcting the record,
given that Trisha had been making a variety of public statements.
Ethan seemed to be approaching this with the signature peace and love,
and not wishing to burn any bridges.
So I say with peace and love that, you know, as a friend,
I have come to love and appreciate Trisha.
You know, as a partner, I think she's one of the funniest people I've ever known,
you know, one of the most dynamic and entertaining people I've ever known.
She puts me in these tough situations where it's like,
I'm losing no matter what.
She can say whatever she wants, you know, what she puts out publicly,
and then, you know, if I just sit and take it, everything's distorted.
And if I say anything, then I'm the bad guy for, you know,
coming after something, which is not my intention at all.
This, just for the record, is not.
The video seems to seek to clarify certain points that were made,
first being the employment one.
Ethan states that they actually discussed this after the argument on episode 39,
and Ethan had agreed to let Trisha bring on a producer to try and ease Trisha's discomfort with the current arrangements.
So the day after we shot, after we had like broken up,
we had a conversation for the first time ever about her wanting to hire new staff
that she would look for and hire to work on Frenemies.
That was the first time we had ever discussed that.
And after talking it out with her, I agreed.
I said, okay, we can, you know what?
Again, because I just want to make everything smooth and manageable.
We had this big blowout. We talked the evening afterwards.
I said, you know what? Let's hire a producer.
You tell me who you want to hire, and I'll hire him.
His only stipulation was that the situation would be left to settle for a few days.
However, the following day, he was blindsided by Trisha's video,
which in his opinion undermined the agreements previously made
and framed the situation uncharitably,
especially given what Trisha had asked for initially was rather unreasonable and disrespectful in his mind.
I don't know, from a business partner perspective and a friend perspective,
that video really rubbed me the wrong way,
because I woke up after having a conversation with her where I agreed that everything she wanted to do,
and I wake up to her being like saying all this stuff about private conversations we had,
and saying, oh, it's the crew's fault, people on the crew were unhappy, you know?
And like, I don't know, I just felt like that video was just so unnecessary,
and I just didn't get it, because I had done everything possible.
He also clears up some misconceptions as to why the crew were reluctant to shoot the day after,
citing that it wasn't due to Trisha's behaviour on set,
but actually him feeding comments back to them about Trisha's requests,
which he concedes was his fault,
or with him taking the final decision to not shoot despite the crew's openness to do so.
She told me that she wanted a whole new crew for Frenemies,
because she didn't feel comfortable with them,
she wanted a whole new space,
she wanted a whole new crew,
and it just...
I don't know, it's like she couldn't meet me halfway.
A whole new crew, we need to essentially fire everybody that's worked on this show from the beginning,
find a new space, and change everything.
This is where maybe I fucked up, okay?
Is that I was talking to the crew, like, Trisha wants to,
I was like, listen, Trisha wants to hire a new crew.
When the crew found out she wanted to fire them all,
they were, first of all, they've always been down to go work and do the shoot as we scheduled.
They are good, loyal, you know, hardworking employees that are down to get the job done no matter what.
I had done a temperature check, like, how do you guys feel about going to do this?
Because there was some, there was just people like, you know,
the vibe was like, Trisha wants to fire you guys and hire new people to do Frenemies.
And also, do you want to go meet with her and shoot tomorrow?
And so obviously, they were like, well, it's a little awkward, right?
But, of course, I'm willing to do it.
So I made the executive decision as their boss, trying to foster a healthy work environment,
that let's just not do the shoot tomorrow, bearing everything that's happened,
and take a few days to chill off.
He states that Trisha's comments about certain things alongside DMs that were leaked
had caused people to go out of their way to harass individuals who had not done anything wrong.
He expresses solidarity for the people he works with,
and reaffirms the stance that Trisha's behaviour was unprofessional in his eyes.
I don't think it really matters whose idea it was.
The fact that Trisha was just going to sit there and trash their work was kind of unacceptable to me,
because ultimately, I have to create a safe work environment for my employees.
And it's just kind of toxic to sit there and shit on their work.
Whoever did it, it doesn't matter who did it.
But the thing is, she keeps harping that in all of her videos to the point where
not only is Sam now getting shit on on her social medias,
people have gone out of their way and been like,
you're the reason Frenemies is over,
people are going to AB's wife,
people are going to Dan's girlfriend,
and just like random spit-firing shit at them
with the chance that that's the person Trisha was talking about.
And that's just, it's just not acceptable, you know.
And this was part of a private conversation that she made public to try to justify
why she wanted to leave the show.
The crew did nothing wrong.
I misunderstood the situation.
I told Trisha that people were upset,
that she didn't like this segment, okay?
I take the blame for that.
The reason they were upset that I misunderstood
is because she said she wanted to fire them all.
They were always willing to do their job, period.
They have done nothing wrong.
This is all fairly anecdotal, with his own perspective thrown in there.
However, the tone changes to the next part,
where he seems to address the inherent problem with how Frenemies have become.
This idea that Ethan had become a quote emotional punching bag,
and while he often had to show restraint in those moments,
Trisha had free reign,
a double standard in his mind that he lost patience for,
venting many of his own frustrations surrounding Trisha's behaviour,
including claims about their contributions,
their conduct while they were creating content,
and their nature to publicise drama.
She called my wife like the C-word.
She called me, you know, she said the most horrible thing.
She said I'm a terrible parent.
Hila's a terrible parent.
And for me, it's like, okay.
And I understand, again, that she has mental health,
she has mental, like, health issues,
but at the end of the day, it's just not,
I don't feel like it's fair.
Even though she has those issues, it's just,
I can't be her emotional punching bag,
and then the minute I speak up for myself,
it turns into another, like, show-ending fight.
It's just not a fair relationship.
I texted her, trying to be mature and handle it personally,
like, off the internet.
I said, you know, I just want to be honest with you
and say I felt it was really unfair
how you put that video out, you know,
after we worked to try to resolve this.
And she ignores my texts,
and she posts another 20-minute video 30 minutes later
that was in response to my texts that was more like,
oh, the crews, the reason why this happened,
and sending even more hate to their fucking Instagrams.
I don't have, I'm a patient man,
but I'm not, like, superhuman.
Another problem he communicates is Trisha's nature
to not actually confront their problems.
Now, we've known this for a while,
but in this case, he shows that Trisha did not indicate
there were any problems with ideas
that they had subsequently trashed on the podcast
and after the podcast,
including that of the costume and the segment.
And it's like, imagine how confusing it is,
because she goes on the show, and she says,
oh, this questions is so dumb.
It's lazy. It's crap. I hate it.
I mean, the day before, she retweeted it unprompted.
I did not even ask her.
That's just really, really difficult.
Like, how much she hated the costumes.
It was my idea. She never wanted to do it.
She doesn't even know the character.
She says, I never, I don't even know this character.
I sent her this picture. I said, costume idea?
She says, laugh my ass off.
Oh my God. Oh my God.
This is one of my all time favorite movies.
Can we? I love her.
I don't understand. What am I supposed to do?
That's what I mean.
It's like, I can't humanly do more.
She expects superhuman care.
He then continues to explain his justification
between the 5% gap between shares
and the profit from the podcast,
something that he clearly feels
he's been quite generous and transparent about.
He addresses the DMs that Trisha shared,
the investment he made on merchandise,
with an escalating tone of exasperation,
conveying the frustration at the investment he lost.
We pay for the set.
We rent the space. We film it.
We use our equipment. We employ the people.
We edit it. We upload it. We post it.
We get that. Sponsors.
We develop the concepts.
We work all week to prep the segments.
We pay for the insurance.
We do the accounting and the payroll.
I send her a fully itemized report every month
of literally everything
and how the expenses break down and her cut.
And the fact that she would even accuse
me of not being transparent is
honestly very hurtful
because I've gone so far out of my way
to be as transparent
as possible. I show her literally everything.
And then she starts going,
I want an itemized breakdown of how that
5% is spent. And I'm like, dude,
it's not like that. It's just
a feat. It's a production feat.
I'm not giving you an itemized deduction
of the entire business.
It's like
these absolutely unreasonable,
unimaginable bars
that I could never reach.
She posted a screenshot of herself calling me
Julie.
For wanting
5% to cover the
massiveness of this
production. We spent $30,000
buying all new equipment,
cameras, switching board,
audio equipment,
microphones, everything
so that we can continue to do it
at the house for her. And she keeps
bringing up this like, well, you get 5%.
So you should be like, what is that for? You need to be
paying. And I say, okay, you know what?
Let's keep the show going. Let's do it
at the house. I'm going to spend another
$30,000 on the already
$50,000 I spent on the set.
Circles, we are splitting the 30%,
which is typically our profit margin. It's like
Trisha, just read what I wrote
to you. The profit margin
is 30%. I'm giving you
half of the profits.
Do you want 50% of all the
revenue? Because I will lose money again.
Apparently, you're the only one that's allowed to
make money in this relationship.
I really don't understand. Although he came into
the video with peace and love, it kind of felt that
mood waned after the first 20 minutes.
If everything he's saying is true, then it's
not hard to understand why he feels the way
he does. But given what we know, it was not
going to temper the situation. Every penny
I've made from Frenemies, by the way, if she wants
to talk about money, is tied up in this
merch that doesn't come out for another month.
I don't even know if we're going to
sell. So it's like for all the complaining she
does for money, she's the only one, as far as
I'm concerned, that's actually making money from this thing.
Because I've spent pretty much every fucking penny
I've made from Frenemies into the show,
on merch, into the own resources,
buying more equipment for the fucking studio,
building the set. It's like
it's so easy for her to complain. She
shows up, she gets a guaranteed check
every fucking month,
and I'm putting all
my money on the line. And now, I have
hundreds of thousands of dollars tied up in merch
and I'm probably not going to be able to fucking sell,
that my wife works super hard on,
her staff works super hard on, and now it's like
tough luck, dude. Trisha got paid
and she's complaining about 5%. It blows
my mind, and I'm upset about it.
I am. I can't hide it. I just am.
It's just not fair. 5%, when I'm
literally not making a fucking penny
at this point,
it's just, it's just, it's just
so disrespectful. It disregards
all the hard work we do, not only
on the crew, but now on my wife, and all the
people that worked on the merch.
It's like, okay, well, you know, fuck you.
In a way, his own confusion may appear
contradictory, because on the one hand,
he expresses the fact that he did not want to overhaul
the structure of the show to cater to Trisha's needs
with the possibility that they could quit any minute.
At the same time, he is still frustrated
that he has lost all these investments, particularly
on the merchandise front. I think it fundamentally
comes down to trust. Although
Ethan's vexation is to be expected,
it was clear that he had still expected this to
happen inevitably. He was the producer
and the owner, and when you're in that position, you have
to be prepared for someone to walk out on a project,
and Ethan certainly expected as much.
With this in mind, ending the podcast was
probably for the best, and although visibly frustrated,
he shows resolve in his final decision.
I mean, we've gone out of our way
in every imaginable way
to make her feel welcome, accommodated, listened
to, appreciated to, and
the truth is
that I'm very grateful for
the experience we've had with Frenemies,
and all the learning, and growing, and
helping, and the amazing growth
that our channel has seen as the result
of that show. I mean, it's been
popular and successful
beyond what either of us anticipated.
And I have so much
to thank Trisha for.
It is with a heavy heart, you know,
that we end the show, and
it sucks.
It does suck, but
you know what?
Life goes on,
right? We're not stopping,
we're only getting started, and
I'm sure that Trisha's got
a lot of good stuff up her sleeve
for you guys as well, so.
However, Ethan's video did not sit well with Trisha,
and maybe they felt offended by his expectations,
maybe they didn't like the framing, but as always
they responded, and what we received was
a lot of content, but not a lot of substance.
I'll add a little note here that when
working on research, I was disappointed
at reading a part one, as that meant
there would be a part two. What I didn't account
for was the part three, leaving
these response videos at two hours and fifteen
minutes in total.
It's a clip and response style video where essentially
Trisha replies to Ethan's points as he makes them in
the video, but responding to the clips as they
happen wasn't a good idea, because you need
to know what points Ethan is at least going
to make before you make your own points.
Case in points?
Here Trisha reasserts the idea that it's the crew that refused
to film. Now with the DMs, we can see why
Trisha may have received this impression. With the
context that Ethan has provided, we now know
that that's not the case, and he doesn't explicitly
say that the crew was what was stopping them
from filming, more that he thinks they shouldn't
film given the situation with the crew.
It's a misunderstanding, they happen,
but there's no need to perpetuate it when it's
cleared up, but these misunderstandings
only go further unfortunately.
I'm not going to dissect these videos the way I dissected Ethan's video, mainly because Trisha makes a lot of points they'd already made on other platforms, however I will try to give a brief outline.
I think Trisha's video ultimately comes
down to them wanting to step back because they
fundamentally don't understand what they did
wrong, and therefore unless they can come to some
personal reconciliation, they can't compromise
on the belief that they didn't act out of line.
They don't think they're demanding, they don't think
they're unreasonable, they're not trying to force
people to walk on eggshells.
But again, this kind of thing, I have to walk
on eggshells with you, I have to keep you happy,
that's not another reason I don't
want to be there, I don't want that work environment,
I'm trying to keep you happy, because I don't think
I make that many demands.
We don't, anything
anything they've ever talked to me about
I'm just like, yes, yes, yes.
It's grown so
much, and I'm obviously
appreciative of everything he
put in to start, but
now that that's obviously
recouped times a hundred, it's like, can we
use some of it, like I get that you're still the
producer, or whatever,
but like can we use some of it towards
you know, building
this thing for like, us.
They believed the fact that their cut went to production
costs should have given them some sort of say in the
actual business, and they felt Ethan was unfairly
representing the tone of some of their
gripes they had with the production. It's clear
they wanted for enemies to become more independent
from the H3 podcast, a commitment that Ethan
didn't want to make, because as previously
explored, he didn't have the belief that Trisha was
going to stick around. The five percent is
brought up, but Trisha also asserts this is in the
context that H3 keeps a hundred percent of the
highlights profit, something which Ethan doesn't
mention in his response video.
If some percentage is a hundred percent of the
highlights and five percent of the thing is allowed,
is allotted for staff, like it would be cool
again, to get part time somebody,
and if people are hiring their
girlfriends, like why not hire my sister?
She's like, amazing.
From the beginning, he said a hundred percent of the highlights
go towards production costs, so I thought
that meant, let's get new buildings, let's get new
sets, let's get, you know, because that initial
investment of 37,000 is a lot,
but now that we're like making it,
because it's also money that
I'm also contributing.
Trisha does downplay their message to Ethan
about the crew that they had unwittingly
exposed the night before, but solidly contends
this idea that they wanted the crew fired.
You know,
there was kind of like a non-starter,
is she told me that she
wanted a whole new crew for Frenemies
because she didn't feel comfortable with them,
she wanted
a whole new space,
she wanted a whole new crew.
Okay, so, I honestly,
I'm not saying this just to be gaslight, I really don't
remember saying I want a whole new crew
at all, I
like, because I don't have any, I wouldn't
have, because he's, the first thing he said to me when I wanted
was like a producer for Frenemies, like to focus on
Frenemies, he's like, who do you have in mind? I had someone right away.
It wasn't a whole new crew to
replace people, it was like, let's get a
camera guy, like, for our one-off
segments on the thing, and they don't do
any of that, which is, again, fine, because they're very
casual and relaxed, and they're all kind of like this like
friend vibe, but it's like, it would be nice to
have a producer to be able to like this, this, and this.
One person I asked, I didn't say, fire
the crew, I didn't, like, I've never
ever said that.
This is a real sticking point for Trisha, and in a
way, it is almost a central narrative to
understanding what exactly transpired, because
Ethan obviously fed back that notion that
Trisha wanted a new crew, and that was what
provoked the response from them, that eventually
led up to Trisha losing their call in the DMs
and quitting the podcast the following morning.
If Trisha didn't say that, then Ethan may well
have unfairly framed comments they made,
even if they weren't very pleasant to begin with.
We know Trisha wanted someone in their corner,
but that's different to a complete upheaval,
and although the DMs certainly don't help their case,
there is this unresolved detail that does decide
the tone.
I want to fire all of them, and get rid of them, and hire a new
man, and it's like, okay, well that's not a starter for me.
Fuck off, Ethan, fuck off, like this is exactly why I can't
even talk to him, because he is, he's such a liar,
and he's, like, this is such
a lie, and that he keeps perpetuating
this, this is what he keeps saying.
I've never
once said, let's fire the crew, never
once said that, on my
grave. Now I struggle to comment on this
specifically, but going off the evidence, I can't
say that Trisha wanted to fire the crew,
and I don't think they said that explicitly, but
I think given the comments that we have read, Ethan
may well have interpreted it that way,
especially given how they seem to demean the work the crew
had done, and Trisha has a record of trying
to push for a particular result without openly
stating it, they were clearly unhappy with the
current crew. Once again, it seems like a possible
miscommunication that could be cleared up,
but Trisha takes anything like that as a bad faith
personal attack, and although I could understand
why they would feel a bit taken out of context,
this isn't a gossip forum, you're appealing to
fans of the show, and if you want the audience to not
view you through that cynical lens, then you have to
at least lend some charity, especially with what
you've said, but it's Trisha's choice,
and after this point in particular, they're clearly
driven to view Ethan as a liar and a manipulator.
Trisha, you already did.
Now, once again, here is where
the uncharitable perspectives really go
into gear. Trisha says if Ethan had a problem,
then he should have ended the podcast, this may
be a valid point, but you could also argue that
he wasn't sure of the best way to de-escalate,
and there's no guarantee that Trisha would have responded
better to him ending the podcast early,
regardless, it could have been a mistake on his part.
However, Trisha interprets this as him wanting
to get a rise out of them, and to have that
dramatic walkout moment. Trisha believes
that Ethan is weaponising their previous meltdowns
by trying to use them to illustrate
a double standard. As Trisha's perception of Ethan
changes, their perception of the whole instant
changes. Everything is now a manipulative
tactic on Ethan's part.
Ultimately, I have to create a safe work environment for my employees.
So don't err. Why?
Why? Oh my god.
This is, it's so, but again, I don't care,
people call me crazy, I'm used to it, call me crazy,
it's so manipulative, like, I have to
create a safe workplace for my employees, it's like,
you're using this thing, like, I, you know what I mean,
I mean, you're using these employees,
I had, you said I disrespected them,
that was the extent of the issue, like...
I think the problem is that when Trisha
vents, it's Trisha, it's what you expect,
and yet when Ethan vents, it suddenly becomes a personal
attack to them. I think there are some things that
Ethan could have been clear about, maybe you could even
say that as a large public creator, he shouldn't have
said it, but it's not like I watched Ethan's
video and didn't understand where he was coming
from a human perspective. When you lose
patience with someone, you might say these things
publicly, and it's not like they come from an invalid
place.
...a piece of garbage that, like, I swear
on my life, like, before this started, I was like, damn,
I lost a really good friend, but you are such
a liar, it's so fucked up
to lie on that, that I, show
me, like, show me a text where I'm like,
fire the crew, a conversation, like, that's
so fucked and twisted,
just because I've had issues with them, just
because I've said, like, I don't vibe with them, I don't like their sense
of humor, I've never said fire
people, are you fucking kidding me right now?
Trisha has this concept of
if you're not with them, you're against them.
It's like a basic survival instinct, and they
can't control themselves when responding to these
videos, so any point of validity they may
have, and I will try and make a case of them later,
is lost amongst the anger that someone
would ever say these things to you in the first place.
I really...
I really tried my
best, like, obviously we have banter
on the show, but, like, I really don't feel like
I've been disrespectful,
like, the idea of shooting that segment down,
like, that was the disrespectful thing, like, yes, it
was rude, I'm sorry about it, but, like,
damn, like, the whole crew,
you're making up lies, and I want them to be
fired over that instance, and taking
this thing that everyone's pissed at me about, and snowballing it,
and creating this monster thing, and bringing this back up
in my face, like,
then why forgive me in the first place?
Like, don't forgive me, like, just end it
there. Trisha claims that they're in a pretty good
place mentally, and they may well be comparatively,
but they're not adjusted enough to the YouTube
environment, and these videos are just proof
of that. It sucks, because once again, I do believe
I can make sense of Trisha's qualms,
but these videos did not help.
I feel like both Trisha and Ethan felt betrayed
by each other, how Ethan views Trisha's nature
to take everything public, and impose on reasonable
standards, and how Trisha views Ethan's
prejudice towards the situation, and how they
feel they're trying to mislead their audience.
Once betrayal becomes that central focus,
these perspectives are only going to diverge
further, which is exactly
what happened next.
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Trisha's videos aren't particularly helpful.
I think the problem with this sort of content
is that it focuses on a person's reaction
in the moment, which when you're dealing with a
dispute, is obviously going to be more heated
than if you would give them time to see the bigger
picture. However, one thing that you could at least
say is that they were reactions, and therefore
they should be taken with a pinch of salt,
even if someone felt the drama was being played
up by Trisha. They may have been overreactions,
but they were reactions all the same.
However, Trisha clearly felt like
they hadn't quite made their point.
After a couple days of what some may have
hoped to be a return to regular content
for them, Trisha once more uploaded another
video. This time, though, it wasn't a reaction
or a response. In fact, its title
appeared to imply something much more serious,
with a trigger warning clearly expressed in the
title. What is the video about itself?
I put up
with Ethan purposely
trying to trigger me
on multiple occasions.
I always put up with the triggers,
and I allowed myself to be triggered
um,
and this is beyond, this is not
walking on eggshells. It's like, oh, I say one wrong
thing. No, no, no. This is times where I'm like,
don't share the private messages from episode one
where he shared messages I sent to him,
where he shared Moses' private
messages, and we ask him on the show
not to. Well, as it's a Trisha
video, there are a fair few clashing narratives.
However, the one I'd say is probably
the most prominent here is that Trisha believes they
were much more lenient than Ethan gave them
credit for, despite the fact that they believe Ethan
attempted to rattle them up on multiple occasions.
They believe their hand was forced by Ethan's
persistent provocation, listing a few examples.
A fair few of these seem to be rather
insignificant, but the main incident seems
to resolve around a trip that Ethan, Hila, Trisha,
and their family took to Disney. This was
recorded and uploaded in vlog form to
the H3 Podcast channel, and it was
pretty well received at the time. However, Trisha
seems rather perturbed by a comment Ethan made
during this trip about an incident they had also
briefly spoken about on the podcast.
I want to talk about it. The first things that come to
mind obviously are talking to my mom
about my sexual assault on
a trip from Disneyland, a trip
that my mom, sister, and Moses had planned for my birthday
and then we did invite
Ethan and Hila to come
willingly and graciously because I
I enjoyed
spending time with them there, you know.
Okay, let me at least explain myself.
No! Let me at least explain
myself. Okay.
We're on the party bus, and
I, we all got our own pizzas.
I had my, you know, I love the
pineapple, uh,
black olive, uh, nobody
else wanted it, so I started picking the cheese
off. Okay? And I was
just eating the toppings, and the pizza looked like
a burn victim, it was all disgusting.
So anyway, you looked at it and you're like, that is so
disgusting, I can't look at it, like that's just the
grossest thing I've ever seen. Yeah, it was really gross, I
physically had to lay down after it. And I said,
I said, Trisha, who are
you to talk about gross
things? You've shoved a candlestick
up your ass. Uh-huh. But the reason
I said it is because they
literally know everything
about this show. Why would I? Which
means that I know that they
know the meme. It's not something they want to talk about
or you want to bring up in front of your family. Okay, fine, fine, fine,
but like, well, they were looking
at me like, ugh,
okay, maybe I fucked up.
Alongside the other
examples, it feels like Trisha is having one
of their revelations in rationalizing
their own behavior, crafting this narrative
that their reaction was actually the result of continuous
comments and incidents that they failed to
address themselves, and therefore let boil over
in the eventual meltdown that occurred in that
fateful episode. However, one really has to
question what motivated them to use such a
provocative title, when the topic, although
somewhat sensitive, isn't exactly communicated
with the same sense of pertinence to the actual
subject being discussed. I'm not trying to say a
trigger warning was unnecessary, or that it makes
any discourse of it less valid, but in the
established canon of Trisha's upload history on
Frenemies, the video advertises itself as much
more serious than other content that they have produced
on this specific matter, despite the fact that this
was once more an analysis of the often fractured
dynamic between the two. However, it is
a bit more accusatory given that Trisha alleges
that Ethan's provocation of them was intentional.
Like, all of that was like
triggers, right? When I asked to the very last
episode, like, we need to stop, we need
to stop, and he's like, yes, you can go up and leave
whenever you want, you know what I mean? Like, up until
even that point, he wanted me to do that thing, and
I'm like, I just want to end this. This represents
this increasingly cynical perspective
that each party held of each other, and in his
response, Ethan followed suit. Now,
given his relevance to the situation, it's
no surprise that Ethan wasn't too flattered
by how the video was publicised.
However, he decided to go one step further, stating
that Trisha's video on the matter goes as
far to accuse him of sexual harassment,
specifically referring to the comments
that Trisha made about his commentary on their new
skin product.
And then up until, like, the last
episode, like, everyone was like, it's clear Trisha
was in a bad mood, but
it was a lot of things from sexualising
my skincare product, like, you know, I was just like
that, I was like, you know,
because it's not just my line.
I would stop short of saying that Trish was trying to
accuse him of sexual harassment, but I also don't
really understand why Ethan's observation
had to be construed as sexual, as they
say in the episode, it's childish humour,
seeing something perhaps rude in an otherwise
unassuming scene.
This is the secret, I'm so happy to finally
Also kind of phallic. What?
You say, Trish, what's the secret? And then you show
It looks like a cock, balls
and cock. What are you talking about?
Look, two balls and a cock, it's like
a giant phallic. Oh my god, it's the
products in the thing. Bro, it's literally
a penis.
You are so, so
annihilated. With that in mind, I can
understand why Ethan feels like he's being misrepresented.
How the draw towards a discussion
surrounding the semantics of sexual harassment
feels a bit sudden, and Trisha once
more jumps on that to quickly defend themselves
and say they weren't accusing anyone of such
a claim. Harking on Ethan's previous comments
about them wanting to fire the crew suggests
that he has a bit of a habit of strawmanning
Trisha's comments. At this point, Trisha
and Ethan couldn't even agree on what each other
were saying, but some felt like Trisha blurred the
line in their comments with the intent of taking advantage
of Ethan's defensive response, while critics
of Ethan thought he was trying to stir up emotion against
Trisha by making their claim seem stronger than
they were. Ethan
incidentally invited
himself to
our family's surprise.
And
we paid
for him. Ethan and Hila did not
pay for their VIP ticket to Disneyland.
We ended up
paying for Ethan and Hila,
which is crazy
because he takes that 5%
and VIP tickets
to Disneyland is not cheap.
And I don't know why he felt compelled
to ask me
and my mom or bring it up
in the situation that
how we felt about her
having a candlestick
up her you know what
it made us very uncomfortable, especially
we had just such a fun day
and
it was really disgusting.
I think that he wanted
the shock value, but I think that
he forgets that we're
family at the end of the day
and I was not appreciative
of that. The next few days though
were just pure chaos. Trisha's sister
decided to weigh in, supporting Trisha's statement
and alleging that Ethan and Hila invited
themselves to Disney and had their tickets paid
for. Ethan then responds to this sister
Carly on the After Dark podcast,
trying to take a more jocular outlook on the whole
situation, but still visibly irritated.
And to be honest with you guys,
I'm just trying to make the best
of this situation that is quite
sour to be frank.
And so, I watched this
with peace and love. So she's
first of all saying we invited ourselves
for a surprise party.
This is where
it's just so frustrating for me.
You know, we obviously
didn't invite ourselves.
We were invited,
as Trisha even says in her
video. It's like they can't even keep their stories
straight. Trisha then responds to H3
calling them out for this and saying that the sister
isn't involved, but also being sufficiently
passive aggressive to boot, and it just felt like
this endless cycle of people trying to have the
final word. When everyone wants the final word,
no one's gonna have it.
Ethan has this thing where he punched down on people, right?
Like, he obviously knows he has a really loyal
fanbase, and they're a really loud fanbase.
I'm obviously the one getting all the hate. They see
that. So for them to do this video like defending themselves
when I'm the one getting all the hate, it's like
it's really just punching down. It's just punching, punching,
punching when it's low. My sister deleted that TikTok
within an hour. Trisha's newest video
had further sought to justify their own perspective by
making Ethan look more unreasonable than he
believed himself to be. Allegations that
although he tried to laugh at, he clearly construed
as very serious, and similarly hit back
at Trisha, and as they took to social media
to relentlessly attack each other, it began to
feel like there may be no way back.
However, if one fact is indisputable,
Trisha is consistently
inconsistent, and although that would
once again change their tone,
this time, it didn't quite
heal the wound.
With each of Trisha's videos,
it felt strange, because in spite of the fact that they were
clearly unhappy with Ethan Klein, there also
appeared to be this expectation that by the
next Tuesday, they'd be back at the studio,
and this would all be water under the bridge.
Trisha even eludes to this themself in a tweet,
one which Ethan very quickly rebuked.
I'm not a subscriber to the school of philosophy
that believed Trisha was only upset about the money,
and it's not that I don't think there were no legitimate
qualms, but it felt like Trisha's videos
from a certain point were designed to elicit a
reaction from Ethan, and I don't think they did
because they loathed Ethan or they wanted to hurt
him. I think it's because they almost wanted to play
out the situation so that there could be some
degree of mutual responsibility spread
to the point where they would be inclined to
patch it up on the podcast.
Although leaving with the usual fireworks, it's
clear that Trisha still had a part of them tied
to the podcast, even at one point starting
their own show called Enemies, which as you can
assume was Frenemies without Ethan,
something they referred to a few times.
So, yeah, this is the podcast
Enemies, so I just
make enemies, because
that's just what I do, and I guess
I own up to it.
I actually don't want enemies. I will speak the
same truth I spoke on Frenemies, but people
don't care if there's not a man next to me.
And that's just the world we live in.
I'm not trying to be over here like a feminist, whatever.
I'm fine with that. I'm happy to leech on to
another dude for my next
venture. That's just how it has to
be if my voice is going to be heard.
I have an apology to
Ethan and the staff
coming out this week.
Ethan.
Go watch
Frenemies. I support
him having a new co-host
or co-hosts if he has multiple.
We had ad reads for the whole year, so
you know, get that bag, get that coin.
In the past, this sort of outburst
had motivated Ethan to bring on Dr. Drew,
discuss their differences, and find some
sort of compromise on how to move forward,
something that once again Trisha references
in one of their response videos. However, this time
Ethan didn't really change his tune, and wasn't
interested in resolving any differences between
himself and Trisha with their relationship in the
state that it was. In less than 24 hours
after the launch of Trisha's new podcast, where
they take multiple jabs at Ethan, there is
once more a change of message.
Yes. In this video
called Apology to Ethan, Trisha reveals
that they've been taking better care of
themselves, and have come to the conclusion that they
actually have some apologising to do.
Fantastic.
After a rather meandering menaces
of their mental health, they speak about how
much they have messed up. They don't really speak about
too many of the issues in depth, but they try
to elaborate on their mindset, and how this
impacted their behaviour towards the clients,
and how they felt responsible for sabotaging
the podcast because of their feelings. Of the
incidents in question, they do apologise for the
distasteful jokes they made in the DMs that they
leaked. They also apologise for not going to Ethan
privately, and just generally their demeanour in
how it impacted those around them. Frame those
actions as ones yielded from an unhealthy
mindset.
I see exactly
how it came
across, and I see it very clearly
and I'm so embarrassed
because, again, I'm
a mess. I'm a messy person. I'm drama.
I have issues, as everyone
does, but I've always prided myself
on being a nice person.
I apologise for bringing up money. I apologise
for just really, again, poor
communication. I feel like I've worked on communication
so much in my relationship that I've neglected
to work on communication on
other ways, like speaking up when
even little things, speaking up if I don't like
something or don't think, you know, I'm such a hype person
I like to, like, hype everything. I love it,
love it, love it, and then, like, it got me in trouble
with Nikocado and I was like, yes, let's hang out
and then I hype, hype, hype, and then ghost because
I love to hype. I don't ever
like to shoot down ideas. I don't, you know what I mean, but
I really need to
be better at communicating when I don't
like something. I don't want to do something and just be
better at it and just grow a pair
of balls and talk about it.
I'm really sorry. I really am.
It's, it's now
the stages of
a Trish freak out and
like, I feel
good, I feel strong, I feel like
loved and cared
for over here. Even the
crew and Hila, that
I'm sorry
and I hope
in time that we
will be able to
talk again. Like,
I know once Trish is broken, like,
it's nearly impossible
to gain back, but
I'm willing
to put an effort.
I don't think it's necessarily the wrong way to
go about it. It's important that you make people understand
where you're coming from, and how a mindset may have
caused you to act out in a particular way,
and some appear to praise him for this. However,
some also question whether this should have been done privately
first, and not too long after, Ethan
Klein replied, echoing other people's issues
and emphasising the damage he believed they had caused
with their prior content.
She said in her video,
I'm gonna make this apology, and
Ethan doesn't have to accept it.
It's not
that I don't accept her apology,
it's that I just,
I don't wanna gloss over
too much what went down.
I mean,
it's a lot for me to forgive this
fast. Now, I think a public apology for a
public issue is always useful, because viewers
know where you stand, but Trisha had reached a stage
where so much of themselves was online that
each public video felt performative,
and therefore Ethan was going to be suspicious of
this sudden about turn, even for Trisha.
I think the problem, and this
once again ties back to Dr. Drew, with the previous
onset of disputes, it became an established
solution to almost use other things as a
medium to channel frustrations that they weren't
prepared to express. Let things escalate, and
then rely on the other party's recognition of that matter.
I don't doubt that Trisha likely had qualms with the
process of the podcast, and didn't know how to express
them at first, or lashed out unnecessarily.
However, with the context of the subsequent videos
and the apology, the initial departure didn't
actually feel like a genuine expression of intent.
It felt like a way to once again make a statement
on a problem that they perceived. In many of
these videos, Trisha would emphasise how their
sound of mind now, either due to therapy,
or changes to their lifestyle, as a way to
justify how this was them now speaking
with clarity. It was a way to
frame their past behaviour as impulsive,
not the real them, but with this, it was
difficult to know when we were ever receiving
the real Trisha. It felt like Trisha was trying
different techniques for the same result, trying
to present each one as their real
findings, and then gauging reaction.
Despite my criticisms though, I will say
one thing. It showed that regardless of the defensive
fronts, that Trisha still clearly
cared about their friendship with Ethan. Really,
all these methods screamed to me that this was
someone who wanted something, but didn't know how
to get it. Unfortunately, because of previous
instances, it seemed that the easiest route was
to be somewhat hostile. This time, however,
Ethan drew a line, and in spite of what may have
been an apology, Ethan couldn't accept
it. He acknowledged, and even
appreciated it, but he stopped short of accepting
it. The apology may have
come from a genuine place, who knows,
but it couldn't overshadow the fact that it
followed two weeks of continuous public
mudsling. It felt like Trisha was looking
for the ends, but didn't understand
the means. If this was 20 days earlier,
then maybe it would have started rebuilding
that bridge, but at this point, the ravine
between the two was just far too wide.
How was Ethan to know that this wasn't just
another vehicle in an attempt to
relaunch Frenemies? There were lots of
points that could have marked the firm end of Frenemies,
but I think Ethan's tepid response to
Trisha's apology indicated the return
of the podcast was beyond hope.
I think Ethan had come to terms with this end
not too long after Trisha had announced they were
stepping down, and this was his ultimatum
to Trisha to accept it as well.
How would they move forward from this?
Well, sometimes Frenemy ships
aren't built to last.
Ethan addressed Trisha's apology one more time
in a segment on Off The Rails. In this, he echoed
many of the sentiments that he had expressed on Twitter
in a much more discernible tone of frustrated
exasperation, asserting that although
he wasn't opposed to an eventual reconciliation,
he wasn't prepared to forgive so quickly
and needed time. He also wasn't prepared
to let someone like Trisha close again,
when that in mind was not interested in reviving
the podcast, yet this was far
from the end.
Trisha was saying everything she could
to attack me personally, to attack
the business. If this is an apology
to me, why do I have to watch it on her
YouTube channel with 10 mid-rolls?
A phone call would have been nice. She has my
number, she knows that I'm open to talk
anytime, she missed, you know what I mean?
And she apologized to the crew, she said
previously she doesn't have any of the crew's contact
information, I'm sorry, but that's not true.
We're all in a group chat on WhatsApp,
she has everybody's phone number.
Around a week and a half after, Trisha uploaded a video
claiming there was an unaired episode of
Friendemies which featured a greater reconciliation
between the two parties, including an
apology from Ethan. You may seem to believe
this was filmed to promote their post-breakup merchandise
release that was being dropped around the same time.
However, after the merch sold out nearly
instantaneously, the motive to upload the
video was assumedly diminished.
After Trisha's video covering this, many podcast
fans requested that Ethan not upload
the video as they didn't want the drama prolonged,
and the episode, whatever its contents,
was never released. Following this,
there was a moment of respite, as it seemed
that both had just grown apart, and even
if reconciliation wasn't possible, the
absence of conflict was a welcome break for most
viewers. However, it always felt like a ceasefire
as opposed to a peace treaty, mainly
due to this suggested rapprochement on
Trisha's video. It's very hard for me to speculate
on what may or may not have been said,
because the only source is Trisha, and they do
have their biases, but if this video
marked some sort of understanding between the
two, then it wasn't to be recognized by
anyone outside, and in future videos
the underlying message was that there was still
unresolved tension.
For a while this seemed like Trisha's angle,
and maybe if this philosophy had sustained itself,
an eventual modification would have been
reached, but unfortunately this was not
the case. As I noted earlier, regardless
of what you think of the apology, it felt more
like another momentary decision rather than
a concrete resolution. For many people,
an apology normally marks the end of something,
a concession that you'd be foolish
to walk back on. At the same time,
sometimes as people feel they've been manipulated into
making a confession, they may retract it,
and as time transpired, Trisha seemed
to walk back their narrative once more,
slowly returning to their former position,
that they really had done nothing wrong, and
that responsibility primarily lay with Ethan.
It felt like the situation ultimately wasn't resolved,
Trisha felt inclined to continuously make these
statements to try and keep it alive, while making
it look like they weren't necessarily going
out of their way to talk about it, coincidentally
appearing on these podcasts who just seem
to be interested in discussing the latest
tea. Throughout all this, Ethan really
didn't say much, and whether that influenced
Trisha's next move is your judgement to make.
What move was that, I hear you ask?
Well, as I mentioned
a while back, Ethan's often quite
vocal with who he despises,
and one person who definitely fits that bill is
Keemstar, who Ethan has waged war against for
a good few years. Trisha in many ways
also seemed to be vocally critical
of Keemstar, attacking him for a variety
of reasons over the years, but if Trisha's
relationship with Ethan taught us anything
is that Trisha's sentiments can be known to
fluctuate a little. At that time, Keemstar
had found himself in some controversy due to
the age gap in his relationship with a
20-year-old female. At the same time, both
Ethan and Trisha had separately taken to YouTube
to criticise him, Ethan on his After
Dark podcast, and Trisha on their third
episode of Enemies.
And she doesn't know that I played
bad guy Keem online. Okay, if you're
bad guy Keem online and that's a character you're
playing, Daniel Keem, then you're an actual
creep in real life, like you are actually
a real-life perv, a real-life
just creep, just evil, just nasty,
just a nasty old man that's like
hurting this girl in ways that she may
not know, but you know,
you know, because I know he knows because
he's constantly bringing up things people are gonna
say, the power play, the this, but she's not
a fan. Trying to rationalise it on
this show, on Spotify, on his podcast
is like mind-blowing
Keemstar played this off with the usual
bombast that many expected from him, leaning
into the stereotype rather than running away
from it, if anything it showed that neither side
was willing to yield, yet for some fans it may have
been refreshing that Ethan and Trisha finally agreed
on something once more, but this moment of blissful
harmony was short-lived, as less than a week
after this Keemstar tweeted a picture of him
with FaZe Banks alongside, lo and behold,
Trisha Paytas, all looking
rather pleased with themselves, I wonder
why. This of course provoked a response
from Ethan who expressed disappointment of Trisha's
newfound allegiance, Trisha responded
over a variety of mediums, but we're gonna skip
over those for now. However, what would
the podcast actually be about?
After all, you can't just judge a book by
its cover, and Trish requested that everyone
give the episode a chance.
In the podcast,
Keemstar explains how it reached out to Trisha
offering a truce, and Trisha had agreed.
Trisha is fast to clarify that they're not
necessarily befriending Keemstar, and they're
actually still more pro-Ethan than pro-Keem,
though they definitely don't hold back in
analysing Ethan's behaviour over the previous
months.
Like, never aired, right?
Can I say that publicly?
There's an unaired last episode?
Yeah, we shot
one more for closure, and it was really
good, because I do feel
like I'd fucked up a lot, but it was the first
time Ethan admitted to screenshotting
my text, and I was like, oh perfect, this
will give me some redeeming qualities, because
he admitted in that that I never said fire to the crew, and I was like, perfect,
people are gonna know, they're gonna stop hating on me.
But then, yeah, he didn't post it, because he's like,
well, I don't want more hate to the crew, and it's gonna
pass out this person, and I was just like,
you posted all my breakdowns, but you're not gonna post this one
where I kinda look like, at least we're
balanced in being in the wrong, yeah.
So I have a little animosity towards him, like, I still
obviously love Ethan, but I do
have a little bit of that, I get what you're saying.
I think being sat down with two people who have a history
of conflict with Ethan kind of draws Trisha into this
discussion about him more than they probably
plan to be. The conversation isn't just about
Ethan, but it regularly returns to him.
Keemstar driving home the point that in his opinion,
Ethan is a moral weatherbane, and
sends the popular opinions to garner a social
advantage, while receiving special treatment
from YouTube. Trisha often plays off this
narrative with their own personal experiences,
talking about many of the previous incidents that still
seem unresolved to them.
He's a walking, talking hypocrite.
Oh, for sure, I don't think there's anything wrong with that,
because I'm also a walking, talking hypocrite.
I think, again, it's just the lack of, like, admitting
that, like, I feel like if you could admit it,
because I, 100%, like, even me sitting here,
people are like, she's so hypocritical, whatever, you know what I mean?
But I don't think it is that either, I honestly think
it's just, like, having a discussion, but...
I mean, I think it's, like, gross when people do make fun
of people's, like, looks, or small penises, or whatever.
I don't like when people make fun
of people's, like, aesthetic, but I'm telling you
that's how me and Ethan first met, he made a whole video
calling me, like, a whale, like, a corpse,
like, all this stuff, saying how, like, I photoshopped my pictures,
so, like, he did the same thing to me, so it is
a little hypocritical, but I do think it, I mean,
that was... It was ironic that this was
approximately a year after Keem had offered a truce
to Ethan, who started framing me shortly after.
This time, it was Keem's turn to platform
Trisha, though. It seems that Keem had worked
out that although Trisha talked to Big Game,
they were regularly swayed, and in this case
it worked out almost exactly as
envisioned, well, for Keem at least.
This wasn't out of the ordinary for Trisha,
they're known to go on podcasts for people they have
grievances with, that's why they appeared on the H3 podcast
in the first place. However, given how the
discussion does tend to pivot towards
Ethan, and given how Ethan doesn't quite
share the same philosophy, people weren't
entirely happy, and neither
was Ethan.
In
this situation, even the
photo of Trisha with Keemstar had provoked
a bit of uproar from the Clines, however, there was
also a bit more context that makes the
circumstances more primed for hostility.
The girl is not to blame for
anything. The girl is
only 20 years old, she's a child,
we love, I mean, well, I don't know anything about
her, but I'm not going after her at all, I was never gonna
criticise her or say anything bad about her,
this is just about a 39 year old creep
preying on a young girl.
In the video covering Keemstar's new girlfriend,
Ethan included a segment which
entailed an individual calling in and claiming
to be this lady, and going into rather explicit
detail about the relationship.
Keemstar felt that there was a double standard being
operated here, and tweeted a video tagging
Team YouTube and talking about the situation
at hand.
The emails here threatening me that that's
gonna happen, can't do creator on creator
harassment, but Ethan Cline
has made about 50 fucking
videos breaking
TOS, breaking the bullying and harassment
thing, he uploaded a fucking
video of a Keemstar puppet and he's like
fucking it, how is that not
breaking YouTube TOS,
how is that not breaking the bullying and
harassment thing, now he uploads this video
with someone that's supposed to be my new girlfriend,
it's like a fake person calling
in, and they're like, yeah Keem's got a
little dick, Keem's dick doesn't
work, and am I over here crying
about it? Absolutely not.
But let me talk shit back.
I really wanna fucking know
Susan, Team YouTube,
everybody at YouTube, why is it
Keemstar versus H3H3,
I have sent emails
when he broke TOS saying, hey look
he's doing the same thing that you threatened to kick me
out of the partnership program, and it gets
ignored. Explain the blatant
fucking bias, because all
these fucking YouTubers, David Dobrik,
everyone else has dealt with this bullshit
with Ethan Klein, why is it other
YouTubers versus Ethan Klein
and YouTube staff, please explain
it to all of us right now,
why he's getting special privileges.
Not too long after this, the H3 After
Dark video on the matter was removed for violating
YouTube's TOS, with many assuming
that Keemstar played a hand in this.
Though he denied direct involvement in the removal
of the video, it was hard to completely buy
this idea that his vocal outcries hadn't
influenced YouTube in some sort of way,
with many requesting to see his flag history.
For someone like Ethan, who already vehemently loathes
Keemstar, there was no two ways about
it. Keemstar had committed an attack on the podcast,
and a form of friends alliance at a time
of heightened conflict was a stonewall
betrayal. With this in mind, in his first
H3 Off the Rails back, Ethan decides
to address Trisha Paytas one last
time.
So basically what this is to me,
she is uh,
what's the name of that famous turncoat
during the revolutionary Benedict
Benedict Arnold? Yeah, she Benedict
Arnold'd me big time.
This is an unforgivable
traitorous act. And I'm going to explain
in great detail why.
And I'm going to be totally honest with you guys,
a part of me wanted to take the high road
on this and just ignore it.
Uh, but at the same time, I'm
so sick of her disrespecting
me, and my family,
and causing shit,
and just being so toxic, lying,
and I'm just so
freaking over her.
Now as I've noted, it's not exactly
surprising taking a perfunctory look
at Trisha's history. They wanted to go on
Keem's podcast, though Ethan certainly compiles
a fair assembly of clips that make even
this decision look a bit inconsistent
on Trisha's part, especially given
their familial relation, throwing some shade
towards Moses as well. Trisha's even
gone on podcast with Gabbie Hanna previously,
so it's clear that they're not entirely hostile
to anyone. But in a way, although it makes
sense that Trisha would do this, the question
Ethan wants to ask is, should she?
Can this story get blown out of proportion?
Girl, what?
serious, serious help. So don't even think
for a second that you're trolling, or ruining, or
anyone thinks around it.
So she has that much energy
for our word apologist,
but keep the same energy
because, um,
Keemstar,
on the same exact situation,
said way worse things, and if you care
about Jessie Smiles, she
seemed to have been way more
offended by what Keemstar said than
Gabbie, of the
protecting.
You have handled this situation with such poor taste.
You're right, you don't know what happened.
But you sure felt like you did all these years
when you consistently called me a liar,
mocked my accusations. Sorry
you hate all these r-word cases. By the way,
must be hard on you. And she included
a screenshot of Keemstar saying, sorry,
Jessie Smiles tagged her on
Twitter, only has 140
characters. Please don't accuse me
of r-word. He's making a joke out of it.
Basically accusing her of making
false allegations.
This is just one specific
example of Keemstar's
continued
history of
not believing victims.
In part, he does respond to the
narratives espoused throughout the podcast,
but more tries take a holistic standpoint that this
is Keemstar taking advantage of Trisha
for his own gain, showing a variety of tweets
and clips that seem to imply that Keemstar is
enjoying the situation much more than anyone
else's. Even supposedly inviting
Gabbie Hanna on the same day they were hosting
Trisha and joking about it with FaZe Banks
on the podcast.
Jorts on.
Legends. Legend.
Here, now, again, she's
a free speech advocate all the sudden
and she believes in
talking to anyone about anything, right?
So here is, here they, they're kind
of teasing her a little bit. They're kind of making a fool
out of her. Listen to this.
He was here. Imagine- I swear I thought you were gonna do that.
No, but listen, listen. Imagine if Gabbie was here
and we posted a picture, FaZe Banks
Keemstar, Trisha, Gabbie.
I'd bolt.
She'd bolt.
She's there. Gabbie's there.
Or at least she's on her way there.
So Keemstar starts being like, can you imagine
if Gabbie was here?
She's testing the water a little bit.
I'd bolt.
Interesting.
I wouldn't do that to you.
I wouldn't do that to you.
On the whole though, this video is designed to be the final nail
in the coffin for Ethan and Trisha's working
relationship, and dare I say it, friendship.
Even goes on to discuss the unaired
episode which Trisha had been bringing up over the last
month, and explains that the reason it wasn't released
was because he didn't feel like it gave anyone
the closure Trisha claims it did, and it was actually
quite an uncomfortable recording which he rather
regrets. He also notes that Trisha
claims to have recorded the episode, and has been
alluding to it in the DMs, stating that he is
not fazed by the implication that they may release it.
How everything had gone
down, I was feeling bad about
the rift that it had caused
in the family and everything, and
I wanted to make amends,
and in my heart, I thought
what would be great is if we could just
come together for one final episode
for it to be wholesome,
for it to be just a beautiful experience
where we just reflect on the nice
experience we have and part ways
amicably. As soon as we sat
down, basically almost immediately
it just went sideways. It just went
off the rails,
it just turned into more accusations
and it just got really icky.
And I was like immediately
regretting it, because it was just
it was just
not at all what I wanted or expected.
This whole claim that like
I had never apologized to her, she keeps saying like
he apologized, I proved
that he, that the, that
I never said I wanted to fire the crew.
Um, you know, I admitted
in my first video, about
Trisha leaving for enemies, that I
messed up in showing the crew the text.
They secretly recorded us,
which was like
kind of devastating to me.
That they came into the house,
secretly
recorded our conversations
before and after the podcast
and during. The thing is I'm not
I don't care if they release it, so it's not like a
I think they think, I don't know why they
think it's such a big deal, it's just a messy
episode. But I
guess in their mind they think they've been
threatening us with like, well we recorded
it, here it is,
we're going to release it,
you know, I'm listening to it back, it's like
I just found that like
such a violation
to come into our house and secretly
record us. I was like, wow.
This may not be closure
per se, but it is the closest that people
were going to have. Two contrasting yet
affirmative perspectives. From this, people
could draw their own conclusions. However, beyond
the basic allegations of hypocrisy, there
was a more troubling allegation. Hypocrisy
is when you say something in the moment
and contradict that at a later time, and
although it can be problematic, it's not particularly
exceptional, especially in this industry,
particularly as you often can't decipher
intent. However, Ethan once more chose to
go in on Trisha, accusing them of lying over
a variety of issues relating to the podcast,
including statements they had made since.
Uh,
yeah.
Wait, how many followers
does this account have? Oh my god!
He also gave some attention to
accounts that seem dedicated to showing these rather
conscious contradictions, particularly
those on TikTok. He seems quite amused by
most of these clips, and although you can understand
why they would have irked him, often after the collapse
of a working relationship, you are prone
to trash talk your former colleague a little,
so these aren't exactly surprising.
However, there is one clip that he seems to take slightly
more seriously, relating to an anecdote
that Trisha shared while the podcast was still operating
fairly smoothly.
That actually
really disturbed me.
I wanted a Pomeranian for a long time.
Both me and my mom have wanted a puppy
for so long. I live alone.
My mom is alone.
Yeah, he's adorable.
This color is just perfect.
Everyone who meets him falls in love with him.
They just surprised me with it for our vlog and made me keep it.
We're gonna try and get some houses because we honestly want
more. We just love this little guy so,
so much. We just love him so much,
and hopefully that'll show in here.
We want two more. We want a little black one,
and possibly a white one.
I never asked for a dog. Oh my god, let's go get a dog.
You wanna go what? You wanna go buy a dog today?
I never asked for a dog. Can we get a dog? Oh my god.
My dog was because of David and Jason.
They just surprised me with it for our vlog and made me...
Dude, it's so disturbing
to me how she's openly lying.
In this clip, Trisha's prior behavior
appears to directly refute all available
testimony that they articulated
off enemies, leaving Ethan rather bemused,
and even concerned as to Trisha's capability
to expound mistruths.
So disturbing to me
how she's openly lying.
She really convinced me
of this dog lie.
And she really successfully
assassinated their character. Now, I mean
this specifically has me questioning
everything. And I
can't help but wonder if I've just been a
useful idiot to her this whole time.
And the essay allegation about Dom, like
all that stuff that was made publicly separate of her
is like, you know, 100%
believable. But like this dog thing
like, I just feel like I've been the useful
idiot to her the whole time to
smear these people that she hates, because
this is a flat out
horrific lie to
make about someone.
In a way, this was the only significant
development on the situation. Trisha's appearance
on Mum's basement didn't really change the
narratives too much. We knew what each party
would probably say. We know where these people
stand on each other. How this moment seemed to
at least prompt a brief reassessment of the
podcast by Ethan, and this reassessment
would only yield more questions in the coming
month. Trisha has commented on
countless issues, and shared many anecdotes
in extensive detail, often more detailed
than a majority of people would ever be expected
to recall. Some of these were related to
YouTube dramas like the David de Brix saga,
but there were also a lot of personal stories
which they opened up about, and as a person with
their own trauma, they would share some of these stories
to an often very sympathetic audience.
One of these stories that was particularly harrowing
was about a teacher who had violated them while
they were in school, an experience unfortunately
a lot more common than we'd like it to be.
At the time, it was a very powerful moment
on the podcast, and they had a set of people
surrounding them who were ready to support them.
However, with some questions beginning to
arise about Trisha's accuracy in delivering
information, a new light was shone
onto some of these allegations.
September 2021 was a rough month.
Trisha's decision to appear on mum's basement
had already put a further strain on the family
relationship, under burden from numerous
incidents, some of which were documented on the H3 podcast.
This had continuously manifested
with other family members involving themselves,
one of them being Moses Ackman,
the individual who served as the keystone in the
connection between the Klines and Patus.
He had recently become more vocal in his
participation after certain claims were made about
his conduct, defending himself while also
criticising Ethan for his behaviour.
As both parties stewed in the fallout of the latest
strife, questions were being raised about the story
that Trisha had told on episode 17,
the violation story.
One of the details
Trisha had divulged during this anecdote was that
this teacher was eventually arrested on charges
of CP. However, with some digging, certain
people began to uncover information that disputed
this claim. As a matter of fact, it was discovered
that the teacher mentioned had retired from his role,
passing on from this world in 2019.
Along with other supposed inconsistencies,
this was covered in a one and a half hour video
uploaded by a creator called mysterious.
Then the fourth time
she mentions this same story is on
TikTok on March 19th
2021. This time, Trisha
encourages her followers
to search the teacher and look up his
arrest. So Trisha specifically
says that this teacher has been arrested.
It seems legit, right? Surely if
Trisha is encouraging their audience to
look this up, it would pop right up when you
search it. That isn't the case at all. In fact,
when you Google exactly what Trisha says,
this teacher does pop up under the
top results, but it isn't because he was
arrested. It was because he passed away
in 2019 and his obituary
pops up when you Google what she
says. This observation began to
garner traction in forums and comment sections
with some calling on Ethan to amend the story
with minor information available, and on the
11th of September, he released a statement.
This echoed much of what the concerned
parties at the time were professing, that
although it was not necessarily his place to
discredit a survivor's story, he also couldn't
keep that story up in good faith knowing the
elements of it simply weren't true. Now
it's completely fair to acknowledge that given how
trauma affects memory and recalls certain
events, it's possible that Trisha may have confused
the details and names related to these
accounts. However, with the previous contradictions
in mind, it obviously occurred to
Ethan that maybe there was the possibility
that this version of events had been somewhat
fabricated, and in that case, especially
when dealing with criminal allegations, it's fair
to err on the side of caution. Ethan had
also followed up privately with Trisha,
seeking clarification of these claims, with many
audience members also publicly stating their
desire for this to be addressed. How did they
respond to this inquiry? Well, Trisha
first found a deluge of tweets defending
their mimosas from those who they felt were applying
pressure, and feeling threatened by
Ethan's turn, the DMs decided to share the messages
themselves, and let people decide on
who was behaving with the most decorum,
and honestly, it's a dumpster fire, with
everyone throwing blame at each other's feet.
Ethan compels Trisha to make a public statement,
and Trisha shares many posts that they believe
were contributing to unnecessary harassment.
Both Trisha and Ethan seem to use this
accused individual's family in their narrative,
Ethan in his post, and Trisha in the messages.
It's hard to know what the family themselves
want, but I'm not sure this is it.
In the end, they become secondary to
further allegations levelled towards Trisha's
fianc, Moses, which had been circulating
recently as well. These allegations included
stealthing, which, as I understand it, is the
removal of the contraceptive device during
sex, without the consent of the partner.
Allegations also resurface surrounding
Moses's intent to date Trisha in the first
place, with some still wondering if he was just there
for the money. He responds to some of these claims in a
tweet longer where he asserts that the main complainant
had an unhealthy obsession with him, which has
subsequently warped their view, sharing
DMs to supposedly substantiate this.
It brings one person's motive into
question, but it doesn't disprove the
claims themselves, especially the ones made
by others. With that said, it's hard to
comment further when you don't know these people
involved, and I honestly don't.
However, in the DMs, Ethan
expresses belief in the person levelling these
accusations, and seems to imply that Trisha
is being rather hypocritical in their stance.
They express visible distress to the situation.
This was clearly having a negative
impact on others as well though, with Ethan
announcing that he and Hila would be taking a week
off the podcast in light of everything. The stress
has just become too much for them to bear.
At this point, although I think everyone was exhausted,
people were by no means appeased, and
remnants of the feud persisted over the following
weeks, with a variety of people and media sources
contributing their think pieces.
Much of this occurred on fan forums, where
one person shared a message from someone who claimed
to be a former student at Trisha's school. They
attested that although the teacher in question had
been dismissed from their role for possibly
disreputable behaviour, it wasn't related to his
conduct towards the students specifically. Once again,
this wasn't verified, and to be honest, it's quite
hard to verify without people revealing private
details, which most people aren't, but
it was more food for thought. In response
to Ethan's request and pressure from the public sphere,
Trisha responded on the 15th of September,
with a video titled Addressing Everything.
I'm not going to go over the details
specifically, but Trisha maintains their stories
and in response to the new form narrative
of their supposed lying, contends that
knowingly lying is not the same as misspeaking,
which is what they feel they did. They say
they don't fact check and have a tendency to spew
second hand information without actually
understanding it themselves. They take responsibility
for that, but they don't agree with the characterisations
presented by many of their critics,
especially those in the forums.
There's a difference between misspeaking,
hearing things, and not getting all the facts right, not fact
checking, and
versus sharing
something you know to not be true for
the malicious intent of tricking someone or
making someone look bad.
And so,
I get stories
mixed up, I hear things from people, and I don't fact check, and that
was ultimately why I should never have had a podcast,
I should never have been in front of me, but
I'm not the only person in the world to
do that. Having said that,
I have never lied
about
any things that have happened to me.
The truth is difficult sometimes,
and sometimes we have to accept that we'll never
know the truth fully. What you ultimately had was
two very vehement factions, and when that
arises, it can be difficult to deal with.
It was certainly fostered in environments like Reddit
where fans of one side tended to convene.
I don't think it's completely fair to say that because
someone misplaced details, the whole
story is false, but at the same time,
Trisha's response still didn't placate the criticism
relating to stories where there was contradictory
evidence available. In a way,
no two situations are the same, and
they shouldn't be treated as such, even if
someone is an unreliable narrator, but when
the accusations at hand were becoming so
sensitive, the tensions were only flaring
further. As Trisha said while defending
Moses, people can lie,
and the question was whether that person
was Trisha.
In the week after their video,
Trisha removed over 1000 videos
from their channel, cleansing approximately
1 billion views of their work, and the week
after, Ethan announced the start of their new
collaborative project with the less controversial
Hassan Piker. Less controversial.
With the family connection also firmly
intact, as it would be fair to assume that this
would end the drama, especially with Ethan
seemingly making a commitment to withdraw from
discussing Trisha, and Trisha seemingly wanting
the drama to be over. However, a lot of
internet criticism persisted, particularly
the two sides who wanted to portray
the other side as dishonest, because what we
saw was a stalemate, which meant
fans felt completely free to make assumptions
about the characters of people they were criticising.
After being referenced in Ethan's stream, accounts
dedicated to publicising alleged inconsistencies
such as contradictions of Trish
on TikTok began to pick up traction,
only further creating groundswell around these
narratives. The account raises interesting points,
though at the same time, some of these clips
are a decade apart and are considerate of the fact
that people's perspectives change, but
we'll come to that in a moment.
Besides that, there were still occasional illusions
to each other's existence, and with Trisha's upcoming
marriage to Moses, it was hard to keep them both
out of mind too much, particularly when such
an event would usually bring the family together.
On December 10th, in a stream the day before
Trisha's wedding, Ethan made a comment in passing
that tomorrow was Hila's birthday,
which would have been the 11th. However,
Hila's birthday is actually on the 12th. This caused
some of Trisha's fandom to claim that Ethan and
Hila were lying about their birthday, to purposely
draw more hate towards Trisha, as some
other fans had also been claiming that Trisha was
purposely mimicking impactful dates of the
clients in a continued attempt to provoke them.
Going over the stream, it seems that Ethan may be
celebrating Hila's birthday on a Saturday, as he
declares that he's recording another episode of Leftovers,
the one with Hasan Biker, on the Sunday.
It'd be one hell of a way to try and rile
his fans up, though as shown, many audience
members' perspectives were so cynical that
they couldn't help but theorise if every comment
had an underlying meaning. It's unsure whether
either party believed that the other was taking
backhanded jabs at them, but this all seemed to
boil over when Trisha posted a rather tone-deaf
TikTok barely a few days after the wedding.
I mean, tone-deaf
is one way to put it, but it is just ridiculous
that they thought this was a good idea.
I mean, it's not an active admission that it's
what they did, but it's a pretty heavy inference.
I can't really see any other punchline
there, I'm pretty sure those dance moves
don't directly relate to Judaism, unless
they're implying that such seductive dance moves
are payment, but I have to admit I'm not familiar
with that currency either. Either way, it's
anti-Semitic, and Ethan, displeased with this,
decided to break his vow of silence and directly
address Trisha in a response.
So you say you couldn't finish your
conversion classes, which
tells me that you don't care
enough about the culture to put in the
actual work to do it the right way,
and then you say that you just paid off a
rabbi to just say you're
Jewish, which is, first of all, a lie,
no rabbi would do that, and second of all,
anti-Semitic, because it just propagates
the notion that Jews only care about
money, and that's very
serious, you know, the whole
thing is just disgusting,
frankly, and if you don't want me to
stitch your anti-Semitic TikToks,
then turn Stitch off, I don't want to hear you
bitch about that, and the worst thing
about all this is that there's people
around you that know better.
One of these was done on TikTok where it explains how
Trisha was harmfully stereotyping those from his
religion, have a clearly feeling like he had not
contributed enough to the discourse, decided to
dedicate a section of his off-the-rails soundbite
stream to Trisha's comments, explaining
that with the wedding behind them, he had no reason
to hold back, attacking both Trisha,
Moses, and everyone else in the blast radius.
It seemed like a pretty cathartic experience
for him all in all. The soundbite of Trisha's
sister discussing the 5%
subsequently won the bitterly fought knockout
tournament, seemingly becoming immortalised
in H3 history.
Oh!
Oh!
17,000 votes
take that 5%, has gained
the lead, 51% take that
5%, it's all
unfolding. It is all
unfolding here at the
2021 H3.
He takes that 5%.
I'm speechless folks. It's clear that
although he hadn't spoke about the matter publicly for a
couple months, he hadn't stopped thinking about it.
As he had come equipped with a plethora of evidence
and anecdotes to combat the narrative
propounded by Trish and those around them.
In fact, this is arguably his most ruthless
stream of them all, showing very little regard
for the backlash that he may instigate, and revealing
some rather personal details about
Trisha.
I don't owe any
shit to anybody. And actually the
worst part is that Moses knows better.
I mean, he's f***ing enabling
straight up anti-Semitic
harmful tropes, making
a mockery of the religion, and
it's f***ing disgusting and they should both be
deeply ashamed and f*** them both. Peace
and love. By the way, this is coming
from the girl who did like
has done OF videos with her
whole f***ing family. So don't
feign like that you're so outraged
by this candle story.
You know, I mean, Kaylee,
if you were so worried about your mom
not knowing the intimate details of your
sex life, don't make
OF videos with her, you
f***ing freak.
And by the way,
people have dug up so many videos of Trisha
and Kaylee talking
with like really
detailed questions
about sex
with their mom.
Like disgusting, weird
shit that I would never in a million years
want to discuss. So you know what, Kaylee?
That wedding is over.
F*** you and your whole family.
How about that?
F*** you and the womb you came
out of.
How
about that, Kaylee?
And once I asked
once I
asked Moses if
she ever asked him to pretend
like he's Hila, and he said
yes, but he refuses to.
Well, if you ask Moses, they're all
water, so incest is fine.
All sex is the best to Moses
when everyone's water. He's like, hey, it's
all good, baby. Defense of like why-
I deleted it after I was up, after
everyone was telling me how f***ing dumb of a
take it was, but it was-
but everybody already downloaded it.
You already said it, and you tried some shit.
It ain't my f***ing
fault. You're an influencer. Don't act like you're not.
She is. She's been on the
videos. She has her own OF
account. She's
she's an internet personality. I don't give up.
So
got 5% of an operating brain.
Oh boy.
I was bottled up. What can I do?
Ethan isn't a person who necessarily
abides by the internet's code of honour
for the time, and whereas the milder individuals
who spectate this may find its savagery
a bit disconcerting, Ethan seems to be
under the impression that this is his justice
for all the times he has felt wronged by
Trisha's behaviour, their lies, their manipulation.
This was his chance to deliver that
blow. However, Trisha obviously didn't
respond well, releasing a video pleading with him
to leave her alone, calling both Ethan and
Ela obsessed, and basically every other word under
the sun that would frame them as a victim to the client's
endless tirade of abuse.
Every little jab,
every video
he's made obsessing about me.
It always
scares me.
The backlash I receive from
their subreddit and their fans
to Ethan himself just
obsessing over
every little thing I do.
Meanwhile, Ethan can't stop talking about
me. Can't stop getting
bans and strikes going off on Twitter
on just random people blocking his
content and just being so angry
and
lawsuits and all this stuff like that.
And I get it.
I get he's probably himself
in a dark place right now. Like, I really could
see that. I was like, I know he's in a dark
place, so OK, I'll take a couple jabs.
But this F them and
anti-Semitic and Moses enabling, talking
about Moses, talking about my sister, people
who literally did nothing in
this situation and bringing my
sister again, just
knowing he's inciting
all of this.
It went from having the
absolute best weekend
of my life
to this and everyone,
my family and Moses and
oh, he wants a reaction. Don't let him
get this reaction. And I'm like,
don't let him know that he ruined your
best weekend. I said, but he did.
He won. Like, can you
stop now? Please.
Like, please.
In this case, unlike previous
videos, Ethan relented and cut out
a large proportion of his Trisha rant.
It's also important to note that Ethan
was facing a pretty harsh set of characterisations
from an individual known as Ryan
Cavanagh, who had initiated a lawsuit against
the client. His lawsuit mentions Trisha by
name and frames them as a victim of
Ethan's actions. Ethan had been vocal about
the stress this lawsuit had caused him and may
have not wanted to increase any risk of
defeat, given that the case explicitly
mentions defamation on multiple
occasions. Ryan had also been blocking
many of Ethan's videos which he had tweeted
about around the time, and not too long after
he was again blocked from uploading after an
old video was supposedly mass reported
by trolls. Once more,
Ethan announced that he would take another break
even after having the strike removed.
It seemed that his attempt to close out this story
was opening more new wounds.
But why? Well,
because there's no situation
with Trisha in which you can win.
If
the contradictions of Trish's
TikTok account and other commentators
highlighted something, it's that Trisha
is probably the most inconsistent person
online. Now I divide these
inconsistencies into three components,
personal evolution, small
talk disparities, and inexplicable
lies. For example,
People asking about nanny and a bar mitzvah,
you know it's hard to say, it's hard to say until it happens,
like I would like to try
obviously without a nanny, I really
don't judge anyone that has them. When I have a kid,
I'm not gonna have nannies, that's pretty damn sure. What does that mean?
You're trying to attack our parental
abilities? There's something wrong with having a nanny?
My eyes, yes.
This one isn't really a direct contradiction,
especially with the context that at the time
they were trying to spite Ethan. It could just
be Trisha coming round to the idea of a nanny
and the possible merits to it, especially as
they are now pregnant. Small talk
disparity, on the other hand, doesn't really
show much growth between conflicting
statements, but also could be explained
by the fact that Trisha is someone who talks a lot
and their opinions seem to fluctuate
rather turbulently, but also ultimately
too inconsequential to care about.
The content people seemed most alarmed by
was the inexplicable lies, statements
that seemed impossible to make sense of
in the context of how the truth appeared.
My dog was because of David and Jason, they just surprised me
with it for a vlog and made me keep it even though I never asked
for a dog. And yes, we did talk about this,
but everyone was like, oh my god, you can't just surprise me with a
puppy, I have been wanting a puppy for a
really long time. We had talked about it for
a while that I wanted a Pomeranian, that my mom
would help me take care of it. Just to be clear, we did
talk about this and the plan was to
maybe give the dog to Trisha's
mom who really wants a Pomeranian. This was first brought into
context by the puppy clip, and although
certain falsehoods like the allegations against
a schoolteacher could be put down to confusion,
others like that relating to the puppy
are much harder to explain. Where's the
ambiguity there? Trisha said something
that was just apparently objectively
false, and that's far from the only example.
I said earlier that Trisha was most at ease
when firing off information and stories about topics
that interest them. That was when the
podcast ran at its smoothest, but it was only
because it was what made viewers and colleagues
feel most comfortable.
It's confusing and hard to really
understand, because you're often left thinking
why would you even need to lie about something
as trivial as that, but it's very difficult
to come to any other conclusion than that
this was intentional, but then the question
comes down to what motive causes
a person to state inaccuracies like
Trisha does, not just about one detail
or the other, but in general. Well, a simple
response would be that Trisha is a troll,
and they have been trolling long throughout their YouTube
career. On one hand, yes, this is
true, Trisha has been a notorious troll
since the early days of this platform, but on the other
hand, it seemed that trolling was a bit
more identifiable, particularly in the
narratives and the tone. It was also something that
Trisha claimed to have left behind them on a fair
few occasions when discussing it.
This was not
just a relationship that enabled Trisha
to post a few videos, this was a
fully fledged business partnership that generated
significant income for our prima
donna. It precipitated a romantic bond
that produced a marriage and a pregnancy
for all that to be a troll would require some
mastermind level preparation and
emotional robustness, that even Trisha
in all their longevity and fortitude
may not be capable of. What's the
alternative explanation then?
Well, I think the idea of Trisha being a troll
is reductionist. A troll is known to actively
carry out undesirable actions for attention,
and although Trisha has done that, they're not
just a lover of negative attention.
Trisha has a way of inserting themselves into
stories that makes them relevant to the situation
at hand. I think if any of the perceived
contradictions highlight a common factor,
these are often situations where the people who Trisha
may be commenting on are unlikely to respond
on a public platform in a way that may
illuminate these lies, either because they are
broad in drama that contains valid criticisms
so they struggle to respond in general, or they
literally can't respond. Trisha's
stories always seem to be rooted in
some grain of truth, but it's hard to know
exactly what followed.
One of the curious stories Trisha told back
in the day was about an interaction with
famous actor Robin Williams, who passed
on from this world far too soon. Trisha
stated that when they worked as a courtesan,
they'd pass across. This story was
recounted on their channel not too long after
Robin's passing, and repeated on the podcast
where Trisha brings it up, and then seems
hesitant to elaborate further.
Now once again with the
legacy of Robin Williams, and the awareness
that we have of his often complicated
and problematic character, it's not
in the realms of impossibility. At the
same time, it's another situation which
involves an admittedly rather unlikely
scenario with only one available source.
This is the case with a fair few
other public figures, and even private
ones. Although in many cases these stories
are mostly inconsequential, the discomfort
from Ethan's perspective was that he believed
he was used to prop up a false
portrait of someone, and it's not
hard to see why. It's important
not to understate the more sophisticated
aspect relating to Trisha's understanding
of internet culture. Trisha isn't
someone who just exists to lie, they
have desires and aspirations. I think
in this case the podcast provided platform
for Trisha to tell a new story that would
contextualise their behaviour, that would almost
be this new chapter in their life.
Trisha knows what to do to maximise
their attention, and although in the past the
best way to do this was through often
shallow provocation, here it was
actually to create a deeper, more sympathetic
portrait, one that would make them look
more human and have the audience rooting for
them. Many people would have that naturally
within their character, but with Trisha it's
like another persona for each moment.
Trisha nature to adapt to situations
and bring themselves to the forefront of conversation
is so prominent that they couldn't help
but misrepresent certain situations, while
spectators looked on and nodded their head.
When Trisha was caught up in lies before
in their first appearance on the H3
podcast, when the lies were quite
obvious, people didn't feel so threatened
by them, but as people bought into
the greater story in its entirety
the impact clearly affected people
more significantly. While the
podcast was running smoothly, everything
went well for them, their platform was used
and it's clear that many began to fall in
love with the Trisha they thought they were becoming
familiar with, and because they deemed Trisha
a likeable individual, very few
questioned these stories. I don't know
Trisha inside out to say without a shadow
of a doubt that they actively, intently
lied, but they
did not tell the truth, and in the months
following it was clear that Ethan grew bitter
believing that he had been duped into providing
a platform for someone to speak so carelessly
and using his trust to provide an
extra veneer of credibility,
but that's only one perspective.
What's the other? How much blame
can we assign to Trisha
and how much can we assign elsewhere?
In the kind of months after their
pre-Christmas battle, though Ethan and Hila
had mostly cleaned up their legal obligations
relating to Ryan Cavanagh, the release of certain
pressures didn't draw them back to the topic of
Trisha, other than a few subtweets,
likely because Ethan going full mask off wasn't
actually a rewarding experience.
Trisha did what many expect, and put Ethan in a
position where if he said any more, he'd be the
aggressor, he'd be the one unduly
ruining a person's honeymoon, yet
many were still frustrated, pointing towards
all the times that Trisha had spoken endlessly
about Frenemies after they broke up,
but unfortunately, they're not quite
the same, are they? One is
Ethan, and one is Trisha.
Many of the accounts that we've used today,
and many of the people who've taken to call Trisha
out for their behaviour during Frenemies, were
completely on board only months before,
despite the fact that many of Trisha's comments
were firstly made on Frenemies, and made long
before Frenemies, statements that were well known
and acknowledged at the time.
In many ways, Trisha's demeanour always strangled
the line of trolling master seriousness,
and people expressing outrage at this shouldn't
necessarily be that surprised.
Trisha did exactly what they normally do.
Isn't this what we expected to happen
anyway? In Trisha's first collaboration
with the clients, they were called out for specifically
lying about a rather important detail
relating to drama. Surely, it was obvious
that this was a pattern.
This channel called
Psych In Real Life, they did how Frenemies
reveals a mental health misconception
perpetuated by the internet. This was a really good one.
This was someone who was in our favour.
Some people are in our favour that we
show the ugly side of BBT.
They're like, you know what? Everyone's a mental health
advocate until it's ugly, and so...
So another theory
began to arise, and although I don't think
it's the most popular one, I think it's worth
addressing nonetheless, particularly given the
undercurrents of mental health. As discussed
earlier, many felt that given Trisha's noted
instability, responsibility ultimately fell on
Ethan for platforming them in the first place.
While the initial appeals of Frenemies was
that Trisha Paytas was such an interesting
character, and that they often lacked a filter,
and would say stuff that people do deem offensive,
Trisha never deviated from how they were
known to behave, so why was it fair to
treat them any other way? I think the
problem is that this ultimately arose
from the desire to keep the podcast together.
Friendly bias, and some of Dr. Drew's
less helpful advice. Ethan did obviously
treat Trisha differently when they were a part
of the podcast. Although he was no pushover,
he didn't really treat Trisha's worst
comments with the seriousness that they could have
been treated as a critic, or even
as a friend, and some would even say that
he almost left people to observe it like a
specimen under a microscope. It was
part of the theatre, it could easily blur
the lines between melodrama and serious
disputes. In the months after, it
became easy to view what seemed like
melodrama at the time in a much more serious
light, and many did, but losing
perspective of the original context they were
viewed in. Exposing Trisha Paytas
is such a strange concept because everyone
knows so much
and so little about them at the same time,
and I don't know what you
could say about Trisha Paytas
that would surprise me. I spoke
earlier about Ethan's bias, and I think it's
what made him a contentious figure.
During the Keemstar Girlfriend drama, a clip
began to circulate of what he said to Boogie,
another creator on the older side who'd had
an interaction with a younger girl, and Ethan's
supposedly differing perspective.
Now this
once again harkens back to the hypocrisy
narrative that many assert, however I think
it more shows how often Ethan projects his
judgement of character onto an action
that many others may refrain from making assumptions
about. Ethan believes that Keemstar
is an inherently opportunistic, shady
individual, probably many worse words,
and therefore, from Ethan's perspective,
Keem's attraction to younger adults
is based on something more insidious than if it
was an action carried out by someone he had more
respect for. The only issue is that Ethan
often doesn't elaborate on this himself
and uses general logic that could be
applied to any of these situations, and
therefore, for people who don't think it's fair to
cross-apply those assumptions, these positions
will seem conflicting. I think
the Trisha fallout showed that friend-enemy
dichotomy that Ethan clearly experienced,
and in a way, it makes sense,
someone who you may perceive charitably may have
their faux pas viewed as requiring
education. However, if you come to the conclusion
that actually that person is not well-meaning,
then you may think that they already have the
education, they're just discarding it.
With that said, it is a distinct polarity,
and although some would say that Trisha
certainly poked Ethan until he bit back,
others would argue he unquestionably gave a platform
for a person who was known for their falsehoods
and then adopted a victimhood narrative
when those falsehoods were turned against him.
It's not hard to wonder if the famous
episode 17 would have even been
considered for deletion if friend-enemies never
split up. As we've seen, it's very difficult
to use Trisha's words against them
because you don't know what's real and what isn't.
The truth is, no viewer or audience member
will ever truly know who Trisha
Paytas is or what they believe, because they
throw out so many statements that makes me question
if they know what they believe themselves
half the time. With this in mind, I think
some commentators and critics of
Klein and their fanbase found the long-term
reaction to the collapse of friend-enemies
slightly inauthentic. Trisha had
alluded to this narrative as well, regularly
claiming people only cared about certain
actions after they were antagonized by
the audience, and although somewhat inaccurate
I can understand the gist of it.
In essence, they're saying people like Ethan
only wanted the drama, only wanted
the controversy, only wanted
the tea and the hot takes as long as
Trisha was part of the podcast. Ethan
isn't stupid, and he's very outspoken about
the people he doesn't like and thinks should probably
be deplatformed for their behaviour, such as
Keemstar. Although these two did one
episode actually a very long time ago, Ethan
has repeatedly refused to share a
platform with him since, citing Keem's
behaviour as examples for why.
Some would argue that much of the stuff
that Trisha had done prior to the podcast
was no less concerning, yet they were
still taken on. How come?
Like, I get why he would think
that, you know what I mean? Because it's like
every week, you know, it's like I
have, I'm transgender, I'm just
I have personality disorder
and so people start to
think like, what is
really going on here? I get it.
I'm not mad about it, but Anthony Padilla of all
people, Mr. Fucking Woke, if there's
something wrong with someone, which there clearly is, let's say
I am, let's say I have a pathological liar
and there's some fucking disorder where I'm just like always needing
attention, like I have something wrong with me,
don't fucking attack someone because something's wrong, how about
get that person fucking help? How about butt out
because there's probably other people helping. People don't know
fucking shit when it comes to this stuff.
Well, I suppose more cynical viewers would assume
that once again it comes down in part
to control. Unlike a collaboration
with Keemstar, for example, Ethan had
an idea of how a podcast with Trisha could
go. He had relative control of it on his
platform, and at the time there was a notion
of that greater evil for both parties
to combat. Trisha did what Trisha was
brought on to do, and people catered to them,
and supported them, and although there were conflicts,
they were regularly brought back not too long after
with the expectation that if Trisha could be
kept happy, the podcast would continue.
Some might even say that Trisha's behaviour
was enabled by an environment that valued
their presence over the actual truth,
despite the fact that this contradictory evidence
was available during many of the discussions
they held. Trisha is an
autonomous adult, and therefore has to bear some
responsibilities for their statements. However,
if their inconsistency has been as consistent
as it's made out to be, some would claim
that Ethan isn't as innocent as people
might assume, that he must have had some awareness
of what he signed himself up for,
but didn't mind as long as he had control
of the environment that Trisha existed in,
as long as the narrative was on his side.
I do have a premonition
that I'm like, I feel like I'm gonna be like a Jimmy Fallon
and I'm gonna just have to leave this show and I feel bad
because you're so nice to me.
You're gonna move up,
you're gonna ascend to late night
and say, Ethan, I'm sorry,
we've had a good thing,
but I have to leave you behind.
Eventually we're gonna have to part ways, and when is that gonna happen
and what's gonna happen, like I'll feel bad if that's you
like what if, you know what I mean?
I'm pretty content,
I'm not looking to move up anywhere.
That's the problem with me,
I'm never content, I always think I'm gonna be doing better
and bigger things.
Some would always believe that Ethan just wanted to use
Trisha's controversial persona for the click based on the views,
without real regard for the place
that Trisha's inconsistencies and outbursts
came from. And although Trisha did consent,
was Trisha too in love with the attention
to even process the situation rationally?
Was it really responsible to provide
them with that space anyway?
Maybe Ethan only wanted Trisha for as long
as they played the part they wanted,
and the moment they attempted to take more control
was the moment they were no longer useful.
This is all just speculation,
and a reflection of how people view
the situation quite cynically.
And I want to make that click,
but it often did latch onto one key factor
of the podcast, particularly one with
such notable personalities,
and that is control.
So what did that control come down to?
Well, one statistic springs
to mind.
Okay, fine. And so we had to buy
But that was the first time we ever spent money on production costs.
It's not about that, dude.
It's literally about we are producing the show
and I'm taking a cut. I feel like that's
beyond reasonable.
Beyond reasonable.
5%. Do you realize how much 5% was of our last one?
As said, it's very hard to distinguish Trisha's true beliefs from the ones they push for provocative purposes.
There was one situation which I do feel represented Trisha's opinions from a fairly genuine perspective,
as it was one where their behaviour didn't benefit this arc of attention.
That is arguably the most memed issue of it all,
the 5% and what it represented.
Although Trisha is a person who often isn't completely honest with what they think or how they feel,
it's never without a greater motive,
and in absence of a trolling motive,
we have to ask ourselves,
what is so important about 5%?
In her whole family,
it's like they're all just sitting there counting the 5%.
It takes that 5%.
You got her whole family, you're just like,
the 5%.
That's a small number!
1, 2, 3, 4, 5!
Out of 100!
So 100 numbers, that's 5 of them!
Now the quotes and jokes run deep, and rightfully so.
I don't think there's anyone who believes that with the production costs,
Trisha and Ethan's profits should have been split completely evenly.
However, I do think the banter has often clouded the core points that were trying to be made,
but weren't completely unfounded.
It also reflects the ultimate flaw in the structure of Frenemies,
and the dynamic between Ethan and Trisha.
Both parties purported a sense of betrayal when discussing the capitulation of the partnership,
but they both gave a lot to be on the podcast before being thrown under the bus by the other,
and maybe this was because that in later episodes they seemed to become much more comfortable with each other.
Trisha was invited on the podcast by Ethan,
with Ethan owning all the production resources and investing in it himself.
Therefore, although it was hosted by both of them,
there was the steadying hand of Ethan to keep the show afloat under all circumstances,
which made sense given Trisha's unpredictable tendencies,
however it also meant that Trisha was almost always a guest on their own podcast.
Although their outbursts often resulted in certain concessions,
it also reminded people that their presence was still unreliable,
and didn't give them any stead to expect more control over production.
However, 35 episodes in, and half a year since the last serious quarrel,
I think Trisha believed that they had become enough of a mainstay to expect a bit more authority over the direction of the podcast.
The girl that he cheated on with is Ava Louise Girl.
He called her a gremlin. It's like, you fucked her.
Go off, Queen.
You can't fuck- I hate- I hate-
Go the fuck off.
Guys fuck girls, and because they got caught or whatever,
then they call the girl the gremlin and stuff like that,
like, oh, she was good enough to suck your dick, like what are you talk- Mike is such a woman hater,
and he hates sex workers.
Go off. Go off.
You can see this by Lana, he's cheated on her,
he's like publicly admitted to it in a game, saying he got head from people,
like he's so- he-
Oh, you know what?
This is the kind of guy that virtual reality has to get head from somebody
over in fucking Florida or wherever the fuck they are.
Go off.
And thinking that's cool, like, oh yeah, baby, give me- like, you are such a loser.
You fucked up, Mike.
You are some perfect example of small dick energy that you need a virtual person to suck your dick.
You psychopath.
It's no secret that they read the comments, and reception had really turned in the prior months.
One issue remained, though.
How are they to bring up this point of discourse?
Well, Trisha has a way of not bringing up specifically what they want,
rather pushing discussion in a direction that will eventually result in their desirable proposition.
In that final episode, it was a problem that clearly bothered them,
which is why they attacked the production aspect,
eventually escalating the situation to the point where the episode ended prematurely.
However, the 5% narrative in my mind was Trisha's logical entry point to this discussion,
and a clear signifier of what they wanted.
Basically, Trisha's point was that, as it wasn't 50-50 exactly,
because that 5% came from their own share, they deserved more influence in the decisions being made.
Ultimately, I disagree with this specific line of logic,
and I think you have to look more at the share from the perspective that this 5% was nobody's money to begin with.
However, I also think there was a case to be made for Trisha to have more of a say in certain decisions,
regardless of the money, because Frenemies was presented as a joint project,
and they were part of the appeal,
but that discussion didn't happen because of how Trisha subsequently handled it.
Now, the tinfoil hat guy in me would question how much of Trisha's outburst was calculated,
and I really can't say for certain in that case.
However, I would go as far to say that I think their announcement to step down was done with almost the opposite intent.
With people's desire to keep the podcast together, and the result of previous tantrums,
Trisha had every reason to believe that actually them standing down would prompt Ethan to do everything he could to keep the podcast together,
possibly having another Dr Drew episode which results in Drew recommending Trisha has more representation on the podcast,
and Ethan abiding by the expert advice. However, that did not happen.
The 5%, as amusing as it was, became that primary narrative to show that from Trisha's perspective,
they never really had any control, and for a podcast that they featured on, in their eyes that wasn't fair.
In my opinion, Trisha didn't want the extra 5%, they just wanted what it represented.
In the videos following the collapse of the podcast, Trisha emphasised that from their perspective their input wasn't valued enough,
and although certain points they made were contradicted pretty directly, once again bringing that intent into question,
I do think there was a tension that neither of them wanted to address until after they didn't have an obligation to each other.
Both Trisha and Ethan sought to emphasise how much they cared about each other, and I don't doubt that's true,
but I guess the question would be how much did they trust each other?
One clip from Ethan's video in particular seems quite relevant.
So she wants me to hire people, lease in industrial space, of which, by the way, the leases are usually 3 plus years on industrial spaces,
for something that she's inevitably gonna quit. Like, I mean, it's happened 3 times already, so like,
and guess who's gonna take all the risk on that? Me. I'm gonna risk my ass.
Here he states he didn't want to hand over more authority to Trisha in the say of the staff because from his perspective,
he was the anchor, and Trisha could walk out at any time without experiencing any repercussions.
This is true, but in a way he walks himself into cyclical reasoning, because what he says is only true because Trisha walked out
because of that specific reason, in which case Trisha would just reply, well that's where the 5% of my cut comes in.
Now as said, I don't necessarily agree with Trisha that a cut should give them a stronger say, necessarily,
I think it's much more to do with trust, but in this case all you do is prove that you ultimately didn't trust them,
and you can turn around and say, well they walked out, which proves that I shouldn't have given them a greater input anyway,
but if they walked out on the basis of that specific issue, then it doesn't really prove your point,
because Trisha would continuously push the idea that they were prepared to take more responsibility,
and that Klein would not grant them that. That was the significance of the 5% in their mind.
As noted earlier, there were some who found Trisha's nature to compare themselves with Ila Klein concerting,
some even going as far to suggest that Trisha was concealing feelings for Ethan themselves.
I wouldn't say that, but what I would say is that Ethan and Ila were able to launch the H3 podcast with the mutual trust
that a married couple would invest in themselves. I think Trisha wanted that feeling of partnership as well,
they wanted that even split, even leadership, even management, even power, ultimately though deep down
they knew that wasn't something that Ethan would ever be prepared to provide, and that just exposed those doubts once more,
and how they interpreted them. The core disagreement was this, Trisha clearly believed that Frenemies had outgrown
the platform of H3, and that it ultimately needed its own space to blossom. This was a discussion that needed
to be had openly and honestly, instead it came down to one number. That number wasn't important as a singular statistic,
but more for what it meant to Trisha, the fact that there would always be that difference between them,
that neither party was completely ready to trust the other, neither quite possessed that faith.
This is a serious message to everybody watching my update right now, peace and love, peace and love.
Again, with peace and love, and I mean this with peace and love, peace and love, peace and love, peace and love,
can you um, can you soundbite, I'm warning you with peace and love?
Peace and love, it's a phrase you heard a lot on the H3 Podcast and Frenemies.
It was first said by Ringo Starr, but quickly garnered meme status on the H3 Podcast.
At first it merely held meme status, but eventually it evolved into something greater.
Just don't eat the crust, why are you hating on the end?
Mmm, I think it's a way to keep skinny, Dolly Parton once said she only eats the first bite and not the last bite.
With peace and love it's not working.
I have lost three pounds this week, thank you very much, and guess what, I just ate the last bite.
With peace and love it's not working for you either, whatever you're doing, and you're working out.
I'm not even working out, and I'm skinnier than you.
Listen, I'm not calling you fat, I'm just saying.
Over time peace and love became a way to contextualise or mitigate a possible disparaging remark or negative statement in good faith.
Although not a method I would typically employ, I understand that some, especially Trisha, may have found that reassuring.
The problem is that eventually it begins to tire as a technique, particularly when sometimes it feels difficult to fully present something
as coming from a place of peace and love.
And so I say with peace and love that, you know, as a friend I have come to love and appreciate Trisha.
It's hard to do that when reflecting on her falling out publicly, and Trisha immediately uploading videos, tweets,
and everything under the sun about how they felt placed everyone else on the back foot.
Ethan was completely in his right to respond. Although it was a solid response in many ways,
there was also a sense of vexation at the fact that he had tolerated so much of Trisha's behaviour this time round,
and yet still ended up in the same position.
The problem is that when you have that building up, your narrative begins to spiral into that cynical perception of a person's actions.
Take the issue of Trisha wanting to fire the crew.
Is that I was talking to the crew like, Trisha wants to, I was like, listen, Trisha wants to hire a new crew.
Now as noted, Trisha did not say this directly, but I can understand why you'd seem to think that they are implying it.
Ethan admits he handled this situation incorrectly by paraphrasing Trisha's comments to the crew.
Javi doesn't actually walk back the notion of Trisha wanting to fire the crew, in fact continuing to mention it throughout the video,
even stating that Trisha had directly said they wanted to fire the crew.
If anyone was upset, it's because she said that she wanted to fire everybody and get a new staff that made people uncomfortable.
The reason they were upset that I misunderstood is because she said she wanted to fire them all.
Now Ethan is completely entitled to his interpretation of Trisha's comments, and Trisha hadn't done themselves any favours in the previous days,
but once again, it exuded a lack of faith in Trisha's intent.
Although Trisha had been unnecessarily rude about the crew, they hadn't explicitly stated that they wanted them fired,
and continuing to assert this interpretation cements your stance that you believe that their expression of these feelings didn't come from a genuine place.
Some may say, well he only has this interpretation because of how Trisha had been in the previous days,
but he asserts that this was his understanding before Frenemies had disbanded.
The wording of firing is also going to be quite evocative, because it often implies that people are going to be losing their jobs,
however in this case, as Ethan notes himself, these are people who work other jobs for the podcast, and therefore it was unlikely that this would be the case.
How did you hire Sam without consulting me? It's like, I'm sorry, this is our business, she's not just working on Frenemies.
Why do I need to consult you who I hire for my business?
I don't think his point is completely invalid, but I think it conveys a restrained bitterness that was never spoken about while the podcast felt redeemable,
which then skews the perspective of that specific case, and obviously causes more subsequent anger from Trisha in their responses.
He's bringing up running the whole crew list again.
We fronted the money, we-
In what world? You have all these receipts, show the fucking receipts Ethan.
Now, I think its presentation is clearly clouded by Ethan's own feelings about the situation,
but I do think it does represent that sort of thing that a peace and love tone cannot offset,
and although I think he had decent grounds to believe that Trisha may have been hinting at hiring a new crew for the podcast,
I think his representation just showed he hadn't progressed his opinion of Trisha as much as the viewers thought he had.
It was clear that he still harbored great doubts.
Trisha was no different either, even though they opened their video expressing love for Ethan that soon disappeared.
It's interesting he'll show all the DMs except the ones where I say fire the crew or what he said to me the night of things that happened,
in the order it happened.
Trisha's video is not the easiest to follow because it's Trisha, but even amongst the numerous anecdotes they can fire off,
you can tell that these are evident problems, and they've been evident problems for the longest time.
The whole leaving frenemies situation in itself was a good example,
but in all honesty, if you just watch back the episodes, there are so many moments where they clearly express hesitancy
to accept support or the peace and love vibe, likely because they weren't entirely happy with the podcast as it was.
As noted, I personally find it difficult to write off the idea that Trisha's departure was actually a stunt,
intended to result in further negotiations for an issue they viewed as present,
but if anything, they proved that they didn't believe that being honest with Ethan would actually bring about the desired result.
Instead of patiently talking it out, they believed they had to generate negative attention because they believed that was what Ethan would respond to.
They didn't trust Ethan, Ethan didn't trust Trisha, and they both clearly had issues but didn't have that open discussion
because they thought holding it back would prevent more harm.
In actuality, this only yields further frustration because then the other person has to consider the fact that you never really trusted them as a friend
and that they were just tolerating your presence for the maintenance of a business partnership.
Trisha was the worst person to experience that because they often seemed to seek justification for why people hated them,
which inevitably implanted the narrative that they were only used for views.
This then spirals and only furthers the bad faith interpretations they have of each other,
and in the remainder of 2021 we saw attempts from both sides to really twist the knife in because they believed it was the only justified response
when the other willfully tried to hurt them, far from that peace and love we'd seen before.
A 40's hour philosophy can only work as much as it's what a person positively responds to,
and to be honest, sometimes I think Trisha needed more than peace and love, or at least they required a tougher version of it.
It often represented the eggshells that Ethan felt like he walked on, something that Trisha specifically said they didn't want in messages and later videos.
However, if it wasn't what they wanted, why did they support it when it was first mentioned by the expert himself?
Trisha and Ethan really needed, with some private sessions, to talk about what frustrated them with a paid professional to make sure these problems didn't fall over,
and instead, what they received was this,
and the podcast suffered for it.
There's one video that I've refrained from talking about yet, because it may just be the worst of them all.
During the era where Trisha was attempting to talk about frenemies without doing it on their own channel,
they went onto a podcast with many people.
One of these people, though, was Dr. Drew, the former mediating party of previous therapy episodes.
In this video, when discussing the demise of frenemies, Drew continues to repeat previous narratives that he had imparted so helpfully
during his appearances on the defunct podcast in question, just with more confidence now that the two had actually parted.
It's really strange watching the man who was meant to help resolve it almost play into it, and the questionable narratives at hand.
In a way, I don't think Dr. Drew's core advice is of no use, but the problem is that he takes a lot of what Trisha says at face value,
and that ultimately nullifies a lot of his conclusions.
I was repeating them to him to help him understand them, and trying to frame his response to them,
because he's not the one struggling, although he's in the thing with you, he was evoked by what was going on with you.
I've already delivered a fair few criticisms of Dr. Drew, but I think with the full context of the face of the podcast,
we can now see the ramifications of clumsily handled relationship advice by fully understanding the actual problems that Trisha and Ethan seem to perceive.
The truth is that I'm very grateful for the experience we've had with Frenemies, and all the learning and growing and developing,
and the amazing growth that our channel has seen as the result of that show.
I mean, it's been popular and successful beyond what either of us anticipated.
Trisha wanted to transform the podcast, both they and Kline acknowledged its astounding success and view count in comparison to similar series on the channel.
Frenemies clearly had a presence in an audience of its own, and Trisha's interpretation to me seemed almost like a child,
wondering how long they would have to behave before Kline entrusted more responsibility onto them,
but Kline didn't want to move on that because he didn't want to rely on someone who may not stick around.
Why is that? Well, Ethan still didn't trust Trisha enough.
Ethan couldn't predict what Trisha would do and wasn't prepared to put that faith in his own judgement alone,
and that was something that should have been at least worked on during the two pivotal episodes with Dr. Drew.
In a perfect world, counselling would enable both parties to find closure, yet acceptance in the differences they hold.
This doesn't always happen, and for two people as diametrically opposed as Ethan and Trisha, maybe that could never happen.
However, the insight they received was probably the least helpful it could be.
It created this normal where problems were swept under the rug in the hope that ultimately the strength of the podcast would prevail,
but tensions boil over, and bottling up problems will eventually break bonds down.
There were eggshells that everyone was walking on, too afraid to address them.
From the beginning, we've always been combative, as opposed to you.
I know you're always team Trish, as opposed to, again, it's fine, but I know it was to exploit me, right?
He wanted me to walk off that set that day, so my attitude's different, which is fine.
I exploit myself, like I said, that's my one entertaining quality for the internet, so I was like, fine, that's fine.
But it's like, I knew that going into it that he was always trying to do another walk off, you know what I mean?
So it's a little different as opposed to you.
In many ways, it told Ethan to essentially seek appeasement for the sake of the podcast's longevity.
Repression isn't resolution, though, and if you have these apprehensions that persist, you should talk about them,
even if Trisha may find it upsetting or offensive in the moment.
In this case, longevity itself is still temporary because eventually these things break down,
because eventually you lose your patience or the other person picks up on the fact that you're still unsure of where you stand with them,
and begins to unravel themselves in an attempt to change that, that rollover mentality.
It showed itself as demonstrably detrimental when Trisha was trying to assert those worst expectations in that final episode,
because Ethan just went ahead and confirmed it to try and end the argument, to try and move on,
but sometimes people don't move on until they've cleared something up, until they've repaired that trust.
Thank you for giving me a third wave. I feel like I've gone through, Shane gave me the first wave, then David, then, oh, we're not falling out.
Well, we almost did, but we pulled through.
You're marrying my brother-in-law, so.
It's like we're stuck.
Kind of removing the options.
You haven't f'd your cat or anything.
I'm not the kind of dude who, like, holds grudges. I like to sell squash beef, especially with people like in my family.
Trust starts with transparency. Understanding boundaries is an important building block to that.
Trisha is wildly inconsistent, and hell, it may have been a lost cause to even try and understand what lines they would hypothetically draw,
but it would have been better than doing nothing at all. At the worst, it would have allowed the podcast to end on a note of mutual agreement,
something that proved impossible in the current environment, and was only illuminated by their conflicting interpretations of the unaired episode
where they attempted to settle those. But it wasn't just about Trisha's boundaries.
I think every single person, every group I've been with, Shane Dawson, David Dobrik, Ethan and his crew,
like, they're all these guys that are like, oh my god, Trisha's so crazy. Like, what the fuck? She says this crazy stuff, her crazy life.
Like, candlesticks up her ass, all this stuff. And then as soon as, like, I get triggered by it, it's like, oh, too much.
Oh, like, she's just a bad person. She uses, like, mental health. It's like, all of a sudden, it's like, you know, it's like, if it's too much,
they're like, disengage, disengage. It's weird. I don't know.
There are no two ways about it. The infamous December episode where Trisha loses their temper at Ethan and the absent Eli
was unacceptable behaviour for anyone, and although their conduct never approached that specific degree of volatility again,
it should have been outlined that they wouldn't receive the same treatment if that happened next time.
I think Trisha almost believed their loyalty to the podcast was assumed because drama was naturally inbuilt.
They repeat this on the Dr Drew podcast, but they continue to focus on that one event, the storming out, and not actually what followed.
I'm good about this. Okay, let's go through your stupid, I don't like this segment, just for the record, fan advice is a stupid segment.
I don't think Ethan's greatest issue with Trisha was their on-podcast behaviour in the final episode.
I think what more pushed him towards the conclusion that the partnership was beyond saving was the DMs that Trisha leaked themselves,
where they once more lose their cool, and Trisha announcing that they were leaving. However, this probably wouldn't have happened
if Trisha knew it wasn't going to work. In a couple of other notable instances, Trisha's explosive behaviour had been rewarded
with a seat at the negotiation table, with a therapist by their side. That didn't happen.
From my perspective, Ethan felt like he'd done everything to keep Trisha happy, and it still wasn't enough,
and at that point he decided that there was nothing else he could do, and concluded that accepting Trisha's resignation from the podcast
was the smartest route. This wasn't the first time that Trisha had said they were quitting, but it was the first time that Ethan rubber-stamped it.
If there had been an established method in problem resolution beyond just pushing it towards the backburner,
Trisha may never have considered leaving the podcast as an acceptable course to having their qualms recognised.
They needed a system for these problems that was mutually acknowledged that if breached, would bring about the show's termination.
If Trisha did have some form of rationale to their behaviour, then this would at least serve as greater motivation to not act in a way
that they did after the show's downfall.
It's very easy to point fingers at people directly involved in the drama, and to be honest, I think there is some responsibility that can be attributed there,
but I also think that sometimes you need the right guidance, and in this case that could only be provided by a professional therapist
who didn't have any biases, any priorities, or a public personality to maintain.
If you put the survival of a podcast above the survival of your friendship, and the openness that you can express in it,
then the podcast will suffer nonetheless. It is built from that friendship, or frenemyship, not vice versa.
As much as we can assign blame to subpar vice, it was also Ethan and Trisha's decision to bring Dr Drew on and abide by his wisdom.
If anything, the presence of a personality like Dr Drew showed that although the drama was personal,
frenemys were still just a spectacle, and it needed to be more than that to survive.
When Ethan started the H3 Podcast channel, I think he hoped that it would allow him to present a more unfiltered, authentic version of himself,
and in a way, he achieved that. However, he also experienced issues expressing that natural self,
and working it into conversations with other guests, and often getting into drama himself.
Drama and conflict aside, there was definitely a need to surround himself with people who would play off his best parts,
and ameliorate his worst. Nowadays he does that pretty successfully with his crew, but back then Trisha was the catalyst to bring H3 into a new era.
Who would have guessed that a few select comments could spawn such a tumultuous and memorable partnership in the YouTube history books,
and in many ways they did create something timeless, an experience that many were grateful for.
Given their characters at the start of the podcast, people really didn't believe it would last more than a few episodes,
but over time that expectation changed, and the investment manifested as well.
And for much of the time, the show appeared to undergo an evolution that transformed both Ethan and Trisha,
moving from a dynamic of tense rivalry to strong camaraderie.
With that in mind, there was a potential sadness that the podcast couldn't be something greater,
as it seemed to be progressing in that direction for so long.
I keep saying I love this show, and everyone just stopped the podcast, I'm like please don't stop this podcast, that's all I got going for.
Well let me read you what they said.
Without context, the episodes constructed a poignant story,
one where Trisha had experienced so much maltreatment and desertion that their own responses were a product of their reception.
In some ways it seemed like a believable account, particularly given the cannibalistic nature of internet culture,
and the conviction that Trisha spoke with made it all the more convincing.
It was an occasionally difficult but very sympathetic portrait of a person who was often judged quite harshly by the internet.
Additionally, it was a sobering moment for a lot of viewers, and maybe prompted a fair bit of reflection on their behalf.
However, often the problem with the internet is that it's a pendulum,
it judges it individually either far too harshly or not at all,
and in the deluge of sentimentality, some left their better judgement at the door.
So many were sold on it, and maybe if some had detached themselves a little more,
they would have picked up on certain lies designed to play up this story.
I don't think this means that Trisha hasn't suffered in their life, I want to make that clear,
but I do think they were too committed to it, too committed to a vision in their head that wasn't going to happen.
Trisha is a person whose words have often held very little impact online because of how notably unreliable and melodramatic they are,
but Frenemies changed the game for them due to the assumed realism of that podcast environment.
Unfortunately, although it was in a new format, it was the same old Trish,
and given they had proven to have lied a fair few times prior,
including during their debut appearance on the H3 podcast, it was almost impressive they managed to rope people in once more.
I think in this story, Ethan saw himself in a position where he could be the start of a healthier online relationship for Trisha.
He really did try to make that difference in their life, but they weren't quite ready to let Ethan in,
and I think Ethan picked up on that because Trisha knew that the podcast wasn't quite where they wanted it to be.
Trisha had greater plans for this story, and Ethan didn't.
I think deep down they both apprehended its collapse, either due to Trisha's own nature or Ethan's response to it,
and in a way, Ethan's subsequent reaction to Trisha's lashing out helped preserve the abandonment narrative in their mind.
I think every single person, every group I've been with, Shane Dawson, David Dobrik, Ethan and his crew,
they're all these guys that are like, oh my gosh, you're just so crazy, what the fuck, she says this crazy stuff, her crazy life,
like candlesticks up her ass, all this stuff, and then as soon as I get triggered by it, it's like, oh, too much,
oh, she's just a bad person, she's just mental, it's like, all of a sudden, it's like, you know, if it's too much,
they're like, disengage, disengage, it's weird, I don't know.
Right, yeah.
Then they abandoned it.
Yeah, exactly.
The difference is, at that stage, it was Trisha who left the podcast.
It wasn't Ethan's fault. The one thing that I would say Ethan was unequivocally right to do, though, was to accept the end of the podcast.
I have my problems with Ethan's reaction and response, I think I've made that clear, and I don't know the exact reasons behind his decision,
but he couldn't have maintained it in good faith with the then-present arrangements.
It was the best thing to do, not just for him, but for Trisha as well, and everyone around them,
and honestly could have helped preserve a good friendship.
To do so much in public, on one hand, can be raw and powerful.
On the other hand, it blurs the line between persona and person, and Trisha is so bad with that.
I know I've probably said that before, but it doesn't become any less true,
and as the personal relationships become more and more intertwined,
it was clear that these moments of conflict were only going to cause more harm to Trisha, Ethan, crew, friends, and family.
At the start, I noted that a podcast sometimes could only run as long as there is a motivation,
but in the case of Frenemies, the motivation to start the podcast was ultimately the motivation taken to end it,
because what initially benefited them became a detriment as they grew closer, that friendship.
Unfortunately, that friendship couldn't be saved because of what followed.
Trisha's phase distinguished between that public and private aspect of Frenemies,
and Ethan being pushed past breaking point when reflecting on it.
If you had a time machine, you could probably change a few things,
and maybe it would have kept the podcast alive a little longer, but maybe it would have imploded even sooner.
Who knows, I think the one element that may have been worth saving was the friendship itself,
removing that betrayal and reflecting on the intent of the parties on that podcast,
and with the family involved, maybe it would have been a more peaceful conclusion for all.
Instead we had one which dragged in other parties, over-invested fans to an extreme degree,
and always ended up exhausting everyone actually involved because they couldn't say anything final.
As much as it's entertaining for audience members and possibly cathartic for yourself to go mask off in a stream,
Stalemate is never satisfying, and when you pit yourself against each other in such a way that's all you're ever going to end up with.
As we've seen, if you wrong Ethan, he's often not afraid to hold back.
That's for better and for worse with him,
particularly when he wants to rip into someone the way he would occasionally advise against.
We're pretty PC in general, too.
Like it's a comedy podcast, but I feel like we're pretty respectful at the same time.
Um, so, I don't know. I think some of y'all are just too sensitive.
You're not a politician.
Yeah, exactly, and thank God for that.
Thank you, by the way, for defending me.
I feel like, you know, if you're watching this show and you're perpetually offended by things I'm saying,
you may want to just stop watching, like genuinely.
And I'm trying my best to learn when I can,
and I did take and learn what I could from Matt, and I listened respectfully.
But, um, to say it's gross and disappointing, which is a comment I'm reading specifically,
uh, is just, I think you're too sensitive for the show. I really do. I'm sorry.
Ethan is a regularly cynical guy who tries to be socially conscious, but often fails,
and will draw criticism for supposed pandering and double standards due to it.
Trisha and their loyal fans clearly possess this impression that Ethan still only cared about the podcast for its content,
and not for them, and maybe at the start when some people raised that concern it was a valid point,
but over time I do think Ethan's intentions evolved, which I think is what made him so bitter at the end.
I think he did care, and I think he was embarrassed at himself for caring.
You see me as a troll and a trickster and nothing's true.
You see me as that way because you see through your own lens.
You yourself are only seeing your own kind of shadow being cast on the world.
That's not true, I don't...
Trisha has a problem with the public sphere.
As acknowledged early on, there's evidently an issue with the fact that they don't value the consequences their words can hold,
and the implications they may have in a socially sensitive environment.
Even if the comments didn't directly affect the people that were being referred to,
there were others in those circles, and even on the podcast, that did feel that impact.
Whether Trisha cared too much about themselves or not enough about others is judgement I'll leave down to you,
but whatever the reason, it ultimately wasn't one made for a podcast, or the podcast.
I know some will probably be disappointed that I didn't comment on Trisha's personal life more,
particularly their contentious marriage to Moses, but simply put, I don't know enough about it.
All I'll say is that I think Trisha needs people around them who don't condone their behaviour just because it's Trisha.
Give Trisha a reason to be better. Trisha can get better, it's just a shame that that wasn't the result of the podcast.
It was a project that yielded so much for Ethan and Trisha, but also left the feeling that there could have been so much more,
and it had long overreaching personal implications, leaving some questioning whether it was ever worth it.
For what it is worth though, one thing I've learned from reading too many comments was that even if it wasn't quite what it appeared to be,
Frenemies was still a moment of divine escapism for many.
Those who came home on a Monday night, tired and daunted by the week ahead, had something to look forward to.
Two of YouTube's most recognisable and polarising figures providing their informed and occasionally uninformed takes on YouTube drama.
Frenemies was chaotic, problematic, and deeply flawed, but it was also a compelling story that many followed closely and wanted that fairytale ending from.
Sometimes fiction is more fanciful than reality, and this was one of those times.
Yet, even if its legacy has been tainted, in many people's hearts, Trisha and Ethan will always be Frenemies.
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
Thanks for watching!
