Hey guys, I'm just back from the gym, and since we've been inactive since the start
of the new year, I figured I'd give you a quick update vlog.
And since I know about four fifths of our subscriber base is interested in the gamergate
and SJW stuff, I'll get to that news right away.
The plan is to bring back those videos, the discussion vlogs, the SJW stuff, the indefensible
when relevant, on February 8th, mark that on your calendar, and to do 1-2 of them a
week.
Furthermore, this channel, youtube.com slash shortfat otaku, going forward will only be
hosting that type of content.
Meaning, if you're subscribed to us only for that type of stuff, and you don't want your
subscription list being bogged down by all of our other projects, from now on, this channel
will only host those videos.
The main reason for this change is basically because we're catching up with how YouTube
runs nowadays.
When we started in 2008 and 2009, having multiple channels for multiple projects was just a
little bit unheard of.
If you were a YouTuber, you put your stuff on one centralized channel so that everyone
could see what you were doing.
And if you look at some of these successful older YouTubers, like the Angry Video Game
Nerd, you'll see he still does this to some extent, but the way that search algorithms
work on YouTube now, and the way that YouTube will actually hide videos that you're subscribed
to based on how often you actually go to that channel, that style of YouTubing just isn't
viable anymore.
I think this is something that Sargon was trying to tell us about six months ago on
one of his streams, and also Rerez over on RerezTV came in and gave us a lot of pointers.
Now of course I would like you guys to watch all of our projects, but to those of you who
are subscribed only to this specific type of content, the SJW stuff, and the Gamergate
stuff, and all of that, and you're not really here to have your feed flooded by our other
daily uploads, I would like to say, I'm sorry.
I hope you'll stick around, because the stuff that you want to see is coming, and from now
on this channel will only host that stuff.
That being said, No Talent Gaming isn't going away, it's just being given its own channel,
and you can see it right here.
The No Talent Gaming daily uploads will be returning on February 1st, and additionally
our entire backlog of No Talent Gaming videos have also been mirrored over on that channel.
We will eventually take them off this channel, but not until we've given people enough time
to go over and check out the new channel.
So if you feel like rewatching an old series, or you haven't heard of No Talent Gaming,
or you just want to check out some of the games we've done, please watch the backlog
over on that channel.
And if you feel like leaving some comments or just redoing some of your old comments
or whatever, please do it over there.
With the new No Talent Gaming channel, there will be some changes in how we do the videos.
Those changes are detailed in this video here, but basically we're just trying to streamline
the videos, clean them up a little bit, make it easier to watch overall.
So if you like the idea of us doing Let's Plays and looking at video game content, but
you just really couldn't stomach our old format, please take a look at some of the new stuff.
And now I'm sure there's some of you saying, but Devin, SFO started as an anime review
channel, and yes it did.
But frankly, after running the analytics on our channel, like which of our subs comes
to watch which kind of videos, our anime review audience is almost completely gone.
Four fifths of our audience is here for Gamergate and for Social Justice, about one fifth is
here for No Talent Gaming, and there's only like less than one percent that still cares
about the anime reviews.
That doesn't mean we're stopping them though.
The anime reviews are returning on February 22nd with a review of One Punch Man, and that
series will also have its own channel.
We will be cross-promoting our channels from time to time so that you at least know of
the existence of them, but feel free to only subscribe to the ones that you're actually
interested in.
I'd also like to add a disclaimer here.
If you decide to go over and check out some of those new channels right away, like right
when this video comes up, they still might be a little bit roughshod, we're still kind
of putting them together.
So please excuse things that are under construction, and if you see any kind of problems or mislabeled
videos or things in a wrong order in a playlist or something, just leave a comment and we'll
fix it.
Anyway, that's what's going on with us.
With those three dates on your calendar, February 1st, February 8th, and February 22nd, please
check out all of our videos and all of our new content and all of our new channels, and
thanks a lot for watching.
