This video was made possible by Brilliant.
Start learning complex STEM subjects simply by going to brilliant.org slash wendover.
The idea is simple.
You take what Southwest, Ryanair, Wizz Air, and countless other low-cost airlines have
done with short-haul flying, and apply it to the long-haul market.
You make long-haul flying cheap.
That's the concept behind low-cost, long-haul airlines.
To make that actually work, however, has proved a little more difficult.
Now, the underlying recipe behind low-cost short-haul airlines by the like of Ryanair
and low-cost long-haul airlines such as Norwegian Airlines looks the same on the surface—one
just flies longer routes than the other—but the result has been markedly different.
Ryanair is one of the most profitable airlines in the world—Norwegian has been operating
deeply in the red for years.
Low-cost short-haul airlines have upended the global aviation industry.
Low-cost long-haul airlines have failed, and failed, and failed again.
In 2019 alone, Wow Air, June, Églazur, Thomas Cook, and XL Airlines all went under, all
after operating under this business model.
In fact, globally, there are only about a dozen airlines currently operating using this
business model after scores more have tried over the decades.
These few survivors, though, are not all failures hanging on to their last fragments
of life.
Over the past five years, before the COVID-induced travel downturn, Condor, Cebu Pacific, Azul
Airlines, Jetstar, TUI, Scoot, and WestJet have each operated long-haul, low-cost flights
at varying levels, but earned a profit.
Meanwhile, though, AirAsia X, Norwegian Airlines, Eurowings, and countless now-bankrupt low-cost
long-haul airlines operated at a loss.
So, considering some can do it, why can't they all?
What's the secret sauce to a profitable, long-haul, low-cost airline?
Well, these are the 14 measurable characteristics that might impact the profitability of a given
long-haul, low-cost airline.
These are ten currently or recently operating long-haul, low-cost airlines that report independent
financial results, and these are each of those 14 characteristics quantified for each of
those ten airlines, based on data before the coronavirus pandemic started.
Now, for most of these characteristics, there's quite a lot of variability from airline to
airline—each company clearly has its own hypothesis for the correct formula that might
make low-cost long-haul travel possible.
For example, in terms of number of hubs, defined as the number of distinct origins their flights
operate from, TUI has 18 spread out across Europe, while AirAsia X has just one, Kuala
Lumpur.
Meanwhile, in the category of the average number of route competitors, defined as how
many other airlines operate the same long-haul routes as the subject airline, TUI had the
least, meaning that for almost all of their routes, they were the only airline to operate
it, while Cebu Pacific had the most, meaning that they typically had multiple competitors
on each of their routes.
Now, by performing regression analysis, the data suggests that most of these characteristics
have very little correlation to profitability.
For example, you might think, like many in the industry, that long-haul low-cost carriers
would benefit from having younger, more fuel-efficient aircraft.
Norwegian Airlines, though, has an average aircraft age of just 2.3 years, but it's
deeply unprofitable, while Condor, on the other hand, has an average aircraft age of
24 years, and yet it's the most profitable airline of these ten.
Of course, then there's Eurowings, with the second oldest fleet, and yet it's also
deeply unprofitable.
Essentially, the data suggest that aircraft age doesn't have a whole lot to do with
long-haul low-cost airline profitability.
There are reasons why a young fleet could help, like through lower fuel burn, but there
are also reasons why an older fleet could help, like through lower capital cost, so
it seems like it all evens out in the end.
It's a similar case with the average long-haul aircraft capacity, average origin country
GDP per capita, and average origin traffic coefficient of variation—essentially the
degree of seasonality for passenger demand.
Each of these factors showed very little correlation to profitability, and a few others demonstrated
results with higher, but still fairly statistically insignificant correlation, but then the three
characteristics with the highest degree of correlation to airline profitability start
to paint a pretty clear picture.
The third most correlated characteristic is the average number of route competitors.
Essentially, the data show that low-cost long-haul airlines with a smaller number of competitors
on their average long-haul route do better financially.
Then, the second strongest correlated characteristic is the average total weekly frequency of the
given airlines' long-haul routes—meaning how many total weekly flights are flown by
all airlines on each of their long-haul routes.
The less frequent their average route, the better they seem to do financially.
Then, the most strongly correlated characteristic by far is an airline's number of hubs—the
more hubs they have, the better they perform financially.
Now, each of these three factors have to do with one thing—network design.
They have to do with where and when the airlines fly, but not at all with how—these factors
have nothing to do with the cabins, the aircraft, the ground handling, or anything operational.
So, how do you interpret these data?
What do they mean?
Well, essentially, they suggest that only a very particular type of route network works
for long-haul low-cost flying, and that network is essentially the exact opposite of what
AirAsia X, for example, flies.
This is what their long-haul route map looks like, or rather looked like pre-COVID.
They're flying routes like Kuala Lumpur to Tokyo, competing against 44 flights per
week by Malaysia Airlines, Japan Airlines, and ANA, or Kuala Lumpur to Jeddah, competing
against 33 weekly frequencies by Malaysia Airlines and Saudi Arabia.
In fact, only five of their 19 long-haul routes are competition-free.
They also only have one hub, Kuala Lumpur, from which every single one of their flights,
with the sole exception of a route that continues on from Osaka to Honolulu, originates.
Essentially, they're doing everything the data say not to do and, as predicted, they're
losing tons of money while doing it.
From a data perspective, the exact antithesis of AirAsia X is TUI.
This is what their pre-COVID route network looked like.
Now, while AirAsia X flies high-competition, high-frequency routes from a single hub, TUI
flies low-competition, low-frequency routes from many hubs.
Out of more than 60 long-haul routes, only eight of theirs have direct competition, and
only one of those, Amsterdam to Paramaribo, is flown by two competing airlines.
Each of their routes is also extremely low-frequency, with an average of only three non-stop flights
per week, and, most uniquely, they fly these flights from 18 different hubs across Europe.
Now, these statistical differences are manifestations of the true, more fundamental difference between
AirAsia X and TUI, or Norwegian Airlines and Condor, or Wow Air and Azul Airlines.
What's actually different between these airlines and these airlines is how they deal
with demand.
AirAsia X, Norwegian Airlines, and Wow Air try to capture demand.
They're entering some of the busiest airline markets in the world, home to some of the
largest and most powerful airlines out there, and are trying to lure a large enough portion
of the passengers to fill their planes.
The difference is subtle, but TUI, Condor, and Azul Airlines don't as much try to capture
a market, but rather try to create it.
In fact, quite literally, the second line of the Azul Airlines Wikipedia page says exactly
this—the company's business model is to stimulate demand by providing frequent and
affordable air service to underserved markets throughout Brazil.
The reason why LATAM, Brazil's largest airline, doesn't have a flight from Recife to Orlando
is because they have the data and they know that the number of people who connect from
Recife to São Paulo to Orlando on their own flights is not enough to fill a plane non-stop
from Recife to Orlando—at least at their full service prices.
When Azul comes in and drops fares to a couple hundred dollars, some people might choose
to fly on Azul because the price is cheap and they were going there already, but crucially,
others will choose to fly this route because the price is so low.
They're creating demand.
Now, evidence of this phenomena can be found by looking at short-haul, low-cost carriers—the
ones who have been operating for decades profitably and undoubtedly know what they're doing.
You see, the busiest route in Europe, by scheduled seat capacity, is Barcelona to Madrid, and
Europe's largest low-cost airline is Ryanair.
Conspicuously, though, Ryanair does not operate this route.
They also don't operate from Paris to London, or Stockholm to Oslo, or Berlin to Frankfurt,
or countless other of the busiest passenger flows in Europe because they can make more
money by stimulating demand on low-competition, historically low-demand routes.
Across the board, the routes that work for short-haul, low-cost carriers are different
than those that work for full-service airlines.
When long-haul, low-cost airlines emerged en masse, many—including AirAsiaX, Norwegian
Airlines, and Wow Air—seemingly sought to emulate the route maps of their full-service
competitors.
Wow Air, for example, focused on connecting major US cities to major European cities via
Reykjavik, Norwegian did the same but with non-stop flights, while AirAsiaX worked to
complement their short-haul network by connecting Malaysia to the rest of Asia.
The problem is, short-haul budget airlines already proved that this was hardly viable,
and it's even less viable with low-cost long-haul airlines because they have even
less basis for cost differentiation.
That's because, the longer a flight is, the greater proportion of the overall cost
fuel takes up, and that's because, no matter the length of a flight, airlines always only
have to pay for one set of check-in agents, one gate, one cleaning crew, and one of everything
else a flight needs at the airport, but for every minute a flight is airborne, they have
to pay more for fuel.
What TUI, Condor, and Azul airlines have in common is that they look for routes where
people want to travel but choose not to because of the cost or time it takes to get there,
or because they haven't even considered it.
They pretty much ignore business travelers entirely and focus on the two other major
travel segments—people going on vacation, and people visiting friends and families.
It's certainly counterintuitive to think that TUI can turn a profit flying from Brussels
to Banjul in the Gambia, while Norwegian Airlines cannot while flying London to New
York, but this goes to show that what matters in this industry even more than demand is
competition.
There can be all the demand in the world, but if it all goes to a competitor, an airline
will not be viable.
Now, as always, there will certainly be exceptions to this rule, and it isn't to say that there
aren't other factors that influence the profitability of a given long-haul low-cost
airline, but it is to say that the easiest route to profitability seemingly starts with
stimulating demand.
If airlines like Norwegian, AirAsia X, Eurowings, and other unprofitable long-haul low-cost
carriers do make it out to the other end of the COVID-induced air travel downturn, they
will have an opportunity to rebuild their long-haul route networks from nothing, starting
with the ones that have historically worked best.
The data would suggest that the long-haul routes that should work best are ones like
Oslo to Fort Lauderdale or Bangkok—both of which are low-frequency routes with little
competition that also happened to be some of the first long-haul routes they launched
early in the 2010s.
While prior to the pandemic, these airlines were tremendously focused on capturing as
much of the market as possible as fast as possible, which likely led them to launching
unviable routes, the slow yet seemingly imminent restart to international long-haul travel
might act as a natural experiment regarding the viability of the business model.
Without any momentum to work off of, if these airlines—both the profitable and unprofitable
ones—are successfully able to stimulate demand once long-haul travel is once again
safe and possible, that will more or less prove that this is truly their secret sauce.
Following lockdowns in the US, Europe, and Asia, short-haul low-cost carriers outpaced
their full-service competitors in their recoveries.
This was largely because they were able to stimulate demand on leisure routes with cheap
fares and non-stop, point-to-point routes.
The long-haul recovery has barely started yet, but if we see the same happen—if we
see long-haul low-cost carriers lead with niche, low-frequency leisure routes, and if
this works and the recovery outpaces that of full-service airlines, then we'll have
further evidence that what makes low-cost carriers work is not so much their low operating
costs, but rather their route networks.
Then, if this is true, we know that the difference between Lufthansa and Condor Airlines, or
British Airways and TUI, or LATAM and Azul, is that one set of airlines captures demand,
and the other one creates it.
Earlier in this video, I mentioned that I ran regression models on the datasets I created
to research for this video, which might sound like some crazy scary math words to some of
you, and it certainly would if for me a few years ago, but regression analysis is actually
one of the simplest and most powerful tools in statistics.
I'm one of those people who hated math in high school and was terrible at it, but since
then, I've come to love statistics and found my knowledge of the subject quite useful for
both this, my job, and everyday applications.
What really helped me master the subject were brilliant statistics courses.
Specifically, their statistics fundamentals course helped me with regression analysis,
while the rest of the ones on the subject taught me things that I didn't even learn
when I took the course in college.
Now, an online course teaching more than a college course probably sounds scary, but
why Brilliant is so great is that they take these huge, complex subjects and break them
down into little chunks which they teach by explaining the intuitive fundamentals.
In the end, even if you're the opposite of a math expert, like me, you can finally
understand these subjects that you previously looked at in trepidation.
All in all, if you want to learn the subjects you hated in school, but actually enjoy the
process, Brilliant is the place for you.
By heading to brilliant.org slash wendover, you can sign up for free, and then, if you
decide to upgrade to premium, the first 200 people to go to that same link will get 20%
off, and you'll be supporting the channel while you're at it.
