It's often been said that people don't read Nietzsche, they only read quotations
of him online and consider them to be cool, although I think that tendency started long
before the internet was even invented.
It's no stretch to say that he's probably the most frequently misinterpreted philosopher
of all time.
Hell, when Germany can create not one but two totalitarian ideologies, justified by
his philosophy, while simultaneously running counter to it, you know you've got somebody
on your hands that's pretty tough to read.
I'd like to bring up one specific Nietzschean quote though, God is dead.
Whenever it's repeated in the modern era, it's done so triumphantly, considered to
be a statement of humanity's moving past the dogma and ignorance of religion, into
a modern era of reason and science.
And fair enough, Nietzsche had many criticisms to levy against religion in his writings.
But the phrase, God is dead was stated not triumphantly, but sorrowfully, and in a state
of blind panic.
I actually had the opportunity to read some of Nietzsche's writings, thanks intro to
philosophy, and one passage I was able to study with a bit more depth was the famous
God is dead excerpt.
Nietzsche used that phrase multiple times, but the one that everyone quotes is from section
125 of The Gay Science.
Just so we're all on the same page, here it is.
Why is he lost? said one.
Has he strayed away like a child? said another.
Or does he keep himself hidden?
Is he afraid of us?
Has he taken a sea voyage?
Has he immigrated?
The people cried out laughingly, all in a hubbub.
The insane man jumped into their midst and transfixed them with his glances.
Where is God gone? he called out.
I mean to tell you, we have killed him, you and I.
We are all his murderers.
But how have we done it?
How are we able to drink up the sea?
Who gave us the sponge to wipe away the whole horizon?
What did we do when we loosened this earth from its sun?
Whither now does it move?
Whither do we move?
Away from all suns?
Do we not dash on unceasingly?
Backwards sideways forwards in all directions?
Is there still an above and below?
Do we not stray as though through infinite nothingness?
Does not empty space breathe upon us?
Has it not become colder?
Does not night come on continually, darker and darker?
Shall we not have to light lanterns in the morning?
Do we not hear the noise of the gravediggers who are burying God?
Do we not smell the defined putrefaction, for even gods putrefy?
God is dead, God remains dead, and we have killed him.
How shall we console ourselves, the most murderous of all murderers?
The holiest and the mightiest that the world has hitherto possessed has bled to death under
our knife.
Who will wipe the blood from us?
With what water could we cleanse ourselves?
What lustrums, what sacred games shall we have to devise?
Is not the magnitude of this deed too great for us?
Shall we not ourselves have to become as gods, merely to seem worthy of it?
There never was a greater event, and on account of it, all who are born after us belong to
a higher history than any history hitherto.
Here the madman was silent, and looked again at his hearers.
They were also silent, and looked at him in surprise.
At last he threw his lantern on the ground, so that it broke in pieces and was extinguished.
I come too early, he then said, I am not yet at the right time.
This prodigious event is still on its way, and is travelling.
It has not yet reached men's ears.
Lightning and thunder need time.
Deeds need time, even after they're done, to be seen and heard.
This deed is as yet further from them than the furthest star, and yet they have done
it.
There is nothing about the death of God that is considered to be triumphant in the tale
of the madman.
Despite Nietzsche's many criticisms of religion, he realized one very important thing.
The collective morality of Western civilization, and its unique focus on the sovereign individual,
was built on the foundation of the belief in God.
Even for those people that didn't actually believe in God themselves, the ethical system
that they operated on was formed by a society based in the Christian faith.
And it's no surprise, look at the coordinates of Christianity.
When Christ was asked, which of the many rules is the most important, if in practical situations
they come into conflict which one takes priority, he said, Love thy neighbor.
And Christ himself is, eventually, unjustly nailed to a cross and tortured to death.
But he doesn't go into the situation naively, nor does he run from it.
He sees it coming, he does the right thing, and he bears his burdens.
Even if you don't believe in the metaphysical aspects of the faith, and I certainly don't
as an atheist, how could it be anything but the case that that specific story would eventually
spawn a civilization that values individual rights and rewards individual responsibility?
And when we eventually progressed to a point that faith in God himself was no longer a
When we became intelligent enough to actually understand that Christ was not the son of
the divine, but simply the ideal man which we all aspire to reach in our own way, as
expressed in a tale told by primitives, well, what else was going to happen to us, if not
the complete collapse of our ethical systems?
It's like the fruit of the poisonous tree from a legal perspective.
If you remove belief in God, then nearly 2000 years of moral innovation and advancement
go with it.
That's the point of the tale of the madman.
Those people who laugh at the madman for looking for God are those who follow the morality
of a social system that they are fundamentally at odds with and they just don't know it
yet.
For them, all it'll take is one foundational event to push them over the edge into nihilism
and lack of meaning.
Who gave us the sponge to wipe away the whole horizon sounds to me like Nietzsche's prediction
of the creation of postmodernism.
With God dead and all of the moral grounding that sprung from him collapsed, of course
we would create a philosophy where nothing has any inherent meaning, nothing is concrete,
and it's all just a product of human systems.
Natural barriers, like say horizons, would have to be wiped away as a product not of
the natural world but human corruption.
With what water could we cleanse ourselves, what lustrums, what sacred game shall we have
to devise, sounds, to me, like the predictions of the multitude of new systems that would
rise to prominence in the 20th century in an attempt to forge a new morality after God
had been swept away.
In his other writings, Nietzsche accurately predicted, back in the late 1800s, the absolute
catastrophe of both the fascist state and the communist revolutions that would grip
the world decades after his death, as well as the over 100 million dead their efforts
would bring.
I don't think Nietzsche's argument was that, therefore, we should have remained in
ignorance about the nature of the metaphysical, and simply continued to believe in God blindly
for the rest of eternity, but I do think he understood that even as a move away from religion
was necessary for modern science to flourish, it would also cause a complete undermining
of any sense of morality, and that we were in for a lot of suffering and death until
we all figured out how to maintain a moral structure without a foundation, and that's
a problem we still haven't solved, in a sense.
Now I know what you're thinking, Dev, this video is about the universal basic income,
and you haven't even mentioned it yet, you're right, but that's because the problem of
the death of God and the problem of automation are the same problem.
When the moral rug was pulled out from beneath our collective feet, humanity scrambled to
cling to whatever they could that would provide them a structure, a morality they could adopt
in place of the old faith.
Fascist Italy settled on the state, Nazi Germany settled on the race, the communists settled
on the worker, the Americans settled on freedom, and though freedom has some problems, it's
probably the most solid choice so far as it at least emulates the concept of the sovereign
individual in Christ without actually needing a Christ-like figure to aspire to.
But everyone suffered, and on some level still suffers, from a lack of meaning in their lives.
The argument against religion is that the meaning that it provides to people is fundamentally
false, maybe so, but it's still meaning, it's still a beacon that can light your
way, even if only to point to a place where you can develop a new sense of meaning.
But if God is dead, if there's no more meaning to be derived from religion because
we've basically become too smart for it, where do we go now?
The fundamental question is what do we do when our lives lack an objective?
And the universal basic income is a really, really bad answer to that question.
The assumption is that automation will eventually reduce the total number of jobs.
The new industries that are springing up to create and maintain automated systems will
require fewer working people in them than the jobs they replaced.
Maybe that's the case, maybe not.
I'm not sure.
It might be that it's not the case, that we will fundamentally never run out of work
to do, and that the automation problem will solve itself over time, as people move into
emerging industries.
But for the sake of argument, let's assume that it is the case, that the new jobs that
spring up as a result of automation won't be enough to employ all the people who have
lost their jobs to the machine.
Is the solution really to give them a universal basic income?
Is the solution actually that the state comes in to nurse them on that UBI teat, since they
have become like children, unable to provide for themselves, and no longer afforded the
dignity of standing on their own two feet like adults?
Is throwing money at the problem really the solution?
Because I think we all know what happens when you give someone who has no direction in life
a whole bunch of money, instantly all of their worst vices are indulged, and they're worse
off for it.
If somebody's job is replaced by a robot, and they've turned into an alcoholic recluse
who does nothing but watch TV and drink all day, do you actually think that handing them
a bag of government issued money is going to help the situation out, or will he just
drink himself to death?
It would seem to me that the proponents of the universal basic income believe that the
problem they're tackling is unemployed people don't have money.
But I think it's more like unemployed people don't have anything to do with their lives.
There's also other problems to consider.
The larger a state's bureaucracy, generally, the less free the people living within that
state are.
Europe was a location where peasants could generally grow their own food.
As a result of this, Europe's society developed futilely, and political power was devolved
down to landowners and local lords, which eventually evolved into the first modern democracies.
To contrast, the Middle East, lacking access to water in the same way as Europe, required
large-scale irrigation projects to cultivate, which was not a task that individual peasant
families could handle.
A centralized state was required, and as a result, a culture of absolute monarchies,
and later, absolute theocracies and dictatorships was established.
I don't think it would be a good idea for us to restructure things such that the average
person's economic dependence is shunted through the state.
That's already happened, to a lesser extent, to the United States' black population.
And look at the absolute ruin the welfare state has wrought upon the black family.
Or you can look at banana republics, or nations based solely on oil extraction.
Situations where local participation in the economy of the state is minimal.
They're all autocratic governments.
In essence, a nation that generates its wealth from its citizens needs to keep those citizens
happy to survive.
That means human rights.
A nation that generates its wealth from its resources simply needs to maintain a military
that can protect those resources, whether that's an oil well or an automated factory.
Human rights no longer figure into the picture.
A universal basic income makes the people unnecessary components of the state, and that
is a road we do not want to go down.
Automation will continue.
Pandora's box has already been opened.
It's another form of advancement, much in the same way that our reasoning shifted away
from religion and towards science.
And like the death of God, automation is another chapter in the problem of meaning.
What do I do with my life?
What do I spend my time working towards?
What do I value?
The tribulations that happen to a religious person when he ceases to believe in God, and
the tribulations that happen to a proud family man that loses his breadwinner job are the
same tribulations, they suffer from the same problem.
So what solves it?
I'm not sure exactly.
But I do know that having a purpose is way more important than having money.
I mean, money's not nothing, but the provision of money without purpose seems to lead people
to ruin, while taking on responsibility seems to lead people to purpose, at least eventually.
So society needs mechanisms that allow people to discover their purpose and begin to provide
meaning for their own lives.
And this meaning must, in some way, necessarily also provide money, because the dangers of
having all economic activity flow through the state's mechanisms is just too high.
The desire of the people for human rights, protected by the state, as demanded from our
current position of relative strength, may be enough to safeguard us from our descent
into servitude, only so long as those rights include the right to earn our own living through
our own work, rather than living off of handouts.
If that means that the responsibility is on us for the creation of entirely new industries
to replace the old ones, then so be it.
Better for us to grope around in the unknown, in an attempt to find our own prosperity,
than to settle for what the state feels we're worth.
The last time we encountered this problem, Nietzsche predicted death on a scale we had
never seen before, and he was right.
We can't repeat those same mistakes.
