Hello ladies and gentlemen and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time.
What is inherently wrong with going after bullies in game and giving them what's what?
Well today we're going to investigate that and work out how such an organisation like
Bully Hunters has arisen and how it's subsequently been lambasted by everyone.
But before we get any further, to those who are out of the loop, what are Bully Hunters?
Well the Bully Hunter campaign was set up in the light of harassment, basically what
the method is, when you're in game and you're experiencing some twat for example, there's
some spotty kid going to tell you to go in the kitchen and make a fucking sandwich, you
go on the website and you go and call that Bully Hunter, that Bully Hunter links up with
your steam so they can join your game and they deal with that fucking bully, they'll
kill that fucking bully in game and leave them with a message saying that harassment
will not be tolerated, capiche, the problem is no more.
But why would there be a necessity for something like this in gamer culture?
Why would we ever need that?
Well maybe to understand that we have to go back in time a bit.
So let's hop in the time machine and get some context, today we're going into real
gamer hours.
One of the most infamous associations with gamer culture, and something that was clearly
rooted in the Bully Hunter campaign, is gamers and their supposed hostility, most notably
to females.
Now this is clearly rooted in some observable evidence, however a lot of people just observe
this and point at it and say, it's a problem, rather than asking the deeper questions for
why it has arisen.
We should firstly question the nature that would create such an environment, where it's
not too hard to understand how such a situation can arise.
So let us list out a catalogue of prerequisites to fulfil.
Firstly online gaming is competitive, there's an inherently important point to note.
It's empirically proven that often when people compete against each other, they may not be
the friendliest, especially when they feel that there is something to game, whether it's
a reward or mere status.
That is a primary condition for such an environment.
Other gamers will apply many mental tactics to try and gain advantage over their opponent,
especially when they're losing, which is why trash talk is much more likely to occur between
teams rather than within teams, that's not to say it doesn't happen, but that's an important
first point.
The next point to make is that it's a lot easier to intimidate over the medium of a
video game.
Your name is protected by an alias, and your identity is pretty much completely veiled.
You do not know the people who you're interacting with, unless you're in a friends group of
whom I assume you wouldn't bully.
Whatever you say in these places will almost certainly not come back to you.
Basically what that means is that when this culture is created, it can spread very quickly
under the premise of anonymity, then we need to observe the demographics.
Bully Under was promoted on Counter Strike Global Offensive.
This is no coincidence.
There is a largely male fanbase for many shooter games in particular, now there can be many
hypotheses for why that is, but currently it is what it is.
Then we infuse the fact that gamers on average are not generally as mature as the typical
law abiding citizens.
There is nothing intrinsically wrong with being slightly immature, I'd argue that
I'm very juvenile from time to time, but you put all these together, and yes you're
going to have some sort of outcome which may result in the verbal degradation of others
around you.
I don't think that's on gaming itself, I think that's on the very particular aesthetics
that culminate around such an environment, which is magnified particularly in this scenario.
So I don't believe the idea that certain things such as misogyny existing on a proportionally
greater scale within such games is an unfounded one, but I do believe that it is something
in need of more elaboration, and it should also be put into perspective.
Human beings don't tend to go on to games with an agenda, and I think that's an important
point, a very high majority of people do not go into games with the intention of abusing
people or spreading toxic ideas, particularly the latter, you're not going to be using
Counter Strike Global Offensive to recruit for your chauvinist cult to say the least.
I'm not trying to give anyone any ideas.
So then we have to question what is the ideological system behind these games, being the MVP,
being the victors, being the best, shooters in particular are very domination oriented,
many want to assert themselves as in charge, and therefore this will lead to them taking
up a character of what they perceive to be the most successful in-game persona, this
is obviously the alpha male.
However given the fact that many of these people's understanding of what it takes
to be an alpha male is somewhat two dimensional, it'll often lead to quote abuse tactics
in a direct attempt to subjugate their opposites, which is why although misogyny may be observed
as more precedent, it would not surprise me if abuse in general was higher across the
board, particularly male on male, and even female on male, if I were to take a guess
most abuse would revolve around players calling each other virgins, going after their libido,
presenting them as effeminate and unsuccessful.
However one of the greatest mistakes in my opinion is then assuming that the game is
the sole cause of the behaviour, this is also an important point and there is a lot of important
points that you need to put together in your head today because we are putting the pieces
of a puzzle together.
Just because something may create an environment where it can happen, doesn't mean it will
happen, now for all you lads coming down to education corner with me the right opinion,
this is something known as retrospective determinism, don't pull this out of your ass all the
time but it's a fun little fact and little word nugget to make you feel a bit smarter.
If abuse is higher proportionally, it's hard to say that it's something specifically
pertaining to gender, and moreover a Darwinistic drive for dominance within a game that implicitly
promotes hierarchy.
However it wouldn't be right to talk about this without talking about the other topics
that are often conflated, which I personally believe to be a very different matter but
due to the correlation a causal link is often drawn, which is obviously, out of game, politics.
Now video games are at a very unique position within their market, they're not centralised
in the sort of Hollywood bubble and therefore haven't been dominated by a lot of progressive
politics associated with that, however journalism in particular seems very driven to subscribe
to those ideas, nonetheless this has not come without its resistance and many seem very
defiant to preserve certain aspects of game.
Now to speak about politics, you have to speak about gamergate, a scandal which pitted these
two very distinct sects against each other.
Now I do not wish to speak too much about it specifically because I was not there and
it appears to be a situation which is really fucking hard to find an unbiased testimony,
with all that in mind I still see people talking about the topic today, with many advocates
still romanticising over it in an attempt to present themselves as martyrs.
There has often been a lot of retrospective reframing of what has happened and people
attempting to construct a podium out of it to launch their careers, I'm not gonna name
any names but it's pretty fucking obvious.
Anyhow this has led to the constantly renewing debate of sexism within the games industry,
but what this seems to forget is that many gamers that I've exemplified earlier in this
video are not remotely political, they're just juvenile, some of which I'm sure have
never even heard of gamergate, back in 2013 the only way I had heard of gamergate was
through the Angry Joe show, I genuinely didn't know what he was talking about, so all this
basically leads to back and forth between Twitter pseudo intellectuals on stuff that
is really rather ineffectual to many people who do not use these websites, and believe
me, there are many places where sites like Twitter are not overwhelmingly popular, where
I'm from in particular, we're almost all resident on Facebook, and I'm the exception.
But while this is all transpiring, these sorts of people, the journalists, are all looking
for a way to combat what they see as the rampant aggression within games, but by kinda responding
to something that is actually quite psychologically rooted and treating it with the heavy hand
of politicisation, this can lead to many ham-fisted attempts to try and prevent toxic
mentalities, and I think it's necessary to discuss how it's escalated to that point,
and then we will get to the magnum opus, Bully Hunter, and how such a tame movement became
the breaking point for the strain on the gaming community.
Everyone knows about the debates that arise from gamers, games, and so on, now as observed
I've noted that there has been a certain stigma raised around the gaming community,
particularly on the image created by a lot of its detractors when presenting the issues
such as harassment.
Let's discuss how this response has evolved over time.
One of the primary responses adopted by a lot of reactionaries was to immediately blame
the games they were playing, and I explained why this is a mostly false narrative in another
one of my videos, so I'm not going to touch on it too much now, but it should be quite
clear that from what I've presented that it's not games themselves that cause the dangerous
mentalities.
And yes, there are instances in which unhinged individuals carried out crimes mimicking video
games, but many of those individuals were shown to be rather delusional in their own
capacity without the assistance of video games.
However, this has not stopped them from nailing in the narrative, most recently in the light
of the Parkland shooting, although that legacy appears to be dying a very horrible death
very rapidly.
Many have suggested boycotting games that might include a high level of violence, harassment,
and other suggestive ideologies such as misogyny.
Famously, an Australian petition made Target remove GTA 5 from their shelves completely,
because many didn't like the way the game framed the treatment of women.
Now call me Nostradamus, but I expect the implications of such a move to be absolutely
zilched, in spite of its earnest intentions, however this was the case of a society that
didn't really completely grasp the nature of video games.
It always happens whenever something new and perhaps controversial is introduced, people
will jump in, convinced it will lead to the inevitable destruction of society as we know
it.
And as we have become more familiarised with this, there has been a shift away from this
responsibility on games, and many people generally understand that there is not much of a causal
relationship, though there are some people who like to push the blame whenever it's convenient
for their agenda.
So eventually people moved away from that, after all, most people project themselves
onto video games and not vice versa, the video game may activate the behaviour, but it was
still within the person, and yes sure there are some young kids who might be impressionable,
but I would make the argument that the responsibility lies on the parent to make sure that their
child behaves sensibly and not on the state.
So what now?
I said earlier we have two very separate concepts, politicisation of games and competition within
games, both of which cause great debate.
Gaming as an industry is primarily male, as I have said there are likely many explanations
for that, however given the recent drive for equal representation within industries it
has faced fierce criticism for its current make-up, however the campaign within the games
industry has seemed much more personal than many others, if you talk about the gender
pay gap in banking for example, you wouldn't talk about the regional managers, even other
media persuasions such as television and music have faced much less controversy in how they
handle such topics.
Why is this?
Because of the overlap that I have been talking about, whereas many industries such as TV
haven't been excessively criticised as a culture for the issues discussed today, the gaming
industry is often alleged to have this sort of bad aura about it, probably because it
doesn't have the same filter that other industries have on.
Gamers are much more integral to the games, you wouldn't have the viewers or the listeners
for example being the centrepiece in your content when we're talking about film or music.
Gamers on the other hand are very central, and they're not always politically correct,
and eventually many journalists in particular assumed the best way to combat this was to
actually try and project their agendas into the content, and that just didn't work, either
leading to the tiresome twitter threads mentioned earlier or just shouting loudly into an echo
chamber.
But mostly what this overlap between politicisation and casual gamers yielded was either backlash
or no reaction whatsoever, because although there may have been people participating in
the sort of alpha male projection that we can witness, it didn't reflect genuine beliefs
of any sort, and they are behaviours that many a person would inevitably grow out of
regardless.
You had the campaigns to deal with the in-game attitude and aggression, violence, etc, and
you had the out-of-game push for diversification.
Much of the out-of-game conflict was projected onto in-game assets, which as I expressed
earlier I believe to be the result of a very different cause.
However, no one wanted to nuance that sector, and it regularly became a pastime for many
journalists to go in on gamers with no real plan, as if complaining about them on a web
article would solve their problem.
This led to the creation of caricatures that firstly didn't represent many gamers, and
secondly didn't even reflect the nature of the political opposition that their own
agendas faced.
In the end, they just pissed people off who'd never heard of their arguments, and first
impressions are pretty fucking important.
When people get pissed, they didn't think to evaluate the arguments, which even if they
had some validity, were presented in the most sanctimonious way possible.
So, with all that in mind, what do they do?
There's clearly a rift that needs to be abridged.
Was it time for someone to grab the ball by the horns?
One day, someone was sitting down looking over their condominium and thinking, how do
I really take out all these horrible, racist, sexist gamers who constantly belittle my existence?
How do we make gaming a welcome environment for everyone?
Instead of going on Polygon and writing some argument lamenting the latest offensive trend
that will probably be irrelevant in a few months time, they thought, you know what?
We're gonna take the battle to them, and we're gonna make them stop being bullies.
We're gonna hunt them.
Bully Hunter has to be one of the worst ideas that has ever come to mind, and yet, only
in the twisted world that we reside in could it have A, ever happened, and B, ever faced
such a reaction.
But let's break that down.
Going after people who are being cunts in game on the surface does not sound like a
disastrous idea.
If I was to sit down with you and say, let's go after people being rude bellends and give
them what for, it would probably be a pretty lit time.
I want to say that Bully Hunter went one step further, but I think that would be underselling
how many steps further they went.
Let's just map this out, a serious organisation that stops people harassing by killing them
in game.
In the demonstration, you can hear the apprehension in the applause when the audience realised
what they had witnessed.
But why has this happened?
Well, as I said, it's kind of grown out of the intent to get the gamers.
Despite having really nothing to do with what a lot of these journalists claimed to
be concerned about, presented with the strawmans that had been constructed, they decided that
they were going to make gaming a safer space for everyone, and go after some bullies.
But gaming, and more importantly, bully hunting, didn't work how they envisioned it.
Let's break it down.
Firstly, when you experience the harassment, you can call on the Bully Hunter.
This raises immediate red flags, as it makes you question, well, what constitutes harassment,
How does the Bully Hunter know that a report is honest?
How is it not completely open to exploitation?
If someone has a grudge and wants to make a false report, can they just do that?
How can someone not impersonate a Bully Hunter?
Anyone can change their stream tag, it's not rocket science if the game's full.
Do they just wait to join?
What if the game finishes, and what if you leave the game?
Where do they go?
The stream didn't show the Bully Hunter gauging the situation before acting, just jumping
in and killing the person.
This also brings in the point that the person making the report can hold the Bully Hunter
to rating ransom.
What do I mean by this?
Well, if you can call in the Bully Hunter, you can subsequently rate them on their job
of eliminating the threat.
But in a competitive environment, this no longer becomes a question of how well they
do the job, rather how well they fulfill their client's desires.
Now to that, some might say, well, what's the problem with doing what the client wants?
In most occupations, I would agree.
But in this one, it directly involves dealing with someone else in an environment that makes
a person inherently biased.
So yes, a rating system is a terrible idea.
This would be a more prominent issue in itself if it wasn't overshadowed by an issue that
renders this borderline invalid.
The fact that the idea of the Bully Hunters dealing with the bullies is killing them in
game, and then leaving them with a disparaging message.
That is it.
Let's break down the numerous problems with this.
The idea that killing someone in game that focuses around killing people is rather insubstantial.
That would be like punishing someone in football by tackling them.
It's kind of the point already.
And yes, you could argue that it is more specifically targeted, which could irritate the player.
But in a game like CSGO, being killed is commonplace that it really wouldn't make the gamer reconsider
their position on in-game verbal abuse.
In fact, they were probably pissed off, it'd probably make them more pissed off, and thus
more abusive.
Often such abuse is compensated anyway, a lot of these kids trying to make up for the
fact that they're having a shit game.
A real gamer ain't gotta prove they're real as long as they know it.
So the virgins that you probably go after dying once more would have little to no effect
on their mentality, and if the gamer is actually accomplished, then surely the Bully Hunter
isn't invincible, surely they can die too.
This is actually empirically supported by studies that state men who are having a bad
game are more likely to act aggressively.
I don't know about you lads and lasses, but if I've had a bad game, it's much more
probable for me to come off a bit livid.
Also, the message that the Bully Hunter leaves refers exactly to the reason that they have
been hunted, and now they know they've upset someone to the point of calling in other people
to save them.
They're just going harder and harder and harder.
The Bully Hunters did a livestream where everything went surprisingly, well, suspiciously smooth,
and although it's not something that they could immediately prove as fake, the bullies
seemed extremely cliche to say the least.
Now the point in cliches is that they do exist, but on top of that, the fact that they had
absolutely no problems with such an observably flawed concept made it highly questionable,
and many Counter-Strike gamers, especially experienced ones, call it fake.
Now in response, one of the livestream hosts, Zombie Unicorn, said that she flooded a line
emphasising it was fake.
That is bullshit.
And alright, you can't do anything outside the realms of what the game allows you to
do.
What else can they do?
This is a fair question, but just because you can't answer it immediately doesn't
mean that any compromise is necessarily worth investing in.
As speaking of investors, let's talk about how that's turning out, shall we?
I remember when I saw a pair of headphones being advertised in my feed and I thought
to myself, how will wearing headphones end bullying?
This was before the Bully Hunters controversy transpired, so I was genuinely clueless of
what the point was.
Now I have some clarity with regards to it, it makes the situation even more laughable.
Upon the tidal wave of criticism approaching them, the Prime sponsors who made the headphones
steal series completely withdrew their support and published a remorseful Facebook post reflecting
their involvement.
They, like myself, touch on some important discussion, and that will transition us into
our next points.
Why did it receive such attention for a project that in theory seems so modest?
Because it was a crossover.
The pinnacle crossover between out of game activism and in game realism, most gamers
just want a game, most gamers do not give a shit about this and do not want to give
a shit about this.
Now certain individuals have often been criticised for misrepresenting the game sphere, however
if you're one of those people who has done that, you're somewhat safe in the ivory
tower you have constructed for yourself, because to bitch about gamers is so broad that you
can say a lot without being called out.
However as soon as you go in game, the ivory tower comes tumbling down.
And their naivety to these gaming environments is desperately exposed.
Most importantly, it finally brought that in game and out of game backlash together.
Everyone from PewDiePie to the Chicago Tribune were commenting on it, and the flaws were
out in the open to scrutinise.
I highly doubt that they will have the humility to take anything away from this, but maybe
this will bring some insight to the actual in game truths rather than the expectations
implanted from an outsider's point of view.
This instant does cater to the narrative that many people who write these articles have
very little exposure to the actual environment, or seem to exaggerate the victimhood that
does occur.
If I wanted to go and shoot some people in game who were being cunts, it would be fine
for some short term amusement, but it would be for my amusement, and I would totally anticipate
being barraged by hate due to it.
On top of that, if I said to them, I'll stop killing you if you stop being rude, I
think the reply I received may include a few expletives.
Harassment is shit, but some people go into these games looking to be the antithesis of
victims.
If you tell these virgins exactly where they can shove it, there's a difference that
you cannot really apprehend how to deal with something so abstract as in game aggression.
The whole situation inevitably leaves the gaming world in a weird place, and maybe,
maybe for a brief moment, people will be able to see the reality over the lampoons.
People want to do these campaigns with more power to them, but understand the relativity
of it, and stop attacking or mischaracterising people who have very little interest in your
agenda, because it just opposes them to you.
And if you want people to hear you out, you have to separate them from your already existing
critics, and appeal to them.
They may not agree, but at least they wouldn't be alienated, and you wouldn't be embarrassed
when you tried to create depictions of how they actually behave.
Chances are that the people in the wrong, well, if you believe they're in the wrong
that is, will go back to mudslinging in the columns, and then questioning why people aren't
at war with them.
It's clear that that's a cycle that they're much more comfortable with.
What has occurred is people identifying the problem, but not really asking themselves
how and why, then conflating their agenda, and then pointing fingers at people that really
have much less to do with it than they think they do, and eventually creating something
that completely exposes that flawed line of thinking.
As I've noted, there are many reasons that such an environment can arise.
The in-game goals, the competitiveness, the person themselves, but that is an inherently
natural outcome from the society that we live in today, and you really have to look much
beyond the mentality of video games, and more towards social causes, if you ever wanted
to change and address that.
And make no mistake, you may not be able to change that, and even if you can, it would
be an incredibly challenging task, but that doesn't mean you settle for really bad compromises,
and I don't mean like going for second best, because there may be some other options that
could work, but this option clearly doesn't, and it just rubs everyone the wrong way.
So maybe it's just time to change the narrative, and change the tone that you're taking when
dealing with these issues that you know exist.
You're not perfect either, just saying.
Either way, I would love to hear what you think of this topic.
Let me know down below in the little lovely bloody comment section, and a massive thanks
to the editors who have made this magic happen once again.
Keep up the great work blokes, and thank you so much for all your support of recent, it's
been really special, and I'm glad to be back.
Makes me feel welcome.
So let me know what you think, I'm always open to discussion, I'd love to hear your
point of view.
However, until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Bye.
