Grade A under A.
Grade A under A.
Grade A under A.
Grade A under A.
Grade A under A.
Grade A under A.
So a lot of newcomers to the website who may stumble across Grade's channel, Grade A under
A, may not even realize why Grade was so important in the first place.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and today we talk about someone who I've had a lot of requests to
cover but never really quite got around to, well, today, my friends, is the time I finally
address it.
Now, in keeping with the old routine, we'll begin this video with a nice little story,
because I love a good story like anyone else.
When I was growing up, I wasn't really the type of person who used Twitter, or any of
the social media sites that I use today.
I was at school, and back then the only app that was really considered fashionable was
Facebook.
Now this is before Facebook was taken over by mums and their minion memes, but just take
my word, at some point Facebook was cool, I promise guys, please don't reject me.
At the time, it was cool to follow ridiculous numbers of Facebook pages, and before they
were taken over by cash farm sponsorships, they had the capacity to be pretty funny,
to my juvenile brain at least.
However, it was one day that I clicked on one of the videos, I highly doubt I could
find it now, but I remember it being this page called Unilad, and it was this post,
with this guy, and he had this really strange accent, talking about manly drinks versus
girly drinks, basically mocking the gender stereotypes behind alcoholic beverages.
And to be honest, I didn't really know what to think.
It was alright enough, and I did agree with the sentiment I'd personally take cocktails
over beer any day, either way, I didn't really think too much about it, my life had
very little to do with YouTube back then.
However, that man in the video was GradeAUnderA, or Grade for short, he is a commentator with
a very distinct style, and I'll talk about the styles that he was inspired by in a bit,
but as you can see from that clip, it bathes in the rather amateurish charm.
Currently Grade sits on just shy of 3 and a half million subscribers, and is very prolific
in the commentary community for both positive and not so positive reasons, but I didn't
know that back then, I was just another pleb.
Fast forward a couple years, and I was much more engaged in the commentary community,
all this drama with Leafy was transpiring, I wasn't really an avid viewer of him, but
I was thoroughly involved in the whole feud with Keemstar, and I remember really rallying
behind Leafy, I think I even sent him an email in support, which was incredibly sad, not
just the sentiment of it, but the fact that I used email, I'm like Benjamin Button because
I used to be a boomer, and now I'm an epic, woke man.
And then iDubbbz's content cop dropped, and I had my perception completely 180'd, everything
I thought was true was not, and iDubbbz did a decent job at destroying Leafy, who then
managed to destroy himself with his own response video, proving he was well out of his depth,
but that my friends is a story for another time.
Grade was dragged into all of this because he'd made videos on the situation, and jumped
on the Keemstar hate train, in fact he'd been quite involved in the drama, until the
content cop in which he kinda just slid out the back door, I wonder why, and after a few
more months of videos, he was gone, he was just kinda moved on, there were a few thought
pieces asking where he'd gone, how he'd fallen from grace, how he'd lost his groove
and so on, everyone kinda knew he'd return, and at the turn of 2019, he did, for a bit.
How long he'll be around, I don't know, honestly, he's probably left already, but
at the same time, his return did complete an arc that I felt necessary to make this
video.
I always felt there was more to his story, because my two experiences with his content
were radically different, covering themes that could have been related to a different
channel.
My perception going into this is that of a person who became something else than he initially
set out to be, from that person on my Facebook feed, it never felt like he was setting himself
up to become another channel caught up in the drama.
So today, and probably next week as well, if you're not familiar with the tale of
Grade A Under Ray, I want this to be a learning experience, not just for you, but also for
me.
We're going to understand his rise, his peak, and even his fall, but we're not just
going to be documenting how it happened, we'll be asking why it happened, and maybe providing
some opinions on the whole situation along the way, let's just hope they're the right
ones.
Are you ready?
Good.
Let's go.
Grade A Under Ray started his channel in January 2013, back in the days before any
real commentary community was particularly well defined.
At the time, a lot of the largest creators were comedians, a lot of these were skits
and sketches, people like Nigahiga, Steve Cardinal, you know that guy who did songs
in real life and chat roulette versions of songs that would probably have been copyright
claimed as shit, Jenna Marbles, Bad Lip Reading, Smosh, Rhett and Link, and plenty plenty more.
The quality was in the individual's videos, and the value held within them rather than
just the channel.
That's not to say these people didn't have a personality, they did, but it was challenged
more into constructing a persona for certain purposes rather than necessarily feeling the
authentic connection.
There was rumblings of some commentary in the form of political content, but not everyone
was really looking for that.
In fact, if you wanted a connection to a creator on a more personal level, then you'd have
to look towards the gaming content, and I'm not saying that gaming content typically
had people learning that much about the person, but at the end of it all a lot of gaming YouTubers
did tend to be pretty genuine in their reactions, and that led to a lot of diversity in the
actual delivery.
I discussed it briefly in my Toby Turner video, back then if you had something going on upstairs
you could sit down and play a game and there would be an audience if you were competent
enough, and that's why you would likely find a lot of modern commentary audiences
probably watch gaming videos at one point.
I know I did, do I sound like a huge epic gamer?
No?
Well, I am.
Bitches.
commentary wasn't really going to emerge until 2015, and yet great is a very interesting
case because he emerged before that.
How exactly did he do that?
Well, the only real genre that had established itself at the time with a firm basis in opinions
was the film and music criticism genre, and that still had a long way to go, but by 2013
there was a fairly nice assortment of critics in these circles, and I wanted to take this
and then apply it to someone who I know as a dose of Buckley, and what he did was typically
a mix of criticism, but also commentary, with a comedic stinging tone to it.
He always described himself as a comedian primarily, and I do have a lot to say about
him as well, but you can definitely see where these various roots were in Grey's content.
Grey was a real mix of comedy, commentary, but also one more component, which was story,
and I've spoken about storytime animators before, but there is a distinct similarity
in Grey's early content to many of the animators that we see nowadays.
Storytime animators typically run a structure where they speak with a narrative, they set
the scene, and then they re-enact the scene, typically in a comedic way that entertains
the audience.
However, with all that said, Grey still had to convince his viewers that his content was
worth watching, and that means not being absolute crap.
Grey Day Under Ray were the two characters that represented him.
On one side you have the Grey Day, the smart successful side, and on the other side is
the under-ray, the underachiever, the scruffy lazy character, and he wanted to present
both of these sides in his channel.
When watching Grey's first video, 9 Things I Hate About The Barber Shop, this style becomes
quite clear.
He talks about what he doesn't like, and then he'll provide a demonstration.
However, whereas with animators some of the appeal comes to balance between the style
and the persona, Grey tends to discard elaborate visuals for an extremely simple style, thus
focusing a majority of the draw on his own delivery.
And although this video didn't initially grab traction like the videos we'll talk
about soon, we can actually witness some very successful comedy.
It's simple, to the point, and over the top.
In many ways, Grey's channel was an amalgamation of various genres that were currently prevailing.
He was a comedian, but he was also a storyteller who was conveying his own personal experiences,
albeit in an exaggerated manner, tapping into the relatable frustrations of the daily life,
and applying a little bit of attitude to give him the edge.
Plenty of people had the exact same thoughts about him.
For example, everyone goes to school, what makes Grey's experiences or thoughts on
it remotely exceptional?
Well, it's the energy he brings, and the fact that people like hearing him talk about
it.
And that's a genuine talent.
Here's a clip from his first upload.
And my hair went from amazing to shit.
How did you do that?
I'm more impressed than anything.
Number four.
And after he's ruined your hair, he has the nerve to look you in the eye, and ask you,
what do you think, mate?
And you tell him it looks good.
Every time.
Number five.
And then you pay him for it.
And you pay him for fucking your hair up.
Why did I do that?
I should have told you no.
You're not getting my money.
You cunt.
Look what you've done.
Give me a wig.
A lot of the best comedy comes down to rhetoric.
Anyone can think of a funny punchline or a decent joke here and there, but what makes
the greatest comedians great is the fact that they can take a story and they can tell it
in a funny way.
How does Grey do that?
Part of it is the articulation.
Grey does a great technique of expression, his skewed accent does help in a way, but
here what you're doing is he's setting up a story.
Let me set the scene.
We're at slide four now.
We've known the slides before, he's shown a few examples.
And then for slide four, he changes the style.
He provides the setup and he's really satisfied with his haircut and he conveys that with
his tone.
And about halfway through, it starts to look good.
It starts to look really, really nice.
And it builds to the payoff because he sounds proper pleased, but we all know he's going
to lose his shit and we're anticipating it.
And then he snaps.
But by the end of it, it looks dog shit.
What did you do?
I blinked.
I blinked to me.
And my hair went from amazing to shit.
How did you do that?
I'm more impressed than anything.
And he does a good job of providing the viewers with that sense of comedic catharsis.
And if you can build up to something and set up some sentiment of nerve in that audience,
then you'll make the payoff funnier.
Comedy is not just about contrast, but it's about audience investment in that contrast.
The other thing I find interesting is he leaves these pauses in the buildup, which leave the
sort of dead air with the audience, which, you know, if I did it in my videos,
it wouldn't make sense.
But in his works, it plays off the tension, like that in a horror movie.
Tension makes the scares scarier, just as it makes the jokes funnier.
But that's not all at play here.
I recall a very good video by The Nerd Writer, which spoke about Louis CK's tant at the delivery of jokes.
And one of the overarching themes is that no word is wasted.
And that's something I'd describe as perfectly prevalent in great early comedy.
And about halfway through, it starts to look good. It starts to look really, really nice.
But by the end of it, it looks dogshit.
What did you do? I blinked. I blinked to make.
And not a single one is wasted.
They're used either in meaning or in rhythm to contribute to the overall effect,
an effect that lets us see the world from a different angle and, more importantly, makes us laugh.
It's those details which add value to great work, makes it more entertaining
and does give him an edge over the contemporaries at the time.
Combine that with the rather cheap and simple style, which doesn't distract from his delivery
and can often add a snark visual gag or so.
It's simple but effective, and I want to make this point that no one reaches the size of Grey
without some kind of unique feature.
Grey's initial appeal was a mix of features, which crafted this very distinctive persona.
And although I'm sure many of his critics and advocates would argue whether he's actually funny,
it's hard to dispute that he was successful.
And success has its reasons.
But as many will say, success isn't just about being good at what you're doing,
you have to be good at selling it as well.
And this is where we go into the very weird second stage of Grey's career.
Grey's second video was uploaded in April 2013 and was called
Girlie Drinks vs Manly Drinks, a now infamous video in which Grey rants about how social norms
pressure him to avoid consuming drinks that taste nice and push him towards drinks like beer and bitter
which affirm his status as a man.
It's hyperbolic and ridiculous, but it's ironically decent social comedy with a good dash of humour.
And so he released this video, and it didn't do much at all.
Actually, it was his second video. YouTube hadn't really paid much attention to his channel.
They're probably pushing the newest Rihanna song or something.
What was Rihanna doing in 2013?
Stay? God, do I feel old.
So there is this site called Reddit, I don't know if any of you have heard of it,
but for anyone who genuinely doesn't follow it, it's basically a site that serves as a collective of forums
or what they call subreddits for people to find others who might share interests
and then to post in them and maybe comment on them.
And this can be basically anything at all, within the guidelines of course,
from homosexuality to mean girls.
And I'm really not a regular of Reddit, but I know that much.
Subreddit that is the focus of this part is r slash videos,
which is a forum where people can post content that they like.
It is a fairly well organised subreddit with users galore,
and various tabs that can basically arrange the post how you would like them.
However, the very important tab here is obviously what was called in 2014 the hot tab.
Now, Gray's video isn't doing too much, it had been a year and a half since release,
and yet a user by the quaint name of Bonerboy, lovely, posted his video to the r slash videos subreddit
with the title as the caption.
Now unfortunately, I do not have a screenshot of it doing the rounds
because there weren't any that I could find,
but there is one of the post itself very briefly after it was posted,
and you can see that it quickly picked up steam,
receiving appraisal from many of the users who enjoyed his crude style in reading the comments.
It hearkens back to my earlier comparisons with regards to animators too,
with many people suggesting that content would have fit very aptly into the Newgrounds site,
a website renowned for the animators it hosted.
And that's what this video hit home with.
Gray seemed like a throwback creator with a twist thrown in, and the masses had spoken.
They decided that this is the content they wanted, but Gray was gone.
He had legitimately forgot he even made a YouTube account.
I mean, hell, he didn't even have an avatar.
The under-a side was clearly taking over.
In fact, Gray was on Facebook when he saw his video being shared,
and realised that suddenly he had an audience, and an audience to answer to,
and as acknowledged in a tweet he'd make a year later, it kicked his channel off.
So if Bonerboy hadn't made that post on that Reddit,
Gray probably would have never uploaded another YouTube video.
And yet, here we are.
With the success of his content, Gray made a video committing to more uploads,
and unlike 90% of the creators who commit to more uploads before disappearing off the face of the Earth,
he actually stayed true to his word, for now.
And we witness some spicy content.
His video following this was known as the Paralympics,
and this is where Gray begins to really cement that persona.
I've spoken about how his content can be funny,
but being good and being popular are not the same,
and having mass appeal can often mean you might sacrifice niche qualities that you may take preference to.
But Gray was very consistent.
He took a perspective of great ignorance.
Now that might sound like a criticism,
it would be if I went to Gray's channel looking for insightful commentary or some bold truth teller,
but you don't, you go for crude jokes from a judgemental twat,
and the thing about ignorance is that for many people, it is relatable.
Most people don't know much about a lot, doesn't mean they're stupid,
some people have a few subjects in which they specialize in due to career reasons or specific interests,
but ignorance is relatable in a way,
and so you have videos that may not be completely accurate,
but you get the impression that they're quite aware they're not,
because he's putting on a stupid voice, he's allowed to be stupid,
but at the same time, he's playing with the cynical, judgemental thoughts that cross many people's minds,
like do horse jockeys even do anything?
Surely it's the horse that needs to be disabled.
The dumbest thing on earth.
Paralympic horse riding.
The reason it's so dumb is that it's not the horse that has to be disabled,
it's the rider.
You don't do anything rider, you just sit there.
So for example these two fine chaps, they can't be in the Paralympics,
but this Lloyd's TSB majestic stallion could,
because his rider's missing a finger or an eyebrow or something.
Now I'm sure with a bit of research you'd find out otherwise, but people don't care.
It's easier to think about it simply and get a laugh out of someone's rants.
He's the comedian who says the stupid stuff and gets the laugh,
because it's somewhat based in the assumptions that people make themselves.
It is relatable in its ignorance.
During the last few months of 2014, in the wake of his son's success,
Grade would upload multiple videos in the same format,
just talking about stuff in this style.
This would cement him as a creator and lead to significant and consistent growth
throughout the coming few months.
He would rant about Tinder, toilets, interviews, basically anything that bothered him.
He'd become more and more creative with these gags,
make longer content but still hold on to many of the rather simplistic aspects of his videos,
balancing that feeling of progression.
With the notion of familiarity, like upgrading a car rather than purchasing a new model.
You still need to make people feel like they're watching a Grade A under A video.
When the video that we're discussing today came around,
Ray was sat on a respectable 29,000 subscribers.
His growth had been solid and steady with occasional spikes aided by the algorithm.
His videos typically surpassed his subscriber count
and he was being aided by various supports on other websites.
Obviously I mentioned my encounter with a Facebook post.
However, we're entering 2015.
And you know what that means?
Well, the start of a little genre called commentary,
believe you who is someone I'm sure we'll talk about eventually,
sat mid-February on around 23,000 subscribers.
Fairly respectable, that's only because most of them came from a Minecraft PVP channel.
However, under a month later, Grade would get his first taste of drama
with someone known as Ray William Johnson.
Ray William Johnson was one of the largest creators on the platform
and although he wasn't anywhere near his peak at this time,
he was still pulling respectable numbers on his videos,
the sort of numbers that I would dream about getting on a constant basis.
He had a lot of successful ventures, so calling him out was a pretty big deal
because you're going to be dealing with his still sizable fanbase,
this guy on over 10 million subscribers.
So, what happened?
I'm late all the time.
I am probably gonna be late for work every day.
So tell me about a weakness of yours.
Oh my god, where to start?
What would you say is your greatest weakness?
Where do I start? Uhh...
Right, where do you see yourself in five years' time?
Hopefully, not still in this shithole.
Where do you see yourself in five years?
Not in this shithole.
Well, shit.
To understand the situation, we go back to the video before it,
Why I Hate Interviews, in which Grey goes on one of his typical rants
interspersed with his comedy that we've previously discussed.
At some point in this video, he mocks up an interview
and responds to it in a fairly candid fashion.
Eleven days later, Ray William Johnson uploads the video
How To Ace Job Interviews, a sarcastic title for a run of sketches
in which the applicant provides the worst answers possible.
However, some of these responses, more specifically,
three of them had a strange resemblance to Grey's answers.
And you know what?
That's certainly not something to be ignored,
especially when it's one of the site's largest creators,
stealing from a significantly smaller creator.
But what's Grey gonna do about it?
Now we're in March 2015, commentaries hasn't merged yet,
but we're definitely in the rumblings of it.
And I want to talk about drama for a brief moment for that reason.
Drama always existed,
especially when you're dealing with genres that involve personalities
rather than just personas, which is why the gaming community,
in spite of their relatively avoidant attitude to drama,
did have their incidents.
Commentary in the last few years, however, has taken over the drama scene,
because for many commentators, it is highly beneficial for their channel
that they talk about drama.
And it's like the media when they report an incident.
Often it's not just the drama itself that guards the attention,
but the people who actually cover it.
You're always looking for the hot take from that one person you want to hear talk.
With that said, Grey didn't have the same approach that many commentators do today.
If I felt someone had ripped me off, unfortunately I wouldn't be able to turn around
and make a 30 minute video, as fun as it might be.
In fact, many commentators wouldn't want to make a video on someone
who might have copied their joke, because it would be seen as petty or going overboard.
This is where we bring in Grey's style.
Grey's comedy was found with him being excessive.
His videos could also be very short and not really have much meaning.
So he made this video questioning whether Grey had quote, plagiarised him.
He opened with the corresponding clips in question, before doing this.
Now this isn't the last time he would use this demeanor.
What he's doing is he's using comedy as a masquerade to push quite genuine accusations.
Grey's videos felt tongue-in-cheek enough to not necessarily take seriously in their tone,
they were too self-aware and comedic to frame him negatively,
but their arguments too well presented to completely ignore in their points.
If we're speaking formally, you can't really prove that Grey was plagiarising,
because as concepts, they're a bit too general to be claimed,
but it is very plausible that Grey did take the jokes.
It does seem a bit too similar to be a coincidence.
Grey's video on this quickly gained traction and hit over 200,000 views in a few days.
I mean, calling anyone out is always good for a quick rush of views,
and although at first it wasn't universally well received,
you can see the like-dislike ratio is still strongly in his favour.
Compare this to a recent drama, for example Coffee Break's video,
which I do plan on discussing in the future,
because he mainly framed his problems very seriously,
many people have now responded and began to call him petty,
which has affected many people's feeling about the whole drama.
As Grey goes, he's done pretty well.
This was his first taste of drama, but not really much came beyond of it.
There was an article written on the Daily Dots and a bit of buzz at the time,
but Johnson never really responded.
Because Grey was such a small YouTuber at the time,
he would have been punching down fairly hard,
and he probably didn't want to strengthen it unless he had a concrete response,
which would have been hard.
So life went on, Grey did alright from the situation,
and decided to go back to the sort of content that people at that time knew him for.
However, this was about to change again,
because now we're in June, and a little-known YouTuber by the name of Leafy
was beginning to gather significant momentum.
Grey, in a similar position, decided once again to make a different kind of video,
this time calling out a YouTuber by the name of Richard Burgess, aka Vegan Gains.
Basically, a blatant bait video, because Vegan Gains was known to respond to everyone.
His video alleged that Vegan Gains was fairly dishonest in his content,
unbelievably biased towards anyone on a vegan diet,
and promotes a lot of misinformation that people should definitely take with a grain of salt.
However, at the end of the video, Grey takes a slightly different approach.
You damn good as well.
But the ones now, they're just garbage.
Now hopefully, I don't have to make any more videos about you.
I've already made two other videos that are ready to be uploaded in like a second's notice, right?
One of the videos that I have is one of his worst of the YouTube fitness industry videos
that I stole when I hacked into Vegan Gains' computer.
Because I'm a hacker, me, right?
And it's one he didn't upload for very good reason.
It's not one he would want you seeing, trust me.
And as if that wasn't saucy enough,
the other video that I've got is a personal video message to Vegan Gains
from a very fucking surprising source.
Now this is where Grey's very ambiguous tone comes into play.
It's quite clear that he isn't a hacker,
but it's still possible that he's managed to get his hands onto some sort of incriminating file.
Vegan Gains is a volatile character,
and it's not impossible to suggest that maybe there are a few deleted videos of him floating around the web
that have him doing some pretty strong things.
Grey presents him with the quote,
Ultimatum.
Responder is going to make another video where he uploads everything.
Listen, this is just me being a bit of an idiot, right?
This is just playful banter, yeah?
But listen, Vegan Gains, if you don't reply to this video and explain yourself
and address all the points I've brought up in this video and explain your lies, right?
I will take it as a personal insult, and I will post both of them, right?
Man, listen, I like you, mate.
You're a bit annoying here and there, but overall, I do like you, mate.
Don't make me post those videos, man.
So Vegan Gains decided to respond by, well, not responding.
This clearly caught Grey off,
because Vegan Gains was renowned for going after people,
and yet like Donald Trump not responding to Eminem,
the one time where you'd expect him to respond, he didn't.
So when Vegan Gains didn't respond,
Grey uploaded the update video that threatened to release the three very important unseen videos,
providing a specific due date,
that being Saturday the 4th of July 2015.
Once again, having this sort of due date makes Grey seem more serious
and presents this to Vegan Gains to encourage that response.
He hypes it up and says we all need to tweet it at the Vegan Gains nemeses,
and obtain their attention.
Everyone's on the edge of his seats. What's Grey going to reveal?
Well, not much. In fact, Grey was just bluffing.
The third video was released, and the alleged clips were presented were not as expected.
If you expected anything at all, that is.
One of them was a cut-up compilation where you know the one where you remix someone's speech to change the message.
The second video, a special message from someone, was another meme,
and the rest of the video was spent going through Vegan Gains' old channel and just digging up various comments.
From one perspective, it could be seen as rather desperate from Grey,
to basically threaten someone into giving you their attention.
And he makes it no secret, that's kind of what he was trying to do.
Okay, now listen, if I'm honest, I said that if Vegan Gains didn't reply to my previous video,
that I would then release these other two, right?
Which was a complete lie, like regardless of what he did, I was still going to upload him, right?
And yet, coming out of it, he received very little criticism,
and appeared with a big W to his name. Why is that?
Well, firstly, Vegan Gains isn't really popular,
and people can't really feel bad for him,
regardless of whether he was right or not to respond.
And a lot of Grey's criticisms in his first video were fairly valid.
But the second reason this little stunt worked was because of his persona, Grade-A Under-A.
In his comedy videos, you don't really see that contrast too much,
but in these more drama-oriented videos, on one hand you have the Grade-A side that can deliver criticism,
and yet the uneven delivery, and the messy tone, and the comedy falls towards the Under-A side.
And this meant that as long as he acknowledged his intentions,
with enough self-awareness, he'd typically receive a pass.
This is interesting because while he emerged in a time where comedy dominated YouTube,
clearly reflected in his style, we were entering a more dramatic phase.
The times were changing, and Grade had to change with them as well.
But to do that, we have to understand drama.
The Thing About Drama
The thing about drama is that there are various routes you can take.
You can take the route of being the moralist, being the person who dictates how you should act,
down to the small details, what words you should and shouldn't use, etc.
If you want to deal criticism like that, you need to set an example of how to deal it.
On the other hand, you have people who don't give a shit about 90% of things when they're criticising others,
and although this might seem less pure in many of their characteristics, it makes them harder to criticise.
A great example of this is iDubbbz, another significant player later on in the story.
Some people may criticise him for his fairly nonchalant approach to the use of certain words,
as shown in the Tana Mongeau content copy made,
but he turns this around and says, well I don't think that defines my morality, so take it or leave it.
You can criticise him, but you can't really end him or cancel him,
because what he did was proxy to a much greater point against the target,
and regardless of how much Twitter would like to paint it as a black and white issue,
you'll experience very different attitudes.
With Vegan Gains, Grade isn't necessarily behaving morally, in fact he comes across as a bit of a pest,
but he doesn't need to behave morally because he kind of acknowledges it and integrates it into his persona,
often acknowledging the fact that you're not perfect can humanise yourself in the eyes of your viewers,
while being able to deliver some sort of criticism.
In the instance of Vegan Gains, he is a liar, and being a liar is an easy criticism because it implies a logical falsehood.
It's typically rather simple, unless you can appeal to a greater good, like a white lie.
With the success of this drama, in spite of the disappointing lack of response,
Grade would begin to start doing these sorts of videos a bit more regularly,
and the thing is, I don't think a lot of people really notice much difference in the videos,
mainly because Grade had such a grip on his style, his character encompassed all those topics,
and he definitely takes this going forward.
His next targets were Jinx and CJSoCool, two fairly unpopular reaction channels,
who were notorious for basically playing videos and reacting to them in a way that provided no level of transformation whatsoever.
Grade's video on them was a lot tighter in its points and used pretty affirmative evidence to convey his sentiments.
Now listen to this, right? It's like a 17 minute, 16 second video, right?
Of which, literally 45 seconds is not KSI's video.
So CJ's video is literally over 95% KSI, right?
Which is ridiculous!
Obviously they're gonna get popularity if they're stealing some of the biggest YouTuber's content, right?
That's so hard, isn't it?
Now what must have particularly pleased Grade in this situation was that Jinx actually responded,
and he responded with all the grace that you'd expect from a reaction channel.
Now first thing I wanna say before I even start going down this list is the fact that this guy hates me because I'm popular.
Because I'm YouTube popular.
That is the one reason that it all boils down to.
He can say he's not a hater, he can say all of that, but let's just be honest.
And when you make a well-formed call-out video, going after channels who clearly think they are much better than they are,
it feels good for the audience to be a part of that.
The main reason it felt so good for many of Grade's fans was because Grade had intertwined it very delicately with his comedy.
His comedy being rooted in that relatability of the judgemental nature.
We've all seen some very successful YouTubers and thought, what the hell do they do that's special?
They're rubbish.
Grade took these thoughts and turned them into videos and combined them with more concise points and evidence to convince people of his case.
So even when he was being fairly blunt, it felt natural because his persona allowed him to do that.
Reaction channels are basically like a place for you to watch a video with someone else.
What the fuck, mate? That's one of the stupidest things I've ever heard.
I might as well go out and buy a blow-up doll. It's less annoying than you.
A response from Jinx, even like that, trying to be as indirect as possible is more attention,
because someone's going to ask what the video is, someone's going to know, and they're going to redirect it.
Especially if you're going after a larger YouTuber, who is an idiot.
Jinx had no personality, so trying to show any sort of anger felt like arrogance,
because it could only be correlated with his size, not his persona.
Through this, however, Grade did create a fanbase that were involved in the more dramatic side of Grade's work.
And following this, he went after more easy targets.
Nicole Arbour, prank channels, Nicole Arbour again, prank channels again, prank channels again.
And although these videos were fairly decent in a lot of their criticism, with a fair amount of evidence,
when you spend so much time dishing out copious amounts of criticism in the sort of tone that Grade did,
it became inevitable that he was going to grow out a channel much more drama-oriented.
Now, looking back in retrospect, it becomes clear that a lot of his more story-time-oriented content has outperformed his drama videos.
However, at the same time, his drama videos were some of the most popular on the site in the moment.
This was mainly because commentary was emerging with the people we've already discussed,
entering the stage where people felt comfortable calling others out.
With the rise of three pretty pivotal channels, we could see the tone of criticism evolving.
I identify these three channels as H3, iDubbbz, and obviously our main man here, GradeAUnderA.
All of these channels became porchbearers in calling out who they deemed to be twats.
This then brought a secondary wave of channels who typically focused their content on other topics,
but would often drop by on commentary issues, such as I Hate Everything, Pyrocynical, Leafy Boogie, and so on.
It was something fun to involve yourself in, and on top of this, it created more attention to the topics that people were discussing.
This was catalysed by the numerous incidents at the turn of 2016, alongside the launch of iDubbbz's series, Content Cop,
which basically set commentary on fire, particularly the Jinx episode, which of course, almost led to the infamous boxing match.
Don't get it twisted, Grade was one of the first on the scene to make these sorts of videos,
with an already established audience that identified the style, and therefore benefited of this development greatly.
Equally in a perverted way, the drama videos worked in the vein that his comedy videos did.
Judgemental twats and relatability, we have those feelings towards those creators, that's why he went after unpopular people,
because many people already hated them. When you're targeting other people, you have to be prepared to become a target,
and 2016 was a new year for many reasons, many reasons that we'll find out in the next video.
Because this script is going to be very long, and I've learned that it's probably not best to exhaust your audience to that extent,
though other videos definitely have had me trying.
So that was the video, I really hope you guys enjoyed it, I want to give a big shoutout to my editors,
who've once again done a fantastic, beautiful job, I love them very much.
Make sure you check them out. I also need to give a shoutout to my Patreons, the current Patreons listed on the screen right now,
and I also have to give special shoutouts to my $50 Patreons, Connor, Somehullerblue, and Evening Steel,
all the three of you, thank you so much, it does genuinely make a difference, especially with YouTube's slightly unpredictable behaviour recently.
$100 too, I have to give the mention to Brandon and Ryan, truly incredible people,
and eternally grateful for their support, thank you guys, it makes a big difference.
Otherwise, if you want to, you can hit me up on Twitter, Discord, I even check Facebook sometimes,
most of the platforms, and I do my best to be responsive.
Otherwise, I don't really have too much else to say, I hope you enjoyed the video,
we'd love to hear your thoughts in the comment section, opinions are always welcome.
Until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
I'm doing you, if you can.
Thanks for watching!
