When Rush Limbaugh was first rising to prominence, he started a trend among conservatives that
continues to this day, of conflating socialists with liberals.
I don't know if he actually believed that they were the same thing, but for the sake
of argument, let's assume that he wasn't that stupid and he was just being hyperbolic.
It's clear to anybody with a brain that the free speech, free market, rights and individualism
of liberalism is not the same thing as the proletariat revolution, communal ownership,
historic materialism and collectivism of socialism.
But to conflate a legitimate yet marginalized evil with those people who are, in the grand
scheme of things, just slightly to the left of you but constitute your largest opponent,
rhetorically makes a lot of sense.
The problem is, it isn't true.
And yet you see a lot of conservatives doing it to this day, from old style Fox News talking
heads to conservative and libertarian YouTubers.
Something's about all the bad stuff the libs are doing.
In the past couple of years, the socialists have tried to pull a similar linguistic sigh
off.
I'm sure you've noticed recently that all of the regressive lefty garbage that nearly
everybody hates is slowly being defined out of the left.
The feminists, the SJWs, the race grifters, they're no longer leftists but libs, or less
commonly rad libs.
And the TERFs, don't get me started on the TERFs, they've been redefined as right wing.
Which is ridiculous because TERFs are still feminists and there's no feminism on the right.
The idea is, though, that if the left is the only political tent that houses legitimate
progress, and the socialists wholeheartedly believe that to be the case, then all of that
regressive lefty garbage simply isn't lefty at all.
This idea is, of course, nonsense on the face of it.
Identity politics is not a toolkit in the classical liberal's belt.
It may be in the neo-liberals, but not out of any kind of racial or gender solidarity,
rather it's for exploitation and masking as representation.
And yes, that is very similar to the idpol of the left.
But the classical liberal position, not the conservative position or whatever else you
may take that statement to mean, I mean the original liberal position, the Lockean position,
is fundamentally colorblindness.
It is free speech, free markets, fairness before the eyes of the law, property and self-determination.
And before you say that the original liberal governments of the enlightenment weren't
this ideal, yes, I agree.
The problem with those is that they're not liberal enough.
The problem with our current governments is that they're not liberal enough.
The wordplay landscape looks a little something like this.
People on the right are incorrectly calling people on the left liberals.
And people on the left are also incorrectly calling other people on the left, those people
whom they specifically disapprove of, liberals.
Funnily enough, both the left and the right have recognized a cancerous growth within
the left.
But the right purposefully misidentified it for short-term rhetorical gain, with disastrous
long-term consequences in my opinion.
While the left would rather ignore the growing tumor entirely.
What is the cancer?
Well, that depends on who you ask.
There are broadly two camps within the left, the socialists and the SJWs.
The socialists are focused exclusively on class struggle.
Some of them think Marx was correct and want to see a dictatorship of the proletariat implement
the worldwide moneyless, stateless, classless, communist utopia.
Some of them are market socialists, or anarcho-socialists, or libertarian socialists.
It honestly doesn't matter too much.
The point is that they're united by class issues.
They are the no-war-but-class-war people, and they are predominantly the ones pointing
at all the regressive garbage within their own camp and saying, no, that's not us, that's
the libs.
The second camp, the SJWs, are generally what the first camp means when it points to regressive
garbage.
These are the Robin DeAngelos, the Jeff Tiedriches, the Emily Gorsenskys, the Tariq Nasheeds and
the Shaun Kings.
There is currently an attempt by the socialist left to push the idpol left out of the left,
because the socialists view them as distracting from the class war with a race war, or a gender
war, or a trans war.
They call it performative wokeness, or they'll claim it's not real leftism, or some of their
such garbage, because it's not specifically and exclusively anti-capitalist.
But nonetheless, the idpol of the left, or the idpol of what these people call the rad
libs, ultimately does stem from Marxist analysis.
Marx's conception of the relationship between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie has been
co-opted for idpol analysis of other dominant and oppressed groups for probably about as
long as Marxism has existed.
After all, Black Lives Matter, an organization founded by a Marxist using Marxist principles
in its analysis, is ultimately a radical idpol movement, and it's certainly not liberal.
We actually do have an ideological frame.
Myself and Alicia in particular are trained organizers.
We are trained Marxists.
We are super versed on sort of ideological theories, and I think that what we really
try to do is build a movement that could be utilized by many, many black folk.
We don't necessarily want to be the vanguard of this movement.
I think we've tried to put out a political frame that's about centering who we think
are the most vulnerable amongst the black community to really fight for all of our lives.
Harry White, a British communist, wrote to Stalin in 1934 asking if, I quote, a homosexual
can be considered someone worthy of membership in the communist party.
Stalin called White an idiot and a degenerate, again a quote.
And to their credit, Stalin is not well-liked amongst a segment of the online left for his
authoritarianism.
But regardless, White's questioning of Stalin, even back then, used the Marxist framework
as a justification for his LGBT analysis.
White wrote in his letter, on the whole, the condition of homosexuals under capitalism
is analogous to the condition of women, the colored races, ethnic minorities, and other
groups that are repressed for one reason or another.
And just as the women of the bourgeois class suffer to a significantly lesser degree from
the injustices of the capitalist regime, so do natural-born homosexuals of the dominant
class suffer much less from persecution than homosexuals from the working class milieu.
The ideas in White's letter are identical to the ideas put forward by the people whom
socialists call the rad-libs.
And yet these are clearly not the words of a liberal.
They are the words of a socialist, using the Marxist framework to justify identity politics.
The fact that White was correct, that the Stalinists were violently purging gay people
in the Soviet Union, isn't relevant to the conclusion that leftist idpol cannot simply
be defined out of the left, but is in fact an intrinsic part of it.
Marxism is idpol, and it can never be anything but.
You have to enforce an us-versus-them sort of tribalism to get any kind of workers' revolution
going.
And that same ethic is why, for example, Black Lives Matter exists the way that it does.
It is not an organic growth of the people, but rather imposed by clever propagandists.
Challenge magazine, the outlet of Britain's Young Communist League, even released a pamphlet
describing how all of the regressive shit on the left was not truly leftist, but instead
radical liberalism.
Even though the pamphlet itself quotes Engels as saying that identity-based politics has
its place within the socialist revolution, to them the first principle must be economic,
as they believe solving the economic problem would largely solve all other idpol problems.
The socialists don't view class as being simply another variable in the equation, but
the only variable, and so the SJWs are rad libs, not true leftists, forgetting entirely
that a true liberal would consider them both to be abominations, just of a different, yet
related sort.
And the reason for it is quite clear, yes, the SJWs are using the socialist framework
to examine non-socialist issues, but that's not the only reason.
Consider this black hole brain take.
The anti-tanky left is reactionary and politically illiterate.
So where does this person fit in?
A lot of BreadTube, a lot of the more vocal socialists we're currently dealing with, who
are all screaming that SJWs aren't real leftists, these people, they're libertarian socialists,
or libertarian left, and regardless of where we all know their politics end up, their rhetoric
is still very anti-tanky.
Are they not real leftists now too?
I mean apparently Vosch is also a rad lib, according to these people.
And the Stalinists are rad libs too, so both the tankies and the anti-tankies are rad
libs, depending on who you're talking to.
This is the problem with leftists redefining the problematic parts out of the left, they
cannot agree on what the problem is, because ultimately it boils down to everything that's
on the left but is not the speaker's specific position is not true leftism, and to any of
us sane outsiders looking in, it seems like the entire left is corrupt.
Vosch got wind that I focused on him in my What is a Grifter video, a good video in my
opinion.
I suggest you watch it.
And he complained that I'm a fascist, trying to paint him as a fake leftist.
Vosch as usual missed the point, I'm obviously not a fascist, but more importantly I don't
actually think Vosch is a fake leftist, I actually think he is the most real leftist
out there, because he embodies all of the corruption and decay and hypocrisy eating
away at the left's foundation.
He is the tumor telling everybody else that they are also tumors, and while he's correct,
he's missing that one key point, that only somebody with the capability of self-reflection
can comprehend.
We're nearing the end of the video, and I haven't even mentioned Lindsay Ellis yet.
I have a previous video on Lindsay Ellis, formerly known as the Nostalgia Check, if
you want to watch that to get a feel of who she is, but it's not really necessary.
Lindsay Ellis got cancelled for this take.
I watched Raya and the Last Dragon, and I think we need to come up with a name for this
genre that is basically Avatar the Last Airbender.
It's like half of all young adult fantasy published in the last few years anyway.
It's a rather lukewarm take, nothing too objectionable about it.
It's stupid, yes, because comparing Raya to Avatar in this way is like listening to jazz
music and saying oh this is like Persona 5, but it's not racist or whatever.
And yet she's being cancelled for racism.
She's being dragged across Twitter for racism.
She is now public enemy number one because of racism.
It doesn't matter that she is politically a leftist.
All of her lefty takes and all of her lefty videos don't matter.
It's one bad take and she's cancelled.
That being said, with our knowledge of the not real leftism infighting that's been happening
right now, let's examine the situation critically.
I know that BreadTube and non-socialist SJW LeftyTube do not like each other at all.
And right now, BreadTube is on the popularity upswing.
Lindsay Ellis talks a little bit about class in her analysis, but is largely on the SJW
side.
And by the way, this is a fundamental problem that online conservatives are facing right
now.
They don't see the difference between the two groups.
The dirtbag left, as they call themselves, have no problem with being edgy, making jokes,
using slurs, and they are generally the ones focusing on socialism at the expense of idpol.
It's the social justice warriors that are the snowflakes, who crumple at their first
encounter with criticism.
And yet conservatives stupidly say, so much for the tolerant left, when the dirtbags actually
punch them back.
Conservatives, you have not yet realized you're opposing two different groups with different
methods who, despite being related philosophically, hate one another.
And of course, there's also a lot of laughs to be had here, sure.
Lindsay Ellis talked in the past about trending when she's inevitably cancelled, and lo and
behold, she's cancelled and she's trending.
Lindsay Ellis btfo's Moviebob, turns out Moviebob wins.
Lindsay Ellis is a wokescold, and her own wokescold audience rips her apart over nothing.
I'm enjoying watching the shitstorm as much as everybody else.
But I think we're all missing a larger point.
Socialists are trying, in my opinion mostly in vain, to redefine the problematic elements
out of the left.
So that when cancel culture comes for them, as it inevitably will, they'll be able to
frame it as liberals attacking leftists yet again.
Because that is the socialist worldview.
They view liberalism as the handmaiden of fascism.
Scratch a lib and a fascist bleeds.
Communism enables the Nazis.
Liberals get the bullet too.
Blah blah blah.
It's a fundamentally false view, and yes, I've got a video on why it's false coming
up.
Let me finish reading my books, guys.
But it's a view that only makes sense if you squint really really hard, and if you
can manage to redefine regressive leftist elements out of the left.
So let's not let them.
Because they aren't liberals.
They say it proudly, and we should remind them of that fact.
Remember that every single time a communist says they want to raise class consciousness,
there's nothing different between that and raising racial consciousness.
With the sole exception of a different coat of paint.
That's not the rad libs doing that.
That's the socialists' own dumb collectivist theory backfiring in their faces.
They just don't like how their ideas play out sometimes.
We are the individualists here.
We're not collectivists.
And no matter what differences exist between SJWs and socialists right now, they are still
fundamentally feuding siblings, and they are in no way related to liberalism.
Lindsay Ellis is not a rad lib, and the people who are cancelling her are not rad libs.
She is a leftist, those people are leftists, and the left eats its own as a matter of course.
She has cultivated a fundamentally toxic audience, and must now live with the consequence of
those actions.
Those consequences are not liberalism, simply because the socialists don't like where
their ideas lead.
And in the end, the socialist objection to this analysis of the situation amounts to
nothing more than the denialism of the evil of their own ideas.
The rad lib paradox is a simple one.
These people aren't liberals.
They are being forcibly defined as liberals for a political purpose.
But their ideas are not liberal ones.
And the only paradox here is how anybody could possibly be so fooled as to consider them
liberals at all.
Thank you for watching my friends.
If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around and do all of the other
algorithm-positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like, I don't know.
Sub for more, or hit up my Patreon or Subscribestar if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So I'll see you tomorrow.
I love you.
