Come one, come all, welcome to TikTok Tuesday yet again. Yes, this one's going out late.
Thought I wouldn't be doing it today, but I am. Haha. Also, if you can hear some nonsense in the
background, you probably can't hear, but just in case you can. There's a new tenant living
downstairs and he's currently, I guess, fixing the place up. So maybe you'll hear, you know,
the drilling or whatever, but probably not. Anyway, you guys have been sending me TikToks
constantly and they're backed up. So let's check out what's going on today.
What is this? Oh, oh god, I hate Zoomers, dude. You're in the way of everyone who's shopping.
Do you even have the permission of the person who, like, runs the store or owns the store
or whatever? Like, this is just fucking awful. Man, I hate Zoomers. I hate TikTok. I hate the
internet. I know I make money off of it, but I fucking hate it. I hate that what the internet
has become are these fucking e-thoughts who are out here inconveniencing everyone else trying to
make a shitty dance video. Talk about starting the episode off with some rage bait. This is why you
don't disrespect historic Mayan pyramids. Oh, she climbed up. I don't think you're allowed to do
this, are you? I mean, it's probably, yeah, there comes security. Oh, I mean, it's pretty unsafe.
Those are pretty steep steps, but still, like, it's, I don't know what they're saying. It's
probably something bad. What's going to happen to her? Yep, they're all booing her.
Oh, man, people are pissed. Yep, now they're messing with her.
Oh, they're pouring water on her. Dude, you poured water on everyone else but her.
Yep, that's what you get. Another example of someone just being an asshole in public
for internet clout. I mean, it's not only against the rules, it's unsafe.
And also, very clearly, the locals don't like it. So what are you doing, lady?
Now, the person who sent this to me sent it on Twitter, not the original TikTok account,
with the caption, good God, we should abolish landlords. Dude, dude, what the fuck? What do
you mean we should abolish landlords? The tenant destroyed the house, and now the landlord is
getting back at him for destroying his fucking house. It's like, oh, you're gonna fuck me over,
I'm gonna fuck you over. Isn't that how it should be? The captions went by a little bit quick. So
basically, what's happening is the landlord is going to clean it up using some expensive
cleaners, the cost of which will then be put onto the credit of the person who left the house in
this sorry state, as it should be. And if they don't pay it off, their credit rating is going
to be fucked. Isn't that how it should be? We should abolish landlords. Oh, fuck you.
This is absolutely a good thing. Burning Man 2023.
Yeah, man, I guess I have backed these up quite a bit. You guys have been sending me them like
crazy. So they're all backed up. Burning Man was at least a month or two ago, right?
Where like everyone was stranded. Yeah, they were all like, yeah, everyone was stuck at Burning Man.
Oh, God. Yes, let's just dance in the mud water. This is a good idea. What a shit show that was.
Yeah, they were all stranded out there with like no food. Yeah, that's right. Burning Man 2023 was
a week-long gathering in the Black Rock Desert in Nevada. August 27th to September 4th. On September
1st, heavy rainfall hit Nevada. There's a flash flood warning. Burning Man advised attendees they
should shelter in place and close the front entrance. Just lock them into the flood.
Organizers of the event suggested that participants should walk to the next town,
though hotel rooms were booked. The mud was so thick, you'll sink right into it
and be stuck there for a while. What a shit show. Oh my God, one person died? You know,
maybe just because I'm like a super video game nerd, right? But I never understood the appeal
of going to these things, especially when something like this might happen. Fuck that.
A bunch of like Muslims are assing it.
He's being taken away.
There he goes.
Wonder what the story there is. I mean, guy in hijab, he could just be like cross-dressing
in public. They decide that that degeneracy is not allowed in this Muslim country,
so they're apprehending him. Maybe he was doing something weird in the woman's restroom and he
was using the hijab as a cover. Hold on, this is from the Twitter account, The Right Side of
History. Man wearing a burka entered a woman's bathroom and planted a hidden camera. And when
he was caught, he claimed he identified as a woman and a lesbian. I mean, it's possible,
but this is not exactly the most, you know, unbiased Twitter account. In any case,
weirdos going to weird. Excuse me. Yes, ma'am? My baby asked for no pickles and there's pickles
on here. I apologize. Now you want a remake on your burger, ma'am? No, I want my money back.
I don't want no remake with my burger. Why is these fried? These fries is called space alien.
I want my refunding. Did I want a large brown? I want a hot. You have to steer me now. I'm talking
to him. That's the manager. So you can go back there, finish flipping and doing whatever the
fuck you were doing. And what is this? I didn't ask this creature.
We asked for a 10 piece. You said what? Oh my fucking gosh.
I don't want to talk to you because he's allowed to record. I don't know if you record, you can
record. I'm stunned guys. I'm like, I don't know what to say. What's happening? Like I
don't believe someone can leave the house looking like that and be like, yeah, this is cool. What
the, what? I wasn't even listening to that conflict. Like it kind of sounded like she
was trying to scam him, get more food out of it, you know, getting more food at McDonald's a bit
by making a fuss, you know, happens all the time. I was just like, I was stunned at what we were
looking at. Oh man. Speaking of McDonald's or fast food anyway. Oh, they're fighting in the
drive-through. They're fighting in the drive-through throwing stuff back and forth.
She has a gun. What the fuck? What the fuck? She's just mag dumping at this fucking truck. Holy shit.
Well, that'll teach him. What the fuck has happened to people nowadays? You're getting into
a fight at the drive-through. You know, you don't like the service. They don't like how you're,
how you're treating them. What do you do? Just blow them the fuck away. Oh my God.
Just the kind of guy that would value somebody's time. Like I just, I'm just looking for my person.
I guess he's out there for me. I mean, I want to be somebody's husband someday, father. You'll get
it one day, man. Don't give up. I'm trying to do everything that's right. I just get stood up.
Like my feelings didn't even matter. Sitting there eating the meal by myself.
Realizing that nobody even cares about people anymore. Like alien dating shouldn't even be
this hard. It shouldn't be this hard to find somebody. It shouldn't be this difficult to
fall in love to be this kind of one another. I feel really sad. I'm trying, I'm trying really
hard not to make a joke about the lazy eye. I'm trying really hard not to make a joke about it.
So I think this went viral and I think there was a bunch of people who were like really sad
about it, obviously. But there was also a bunch of people who were like laughing at him and doing
like the patriarchy oppression, LOL male tears thing. That's come making a comeback. I fucking
thought we left that in like 2014, but it's making a fucking comeback. I feel bad. I feel bad for him.
Dating is hell in 2023. If you, if you meet like a good girl at school or something or at work,
you got to lock that shit down because dating is hell right now. Okay. This last one we have
to censor a little bit. What's going on is it's a woman who is not naked, but pretty much naked
dancing in public on what looks to be a stage or a float at an event in the street.
And there she is. She's dancing. She's dancing.
And why do you step in, lady? I can do. What exactly can't you do? Not what she's doing.
Why? I mean, she's naked. She's dancing in public. Why would you step in and block that?
What could possibly be her logic? I'm kind of stunned. It's like,
maybe she's the girlfriend of the person taking the video and she's pissed. Or maybe she's like,
now, hell nah, you're not going to objectify a woman like that. Even though she's in public
doing it to herself. There's the strange, I got to do a video, like a main video on this at some
point. There's this strange expectation among, let's say certain more online segments of the
left that you should be able to just do whatever you want with basically no consequences. Do porn,
be naked in public, be a prostitute, whatever. And that should never come back to haunt you.
And so maybe part of that is just interfering in people who document what's going on.
I don't know. I've got to think about it some more, but in any case, that is the end of
TikTok Tuesday for today. Thank you for being here. My friends. I really do appreciate it.
If you want more dev action, well, Naomi and I saw the movie A Haunting in Venice recently,
and we shot a vlog for that and put it up over on the dev kit channel. So
click the link on screen. If you're on YouTube, go and check that out.
Thanks for being here, everyone. I will see you guys next time. I love you.
