Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and recently I have been the recipient of shocking allegations, that
I am frankly, astounded, anyone would suggest. These are, of course, the allegations that
I am, in fact, not a gamer. I know my friends, I am as outraged as you are, once again,
the pineapple on pizza loving heathens have the audacity to cast doubt on my gamer credentials,
needless to say, I would be crying at the club if it was open. So, I guess I will have
to debunk these claims by taking on another gamer topic, one which will serve as indisputable
evidence for my unflinching gamer status. But first, let's talk about another curious
video game that serves as the backdrop for today's subject.
Half Life, it's a video game for gamers, like me, who wish to immerse themselves in
a first person shooter with a bit more depth, with the first being released in 1998, the
second in 2004, and further successive instalments being released in 2006 and 2007, as well
as some additional expansion packs in between. The first game focuses around an individual
by the name of Gordon Freeman, who like many people, triggers an alien invasion when an
experiment that he's running opens up a dimensional rift in time and space. Obviously, antics
ensue and he finds himself up against a diverse plethora of enemies in his mission to return
stability to this facility and the planet alike. Obviously, my synopsis of these games
will remain relatively short, so I don't spoil it for anyone planning to play it themselves,
but generally speaking, it's considered by many to be one of the greatest games ever
published, and this is the same story with its successor, Half Life 2, which follows
our good friend Gordon a couple decades on after the events of the first. It incorporates
many elements present in its predecessor, while adding new features and improving on
existing ones. In spite of their shooter status, the series was characterised by its heightened
sense of ambition, with Valve president Gabe Newell stating that if Half Life 2 isn't
viewed as the best PC game of all time, it's going to completely bum out most of the guys
on this team, but Gabe need not have feared. It was released to universal acclaim from
reviewers and audiences alike, and is also regarded as one of the greatest games of all
time. After the success of the first two games, the developers decided to further metamorphose
their approach, with the plan to release a trilogy of episodes, continuing the story
from the lens of our protagonist and a new non-player character by the name of Alex Vance,
a lovely young lady who was present in the previous game, who is now receiving a more
prominent role as a companion to Mr Freeman here. The first two episodes released a highly
positive reception, however, it wasn't quite equivalent to the rampant appraisal that the
previous games had received, though this did not appear to deter them. Episode 3 should
have completed this trilogy, and was planned for release in Christmas 2007, however was
initially postponed, and then cancelled following a sequence of delays and changes to company
trajectory. Since then, there has been a lot of speculation as to when the long anticipated
Half-Life 3 will be released, in fact, as I'm sure many of you know, there is an infamous
meme revolving around people's rather excitable nature to seek confirmation on the game's
announcement, indulged by many throughout the industry. On Wikipedia, there is a page
exclusively dedicated to documenting unreleased Half-Life games. It seems that in spite of
their revered status within gamer society, the hype surrounding prospective Half-Life
projects precedes them. The series had elevated itself to this cult level status, and wherever
there's a devoted fanbase, there's typically market potential. Combine this with the desire
for simply more Half-Life content, yet a significant lack of it in the decade following
the uncompleted trilogy, and people were longing for a saviour, holding out for a hero to give
them what they wanted. And from the darkness came an unlikely salvation, but was it the
one we needed, or the one we deserved?
This is Hunt Down The Freeman, it is a fan made spin-off game of Half-Life, released
in 2018. It's plot, unlike other Half-Life releases, follows the character Mitchell Shepherd,
a member from one of the groups hostile to Freeman in the first instalment, as he attempts
to track down and subsequently slay our hero. It is a revenge-themed first person shooter
developed and published by Royal Rudious Entertainment, who's CEO is Joe Connors. However, the credit
really must go to the director, producer, and writer, Birkin de Nizarin, who also goes
by the name of Frank, presumably because his full title is a bit of a mouthful. The game's
release was met with denunciation and opprobrium from all ends of the industry spectrum, alongside
controversy surrounding many aspects of the game's development. However, that does not
make it particularly exceptional in the grand scheme of things, many video games are embroiled
in their fair share of for all. So why are we here today? The devs thought it'd be a
great idea to ask a bunch of YouTubers to voice for the game, and somehow, I wasn't
the worst. You see, Hunt Down The Freeman ran a very interesting marketing strategy,
which included the decision to take the daring step in casting YouTubers amongst their ensemble.
Obviously, given YouTube's performative nature, this may have made sense on paper,
however, it didn't quite translate in practice.
Following the release, this led to a tidal wave of publicity, where castigation was fused
with a peculiar amusement and curiosity at how such a disaster piece came into being.
It became the target of critics and commentators alike, whose coverage enshrined the game's
status amongst audiences, causing many to wonder exactly how this happened.
Well, today my friends, I attempt to unpack that mystery, and the controversy surrounding
the most ambitious crossover in modern history. Comrades, I suggest we waste no more time
on idle chatter and cut into the meat of this juicy, juicy joint. Friends, let's hunt
down that Freeman. To understand the beginnings of this curious case, we should probably go back to 2016,
because as I'm sure you're aware, a game can often take many years to grow from its humble roots,
and Hunt Down The Freeman was no exception. Nonetheless, its origins are a bit of a mystery in a way,
because they begin with the man Birkin, hailing from the glorious Turkey, initially not particularly
proficient in English, although having active accounts only sprung into action in the latter half of the 2010s.
Not too much is known about him prior to then, the Tommy Wiseau of video games per se, and I'll tell you,
the similarities do not end there. When our good friend Birkin here had the idea for Hunt Down The Freeman,
he was motivated, he was driven, and he decided to assemble a crack team who could help bring his vision into fruition.
There was clear development going on behind the scenes in 2015. A tweet in August of that year has Birkin
announcing work on a new game, and although it's mostly quiet after that, we can pin the day that it was
officially announced to the 5th of July 2016, the day after American independence. People were going to be in
high spirits, and there was surely no better way to maintain this morale than to launch Hunt Down The Freeman's
IndieGoGo crowdfunding project. To garner further attention, it was also posted on Steam's Greenlight feature.
Greenlight is a now-retired system which allowed indie developers to pay a nominal fee to announce upcoming
projects, with users subsequently voting on their sentiments towards the game. In the IndieGoGo and Greenlight pages,
there were links to what we can assume was a trailer, some gameplay, and an interview that was posted a few days later,
accompanied by some screenshots. There is a version of the trailer still assessable on another channel,
which demonstrates the quality being displayed here.
When Hunt Down The Freeman's page was listed on Greenlight, the response could probably be evaluated as lukewarm at
best. The concept may have been interesting, but many people expressed reservations over various aspects of the
game, ranging from qualms with creative choices such as the cutscenes, an issue which I'll dissect in a bit, to
concerns encompassing the actual legality of such a game. Our good friend Birkin here was kind enough to open a Q&A
thread where he would discuss anybody's queries, however, almost immediately, he ended up in a rather obstinate
debate with a user over the liability of such a venture. They ask if our friend Frankie here has permission from
Valve to set up the game in the Half-Life universe, and he responds, stating that Valve lets people use their IP
source mods. The person then points out that he is marketing a standalone game, and Birkin responds with,
This back and forth continues until it is established that Hunt Down The Freeman is both a mod and a standalone game,
but this interaction would not have inspired faith in prospective investors. He was subsequently flooded by further
questions over the legality and soundness of the project in question, and shortly after, Birkin decided to make a post
addressing people's doubts. This post began by attempting to address misgivings surrounding the budget, as observed,
$100,000 was quite a lofty goal, and although that would be modest for many developments, people weren't exactly
expecting a AAA release here. However, it appears that there was a reason Birkin had expertly estimated the figure of
100 grand. You see, the trailer that we viewed was made with Half-Life 2 assets. The budget in question would allow
the developers to purchase their own assets, as well as licenses for the content. You see, Birkin didn't want this to
just be another mod, in his own words, he wanted it to be a professional game. Now, if you ignore the irony of
professional being spelled wrong, it is hard to deny that Birkin possessed a lot of ambition and faith in his idea,
and believed he could convince the audience that this was a worthwhile investment. He clearly believed it himself,
and he continued to advocate for it over the coming days in spite of the scoffers and the skeptics. He appeared to hold
that outlook that if you're dogged and persistent enough, then you could sell water to a drowning man. There was little
doubt about it, Birkin had confidence coming out of his ears. However, sales isn't just confidence, it's about having
knowledge of your product, and knowledge of the demographic you're going to be marketing it to, and first impressions
are a lot, so the fact that his post appeared uncertain on particular characteristics and technicalities of the game,
you did more questions than it did answers. One of the most acclaimed facets of the original Half-Life series were its
choice to diminish the use of cutscenes in favour of scripted sequences which allowed the player to maintain control of
their character. This was a bold decision at the time, but it worked, creating a more seamless interrelation between the
plotline and the gameplay. With the previews of Hunt Down the Freeman, it seemed that they were going to be relying more
heavily on cutscenes to tell the story, which many seemed confused by. Now, obviously, a game can take the creative
liberties that it feels comfortable with, and on principle, if it helps create a better product, then so be it. However,
in the original, the lack of cutscenes wasn't just any old creative decision, it was a decision that for a long time was
identifiable with the series, and if a game alienates itself from a franchise's distinguishable elements, then what
appeal does it have to the consumer who is familiar with the established universe?
And these cutscenes have an opportunity to tell a story or tell an emotion that normally in gameplay cannot do.
There's nothing wrong with providing a new spin, with new features and new ideas, but for many fans, you also need to be
in touch with the spirit and the mantra of what made the original game successful, and Birkin was having trouble
latching onto that. This issue was most illuminated in an interview a few days later with a creator from the community.
Although passionate, driven with ample ability and experience with the Half-Life games, he had trouble justifying the
fundraising.
The heck is this guy? Now, it's quite possible that you could make the best game ever. I'm not saying that you can't do that,
I'm saying that people will say, well, I'm not going to give money to somebody that I've never heard of. How would you
address those people?
And now we have opportunity to give people something really, really beautiful. But that's the thing that people ask,
why it's $100,000? Oh my God, you want $100,000? People get really suspicious, like, why you want that much?
Firstly, 10% of the money goes to the tax and Indiegogo, so there's only $90,000 left. And $50,000 of that just goes to
the licensing of the game. And there's only $40,000. With that $40,000, we have to make all the characters all over again.
And it's not like he doesn't have a point here. With the boldness of such objectives, you need a lot of money, but the
boldness here bordered on temerity for many prospective supporters, and for someone with no track record in publishing
game mods, let alone Half-Life mods, people needed more than his word, and even then, his word could have been a bit
more convincing.
And we have to get new textures, and we have to get voice acting. Like, voice acting is not really cheap.
It was clear that there was still lots of work to be done, but Birken was ready to put in the hours.
That's why I like to announce that we're gonna make a playable demo for Hunt Under Freeman. I was thinking about it,
but I wasn't sure should I do it or not. I see that people didn't understand and question the cutscenes, and how it's
gonna work. Like, there's so much different, not like a Half-Life game, and it's not like a Half-Life game, to be
honest. I'm not telling it, oh, it's gonna be exact like Half-Life, because I'm not giving you just new levels. I'm
giving you a whole new game.
When you're fundraising for an idea which hasn't been fully manufactured yet, trust is a huge constituent. People are
giving you money on the back of what they believe you can do, rather than what you've done. Those with a reputation to
produce results may have a bit more success on this front. However, someone like Birken simply couldn't win over people
with a couple videos and screenshots, and even then, what was currently shown was unlikely to resemble the finished
product, as Birken intended to use the capital to purchase new engines, tools, and models, or the preview and trailer
for really gay fans was a look at the possible storyline and some design concepts. For many, that was simply not enough.
However, Birken was conscious of this, and following the onslaught of audience concerns, announced the development of a
demo, to provide users with further confidence in his ability and potential. He discussed this in the days following
the initial Greenlight post, and even in the aforementioned interview, however, the official post declaring this was
made on the 11th of July, just under a week after the IndieGoGo page went live. Most responses to this were actually
pretty positive, with many expressing anticipation for the upcoming release. However, there were also very few
replies, and it was clear that at the time, general interest was dwindling, many had clicked onto the page,
saw that there was very little there for them, and moved on. Unfortunately, this was a major miscalculation on the
marketing front, you really need to put people in with the preview content to maintain interest, and what was there
simply was not sufficient, which led to a lot of users dropping by and not sticking around. They didn't seem to have a
plan beyond the immediate community either, appealing to a fan base is not the worst idea, but unless those you appeal
to aren't desperate, then they're unlikely to blindly throw their money at it. Even the most brainwashed individuals
may support the game or the developments, but as an outsider pledging to alter the fabric of what made the original
successful, Birken was barking up the wrong tree. At this point, the only possible vindication could be found in the
impending demo release. If it was high enough quality, then it could be used as a springboard to show the capacity of
the team behind this vision. So come September, the moment of truth was upon us, and Birken finally, finally had the
chance to show those who doubted him what he was really made of. In interviews, he had championed himself as a
perfectionist, even citing his chronic perfectionism as the reason that he hadn't released any previous mods.
So have you made any mods yourself? Have you created any maps or any mods before?
Yes, I did. Actually, I did this like last five years, but I'm a
person that when I create something, it has to be perfect, and if it's not perfect,
it cannot be outside. So finally, we were able to have a sample of Birken's perfection. What flavour had he achieved?
You think you're so cool with your stick,
bullying citizens.
You didn't see what I did. My brothers did. The captain did.
You couldn't know anything we lived through. To put it nicely, it was an acquired taste. Now,
it wasn't the worst thing ever witnessed to man. By many standards,
it was an average playthrough,
but that was that it was also not the saving grace of the project needed, and there were glaring gaps in the
competency which would have put off many people who may have approached the demo with an open mind.
We are under heavy fire.
Ally combine forces are dead.
The truth is that this content should have been released alongside the fundraiser.
This would have given them more time and allow them to iron out any blemishes that were too conspicuous. In too many places,
the output just felt rushed, and maybe it was, given that they were struggling to hang on to subdued
interest from the gaming world. Even with that in mind,
it probably would have paid dividends to spend a bit more time touching up certain elements, because this is a long-term investment.
Users won't expect a demo to be perfect, but as a showcase of the talent behind Birkin's team,
there was very little content that would inspire hope in audiences, and certainly not enough to encourage them to give up their hard-earned cash.
And after a few months, the Indiegogo project sat at a measly
$12 of its 100,000 target, a number that, in spite of all the criticisms,
still surprised me, because I assumed that something of this scale and mild publicity would at least have some people donating for the hell
of it. But my assumption was incorrect, and in spite of all the names attached to this project, the time invested, and the
confidence of its lead, all progress was brought to a halt, and the team seemingly disbanded.
There was one silver lining to this cloud, though, and that was that the game had been green-lighted through Steam's process.
Nonetheless, if there was no team to take it forward, then this detail was frankly meaningless.
However, as I'm sure you know, this was far from the end of the story.
You see, some say you can't keep a good man down,
but that's not entirely true, because the moral content of one's character doesn't come into it if they're dogged enough, and regardless of
Birkin's nature,
he was a man on a mission, and was already preparing to renew his efforts once more. Enter stage left,
Royal Rudious Entertainment.
Royal Rudious Entertainment, or RRE, was the company set up to carry Hunt Down the Freeman forward from its previous shortcomings.
With that in mind,
it seems that it was being established shortly before the demo was published, and the crowdfunding campaign brought to an end.
The Twitter account was set up in August 2016, and although it would be a year until another promotional campaign would be launched,
Birkin was working hard, making sure that this time, Hunt Down the Freeman would be a resounding success.
A now deleted article published in a Turkish magazine, Technology, disclosed the development in January 2017,
which appeared to follow a tweet interaction where an employee stated that they were a part of the project.
Once again, bar the occasional tweet, it seems that Birkin chose to keep this venture predominantly under wraps,
likely causing it to fade from people's memory, and allowing them to return to their lives of blissful ignorance.
Alas, all good things must come to an end, and at the end of 2017, both Birkin and Royal Rudious Entertainment
ignited their social media presence to announce that Hunt Down the Freeman was back, and more powerful than ever.
But nobody was quite ready for the tricks that Birkin had been hiding up his sleeve, not even some of the tricks themselves.
Yes, it seems that they were in for a bit of a shock, but like much of this story,
even if you knew what was going to happen, it would still manage to subvert your expectations.
In a way, the fact that Birkin's original fundraiser had flopped so terribly enabled him to move rather seamlessly
into what we can assume was his plan B. If the project had originally received moderate support,
with some people's expectations resting on it, then the outcome could have been very different.
The developers would have needed to keep public donors in the loop with the progress,
and this could have led to a consistent stream of scrutiny, which could have accrued the game some lasting notoriety
if people became dissatisfied with the product. Instead, by keeping financing and labor behind closed doors,
it allowed them to operate and recruit without their previous reputation hampering them.
This was particularly vital to their subsequent marketing strategy, which employed a fresh approach for what it was attempting to sell,
though at its core was a technique not unheard of. Yes, our good friend Birkin was working behind the scenes on a team
that would make the game a hit, but would it make the game good? Well...
Birkin's voice, after a few tweets foreshadowing the launch of the long awaited game,
a teaser was posted on January 6th, 2018, with Agri the most infamous character from the original series,
G-Man providing exposition for the game's protagonist.
I do have to admit, I'm impressed that you made it back, alive from Black Mesa, even if it wasn't our intention to begin with.
Alongside came a few statuses from those involved promoting the game.
Now, a lot of developers and employers do not have the strongest social media presence, even Birkin's following was quite derisory.
However, the game received a significant signal boost from a few creators, many of whom had been recruited by Birkin to voice characters.
In fact, the cast appeared to include Pyrocynical, I Hate Everything, ColossusCrazy, and Keemstar,
some of whom posted rather roped comments about their involvement, accompanied by a link to the steam page.
This provided an extra helping of publicity for their operation, and audience reaction was broadly positive.
This is mainly because it focuses on one of the game's strongest assets, the G-Man, whose voice actor does a pretty good job
at emulating the original's inflections and intonation.
However, if you look beyond this, there were already a few cracks in the visage that should have been cause for concern.
Firstly, the scripting in general just felt a bit clunky.
Even if it wasn't our intention to begin with, yet you are still here.
You should have just died there, but here you are.
At this point, he goes from being this foreboding trailer narrator, to verbally tripping over himself in what appears to be
outward annoyance at the fact that our protagonist is still alive.
I don't think this was the intended tone, I think they were more over attempting to use repetition to engrain the message of the premise.
However, its usage is excessive, and comes across as rather graceless in its delivery.
Another less noticeable, yet probably more telling red flag, is the G-Man's pronunciation of Black Mesa.
Black, alive from Black Mesa.
Now, although a more subtle mistake, the fact that nobody involved had corrected the voice actor,
and ensured another take of an otherwise simple line, to me seemed like a failure in elementary diligence.
They had more than ample time to prepare this, and they were still falling at basic hurdles.
All in all, this would understandably cause reservation amongst people more familiar with the Half-Life series.
However, whereas in the past, much of the fandom had controlled the general verdict on the game,
here they were outnumbered by those slightly less aware of the details and taken in by the hype,
and perhaps the inclusion of their favourite creators.
I don't think it's the audience's fault that these flaws may have been overlooked at the time,
it's easy to analyse it with the enlightened glory of hindsight.
If I was a casual viewer, I probably would have missed it as well.
What this does tell us, though, is that Birkin and his team hadn't become any more rigorous when it came to quality control,
they'd just found a new way to drown out the incoming criticism.
Not too long after the teaser, its Steam page was erected, with the previews posted there as well.
The forecast was sunshine and rainbows for the team behind the Half-Life spin-off,
as the music teaser was also released to audience anticipation.
However, it wasn't all plain sailing.
Yes, many detractors were still present amongst the community, most notably the Lambda Generation Twitter account,
representing the, quote, ultimate Half-Life community.
Over the next three weeks, Royal Rudeus faced down and addressed accusations regarding general quality control,
and more importantly, their use of stolen assets, in their newest trailer and in previous versions of the game,
most notably their 2016 demo.
One former team member made a public statement chastising Birkin and his management for the organisation of the game,
expressing fear that it could permanently damage the reputation of future Half-Life titles.
On the same day, Royal Rudeus posted a statement rebuffing these claims,
asserting that they had obtained all necessary licenses for assets used in the upcoming release,
and holding that although the 2016 demo had used unwarranted placeholders, they had since rectified this.
I'm going to save further discussion of this for later.
They ended up in a couple more unconvincing interactions where they attempted to distance themselves altogether from the 2016 demo,
as well as claiming that Birkin was not party to the inception of Royal Rudeus Entertainment.
However, most of this remained within the community, and RRE vowed to press on with the promotion of their game,
uploading an official trailer at the end of January.
I heard you're looking for a man.
A man in an orange suit.
A man with a crowbar.
Gordon Freeman.
It was this video that some issues began to appear more evident, mostly relating to the rather substandard audio mastering.
Was gone. Now it's back. A gift for the captain. Do you recognize it?
God help us. No. God will stay away from this one.
They had reused lines from the teaser, and the additional voice clips wouldn't have inspired much confidence either,
with IHG's phrases having vocal acoustics which did not remotely reflect the setting.
In fact, I question if anyone had even put his audio through a single filter.
I just don't understand why it's such an important thing. The captain needs to see it.
These were schoolboy errors, which becomes even worse when you consider that the trailer is meant to show the good parts.
With this upload, the reception was strikingly more negative, and although some people were still excited,
there was a trace of reservation and straight up cynicism from many viewers.
However, the curiosities still remain, and with the release date set for February 2nd,
there was only a few days until the masses would finally have their say on this enigma.
However, Team Broken wasn't as ready as they said they were.
This was a triumph. I'm making a note here. Huge success.
Yeah, this game sucks.
It's hard to overstate my satisfaction.
Holy shit, the game does not work.
Yeah, but you're science.
Everything about the game is a huge mess.
We do what we must because we can.
So fast forward to the game coming out, everyone hates it.
For the good of all of us, except the ones who are dead.
Who wrote this?
But there's no sense crying over any of this.
My fellow Americans.
You just keep on trying till you run out of cake.
And the science gets done and you make a neat run for the people who are still alive.
Ahem. What do you think you're doing?
Well, I literally just finished Portal two minutes ago and you can't just go barging into people's monitor, bro.
I won't when you finish your damn video.
Do you even know when the deadline is?
Yeah, it's a week from now, right?
No. The deadline was a week ago.
What?
Just finish the damn video. I already sent the audio.
I'll be watching you until then.
Hello and again, welcome to the Aperture Science Computer Aided Enrichment Center Hunt Down The Response is edited by LuckyMeAndChloe.
As the date loomed, many waited with bated breath to see what this game would bring us.
However, on the 31st of January, just before the second trailer was uploaded,
an announcement was posted by a good amigo Birkin regarding the status of the game.
He thanked people for their support, but also acknowledged one of the prevalent concerns voiced by many regarding the file size.
He expresses sympathy and says that they have been working on a solution.
However, we'll need more time to implement this, and thus we'll be delaying the release by six days.
This has formalized the following day on the Steam page, with the date being moved back to February the 8th.
Okay, so just under a week, gamers have seen far worse delays in their time,
and people were willing to wait a bit longer if it allowed the developers to make a game more accessible for users.
However, come February the 8th, another post was published stating that they will be deferring release once more,
this time to perfect the game, in hopes that it will be primed for application.
RRE also made the tangential comment that they didn't realize they had 50 levels until a few hours ago,
which I think is an attempt to hype up the game, but just makes them seem more incompetent.
Like, you didn't plan how many levels you were gonna have.
So although bemusing, it was also believable, given that some dips in quality had been seen in certain previews.
So people once more shrugged their shoulders and bided their time.
The new date was set for February the 15th, and as it came around, you can probably guess what happened.
Another delay. Oh, joy.
This time, it was bound for the cause of this postponement, as they were to test and approve the game before release.
How inconvenient.
It likely surprised many people that this had not been arranged in advance,
but given the organization of the project thus far,
I suppose it wasn't beyond belief that they had just tacked this onto the end of an already shambolic rigmarole.
🎵Music🎵
Nonetheless, the post in question seemed to be their flimsiest explanation yet,
and there were only so many times they could tantalise their patrons in such a way.
However, this time they pledged it would be their final delay, and that February the 21st would be the day of reckoning.
So the day came around, the time was upon us, the court of public opinion was in session,
we could finally find out- no, never mind, it was delayed again.
At the trajectory this game was on, this video wasn't going to be a retrospective.
It was becoming such a circus that even members of the team were beginning to publicly vent their exasperation at the handling of the launch.
However, we were spared further suffering on the 23rd of February, when the game was finally unveiled on Steam to a triumphant fanfare.
Was it worth the wait?
It also fairly obviously nicked a lot of its new content, weapons and level architecture from asset stores and other mods,
as again, some of it looked competently made.
But it's all been dropped into the game with the care and precision with which turds are placed in the bottom of a budgie cage.
The kind of thing where you're walking to an over large room and there's just 12 zombies arranged in a neat row
because I guess the people in this room were doing the fucking hokey cokey when the aliens invaded.
I've never been so happy to see the ending screen of a video game,
and about the only positive takeaway I can see from this whole thing is that I'll never have to play it again.
And hopefully this video will serve as a warning to other Sunny Gems thinking about picking it up.
Hunt down the refund indeed.
Uh-uh. No, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Uh-uh! Nuh-uh!
You do not deserve to use this map!
No!
Fuuuuuuuck!
Unfortunately not, it was as awful as possibly feared, maybe even worse,
with the most embarrassing aspect being the excess of bugs, which many would have hoped parts of the extended
deadline were set aside for. The game would regularly crash, cutscenes were missing, audio levels were skewed.
It was practically unplayable on release. It was so bad you wouldn't be unreasonable in thinking it was all one big
ruse to hoodwink fans out of their money, and it wasn't just the unintended errors that were noticeable either.
Why don't, why don't they have textures on their eyes?
Hello captain, captain.
Why are they all voiced by me? I don't, I don't like the, hey shut, shut the game off, shut the game off, put, put the plot out of the shot.
You can tell me to calm down, there's a gas leak that can blow half of us all the way to hell with a fucking match.
Remember, no weapons.
Wait a minute, I thought you said no weapons.
Yeah, some, some gas leak, am I right guys?
There was lack of competence exhibited in multiple technical areas, including storyline, map design, controls, visual textures,
scripting, audio mastering, and voice acting. My god, the voice acting. Two words, President Keemstar.
My fellow Americans, as your president and commander-in-chief, it is with a heavy heart that I'm informing you that we have made a strategic decision.
They even changed the plot to what was shown in the trailer, the guy who was originally Gordon Freeman was now a masked man,
so the plot has even less relevance to the original Half-Life series, undermining a fair bit of the intrigue behind the premise.
I mean, I could go on, but it was a terrible game, and it was wholly rejected by the community and casuals alike.
You didn't need to be a gaming connoisseur to recognize the absence of quality.
Royal Rudeus would make a few more posts responding to the issues present in their title, implementing a day one patch,
which allegedly fixed the in-game glitches, though many reviewers disputed this.
However, outrage didn't just end at the audience, with some members of the development team clearly upset by the hackneyed job carried out by RRE,
how their work was treated by the direction team, and more specifically, Birkin.
An interview with Kotaku, the head of PR, gave Sumner a claim that the wrong version of the game had been uploaded to Steam,
but others had their own explanations.
The most outspoken advocate on this issue was an individual by the name of Telby, he was the sound designer on Hunt Down the Freeman,
like many others, a facet of the game which wasn't met with glowing praise.
He was also the person who had previously aired his annoyance at the numerous delays, however, had defended the game,
and even elements of the management, in spite of his recent criticisms.
This time, that nuanced perspective was buried six feet under, with him ripping into Birkin and the management from practically every angle,
telling a story of narcissism and ineptitude of the highest order.
It frames our director in chief as a guy with far more confidence than his ability permitted, and this is pretty in line with previous portrayals,
but here it's been to a dramatic detriment of the game, with many employees' work, like Telby's here, being completely compromised.
Now, of course, this may be what a disgruntled employee says, but it fits in with Birkin's established reputation and would explain a lot of technical shortcomings.
Telby also alleges that many of the delays were publicity stunts, which once again may also explain why the game doesn't feel like it's been polished,
alongside some of the rather unconvincing excuses they put out in the past.
The creator of Hunt Down the Freeman, he acted upon that naivetivity, that naivetivity of thinking you could make a game like this and actually pull together investors and people and developers to work on it.
So all it really is is just an overestimation, an overextension of what one can meet his own goals with, and it created an interesting result, and I think it's something to take note of.
Another more emotionally reasoned insider response was that from a guy by the name of Dreadile, who had also worked on the game, contributing to some of the sound design as well.
God bless him, Birkin had an idea, and he tried to bring it to life. It doesn't always hit the mark, and there was a lot of external forces at play, I'm sure, both with investors and who knows what,
but there still is a respect there for someone trying to create something and then also still getting to the point of releasing it, which most people don't even get to.
He had kind of worse to say about Birkin on a personal level, however also sincere concern to express given the state of the product.
When the customer's happy, the game makes money, you're able to pay off investors and etcetera, and they've come out and said that they have investors.
This game is not going to sell. It launched broken. It launched unplayable. This game is unplayable, and I'll talk a tiny bit about it as we go forward, but I'm actually a little scared for it.
I think that they might be in some serious trouble right now, like money wise, potentially, if they can't get these issues resolved.
Alongside that, he had seen criticism to bestow unto the creators behind the doomed enterprise, exposing the incompetence exhibited during much of the process.
There are a couple of things that keep you grounded when working on a game. One of them is a game design document.
Now, when I was approached to work on Hunt Down the Freeman a year and a half ago, Birkin was pitching me on the game and I didn't really understand what he was talking about.
It didn't make too much sense to me in my head. I was just kind of going, yeah, yeah, yeah. And I had this weird feeling about everything.
Felt like something was not right. So when he was asking me to do some work for it, I was pretty adamant about getting the game design document.
And I will tell you that there was no game design document. All the ideas sort of came from the head of the creator with minimal, minimal, minimal scripting work done, I'm sure.
And so it reflects as such when you have 60 independent contractors all working for you and you have them each do once one piece without even knowing what it's going to contribute to the overall consistency and congeniality of the story.
You get a clusterfuck, you get this.
To be fair, he imparted some firm but pretty fair advice, still wishing the team the best, but also hoping they would act in the interest of those who had offered their money and time to the game.
There is only one way. That is to one, take down the game from Steam. It is unfortunately an unfinished game and a very poorly designed game.
And if you want to create a product of value, you're going to have to take this down and completely redesign it. It just is not up to scratch.
Issue a statement with 100% honesty about the shortcomings, both with communication within the team and outside of the team, you know, to the community, and then spend a solid two years of hard development in order to get this game up to any kind of presentable state to the point where it's playable.
And at that point, you still probably might have a 10% chance of success. I mean, the damage is kind of already done, both to the reputation of the company, Rorudius Entertainment, and to the game itself, which has very negative reviews right now.
Would Birkin heed these words of wisdom? Well, not too long after, Birkin would make a post on the Steam page. I mean, it's signed RRE team, but I'm 99% sure it's Birkin, mainly because of how defensive it is.
Basically, the post claimed that towards the end of development, the team were hounded by false allegations from those within the community, which pressured them into pushing through production and releasing the unfinished game.
Turns out, this only escalated the persecution they were facing, and this has upset them a lot, as no one has even asked them for their side.
This community is just concerned with drama, drama, drama, drama, disgusting. However, in spite of all this, they were committed to working on the game and continuing to improve it.
That's what this says about their character. They wanted to repair that lost trust. However, before they had the chance to do that, they were to be hunted down themselves.
That's it. I've been watching you all day, and all you do is play, play, play. I'm shutting all of this down right now.
You hear that over there? Yeah, they're very faint at this point in the story. You can barely hear them. That's because I'm a moron, and I don't see the biggest warning signs coming from a mile away.
The call also sent me a thing like, every word equals this much money. Want your payment? I was like, I don't want your fucking payment.
What was it? You didn't take it? It allegedly uses assets stolen from the Garry's Mod workshop. It told Birkin, I was like, please delay this. Please delay this. Several months.
I haven't actually been paid as of now, so. I gotta just explain this to people. What it was like working on it. How much of a disaster it has turned out to be.
People don't tend to hold mods or fan made spin-offs to unreasonable standards. We're all aware that studios have a greater capacity to manufacture high production value content.
At the same time, we're also aware that funding doesn't solely dictate the quality of a game. There are many great indie games that were built off the back of budgets most moderate.
With this in mind, the indie developers who tend to succeed in this area are the ones who are aware of the limitations that such financial constraints may bring,
and have the ability to work with mine to their pecuniary blueprint. Birkin was clearly not one for limitations, and his grasp far exceeded his reach.
The amount of money he was working with was still well below that of a proper corporate fund adventure, yet it was constantly hailed as the magnum opus of this budding businessman.
In this context, many considered him to be the Tommy Wiseau of gaming, attempting to create something that his ability clearly didn't enable him to.
Now, there are a lot of parallels that can be drawn to Tommy Wiseau and The Room in this intriguing tale. However, one of the stark differences that I would draw is that The Room is entertaining in its dreadfulness,
and Hunt Down the Freeman is considered by many to be painstakingly boring. Most people consider the cutscenes to be the most entertaining inclusion,
however, even then, it's just immensely cliched lines that will have you uprooting all the delicate follicles on your beautiful, beautiful scalp.
Your name. Who are you?
Mitchell.
Mitchell, huh?
Yes, Mitchell. A name with many meanings.
For some, the meaning is a gift from God. For others, who is like God?
Which one are you, Mitchell? Are you a gift from God sent to save us?
Or perhaps you are God himself come to doom our worthless lives?
Perhaps.
He's cursed.
I always saw you as a hero after that day.
Hero? You're talking to a villain, my dear. The hero inside of me died many, many years ago when I was young.
The Room obtained its status by proxy of its own merit, even if that merit was its own catastrophe.
In comparison, Hunt Down the Freeman Millie used the fame of its YouTuber cast and employed a cunning marketing strategy,
which built hype within fan bases and managed to overcome any vocal descent from communities intimate to the series.
Nonetheless, you can hype up the pudding all you want. The proof will always be in the eating.
Therefore, although the game was released to more publicity than would be expected for a title of that stature,
it was similarly berated by almost anyone able to formulate an opinion online,
bringing into question those associated with the project.
As with Telby, there'll always be some finger pointing when a game drastically underperforms,
but this will typically amount to a lot of conflicting testimonies that don't leave the inner circle of those invested.
However, at the same time, by giving prominent roles to creators who had large platforms and media followings,
Birkin ran the risk of being publicly implicated if the project went haywire,
particularly given these were not just any old YouTubers, but the fabled commentator.
Commentators can be quite concerned with their public image,
given that their narratives are often loaded with moral principles and beliefs,
and therefore, in light of this failure, a couple sought to explain their position on the game,
while also sharing their thoughts on its caliber.
When I was approached by a guy telling me that he was making a Half-Life mod and that I could voice act in it,
I thought, hey, what could possibly go wrong? Hello, captain.
Stories told were pretty similar. People were invited onto the project,
they thought, why not, and subsequently regretted it, while observing all the amateurish direction exhibited by management.
Basically, it crescendoed from little tiny alarm bells just in the distance.
Can you hear that way back there? Can you hear that over there?
Yeah, they're very faint at this point in the story. You can barely hear them.
That's because I'm a moron and I don't see the biggest warning signs coming from a mile away.
From the get-go, I had to sign a contract, which was a Gmail, or like an email,
with the details of the contract within the email, and signing it was replying to the email with my name.
The most informative video on this saga is the upload by I Hate Everything,
who documents some of the rather dodgy practices employed by Birkin,
including out of context lines to be recorded that were sent over Skype,
and a contract that was validated by replying with the person's name.
So my character was Asian, and at first, they were also supposed to be American, have an American accent.
So an American Asian. So the alarm bell's getting louder.
You do realize I'm English, right? I have a very, very noticeable English accent.
He was convinced I could do it, so I tried it for him.
With none of this direction or context, I did the lines that I was given in this American accent.
Then weeks go by and I get some feedback.
Yeah, we don't want to do the American accent anymore. Just do whatever you want, pretty much.
And I'm like, oh, okay, then I'll just be English then. It's a lot easier for me.
So then when it comes to the final product, and I'm skipping through the cutscenes,
like, what is this? And I find both the American and the English lines are in it.
Do what the hell you gotta do, but I'm not going to be a part of this.
However, regardless of who was talking about it, the consensus was the same,
that Birkin was in way over his head, and that he did not harness the creative skills to bring together such a vision.
And on top of the fact you're hiring YouTubers as voice actors,
expecting this melancholy, overdramatic, dark, edgy drama kind of thing, kind of tone,
very serious tone that requires A, good writing and B, good actors to perform said writing.
The two biggest pillars are already, they've already collapsed.
And I don't know how that kind of oversight can be overlooked.
Unfortunately, in spite of the defiant steam post, Birkin had the cast stacked against him.
It is, of course, very easy in these circumstances to blame the guy at the top,
and I'm sure there were oversights which went beyond his responsibility.
But ultimately, when you credit yourself as the creator, writer, producer, director,
and refer to it as a Birkin-Denise Aaron game, then you have to accept that at least some of the buck is going to stop at you.
False hope. I know the director. I mean, I told him I was making this video.
I was like, man, I got to just explain this to people, what it was like working on it,
how much of a disaster it has turned out to be, because it just seems weird otherwise.
Like, people are seeing or hearing my voice in this game, and they're like, wait, is that?
I'm like, what is he doing in this? I hate this game. I don't want to hear that.
And he was adamant that the game, it was the wrong version that released,
and it was a broken version, and they have a better version that should have gone up,
and I'm just like, well, that's even worse to do that.
That's even more of an unprofessional move.
Birkin had reached out to creators, begging them to hold off their videos,
with the pledge that the game would be fixed as soon as possible.
But unfortunately, given that many of the changes he had already promised were not in place,
there was little trust in his word, and those were the people he actually had contact with.
In the coming weeks, and even months, plenty of outsiders lined up,
raring to rag on the game for the reputation it had acquired,
and using the information posted by his critics.
The YouTube connection may have aided its marketing at first,
and there was no denying the attention it was receiving,
but if Birkin was hoping to become the darling of the gamer world, he was gravely mistaken.
Initially, when I was making this video, I gave the developers fair warning,
and in response, they told me to not make this video,
because they're bringing out a patch that would fix everything.
He said it would drop, let's see, oh yeah, four fucking days ago.
I don't think these guys are scam artists, I just don't think they're artists at all.
The consensus was clear, the creator burdened the blame,
and after further updates, in one final attempt to curb the criticism,
Birkin cut the steam price of the game.
In many ways, in spite of the sheer incompetence and the publicity it spawned,
Birkin appeared to care greatly about what people actually thought of the product,
and even with its reputation thoroughly dragged through the mud,
was attempting to find some sort of path back to redemption.
Many acknowledged this, and even with the number of people bothered by the game,
most creators tended to mitigate their criticism towards Birkin,
playing down the idea that he had acted maliciously in any capacity.
I can't say for certain in reading stories from the inside,
and watching one interview filmed just before the playable demo's release,
whether Birkin Denizarian, the game's director and writer, is malicious or incompetent.
So many people I work with on this progress,
only a couple people know the real, real concept of the game,
because I didn't know who I can trust and who I can't.
And I don't really like to bring it forward.
One of the posts I will link to in the description states that they don't want things to get incendiary.
So I'm leaning to saying that it's a case of stupidity rather than cruelty,
if only because I like to believe that in people.
However, not everyone subscribed to this point of view,
stating that some details were simply not excusable by ignorance.
What do these details entail?
Well, let's go there now.
And I'm just looking at it, thinking,
Oh, you poor man. He's so nice. He's very nice, man.
Just wanted to make a game, just wanted to make a fun game for people to enjoy.
Poor old Birkin. All he wanted to do was bring a game to life for the adoring devotees.
He's alive!
And sure, maybe he didn't quite have the ability to fully realise his vision.
He still had the noblest of intentions, correct?
Well, some would disagree, instead arguing that Birkin was a cynical charlatan,
seeking to capitalise off a community's nostalgia for a revered franchise.
How would one prove this?
Well, it's difficult to prove intent beyond a shadow of a doubt,
and most people here clearly worked from the assumption that Birkin was not acting with malice,
which is completely valid.
However, if a person perpetrates various shady deeds with awareness of the possible consequences,
then many would argue that they'd lose the benefit of the doubt we would typically grant them.
This was the case some argued for Birkin.
Now, producing and publishing a subpar game isn't sufficient evidence of a crooked character.
His bumbling approach can explain a lot of failures,
but some felt that certain actions had crossed a line.
Some felt that Birkin must have known how awful his game was before release,
and pushed on with it in the pursuit of dollar, regardless of the cost.
What would make people think that?
Well, first of all, let's go back to Steam Greenlight,
the former system to help indie developers release their game on the corresponding platform.
In spite of some success stories,
there were also flaws which had made it pretty unpopular with a fair few from the gaming community,
one of these being how easy it was for some bad actors to take advantage of the voting system,
and the rather unscrupulous standards in place.
For example, you could implement bots to simulate the impression of more support
than you were actually receiving, thus inflating your vote count
and the possibility that your game would be approved.
This is what some claimed that the team behind the game were attempting to carry out.
In an archived link, numerous bots ascribed to the site csgo-happy.ru
are listed as members of the game's Greenlight page,
implying that they had been bought by the team's management
and used to inflate Hunt Down the Freeman's support, rather than earning it on its own merits.
Now, Greenlight itself was discontinued in 2017, and replaced with a new system known as Steam Direct.
Therefore, if this was the case, it would have likely happened in 2016
when they were attempting to cultivate publicity for their unsuccessful crowdfunding project.
Nearly all these bots have since disappeared from the page,
but their significance remains, as some concluded their presence
was indicative of the campaign that Birkin was attempting to run.
Another prominent controversy is relating to the use of their assets.
Now, we've already discussed the unlicensed use of certain content in their 2016 demo,
and Royal Rudeus' rather futile attempts to distance themselves from that controversy,
as well as their supposed vindication from other development teams.
However, many contested that these dodgy dealings were still present in the official release,
with one user going as far as to write up a whole list of all the alleged stolen assets used in the game.
Once again, if true, it would show a conscious disregard for the profession,
and other creators who work in the field, with little care as to what went into the game.
It would also contradict the public statements that had been issued previously,
signifying additional dishonesty, and paying further credence into these cynical theories.
To supplement this, it was also claimed that when brought up,
people were being banned from the hunt down the Freeman Steam forums,
with one user sharing an image in which he left a pretty harsh comment, and being banned for slander.
Now, the comment was strong in its sentiments, but it's not slander,
because as any culture's Spider-Man fan knows, in print, it's libel.
Anyway, with that in mind, it's not really libelous either,
the only possibly dubious comment is the claim that the developers have admitted that it's a cash grab themselves,
something which I don't believe Birkin has done.
Even then, they'd have to prove that some guy in a Steam forum trash-talking has damaged their reputation,
and I really don't think they needed any help with that.
So with these in mind, some began to draw the conclusion that Birkin wasn't just some sincere fool,
but someone much more destructive and rapacious, with no concern for who he affected in the quest for success,
including many of those he worked with.
However, these allegations weren't exactly an open and shut case either.
When it came to the stolen assets debacle, a pretty thorough response was published onto the hunt down the Freeman forums,
going through each individual claim, either appearing to disprove the original poster,
or placing the burden of proof back onto them.
Although the dispute intercepts that much of the use in this game is lazy,
they assert that the developers likely had a license to use most of these assets in the official title,
and in spite of the fact that there probably was illicitly acquired content in the 2016 demo,
it couldn't really be attributed to them as it's a separate company.
Now, as noted, I don't entirely agree with this, and think that accountability can be extended to previous projects,
where there has been consistent involvement of certain individuals,
but I also don't think it's the biggest deal if they have changed their ways,
and although that's debatable, many didn't think it was fair to consider the assets stolen.
This was echoed in Gabe Sumner's response to another post,
where he also appears frustrated at the continued resurfacing of this claim.
He also repudiates the notion that bots were used in the green light system,
saying that it was probably someone trying to set them up.
I'm not entirely sure what stake a person would have in buying bots for the hunt down the Freeman green light page,
but people have done stranger things to set others up, so I suppose it's not impossible, though somewhat suspicious.
In fact, according to Gabe, the only illegal thing that RRE has done is not pay him, and other employees as well,
but other than that, we're all good.
Wait, what?
I must admit, I am somewhat surprised by the nonchalance of such remark,
but it seems these grievances could never impact a lot of the personnel's commitment to the game,
and even its tainted honour.
I do hold a mild level of admiration for that,
but it's hard to ignore a lot of the criticisms that people raised,
at the same time, with all the opinions of those actually involved in the game,
almost all of them seemed hesitant to say that the project or its director were ill-natured.
So what can be said about it?
There is a story here, and a man at the centre of it.
You see, while all the YouTubers and reviewers ragged on the game,
obliterating its fragile reputation in front of the braying public,
with those associated scrambling to salvage their personal investments,
a certain individual had gone surprisingly quiet,
Birken de Niziaren.
Like, voice acting is not really cheap.
I understand that.
Yeah, and I don't want a voice that, you know,
I played some modes, and there was voices that the programmers and level designers did,
and, I mean, it's okay, but, you know.
You want the best, I understand that.
I want it to be perfect.
In a rather angry Steam post, the Half-Life YouTuber Bolloxed claimed to have invested $50,000 in this venture,
which would at least explain the rather strange comments of support during the promotional operation.
This was, however, disputed by Gabe, and looking at her positive comments, they do seem pretty ironic,
though, once again, I'm not really sure of the point of all this,
but it's a weird subplot that reflects the landscape.
In the server, some members of the team converged, waited, and vented,
by the lack of game revisions and communications on Birken's part.
Maybe it was out of shock, maybe it was out of embarrassment,
maybe he'd come to the realisation there was little he could do to repair so much of the damage inflicted.
At this point, Birken's world was only as good as his actions.
If you look at the evidence, and accordingly compile a list of his errors slash misdeeds,
it begins to look quite damning for our Turkish friend.
Under his administration, people's work was misused or discarded.
The organisation was on par with Tarnacon.
His contributions in the script and direction were abysmal,
the release was botched, and he continuously promised patches and updates,
many of which people felt he didn't deliver.
I don't know if it's been sorted out since, but some people weren't paid,
and many felt ignored and mismanaged.
In hindsight, this shouldn't be a surprise given how underqualified Birken was.
Love him or hate him, he didn't have a clue on how to put a game together.
Now, I think it'd be fair to conclude that in spite of the copious number of issues you could raise with his conduct,
that he hadn't acted out of avarice or malice, in part because so many people who worked with him defended his character,
and also because this would be one hell of a project to carry out just to make a quick buck,
especially considering how you have to also pay Valve.
I do think that Birken's will to accomplish his vision was at the expense of common sense,
and subsequently those who fell victim to the reality.
Many of them were upset with how their work was treated,
many were harmed by the backlash of the game in general,
many felt their reputation was on the line,
and while Birken gave the workforce and the audience very little to appease the situation,
these wounds only deepened.
People who seek to criticize him on this basis have pretty strong grounding,
and you can't really defend it.
Birken's team deserved better.
However, Birken clearly wasn't just some talentless hack,
and to frame him as such would be a discredit to those who believed in him.
Yes, Birken clearly didn't possess the skills to turn out a high quality game,
but as noted, this should have been quite obvious when you look at the facts from a detached perspective.
When put to the practical test, this was continuously exposed,
the initial demo was rejected unanimously by fans with the series.
Need I remind you, he raised $12 while courting for support of his concept.
Virtually every preview was beset by multiple faults,
and his attitudes towards workplace professionalism would probably raise a few eyebrows to say the least.
However, in spite of all this, he managed to assemble a team of over 60 people,
raise enough money to buy the necessary licenses,
create and market a game by presenting others with a vision that persuaded them to give up their valuable time and money.
He was essentially selling tickets to the Hindenburg after it had crashed,
and it all came down to one thing, belief.
It's by virtue of the fact that Birken had so little going for him on a technical level,
which is a testament to his skills as a salesperson with a project he seemed to legitimately believe in.
He started from a losing position, and argued his way into a winning one.
A good salesman can sell a good product, a great salesman can sell a bad one.
Whether that's justifiable amount of money is irrelevant.
It doesn't matter whether it's 10k, 100k, or a million, nobody knows you,
and I think that's one of the problems that people have got.
But as you've already said, you're going to be releasing a mod now.
Is that because of the kind of response you got from the community?
Well, actually, I get the exact response I was thinking,
because some people love it, some people hate it,
and these haters actually made the game more popular right now.
Because hate is a fast way to make people know about it,
because they just go around and tell everyone,
hey, look, that dude made a Half-Life game, that's crazy, and it just makes it more popular.
Facing the bombardment of Sencha, Birken was silent, probably for many reasons,
most of them not positive, however, the truth remained,
that Birken had probably done the best he could with his relative skillset,
and in time, animosity fades, and your merits are noted.
As much as Hunt Down the Freeman makes Birken accountable for its failure,
his role as the driving force behind its inception is undeniable,
and the credit his colleagues give him for his passion is also beyond doubt.
It seems they weren't the only people who recognised this either,
because in 2019, Birken was hired by Activision Blizzard as a production coordinator,
with the company knowledgeable of his role in Hunt Down the Freeman.
This announcement was met with shock from many, some still insistent that he wasn't fit for the job,
others believing he had not atoned for his previous errors, such as payment,
something which certain individuals claim is still outstanding.
Nonetheless, that comes down to what those who actually worked on the project have to say,
which right now isn't too much all in all.
With a few exceptions, I think many involved were almost embarrassed that they didn't know better,
that they were won over by a dream rather than the reality,
which is possibly why they were all so reluctant to lay into Birken's management,
because they may have all felt somewhat complicit in that.
With that said, Birken was a headstrong guy,
and I think it would have taken more than a simple intervention to make him re-evaluate what he was creating.
I believe that was shown up in the Steam post, where he basically blamed the haters for the resulting mess,
because at that point, it was more than just a few people telling him it was a lost cause.
In the Twitter replies of his announcement, he depicted Hunt Down the Freeman as a learning curve,
which I think is fair, but it was also quite a costly one,
and I hope he took any chances to clear the air with those he worked with and compensate where he could,
because in spite of the mess it was, the game probably landed him his current job,
and that was in part thanks to the fact that a lot of people who could have thrown him under the bus chose not to,
and in all fairness, he didn't throw them under the bus either, and I respect that.
However, whether colleagues have moved on to greener pastures or not,
it will likely be a bittersweet experience for some, and just a bitter one for others.
With this in mind, I think it's time to wrap up this tale for the ages.
In many ways, it was true, Hunt Down the Freeman was an unmitigated disaster,
yet at the same time, it was an unparalleled feat, it really shouldn't exist,
and to be honest, people would probably be better off without it,
but with what people were working with, the fact that the game happened at all is a borderline miracle,
and I feel its failures have almost enlightened many in a way.
The buyers, although inconvenient, were probably mildly entertained by the fever dream that such a game represented,
while also being informed on bad financial decisions.
The YouTuber's lives have since gone on, Colossal may have even uploaded a video since then,
for them it's a funny, albeit slightly embarrassing story, no one really blames them for what was obviously bad casting,
and I doubt it'll harm their career prospects if they ever wanted to dabble in acting again.
The posse I feel most sympathy for is those who worked on the game,
there are a lot of talented people who clearly felt that the title's representation of the work
had distorted their efforts and besmirched their credentials.
Add in the further issues that many of them complained about, I really wouldn't blame them for wanting to forget this dumpster fire.
Nonetheless, hopefully enough time has elapsed and allowed those associated to find new opportunities.
I guess the moral of the story is to ensure that even if a person talks a convincing game,
that you sometimes have to look at their record to deliver on such commitments.
The same advice can be passed to investors, whoever they are.
Yet the man who had the most to learn was Birkin, but sometimes the best lesson is to know your limits.
Birkin is clearly an enthusiastic guy with infectious energy, but that's not always enough,
and he'd need to educate himself a bit if he ever wanted to enter the creative side of games production again.
Hopefully his new position plays a bit more into his comfort zone while allowing him to pick up new skills along the way.
Hunt Down the Freeman was a case of too much, too soon, but as a strange twist of fate,
it worked out for him, and I hope he doesn't forget that.
As mentioned, there are many similarities between The Room and Hunt Down the Freeman,
particularly their respective architects, but Hunt Down the Freeman was unexceptional on paper,
and most of the execution too, a substandard revenge shooter consisting of mostly mundane or repetitive gameplay,
with somewhat cornerly written cutscenes spliced in between. It was destined to be a flash in the pan,
but Birkin hyped it up in every way possible, with the YouTubers he brought in being front and centre over this elaborate plan.
What he said to them, we may never know, but it quickly manifested itself into something greater.
Incorporating famous names into your cast isn't some avant-garde strategy,
but the inclusion of these creators just makes the experience all the more surreal,
particularly commentators, many of whom are specifically known for their voices, it's hard to hear them as anyone else.
The only YouTuber who should voice act at all, really, is me.
Okay, what do you think?
That's quite something.
Come on!
My clients will be very pleased.
Okay, okay, okay. What do you say to 200k?
That sounds acceptable. In fact, it's quite low. My rich buyer probably would have paid a lot more even.
Fantastic! Yes! Hey! That's it!
Okay, okay, I'm proud of it. Just leave me alone, I like it.
Anyhow, the YouTube connection initiated a domino effect,
inflating coverage with many people harping on its flagrant issues and meme potential,
tarnishing yet immortalising its status within gaming and online cliques alike.
In a way, it highlights how easily we are influenced sometimes, yet also highlights the strength of our own influence.
At the end of the day, Hunt Down the Freeman certainly stuck in people's memories,
you could go as far to say it has a pretty decent half-life.
Oh, please spare me.
Speaking of, there's a lot of questions as to what this means for the Half-Life series itself,
and possibly other mods. I'd honestly say, not too much hopefully, though I do understand the concern.
There was another Half-Life mod released a couple of years before Hunt Down the Freeman
that received pretty mixed reviews from the community at the time.
I think some were worried that it was outlining a pattern of people trying to haphazardly invent content
to fill in gaps the previous games left.
However, I think Hunt Down the Freeman's reputation as a bad game with YouTubers involved
has superseded its reputation as a Half-Life spin-off.
I can understand how it may make prospective developers more tentative to act on personal inspiration,
but I don't think fans and gamers in general, who as noted at the start,
probably welcome innovative projects, would be put off by this creation.
I think it's a natural outcome with fan-made content, some of it's gonna be pretty good,
and others will leave a bit to be desired.
The difference with Hunt Down the Freeman was its scale, and with that,
the game just transformed itself into a meme that transcends simple categorisation.
At the centre of the story, a man who comparably rises above the realms of human understanding,
embodying the purest form of dream-stimulated idealism, a driving force behind a vision.
In spite of that vision's many imperfections, he made it happen, for better and for worse.
Some may not acknowledge the true influence that he exhibited,
but there is no way that this game would have existed without his presence.
It seems quite improbable that the Hunt Down the Freeman franchise will bring us a sequel,
and the developers have confirmed this also, many have moved on,
and probably would be difficult to convince to return.
There is a parody account that claims to be carrying the baton of the franchise forward,
though I wouldn't hold my breath. Every now and then, the company Twitter will post a meme,
or share an interaction, they even mention their community, which is an attainment in itself.
I doubt there'll be many new updates, and it seems the team has embraced the meme status since,
but if you really want to see where it is now, it's $8 on Steam,
which may still be a bit overpriced, especially when you can buy Among Us,
but it's your money. If you buy it after this video, and find out it's not the life-changing experience you'd hope for,
then that may be on you.
If you want to play a recently released critically acclaimed Half-Life game,
and have the resources, then Half-Life Alyx came out this year for virtual reality consoles.
It also covers events in between the first two games in the series,
so clearly the developers must have been inspired by our good friend Birkin.
I've expected Alyx to pop up in front of me, and save me from this shit game.
It's hard to say exactly what Valve has in store for the Half-Life franchise,
and with investment from many in its universe, it's natural that some want to offer their own contributions,
but making a video game or a mod is more than just aspiration,
it's about knowledge, ability, and experience,
and filling your goals with mind to them.
Equally, if it's just your mod, then have a blast, it's your life,
but if you're going to involve other people, and make promises to them,
remember what they're giving up as well,
and do your best to honour it with your own talent and commitment.
Otherwise, you may end up with this.
And believe me, we will live to fight another day.
We shall return.
God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
Few things are certain in the story of Half-Life.
However, there is one thing I can guarantee.
That being, that I am a gamer.
So stop doubting my credentials for fun-
CLAP
CLAP
So yes, that was the video, I hope you enjoyed,
I want to give a big thanks to my editors,
who've done a fantastic job, thank you so much,
I love you all a lot, really makes a difference
when you have such reliable people working for you,
thank you guys, they'll all be in the pinned comment,
go and check them out, we support them, we support them.
I suppose I have to mention my patrons,
I want to give a big thanks to $10 patrons up on screen right now,
I also have to thank my $50 patrons,
we have Devan, Shirochigo, Amanda and Hypercube,
Caroline and somehullablue, Tree and Poki-san,
and the $100 patrons, Christopher Karas,
such charming names, thank you so much guys,
you really make a difference.
Just thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Hey, we're doing alright, we're almost at the end of 2020,
it's almost over, we just gotta get through a couple,
more hurdles, election, woo.
It hasn't been the most fun for me personally at points,
and obviously if you've been following my posts on Instagram
or my YouTube community posts,
you'll know that I've been having a few health issues,
and I want to thank anyone who's sent me messages of support,
it really makes a difference, and it keeps you going,
it keeps you pushing forward, and that's what I plan to do,
so thank you guys, and I hope everyone else is taking care of themselves
too, and social medias, they'll be in the pinned comment,
you know that by now, if you got this far at least.
Okay guys, I'm gonna wrap this one up here,
take care of yourselves, I'm The Right Opinion,
and I'll see you in the next one.
you
