Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time.
And will this be the end of my career?
Maybe so.
In my time, I have spoken about many controversial topics, stuff that has hit close to home for
many individuals, but today I delve into new territories, and even as someone who likes
to remain impartial, there is no middle ground on this subject.
There is no room for compromise.
This topic is something where even the utterance of such lexicon boils the hemoglobin within
my arteries, where it ignites this rage that may exist within this frosty skeleton of mine.
Even as I gradually fade into the abyss, this is something which I cannot stand by and allow
to continue transpiring in front of my eyes.
I have to make a stand, even if it kills me, even if it drains the colour from my epidermis,
even if the cult that backs this monstrosity turns up to my house and tortures me alive,
I will die on this hill, and will be a martyr for the course.
So, let's talk about the abomination, the atrocity, the obscenity, that is pineapple
on pizza.
WHAT?
Once upon a time, the world was at peace, always serene, and there was a pleasant placidness
that prevailed over the planet.
Then he came.
That person who I will strain to name, not because it is difficult to pronounce, but
because even the expression of such a character damages my vocal chords from mere association
alone.
That person, that mongrel, that repellent, repulsively ghastly goon is Sam Panopoulos.
Panopoulos was, like most people, born.
But on top of that, he was born in Greece, and now you wonder why your economy's crashing.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's not fair to tarnish a population with the brush of one
evil mastermind, but let's say we blast Greece off the face of the earth, like someone
probably suggested in the last two million years.
I mean, there's been enough time, someone must have said it, and this catastrophe could
have been averted if they'd fucking followed through on it.
Anyway, I'm getting ahead of myself.
This person went on a voyage to Canada, and ended up in Ontario, god rest that place.
And after working in the mines, he moved into the pizza business.
And with every plan to destroy it, he came up with this, the thing.
Frankenstein's monster of a creation, known as pineapple on pizza.
Now because the people in Ontario had their taste buds frozen due to the minus a hundred
temperatures regularly measured there, they became under the delusional impression that
somehow pineapple on pizza worked, and just because it was new, it was good.
Panopoulos, not satisfied with bastardizing only Italian, Greek, and Canadian culture
all in one, decided to brand it as Hawaiian pizza, forever destroying the helpless island
nation's formerly coveted cultural image.
He continued his reign of terror into decades come, and like a bad case of ecosystemic gangrene,
his brain orphaned spread throughout the various corners of the world, demolishing
the rational fabric of society inevitably causing the chaos that we see today.
Only a profoundly pernicious provocateur would permit such societal spoliation.
And yet he did it.
And people like it?
It is a truly sickening scenario that we live in this world today with the omnipresent threat
of pineapple on pizza.
And so you may say, well Mr. Wrong Opinion, what evidence do you have to back up such
audacious proclamations?
This is where I bring in science to destroy all your pseudo-bullshit, and I'm gonna hand
it over to my guest speaker, my great friend, because I am a man of science, I have a lot
of sciences friends, I know everything about science, Professor Dr. Marcus Trussus Virtuus
Turkus Smith, who has a PhD in cookingology, and he'll be presenting to you some hard facts
today.
I want you to listen carefully as he lays it out.
You take it away.
Pineapple on pizza, a rather controversial topic indeed, and one which has been debated
quite a bit as of recent, with numerous articles debating the topic.
But I, Turkey Tom, who have just gone through puberty, am here to put an end to this conversation
and set pineapple on pizza in the ground for the final time, using science to prove that
pineapple on pizza is a disgusting food from an almost objective standpoint, and simultaneously
show that anyone who willingly indulges in eating pineapple on pizza is a disgusting
troglodyte who should burn in the fires of hell.
Okay, obviously I am not Turkey Tom, but would you have really watched this long if I told
you my name was Ryan Brown?
Let's just get to our first piece of evidence today, which is the flavor spectrum.
You see, a spectrum, a little circular wheelie deal, similar to a color wheel, for those
of you who don't know, a wheel or spectrum is used to determine which colors mix.
Henceforth, such a wheel like this exhibits which flavors mix into a tasty snack.
For example, sweet goes with salty, sour goes with sweet, and next, and a slightly
overweight man go together to form the beautiful bulging brute that is Tommy C.
However, when looking at said wheel, what do we have here?
Citrus, the category of acidic fruits, which most likely relates to plants such as the
pineapple, and funnily enough, this flavor does not mix with dairy products in any way.
Shocking, I know.
Who would think that a pineapple wouldn't mix well with cheese, dough, and tomato sauce?
Well, turns out that Chef extraordinaire Gordon Ramsay actually has something to say
about this matter.
Um, let's have, um, 10 of the pepperonis?
How many pepperonis, Chef?
Put fucking pineapple on pizza.
And what's this?
The world's most famous chef proving that once and for all, pineapple on pizza is a
disgusting, otherworldly meal that should never ever ever be eaten ever.
Look, I'm not sure what else you people want from me, okay?
The color wheel says it all.
I say it.
Gordon says it.
Gordon Mcfucking Ramsay says it.
So what do you guys friggin' want from me?
This problem is imperative to the safeguarding of issues within our nation.
To prove this further, the objectively best nation in the world, Iceland, has a chad president
who thinks that pineapple should be banned from pizza.
While the stinking, virgin Justin Trudeau is a massive fan, this is definitive proof
that if you like pineapple pizza, if you're not a raging, social justice-obsessed soy
boy, then you're practically propping up the totalitarian regime.
That'll be the downfall of the modern society that we love and cherish, unless we move swiftly.
They're almost definitely putting soya into the pineapple, turning our children gay.
This is the real pizza gate.
Unfortunately, pineapple on pizza could be part of a brainwashing program, so I sent
one of our field agents to find out more.
Hello, and welcome to our unbiased review of pineapple pizza.
Now we've run into a bit of an issue, as here in Portugal, no one in their right mind would
serve pineapple on a pizza.
So what we've got here is we've got a ham pizza, and we've got some pineapple.
But first of all, we are going to preheat the oven.
Because we're not arseholes.
Boom.
Bap.
Bada bing.
Okay, so let's open these bad babies up.
And the pineapple.
I've got to be more...
I've got to be more...
I've got to be more careful with the pineapple.
Oh my god, how much liquid do you need?
Isn't pineapple on pizza meant to be dry?
What's it look like?
Oh, I smell so strong.
What the fuck?
We're just going to go ahead and pour all of this away.
We might lose a bit of pineapple as well, but we do not want that on our pizza.
For everyone at home, here's just a quick way how to ruin your pizza.
Isn't pineapple on pizza meant to be dry?
I smell so strong.
There you go.
I'm actually only going to be putting pineapple on half my pizza, because I don't want to
ruin it.
It cost me two euros, and I do not have two euros to waste.
This honestly goes against every single one of my instincts.
You realise you are having a slice of this too, by the way.
Okay, now we're going to go ahead and open up the oven and put the pizza in.
And we're just going to put the pizza in.
That's not...
Why is it sizzling?
Put that in.
And there you go.
And now we wait.
Okay, so it's been around seven minutes, we're going to go ahead and take a look at how this
pizza is coming along.
Oh god, it smells, it smells, it smells so good.
We're going to go ahead, I'm just going to get it out, get a bit closer while I pull
it out.
That's what she said.
Oh, see the thing is right, that looks like a nice pizza, but...
What is that?
Now most importantly, we're just going to make sure we salvage half of this pizza because
it does look like a really nice pizza.
I'm worried that pineapple juice will be all over it, but we're saving this for a rainy
day.
Oh no.
I'm really not looking forward to this.
I guess, let's just cut into it.
I didn't realise I actually had to eat it.
Okay, give me a second, we're going to wait for it to cool down anyway.
Alright, here we go, let's review it.
It's not good.
There's a nice little bit on the end where there's a pineapple bit of ham, I want you
to try that.
I've been told to try it again because apparently I spat it out too quickly, but I guess here
we go.
It's really not for me, you are wrong, no, you are wrong, you are just wrong to me.
I cannot eat it, I cannot eat what I...
Just as some proof that I actually do enjoy pizza, that's fine, so you can fuck off, you're
a disappointment, you can take a fucking vacation, fuck off.
So yeah, in conclusion, don't try this at home kids, unless you want to vomit in your
own mouth, just have a regular pizza, and that is my unbiased review of pineapple pizza.
It's clearly a disgusting food which none should ever eat, ever, and after interviewing
a few people in the DMs and developing proof of their crimes against humanity, I can now
present evidence to you that your favorite YouTubers have been lying to you.
The people who you have looked up to over the past weeks, months, and perhaps even years
have actually been lying to you this entire time and are on the wrong side of this argument.
Dare I say, the evil side.
So join me as I take you on a journey of liars and pineapple pizza sympathizers.
I hate everything, Alexium, you really let me down man.
The colossal is crazy the old fart actually likes the shit.
Tommy C, still a perfect human being, but nevertheless, this is quite a let down.
Wow, honestly I wasn't sure how to react to these DMs at first.
Don't worry, I have a solution.
Unsubscribe from all of the creators.
Unpledge from their Patreons and never ever press that bell button to receive notifications
every time they upload.
I'm Ryan and I've been fighting the good fight against pineapple pizza for you.
Goodbye.
My friends, that is the unseen side of pineapple pizza.
The fruity elites do not want you to know.
But here on the right opinion we always go one step further to unveil the truth
and you can thank my committed brilliant team of researchers with their ever reliable sources
to reveal the true horrors of placing pineapple on pizza.
I just send a chill dumb own spy.
So, I hear your wretched voices screeching,
the wrong opinion, so we may destroy society as we know it,
who cares, we're not hurting anyone individually, it's all relative, we're just reforming.
You think your actions have no implications and maybe I, the open minded opinion
would give you the benefit of the doubt.
But then I met this man and his story truly harried me to take a stand
and if you're not taking a stand after this then you're a hedonistic coward
who doesn't consider the value of human life.
Play the clip.
I've only recently turned 18 years old, my early adult years,
yet my hair is falling out, I can't saw my face to anyone,
not since the day everything changed.
You see I used to be quite a fan of the delicacy pizza, as some may call it.
I used to love going into our nearby pizza shop
and ordering scrumptious straight out of the oven pizza.
But one day I walked in, I took a sniff of the air around me,
it was different, something was wrong.
I didn't really think much about it however,
I proceeded towards the counter where a smiling face met me.
I asked for the regular, meat lover's pizza with the entire spectrum of meats available on it.
Sausage, bacon, pepperoni and even ham.
However, they had none left, it was heartbreaking.
The man working at the counter seemed distraught from the look of hopelessness in my eyes.
That's when he told me the phrase that would change my life.
I'll tell you what, we have a deal for Hawaiian pizza at 50% off
but since you're a regular, I'll let you have it on the house.
Hawaiian pizza, I asked, my voice trembling.
I've never heard such a thing, but I wouldn't just toss up an opportunity for free pizza, would I?
Well, it was in that moment my life would change forever.
I arrived home at my modest home with a warm steaming box of pizza,
but something felt off.
There was a tang in the air, a tang which didn't feel right.
I opened up the box, and as when I noticed something was off,
the ham covering the pizza looked truly beautiful.
Alongside it was... that thing.
Pineapple lay upon the bed of cheese.
I believe this seemed odd, but I thought, no use throwing out a free pizza, right?
Heh, what a fool I was.
Before I knew it, I was taking my first bite into it. I trembled.
Something just didn't feel right about this.
It was wrong.
I spat it out and rushed to the nearest phone,
but before I could call an ambulance, that was how cold.
Turns out that pineapple on pizza is incredibly disgusting.
So disgusting, in fact, that it almost killed me.
My throat nearly closed over just because of it.
To this day, I have to hide my face due to the incredible damage
the swallowing has caused to my face.
Hey, pineapple on pizza isn't that bad.
You're just allergic to pineapple.
That was truly riveting.
And that's why I do this.
It's for moments like these on the right opinion.
It's not disgusting, but exposing the inhumanities of matters like this.
Pineapple on pizza was invented in a time when we needed stability,
and yet it has thrown everything we hold dear down the gutter.
It is symbolic and causally representative of self-loathing within our own circles,
and yet we continue to go round and round and round and round and round and round and round.
It's time to break the cycle.
It's time to take a stand and say I will not tolerate this.
I will not watch as these blacksmith traitors slowly tear down everything
that our forefathers have spent centuries and millennia to build up.
We risk total anarchy thanks to pineapple on pizza.
The question is, will you let your sick desires take us down the slippery slope to oblivion?
I would not.
Even if I craved pineapple on pizza, I would cut off my own limbs
before allowing my own selfish pleasures to dismantle the mores
that we have constructed so carefully.
I would not let it be obliterated by an excuse of a culinary dish.
Would you, punk, would you do what is right?
I want you to make sure that you follow those people and you tell them.
I want you to go and check out everyone who has came on to my channel today
to expose this truth and tell them now I know the truth of pineapple on pizza
and we can take a stand, tell them that, and they will feel reinforced
to tell their stories again and again and again.
Go and check them out.
As for me, this might be the end.
This might be the end of the right opinion as we know it.
But remember, when you come to my grave, when you lay a wreath in my memoriam,
I went down in a blaze of glory fighting for what was right.
The eyes of history will honor my name as a crusader for the cause.
Brothers, sisters, non-binaries,
it is time to remember why we are here.
A king, a country, a culture.
Sometimes we have to take a stand to survive.
I'm the right opinion and goodbye.
Thank you for watching!
