Heya buddies, here's a quick update from Dev, the vacation's over, I posted that debate
yesterday which was quite fun, and me and the gang streamed some Secret of Mana last
night.
I was driving up and down the halls in this scooter, in my shitty Darth Vader costume,
and I was saying in the most like, in the most let's say disabled voice that I could
muster, it's like, wook, I am your father.
That's more of a speech impediment.
And I was just like, and everyone was like laughing at me driving around, and the teachers
were like, who the fuck is on the scooter, I had the mask on, right, and I was just like,
wook, wook, I am your father, and I got, I'm sorry I missed that, I got like a full day
of detention for that.
I've always wanted to play that game three player ever since I was a babby dev.
I know I said yesterday I was going to stream some River City Girls 2 tonight, but sometimes
life just throws you a curveball.
I'm aiming to do the weekly sip tomorrow morning, and me, Lilith, Arch, and Cibs are gonna start
up a second Watch Party series, this time of that god-awful looking upcoming HBO show,
The Last of Us.
So look forward to that video on Monday.
I've got more news for you though.
The week off paid off.
YouTube told me my channel is in the clear regarding being squeaky clean, and so the
silver play button is on the way, which is great news.
I'll make sure to do a 100k sub video once I get it, like a year and a half late.
I don't think I'll ever be more late than that for anything.
But to get my channel squeaky clean, I did have to take some videos down, including the
divisive Yes I'm a Centrist video.
That one got flagged for something or other.
A few slack-jawed yokels were making fun of the fact that I took it down, thinking I was
cowardly and backing out due to the backlash or something.
In fact, that brings us to the last thing I want to update you on.
If you were subbed to the Devonitize channel, you probably noticed, last summer, when like
50 videos were dumped onto it all at once.
A few people began to scream in comments about how their feeds were getting raped, and you
know, fair enough.
Devonitize is a channel not run by me personally, but I do know the person who operates it,
and it serves as a repository for all my videos that are limited or demonetized or age restricted
or whatever.
So, a lot of the videos that I had to recently take down, including the Centrist one, will
be coming up over there, but this time, only one video at a time.
In much the same vein, the Dev and Friends channel, which is one that I actually run,
over there, a lot of the old dumping with scrumps, old interviews and debates, old tub
cast episodes, they're all being uploaded over there, again, one a day, starting tomorrow.
I have a specific vision of what SFO should be that I want to try and work towards.
The goal being a daily video of some type, with streams and other things being a bonus,
while the side channels each serve a purpose that doesn't quite fit in with the main one.
A lot of this stuff is still a little while off, but another project that I set into motion
during my week off, was to work towards an SFO Arcade Clips channel.
There's been a number of people who have told me that they would watch my gaming content,
but they just don't have time to watch hours upon hours of stream vods, or tune in every
single night.
So, I'm going to look into bringing somebody on to cut streams up into best of moments,
but that's not going to be coming until February at least.
One last bit of news, I'm finally going to be relaunching the Minecraft servers soon,
this time with some mods and a fresh map, to see if we can bring it back to life.
But there's also been a lot of interest in a Team Fortress 2 server, so that's in the
cards too.
I'm going to try to do this stuff before February, before the clips channel.
That's everything coming up, I'll probably repeat all this in the weekly sip tomorrow,
but if you don't watch that, that's what's going on with me.
Thanks for all the support guys, all the tips that I get through twitch subs and memberships
and subscribestar and whatever else.
Make sure to get yourself in the SFO discord, because we're finally doing movie nights again,
even if some people complain about my movie choice.
And yeah, everything seems to be going pretty well.
I'm excited for what's coming down the pipe.
I'll see you guys later, I love you.
