From where does the right for the state to use force on its own citizens
spring? This is a question I've been thinking about quite a bit
considering the riots of the past few months. The monopoly on violence or the
monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force
is a concept that has been known to political philosophers for a long time.
It's first talked about in the 1576 work The Six Books of the Republic
and it was popularized in Thomas Hobbes's 1651
Leviathan. I mentioned in a previous video that people who want a stateless
society, and more specifically they want open
borders policies in western countries, they are fundamentally anti-human rights.
They may not say it, they may not even believe it, but if you follow their ideas
to their natural conclusion that's what you get to. Without borders a country has
no jurisdiction. There is no rigidly defined place where
the laws of a country are in effect. The law is the practical compromise
between everyone's overlapping set of human rights.
Everyone has human rights and therefore everyone has a responsibility to uphold
everybody else's human rights. When you fail to uphold those rights
that is when the law steps in. So without borders there's no
jurisdiction, no law, and no rights. And the monopoly on
violence is simply the mechanism by which the state
enforces people's rights. If your rights have been violated, if you've been
assaulted or something, the agents of the state, the police,
will probably have to use violence themselves to apprehend and bring to
justice the person who violated your rights.
But it is because the state is meant to uphold everyone's rights
that they have a monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force.
Only their force is legitimate because they are
in theory supposed to be using it to uphold everybody's rights.
That is what the night watchman state of liberalism is.
The state does not exist to guide the people as the eternal father as the
fascists would claim. The state does not exist to determine
for them what right and wrong is as the socialists would claim. The state is meant
to stay out of the affairs of the people unless the rights of the people have
been violated. It is this restriction that makes their
use of force legitimate. So of course when Antifa goons are
rioting in the streets, when Black Lives Matter protesters
block legitimate traffic, when buildings burn down, when people are assaulted, when
people die during these protests, the police have a
mandate to move in and break them up. Innocent
people's rights are being violated by these rioters.
When that Antifa guy dragged that man out of his car and then kicked him in
the back of the head on the street, that was not a legitimate use of force.
That was political violence and the police have an obligation
to step in. When that crowd of Black Lives Matter people opened fire onto a
car and killed an eight-year-old girl, that was not a legitimate use of force.
But is it possible for the police to overstep their bounds? Is it possible for
the state, even though they have a monopoly on the
legitimate use of force, to use that monopoly in an illegitimate
way? The answer is of course yes. Every single
totalitarian nightmare state, whether that be fascist, nazi, communist,
or socialist, they all show that to be the case. When
the agents of the state fail to uphold the rights of their
citizens but actively violate those rights for the purposes of the
government, then that use of force is no longer
legitimate. But when you're talking about fascism or socialism it's pretty clear
cut. You can see the difference between say
Venezuela brutalizing its own people and American police
stopping violent riots. But what about when things are not so clear cut?
What happens when American police crack down on a legitimately peaceful protest?
Is that an illegitimate use of state force?
I would say yes, it is. And I would say that those police are
just as much at fault as the violent rioters are. Of course the counter
argument to this is also at least somewhat valid. I've
heard Sargon say this phrase before, a peaceful protest is only peaceful
until it's not. There is no guarantee that a peaceful protest will stay
peaceful. Maybe there's some antifa goons in there just waiting to throw on
the black masks and and rile everybody up. Maybe there
actually is a plant from the police side of things
who go around smashing buildings and trying to get stuff started. I know that
some people consider that to be tinfoil hatty but I do actually think that's
happened at least in some places. Either way though it doesn't matter. What
matters is that once a peaceful protest becomes a riot
then the police have a mandate to step in. But not before. Yes,
a peaceful protest is only peaceful until it isn't. But until
it isn't, the police do not have a place to step in.
Yes, the police do have an obligation to wait
until it becomes violent, if it becomes violent, before they have a legitimate
reason to step in and stop it. But are there instances where violent
riots themselves are justified? Where their force, even though it isn't
from the state, is also legitimate? Well, look at the Hong Kong protests.
Nobody except the most indoctrinated brain-dead socialists on Twitter
think that China is actually good at this point. And the Hong Kong people,
in fighting for freedom, they have engaged in violence with the police
there. Sometimes they have even initiated
violence against the police there. Therefore, can we say that a state loses
the monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force,
at least philosophically if not legally, if that state is totalitarian and if the
people are rising up against it in the name of freedom?
On paper, yes you can, but that opens such a huge door that it's
insane, because in in some ways that legitimizes Antifa.
If you actually manage to sit down and talk with an Antifa person,
and you know they don't try to attack you or call you a fast or something, you
can actually get them to speak, let's just say hypothetically for a little
while. They will say that their use of force is legitimate,
because they believe the United States to be a tyrannical state,
and they believe that they are fighting for freedom. Obviously as liberals we
don't believe that, but they do. And now suddenly the whole
thing becomes subjective. If all it takes to undermine the monopoly on
violence is the legitimate belief that your state is corrupt,
even if it might not be, and that you are fighting for freedom, even if you might
not be, then does the monopoly on violence mean
anything at all? Because if we were to take the philosophy of the monopoly on
violence to be to be something that is moral, that is
respectable, that we should run our societies by, then
there is no room left for revolution in the name of
freedom against a tyrannical government. But Antifa is not really engaging in
revolution, are they? I mean they say they are, all
the rhetoric says revolution, revolution, revolution,
they all want the people's revolution, the workers revolution, they're all
looking for the socialist utopia, but what do they actually do? They
protest, then those protests become violent,
they smash up buildings, they attack random people in the streets
indiscriminately. George Washington used guerrilla tactics, but he did fight a
revolutionary war, he did have an army, he did engage on
the battlefield, he did kill people and have his men be
killed by the enemy, he took cities, he established government
and made declarations. Is Antifa taking cities? They're
destroying cities, but only because the cops aren't
cracking down. Are they taking cities though?
Are they replacing the previous structure with their own, or are they
simply destroying everything around them? Are they balls enough to actually arm up,
engage in a battle with the police, using firearms,
potentially win that battle and then establish their new state,
or are they simply larping, causing property damage
and then screaming about how everything's unfair when they finally get
arrested? If your government is tyrannical and
your cause is just, then your violence can be legitimate if
you engage in a civil war. Not this larping nonsense, not talking
big on twitter, not throwing a few bricks or attacking
random people in the street, but an actual organized uprising. The
tactics that the socialists and therefore Antifa have been using
are not the same tactics that you see in a civil war. They're behaving more like
Germany's brown shirts or Italy's black shirts. In fact Weimar Germany is a good
example, I think that's why at least around this time last year
a lot of liberal commenters were talking about, you know, Weimar America and stuff
like that. It's because the Nazi party, the German
monarchist party, and the German communist party all had a
wing of their party where young people would
dress up and engage in indiscriminate street violence,
destabilizing the country enough that eventually the people,
completely tired and done with all of the street chaos,
democratically elected a strongman authoritarian to come in and restore
order. This is by the way that meme and then
suddenly for no reason at all Hitler was elected to power.
However it's not consistent that socialist street violence always leads
to fascism. Generally what happens is street violence
of any stripe will lead to a political upheaval in the
electoral system of any stripe. So you might get socialist street
violence that leads to a fascist government,
you might get fascist street violence that leads to a socialist government, or
you might get any any other combination. But the only
reason that groups like Antifa do this sort of thing
is because they know they do not have the mandate to actually engage in a full
on civil war. The people just do not support them
enough. So they agitate, they subvert using media,
using education, using whatever it is they can get into. They
radicalize. They welcome the radicalization of
themselves and others as a good thing. They create a moral system where the
more radically you believe, the better of a person you are. And again
it does not take long to look around, you can see people parroting this stuff
all the time. Not all socialists are good people, but
all good people are socialists. Or you see this slogan, actually I think
Shewin Head has this in her avatar, do not let this depress you, let it
radicalize you. They take pride in how extreme they are
as if it is a statement of faith. And in fact they function the same way as like
radical islamists do, who want to impose Sharia law on the entire world,
or radical christians do. You know the 1990s neo-cons
ma-jesus types, the ones who didn't believe that rape was real because the
body has ways of shutting that thing down.
Man, the 90s and 2000s were just rife with
ridiculous quotes coming out of the Republican party, but they were that
type of party back then. They were subverted by Christian
fundamentalists, but now it's 20 years later and a lot of
them have died off. This is where the socialists are now.
They have become so subverted that they believe that they
are simply correct, and therefore all of their violence is
legitimate, and all of the police violence against them is not legitimate.
It doesn't matter who has the monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force,
it doesn't matter who's actually right or who's actually standing for democracy.
They are more radical, therefore they are more correct, and the monopoly on
violence should be in their hands by virtue alone.
And the worst part about it all is that in 10 to 20 years
these Antifa people, these people will be the ones running for office
probably in the DNC, in the same way that AOC and the squad is getting elected
right now. I'm not some blind fucking statist that
thinks all use of police violence is legitimate,
and every single person out there is simply a rioter that needs to be put
down with extreme prejudice. That's not how I view this. The police
have overstepped their bounds constantly for a very long time. They are
probably not going to be held accountable for it, and that is
absolutely infuriating to me. However, in my opinion, the much bigger problem
are the violent rioters of today. Not because they're violent, that's a
problem, but it's a it's a problem in the here and now,
but because of what they will do should they ever actually gain
any kind of power. They will destroy liberal society,
and we have to stop them. It's as simple as that. I'll talk to you guys next time.
I love you.
