Hey ya buddies! I've announced it in a few other places so I might as well announce it here and
make it official. I am going on a one week vacation from Friday January 6th to Friday
January 13th. That's tomorrow. I am going to be 100% gone. That doesn't just mean no SFO videos.
That means no weekly SIP, no tubcast, and no SFO arcade in the evenings. I'm going to be out of
here offline for one week. Don't worry, I'll be keeping busy. The video meant to bring me back
on the 13th has already been made. As for what it is, that's a secret. But I'll return on the 13th
with a new video and a new SFO arcade streamed that night. But it's not like today's video.
The more legitimacy of the minority is the last that you'll hear of me for a week.
Absolutely not. I have set up completely uncensored versions of my old Lord of the Rings
Season 1 Watch Party videos to come out over the course of the week. So from the 6th to the 12th,
you will see our reaction to all 8 of those episodes release again. I know this is older
content, but when I had to upload it to YouTube last time, it had to have a big censorship
sticker over it. And that was kind of annoying. So these versions, they've been uploaded and just
set private for months now. They've worked through all the copyright nonsense. I won all the copyright
strikes, of course. And so you can watch me, Lilith, Arch, Kibz, and for a little bit, Taftash,
react to the Lord of the Rings, the Rings of Power Season 1 in all of its uncensored glory.
So if for some reason you missed that stuff back when the show was coming out during the summer,
you can check it out right now. I know that these videos weren't exactly my most popular,
but you know what, in my opinion, they were actually pretty good. So please consider watching
them when I'm gone. And I will see you in one week. Thank you very much for sticking by me.
Thanks for watching everything. Thanks for supporting the channel. Thanks for donating
to the channel when you do. I appreciate everything and I love you all. I'll see you next time.
