Hello my friends, welcome to SJ Weekly.
No coffee sip today, it's too late in the day for me to be having coffee.
You guys missed it.
But I have been munching on crackers the past few minutes, so maybe you guys can have a
cracker or two with me.
Mmm, pretty good.
I have to say guys, thank you very much for all the support you've shown me.
The channel's blown up in the past week.
I've been getting over a thousand subs a day for the past three or four days now.
People are watching the videos at unprecedented rates, and I do really appreciate everyone's
support and enthusiasm.
It's pretty incredible, I'm not gonna lie.
And because of this, I am working on something big to commemorate.
So let's get through today's articles, I only chose four because it has to be a slightly
shorter video since I'm quite busy, but let's take a look at them.
First up on the Telegraph, Melania Trump, an apology.
Following last Saturday's Telegraph magazine cover story, The Mystery of Melania, we have
been asked to make clear that the article contained a number of false statements, which
we accept should not have been published.
Really, on the one hand it's a good thing that they're, you know, admitting when they
went wrong.
On the other hand, why did they publish them without verifying them?
You're a fucking news organization.
Mrs Trump's father was not a fearsome presence and he did not control the family.
Mrs Trump did not leave her design and architecture course at university relating to the completion
of an exam, as alleged in the article, but rather because she wanted to pursue a successful
career as a professional model.
Mrs Trump was not struggling in her modeling career before she met Mr Trump, and she did
not advance in her career due to the assistance of Mr Trump.
These things have been consistent claims about Melania, actually, and it's quite hypocritical
to hear them come from the far left because they're all about sex positivity until a woman
who has actually done sex work becomes the first lady of the United States.
Then they turn into the level of prudes that you only see on the religious right.
We apologize unreservedly to the first lady and her family for any embarrassment caused
by our publication of these allegations.
As a mark of regret, we have agreed to pay Mrs Trump substantial damages as well as her
legal costs.
You know, good on them.
Good on them.
Hmm?
What?
What's up?
I'm doing the video!
Well, you should have fucking started when you said you were gonna!
God damn it, Naomi!
What?
You fucking what?
Ow!
Ow!
Don't tickle me!
Ahahahaha!
Stop!
Alright, well, I'm back.
We can blame all that lost time on my girlfriend, Naomi, of course.
I think we finished this article, though, didn't we?
I think that's all done.
Let's go on to the next one.
White America's need for white heroes.
This is obviously about the Cobrington Catholic megakids.
They began the week decked out in red hats and having a widely viewed confrontation with
a lone elderly indigenous man standing between them and a group of black activists following
an anti-abortion rally.
That's quite the washed opinion of everything that happened, eh?
Now they've been invited to the White House.
Why are they being invited to the White House?
They're being invited to the White House because they're white and because they're boosting
the President's brand.
And because inviting them to the White House makes them a symbol once more, for a President
who wields such symbols like a weapon because he lacks anything else and because he knows
how his supporters devour such things.
Holy fuck, dude.
Maybe it's because they were victims of a massive media smear campaign that did not
care about the truth at all?
These young men are now the red-hatted symbol of an entitled white privilege that perpetually
sees itself as righteous.
Hold on a minute, aren't you white?
I'm just gonna, like, you look reasonably white.
Oh wait, Pavlovitz.
I'm gonna guess, I'm just gonna guess here that you're white when it's convenient and
you're Jewish when it's convenient, aren't you?
This week, conservative politicians, partisan media, and the President himself rushed in
with the supposed smoking gun of an extended video that apparently exonerated the students
and served as some gotcha moment that indicated the fake news of the left.
That is not reality.
This is what gaslighters do.
Create an alternate reality and then try to make you lose faith in your eyes and then
your sanity.
Are you claiming the video was fucking doctored?
I mean, if the extended video is real, if it wasn't, like, put on, if it wasn't just
something that someone made up, but it's actually a real video, then that is reality.
That is in fact reality.
And what you initially saw was it was also reality, but it was an edited, cut-down version
of it.
It sounds like what you're complaining about is that reality is not lining up to your initial
reaction of what happened.
The longer video still reveals everything the initial clip did.
Poorly chaperoned entitled white kids wearing a symbol of supremacy and acting very questionably
at a rally they clearly had no interest in.
Man, I hope this guy doesn't have kids, because if he does, he's going to suck the fun right
out of their lives.
Really chaperoned.
Yeah, you mean the most fun parts of being a teenager is when the adults aren't around
constantly henpecking you?
A symbol of supremacy?
I'm sorry, but the MAGA hat is not like the KKK hood.
It's not like the Nazi armband.
I know you really, really want it to be that way, but it's not.
They still had no business on a school outing decked out in MAGA hats, given how divisive
and politically loaded those hats are to so many.
You see, I hate this logic.
I hate this fucking logic, because you know what?
If you have an idea, you have some kind of idea that is taboo but still necessary for
society to discuss, and then you just make all symbolism or all symbology of the idea
to be divisive and politically loaded, that is an attempt at censorship.
It means that we don't want you talking about this idea, and so we are going to object to
any shorthand of the idea as being an offensive symbol.
So let's say that they traded out their MAGA hats for something else.
Let's say they just traded out for a build the wall t-shirt.
Oh, you're going to complain about that, aren't you?
It's going to be divisive and politically loaded.
How about just a t-shirt that says, stop illegal immigration?
You're probably still going to fucking find something about that.
The meltdown of the radical left over the slogan, make America great again, which is
in itself not an offensive slogan, shows that they don't actually care about the slogan,
but they care about censoring the idea behind it.
They had no business engaging a group of screaming activists or counter protesters or a lone
indigenous man playing a drum while mocking him, for any reason.
You had no reason to be there.
Just fuck off.
It's a public space.
You know, they were on a school outing at the Lincoln Memorial.
That's reason enough to be there.
No, no.
It's like, fuck, fuck you.
You shouldn't, you shouldn't have been there.
You shouldn't have been the unfortunate victim of the media yet again.
Oh God, this, this whole thing is fucking stupid.
This is quite literally the definition of victim blaming you guys.
The story hasn't changed.
Yeah, it's changed.
It's changed because they were the victims and you don't like that.
And now they merit a White House invitation as if they are civil rights heroes or maligned
patriots.
As it turns out, they are.
This is the fundamental difference though, is that they are those things.
And they're those things because strangely enough, conservatism, especially younger conservatives
and youth conservatism is on the out in our society now.
That is the counterculture.
And when they get oppressed and they stand up for their rights, that they become civil
rights heroes.
They become maligned patriots.
It's so strange to think about because it has never happened before in my lifespan.
It's probably never happened before in the past 50 years, but still here we are.
It's like that common joke of how do you be edgy on campus nowadays, be a conservative
because everyone's doing all the hippie shit now.
The right's nonsensical narrative is thick with cognitive dissonance.
The lone unarmed elderly man intimidated the dozens of high school students.
Now see, I don't think anyone's saying that they intimidated the high school students.
That would be dumb.
I think the unarmed elderly man tried to intimidate the high school students and none of them
were buying it.
The fact that they were standing there laughing at his attempt shows that they were not being
intimidated.
Nobody thought that the old native guy with a drum was a threat.
Everyone was laughing at the fact that he acted like he was a threat when he was not.
You should try an America where we can call out the poor behavior of young white men without
saying we hate them or that we're dehumanizing them without claiming we're calling for their
heads without it being a partisan witch hunt.
You know, fair enough, but this was not a case where young white men behaved poorly
and you just can't fucking accept that.
Let's go overseas though.
To revenge rape, Pakistani council order sister of accused rapist to be raped as punishment.
I know this is a bit older, right?
I just got handed the article.
I hope at some point Sargon did an all cultures are beautiful video on this because holy shit
guys.
Yeah, this is how you dispense justice.
This is the way to fucking do it.
There is another horrific rape report from Pakistan where village elders ordered a revenge
rape as a punishment.
After a man was accused of raping a woman, the village council formed and ordered the
sister of the accused to be raped by the brother of his victim as justice.
They all then reportedly watched the rape.
Oh my, see everyone who says that individualism or, or, or classical liberalism doesn't work.
This is why any form of collectivism, whether it be social justice, whether it be religious
conservatism, whether it be Islam, whether it be white nationalism or, or anything else,
they don't work because they allow shit like this.
When you treat people as individuals, then harming the accused family as punishment for
their crimes is unacceptable, and it is only unacceptable under individualism.
But if you are your family, if you are your friends, if you are your spouse, your kids,
your race, or your religion, then you can just harm uninvolved people.
These crimes are often ordered by councils known as a jirga that enforce Islamic justice.
In 2002, a jirga ordered the gang up of a 28 year old after her 12 year old brother
was accused of an affair with an older woman.
Notably, the victim of the second rape was also arrested.
What?
Why?
Islamic councils have previously ordered revenge rapes.
One such case occurred last year in Multan, Pakistan.
Some 20 people were arrested after a 16 year old girl was ordered to be raped by the brother
of a 12 year old girl who was previously raped by the 16 year old's brother.
Jesus Christ.
Again, the elders and family watched the second rape.
In that case, however, the mothers of the two girls filed complaints.
In this case, the council appeared composed largely of the two families reaching an agreement
on just punishment in using an innocent girl to be raped.
I will never accept the hypothesis that all cultures are beautiful.
Fuck that.
Let's finish up with something lighthearted over at Hard Drive.
Real school bully has no idea he's creating future polygon video content creator.
It really is true.
A lot of the game journos out there seem like they were probably bullied as kids and now
they're using their little bits of power that they've managed to accumulate as adults to
bully others themselves just because they can't fucking deal with it.
I'm sure when those people back during gamergate said things like gamer should be bullied again,
they were probably just releasing some old catharsis.
Local bully Justin Marwall was reportedly unaware that the child he was picking on in
his 8th grade class, Chris Stevenson, will go on to make popular video content for the
website Polygon in 15 years.
Hold on, Polygon?
Popular video content?
They've got 650,000 subs, it's more than me.
And you know what?
Some of these videos are actually kind of popular.
When you hit the six figures, you know, you're doing okay.
So you know, good job, I'm actually kind of surprised.
There's definitely some variation though, there's like 11k here, 189k there, one of
the ones up here has 1.5 million, yeah here it is, the Skyrim books video, there's definitely
some variation.
I was definitely expecting something more like Feminist Frequency with 222k subs and
they barely get the fuck out of 1000 views per video, Jesus Christ.
My channel is doing better than this, and I have like, what, one eighth the sub count?
It's an age old adage, you have to be careful who you make fun of as a kid because you never
know who's YouTube video explaining how the Zelda timeline matches up with the episodes
of Frasier you'll be chuckling to in a decade, said Martha Harbinson, a teacher at Marwell's
and Stevenson's middle school.
There was this one kid I used to bully relentlessly when I was in middle school.
Now he's a streamer with 800 subs on Twitch, and you bet there's egg on my face.
According to close sources at the middle...
You know, they could almost be describing me.
According to close sources at the middle school, Stevenson, the future content creation starlet
often keeps to himself.
Yeah, kids were picking on him at recess the other day because he was sitting by himself
playing Nintendo Switch, said a lunch monitor Arthur Parsons while cleaning up some trash
in the school's cafeteria.
I hate seeing kids bullied so I sat him down and explained that he's going to be okay.
Chris is a smart kid and one day he might be Justin's boss.
Or even better, he'll funnel years of video game expertise and social torment into a fun,
quirky personality that people will relate to during 20 minute voiceovers for content
creation giants Polygon and Vox, Parsons continued.
People love that self-deprecation shit online and it's pretty hard to fake.
At press time, Stevenson was seen editing together clips of himself being bullied into
a meaty but lighthearted video entitled, The Strength of Justin Marwall's Fists Explained,
Bullied Episode 8.
You know, this is obviously a joke article, but I still really enjoy it.
And I just gotta say, if there's anyone here who's watching that's younger and you are
getting bullied, the honest truth is don't worry about it.
I got bullied in school.
I came out pretty much fine.
I certainly don't suffer from self-esteem issues as people around me can attest to.
And if it's really starting to bother you, if you're really starting to have some problems
with it, you have to realize that school is like a walled garden and it's safe and it's
confining but there's no freedom there.
And when you get out of school, as long as you're willing to take a few chances, leave
some of the old memories and some of the old traumas behind, you know, kind of pony up
and get on with your life, you will be fine.
Things will be okay.
It's not going to be hell forever.
It just seems like it right now.
And you don't even need to worry about the bullies because there are probably other people
in your life that care about you.
Focus on them.
And hey, if you have nobody that cares about you, then you should know that I care about
you.
Anyway, that's it for me, my friends.
I'm getting out of here.
As I said at the start of the episode, thank you very much for all the recent support.
It is very overwhelming and I'm quite humbled to see it.
Have fun, guys.
I love you.
