I hope you're all having a very Merry Christmas.
This year, let's do something special.
Let's see what the Guardian has in store for Christmas.
I have a collection here of the crankiest Christmas-related Guardian articles I could
find.
This one is from this year, How to Survive Christmas One Step at a Time.
This kind of feels like that Anita Sarkeesian video about Thanksgiving, you know, surviving
the Thanksgiving with your shitty relatives.
I think this might be the same kind of thing.
It's useful to have a scapegoat at Christmas, so mine is the Industrial Revolution.
I... okay.
Yes, the Victorians are responsible for the festive fever dream of Dickensian jollity
we have all internalized, but it's those damn steam and steel barons who allowed us to escape
our families most of the year.
Yeah, capitalism, even in its worst form, did in fact produce some good things.
Since we stopped spending our lives confined to one room with several generations of people
seemingly put on Earth for the sole purpose of annoying us, we've lost the knack of just
tolerating our nearest and dearest, I think.
As a result, when Christmas rolls around, our lack of practice, deluded belief that
this is the time to forge heartwarming memories, and the hysterical exhortations of Yuletide
end-stage capitalism combine to ensure carnage.
I understand that sometimes you may have really terrible relatives, and seeing them can actually
be an ordeal.
However, I have a feeling that most of the young urban socialites nowadays just view
their entire family with disgust for little to no reason.
This article talks about a five-point plan on making it to New Year's.
Okay, let's see what they've got here.
I'll be applying a step-by-step approach to engineering peace on Earth and goodwill to
your UKIP uncle?
Does... does everyone in Britain have a UKIP uncle?
Are they that popular now?
I do like how we've gone from racist uncle to UKIP uncle, though it's quite the stretch.
The night before Christmas, the vision, the soaring voices of boy trebles and dancing
candlelight illuminating the darkness, a time of magic.
The reality, the last grainy chocolate-flavored blob has been retched from its cardboard sarcophagus,
but no one is tucked up dreaming of sugar plums.
What the hell is a sugar plum, anyway?
They've probably been reimagined as gilded edible mini-drones for $31.99.
See, I have a feeling that this article is mostly in jest, like, they're kind of overblowing
the Christmas season to make it seem better or worse than it actually is.
You know, in a national lampoon kind of way, where that movie was all about simultaneously
showing the best and worst parts of Christmas with your family?
Christmas morning, the vision, an explosion of joy, the reality, an explosion of plastic,
actual children and emotion, if stocking chocolate is not swiftly removed.
Family fight flashpoint, ingratitude timing squabbles, my husband blithely loading a plate
with the expense of Christmas salmon I was saving for lunch.
And this is what I mean about this article being half serious, half satire, because it's
filled with the vision, the reality, and the point at which the family starts fighting.
And you know what, this article I think is ultimately not so bad, but I do know that
we're only scratching the surface regarding how ridiculous The Guardian gets when it comes
to the Christmas season.
Of course, this person still ultimately likes to shove in their own brand of socialism by
the end of the article.
The family are your weirdos, cherish them and add this moment to your mental album of
festive lies, sorry, memories.
And remember, thanks to the Industrial Revolution, it will all be over soon.
Maybe for you, but not for the rest of us.
However, let's visit the ghost of Guardian past and take a look at some of their older
Christmas articles.
Why I've gone cold turkey on Christmas consumerism While everybody else endures the stress and
expense of preparing for the festivities, I'm sitting back and taking it easy.
This year, my considerably less wholesome family of two not-so-little women and one
baby boy will be having Christmas without any presents.
Okay, hardly any presents.
There will be a giant river penguin for the baby, a bottle of wine and a roast chicken
for my partner and me, and a rawhide cigar for the dog.
There will be a tree and it will have decorations, old ones, there will be good and bad films,
old ones.
Here's a picture around our hearth.
Where's the picture?
Is it this?
That's just a sprout.
There's no picture, did the picture disappear, did they just cut the picture out?
Is the Guardian running out of money so much that they're actually axing pictures out of
old articles?
But, nonetheless, there's no moral imperative to have a giant Christmas or to see every
single family member all the time.
You may remember it being that way when you were a kid, but I'm sure there were some Christmases
where it just didn't happen and your youngest memories start to blend together.
For example, this year, my girlfriend and I went back to my hometown for a couple days
and saw my parents, but only at the start of December.
We were there for like, I think it was December 2nd and December 3rd or something like that.
And this year, we're just hanging around the house.
We're not really doing anything, we're probably going to be streaming later.
I'm making homemade pizzas because I'm actually a pretty good cook in my opinion, but we're
not doing a traditional Christmas.
I do definitely understand the feeling that Christmas can be stressful, but I don't think
that it's just this end of time scenario that a lot of people, especially youngins on the
left like to consider it to be.
My son is now 15 months old, which means that although this isn't his first Christmas, it's
his first not spent breastfeeding his way through presents, lunch and my fair lady.
Permission to take yourself off to a corner, Nigel Farage, and cower beneath a makeshift
tent.
What is it with The Guardian and just shitting on UKIP every single article?
Are they honestly that afraid of the party?
Apparently this person's going cold turkey on Christmas consuming, or as she likes to
think of it, replacing shopping with living.
So on Black Friday, I borrowed three books for the baby from our local library.
On Cyber Monday, I spent nothing but some energy on feeling smug.
It's all taking me back to that vintage Christmas of 1988 where I took a book off my mom's shelf,
wrapped it and gave it right back to her.
She never realized and I never stopped congratulating myself.
It was the best of times.
Again I have to kind of agree with this article.
There is definitely some value in not spending thousands of fucking dollars on gifts.
But here's where the hatred of the holiday comes in.
In any case, Christmas is supposed to be cheap and nasty.
No matter how we try to rehash it, like that joyless stack of anally folded or rather pre-loved
wrapping paper that should have been loved just once and then ripped to shreds, Christmas
will never be cool.
This is why we love it and why, in these secular, straightened times, we stubbornly keep going
at it with tinsel on our heads and a song murdered by the X Factor in our hearts.
Doing Christmas on a shoestring budget isn't a lifestyle choice.
It's not about saving with Jamie by buying an enormous side of salmon and eating it for
a fortnight in 20 different ways until salmon and Christmas and leftovers are ruined forever.
Is salmon for Christmas a big thing in Britain?
Because it's not over here.
I mean, I've had salmon at Christmas before, but it's not considered a traditional dish
at all.
Over here it's definitely turkey.
Anyway, fine, this person thinks that Christmas is too consumeristic and doesn't want to participate.
But I think in missing it she misses part of the point.
But of course she obviously gets another part of the point.
So whatever.
Christmas Day is supposed to be dull.
Enjoy the novelty of utter boredom.
Let's see what this one's all about.
Don't catch up on the cereal.
Do as God intended and watch a war documentary with your extended family as time slows to
a crawl.
I can only wonder what kind of hellish family life you must have endured when you were a
kid.
I mean, my mom loves watching certain movies around Christmas every year.
She always watches The Sound of Music.
We always watch National Lampoon.
Charlie Brown usually comes on the TV once in a while.
There's a staple of movies and shows that just seem to be part of Christmas now, and
that's fine.
However, more recently I've noticed that on TV, on the week up to Christmas, certain
television stations will start playing on repeat like the entire Harry Potter series.
Or they'll play the Back to the Future trilogy.
You know, they'll just pull out these whimsical adventure stories that don't really have anything
to do with Christmas at all, and they'll just play them.
And for the past ten years or so, if I'm ever at my parents' place for Christmas, which
isn't much anymore, but does happen sometimes, one of those movies will be playing on TV
in the background while we're opening Christmas gifts on Christmas morning.
If you have a family situation where time slows to a crawl, you may need to recognize
that that may be unique to you.
Maybe not completely unique.
Like I said, there's always some bad families out there, and there's always going to be
some people you want to avoid.
But to straight up say that because you have regular negative experiences that Christmas
day is supposed to be dull, I think the problem might be with you.
How to keep your Christmas spirit when all about you are losing theirs.
It's an annual conundrum, particularly as you get older and less inclined to make any
effort whatsoever.
The war on Christmas, as anyone not watching the Nativity Facts, Fictions, and Faith on
Fox News at this very moment is well aware, isn't prosecuted by a loose collective of
socialists, atheists, and alternative religions.
Also you didn't say loose, you said lose.
And yes, I would consider these groups, with the exception of the atheists, sometimes to
be fucking losers.
No, the real war is being fought by the forces of Christmas capitalism, those which burn
joy out of the season with the intensity of a Star Wars lightsaber, 25% off till New Year's
Day.
Okay, I think there's going to be a common thread throughout all these articles, and
it's going to be the fact that you gotta pay for shit during Christmas and people don't
like that, because if you write for the Guardian, you're probably a fucking socialist.
The entire point of Christmas is that it's supposed to be boring.
You get an hour of excitement first thing and then the day devolves into an endless
cycle of cooking, small talk, snoring relatives, overheated rooms with no escape, and in England
at least, the Queen's Speech.
Then comes the slow, dull glide into evening, with its massive sense of anti-climax.
Like the worst Sunday night before school feeling, tinged with senses of loss, aging,
and the terrible, terrible transience of it all.
This is somebody who has not come to grips with their own mortality.
And I know it's strange to bring that up in a video about fucking Christmas, but I honestly
think it's the case.
This is somebody who is saying, when I was a kid, it was so fun, I was getting gifts
from my parents, there were new games and toys and everything was magical, it was great.
Look at her up here.
The most exciting element of Christmas used to be the snow beneath the tree, made of packing
material, which I remember thrillingly retained one's teeth marks when you bit in.
She's complaining now that, at least in some ways, Christmas is a holiday for children
and she's no longer a child.
And she has not been able to find a Christmas for adults that she can enjoy.
So she's just sitting around, being bored.
And complaining about the fact that she's getting old.
Continuing down the socialist rabbit hole, the real war on Christmas is our corporate
driven material culture.
Corporate Christmas is not a time of humble reflection, charity and modesty, it is a market
opportunity to be exploited.
Forget goodwill towards men, forget Charlie Brown, instead the commando wing of Disney's
media army has produced a climate warming suburban energy vampire version of dueling
banjos.
No, there's no room at the inn for something as outdated as goodwill when families go head
to head matching wits and carbon footprints in a contrived reality showdown, and the winner
gets money.
Each episode ends with $50,000 awarded to the victorious family.
What they're talking about is a show called The Great Christmas Light Fight, which is
just basically an attempt to make the most overblown Christmas light setup I have ever
seen in my life.
This is in fact worse than National Lampoon's lights.
The only thing that matches ABC's too close to the bone expression of a corporately sponsored
Christmas is America's annual Black Friday devilish and derby, and the desperate consumerism
that fuels it.
All videos of the violent scrum have become a tradition too, with each passing year the
kickoff to the profitable holiday season looks more and more like a kickoff to a football
game as retailers keep their stores open and their minds closed to anything other than
squeezing a little more profit out of embattled consumers.
I could say that this is a problem with American culture because if there's one thing that
Americans are known for overseas, and even in Canada, which is obviously a foreign nation
member, it's not overseas, it's not even American militarism, though that's pretty
high up there, it's American overconsumption.
So there's definitely a statement to be made about American overconsumption.
If you look at Suda51's games, like Killer7 or No More Heroes or whatever, those games
are basically all about American overconsumption, that would be the thematic element of those
games.
So there's definitely this idea overseas that American culture is basically the stereotypical
fat guy in a hover around eating McDonalds.
But there's something else to talk about here that's not just overconsumption, it's competition.
You look at the great Christmas light fight, it's not just the fact that they're creating
these monstrosities, it's the fact that they're competing.
And you look at stores in Black Friday, yes there are crowds who are clamoring to get
a hold of something, but they describe it as a kickoff.
And if you read the rest of the article and you kind of look at some of the language they
use, like they talk about the Alamo, they talk about Christmas soldiers and etc.
It really does seem that a lot of the problem that this person has with it is that, not
that it's over-consumeristic, although it is, it's that it's competitive.
And I'm not surprised at all that a socialist would be anti-competitive, because competition
is inherently capitalist.
The fact that maybe there are a group of people, all with varying levels of skill and experience,
competing to try and come out on top, and that there are winners and losers, and that
the spoils of the competition go disproportionately to the winners because they have won.
I can see exactly why a socialist would find that offensive.
So variety at Christmas is a challenge, but it's better than the alternative.
I'm somebody who doesn't drink, ever.
I haven't had a drop of alcohol in about five years.
I haven't been drunk in about ten.
And I'm not about to start now, I have no desire to drink at all.
So maybe I'm not going to be able to understand this article as well as the previous ones.
I could kind of read into the subtext of the previous ones, maybe not so much this one.
I remember clearly, indeed it's one of the few things I do remember, this counselor turning
to me and asking if I had drunk enough.
I must have been in my mid-twenties at the time and I couldn't quite grasp what he meant.
At best I found his tone flippant, antagonistic even.
It would be another fifteen years before I fully understood what a pertinent question
he'd raised.
This is something I've noticed, I've known a few alcoholics in my life, and if you ever
ask them, you know, have you drunk enough, they will get extremely defensive.
If you're talking to a non-alcoholic who's drinking and you ask them have you had enough,
they'll say yes or they'll say no, depending on what the answer is.
But if you ask an alcoholic that question, they take it as a personal slight.
And so it's Christmas again, and do you know something, this would be my third Christmas
sober.
And when I say sober, I mean sober, not a dry drunk, my tongue hanging out and desperate.
In other words, I did eventually drink enough.
And I was sitting here quietly the other night when a wave of joy washed over me.
I don't crave alcohol.
Not that this was an epiphany, but at this time of year, what a powerful reminder of
just how lucky I am.
I'm going to assume that this is written by an alcoholic who has given up drinking and
now he has progressed to the point where he no longer feels the urge to drink anymore.
And if that's the case, you know, congratulations, it's tough to get out of, man.
You know what?
I completely understand my relatively unique point of view on this topic, but this is actually
a very reasonable article.
It's just basically about a former alcoholic, and I'm genuinely proud of what this person's
accomplished.
However, in Guardian fashion, they did write the headline as if it's another one of those
I hate my family articles.
And speaking of hating your family, Christmas is ruined by children.
Our overindulgent society has turned children into greedy little emperors.
Thanks Santa, I can look forward to a Christmas with adults.
Children ruin Christmas.
I know this because I've done it myself.
As a small boy growing up in the early 1970s, I had my heart set on an astronaut outfit.
Turns out my mother had left it too late and all she could find in the toy shop, space
man wise, was the helmet.
The fury of a disappointed, petulant child knows no bounds and I screamed, then cried,
then threw the helmet across the room and made my family's Christmas utterly miserable.
My parents were on eggshells for the rest of the day.
My sisters opened their presents in embarrassed silence.
Even the dog looked depressed.
It sounds like you might have been a terrible child.
Alternatively, it also sounds like you could have just had one of those days that children
have.
It doesn't excuse it, but every kid has a day where they act like little shit.
It doesn't make them a bad person.
I can remember days when I acted like that, and as an adult, thinking back, I am embarrassed
of them now, but it is something that every kid goes through and it's the parents responsibility
to teach them why they can't do that.
The traditional, and let's face it, slightly sickening Christmas image of the whole family
joyously opening presents around a real tree, grateful for the gifts they receive, is woefully
outdated if it ever existed in the first place.
The reality of the modern Christmas nightmare is more like this.
You bought the wrong Xbox game for your 10 year old son, and the trainers you bought
for your daughter, the apple of your eye.
Why isn't your son the apple of your eye?
Why not both of them?
Are you actually playing favorites here?
Were fashionable last year.
That's why they were so heavily discounted, but you do like a bargain.
As for the mobile phones you thoughtfully got for them despite their tender years because
everyone else in their class has one, don't even go there.
Your delightful progeny are now weeping with rage at your ineptitude and hate you for ruining
their day.
You don't know anything about anything.
You are an idiot.
If this is happening every single Christmas, not just once in a while because, you know,
kids sometimes throw tantrums for bad reasons, even the best ones, or there might even be
a problem with your kid mentally or psychologically, but if not any of those reasons, if this happens
every single Christmas, that means you probably suck at disciplining your children.
On the one hand, I hate the mentality that you should always be thankful for the things
that you're given because if someone just hands you a pile of garbage, you're not going
to say thank you for this garbage.
However, on the other hand, if someone has made a good faith attempt at trying to brighten
your day and then they fail at it, you should still be thankful for the attempt and it's
important to teach your kids that too.
If you haven't taught them that, you've failed as a parent.
The idea that parents these days are time poor and overcompensate for this by indulging
their offspring is so familiar as to have become a cliche, but it's true.
We seem to be hell bent on creating our own versions of China's little emperors and all
this over pampering and overindulgence means that children aren't able to cope with not
getting what they want.
Yeah, that's true, isn't it?
Maybe you should have done something about that.
Maybe you should have adjusted how you raised your children.
Maybe you should have done it before they all moved off to university and started shitting
up the rest of society with their snowflake bullshit.
Why I'm opting out of Christmas.
Is it because you're a cat lady?
We have ruined Christmas by allowing capitalism to tell us we should be buying ourselves into
an orgy of goodwill and glamour.
An orgy of goodwill!
There's few things in the world that sound better than, say, an orgy of goodwill.
Being under house arrest with a group of disharmonious, sherry-heavy relatives slow-roasting in front
of a flickering television with nothing to look forward to but a ten-minute montage of
royalist propaganda isn't great.
I once spent Christmas morning hiding in a coal shed with a bottle of Morrison's Cava
and a packet of my grandmother's cigarettes, planning how to make my escape to freedom.
Aged 14, I was left to cook dinner while my mother locked herself in the bathroom and
a giant dog defecated on the lawn.
Yeah, see, sometimes you have shitty families.
Sometimes you are the shitty person in the family.
Sometimes it's both.
Maybe here it's both.
Christmas is the stick with which millions of us beat ourselves into brandy-soaked agony
for being poor, single, childless, lonely, or simply bad at being jolly.
You don't have to have all of those markers to have a good life.
You probably need some of them.
You know, there are certainly some universals that humans need, you know?
You need a way to provide for yourself.
You need something useful to spend your time on outside of work.
You need a relationship.
You need a family.
You need kids.
You don't need all of these things, but you need some of them.
If you don't have at least some of them, you're probably going to have a terrible life.
And the problem isn't just to scream at society or scream at Christmas every time it comes
around.
Maybe you should examine your life and figure out why you hate it when other people have
so much fun.
But here's the person's solution.
Stop giving presents.
Stop watching television.
Stop comparing yourself to advertisements.
And actually spend it with people you like.
This year, however, I am opting out altogether.
I shan't be driving home for Christmas.
I have no tree, have wrapped no presents, will eat no turkey, and mull no wine.
Instead, I shall go for a run, listen to the headlines, eat a baked potato, and watch a
Western with my mother.
On Christmas Eve, I plan to volunteer at the Hackney Care Leavers Christmas dinner, but
the day itself is as blank as a fresh fall of snow.
I can't wait.
And that's fine.
You can spend Christmas or any other day however you like.
But it doesn't need to be a fucking Guardian article.
You don't need to tell everybody how you've discovered the true way to spend Christmas
happy, not doing Christmas at all.
Maybe you should just do the things that you like to do and allow other people to do the
things that they like to do unmolested.
And if you find yourself either not having fun doing the things that you thought you
liked, or alternatively looking at people who are doing something more traditional and
having an irrational rage towards them, then maybe you need to examine your own life.
Warning, your festive meal could be more damaging than a long-haul flight.
This is going to be like a vegan article, isn't it?
Eating certain meats is about the worst thing you can do to the planet, yeah, yeah, vegan.
A kilogram of beef protein reared on a British Hill farm can generate the equivalent of 643
kilograms of carbon dioxide.
A kilogram of lamb protein produced in the same place can generate 749 kilograms.
One kilo of protein from either source, in other words, causes more greenhouse gas emissions
than a passenger flying from London to New York.
The figures are so high because modern animal husbandry is so unproductive.
To produce one lamb, you need to keep a large area of land bare and fertilized.
The animal must roam the hills to find its food, burning more fat and producing more
methane than a stalled beast would.
Environmentalism is probably the only place that I side consistently more with the left
than the right than any other part of politics, just because there's some undeniable truth
regarding humanity's impact on the environment.
The idea that global warming, for example, or climate change is just a Chinese myth,
as Trump described it, is completely stupid.
Very clearly we have an impact on the environment.
Very clearly the things that we do impact the situation that we find ourselves in.
We are not somehow separate from the rest of the world and we're not special in that
regard.
At the same time, this entire article has been about the various costs of raising animals
certain ways.
And it has yet to come into Christmas, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be something
along the lines of, if you eat a big turkey dinner or something, then you are destroying
the planet.
As we approach the end of the ride, there's a few crazy ones right here.
Sweden makes my gender-free toy Christmas wish come true.
With a picture of a girl with a Nerf gun, a Swedish toy retailer is arming children
with the ability to question outdated gender roles.
Well guess what, miss not progressive enough?
Swedish toy retailers are also training women to become active shooters.
All I want for Christmas is an end to the mandatory gendering of every children's toy.
They're not gendered.
There might be a boy or a girl on the box, and I'm sure that's fucking traumatizing for
you, but you know what, if your little girl wants a Nerf gun, buy her the Nerf gun.
If your little boy wants a doll, you can always buy him the doll.
It's kind of like the pink tax bullshit.
If the men and women's products are the same fucking thing, but the women's costs more,
just buy the men's.
What does it matter?
The amazing thing is that gender roles for children have become so calcified that such
petty things can be presented as radical.
Sample headline from the Daily Mail, Dolls?
They're not just for girls.
Which of course relies on the voice of your inner UKIP voter shouting, yes, dolls are
just for girls.
Okay, we should probably have had like a UKIP counter in this video, because how many times
has UKIP been scapegoated so far?
Five times?
A lot of people will try to tell you that boys just don't like playing with dolls.
Coincidentally, these same people also tell any boys in their vicinity that boys don't
play with dolls.
It's not an innate sexual difference that makes girls and boys play either side of the
pink-blue divide, it's adults constantly impressing on their charges that one group of toys is
right and the other is wrong.
I remember having a doll house in fact, and I asked my mom, I was maybe five years old
or something at the time, you know, I was in fact the woke child everyone talks about
on Twitter.
I asked my mom, hey, um, is it all right that I, if I play with a doll house, even though
I'm a boy?
And my mom said, well, it doesn't matter, you know, play with it, play with whatever
you want.
If you're having fun, what does it matter?
And I said, yeah, it didn't matter.
And you know what?
Um, at the time I was seven or eight, I had naturally grown out of playing with dolls
and doll houses.
And if I hadn't grown out of playing with dolls and doll houses, it would have been
fine as well.
And I think there definitely is a biological divide here, at least on some level, you know,
it's no secret that, you know, on average, and we're talking like a very large average
because we're talking about 50% of the entire human population.
So it's not at all going to be consistent all the time.
But on average, boys prefer things and girls prefer people.
So boys generally enjoy, you know, like, uh, children's tool sets or cars or whatever.
And girls generally enjoy dolls and doll houses.
And if you happen to have a boy or a girl that likes both or only likes the other gender's
toys, that's fine too.
It's not a big deal.
I don't think it's something that needs correction through social engineering.
I was determined to give my first child a beginning free from gender dogma.
So it was both brilliant and slightly blindsiding when aged three, his Christmas list led off
with a baby and a buggy.
Okay, well, I mean, good for him.
He wanted a toy baby and he wanted a toy buggy to push him around in.
That's fine.
But the pink pox couldn't be kept out forever.
It seemed to arrive in the space of a single week, a preschool room full of stripey t-shirts
and denim half erupting in tiaras and princess dresses.
Us parents had enjoyed a good run, but our children had finally twigged that greater
forces wanted them to conform to a certain pair of types.
At first, my reaction to this was one of cynical resignation.
Of course, we couldn't win against the masked forces of Disney and Mattel.
Why had we even tried?
Maybe it wasn't Disney and Mattel.
Maybe it was because as children go from three to five and then from five to eight and then
from eight to the teenage years, certain forces as they grow up, including but not limited
to puberty, start to make boys and girls act a little bit different from each other.
And moreover, if they're enjoying themselves, if once they've kind of gone through their
split and now they're happy being whatever gender they are, if they're happy, what does
it matter?
The Christmas shutdown just makes us drunker, fatter, lazier, and lonelier.
Buddy, this picture shows you to probably be drunker, fatter, lazier, and lonelier,
and you're looking for something to blame it on?
I guess there was a rail shutdown in 2014 in the UK.
During Christmas, no public transport moves.
To get from A to Z without a private car and overpriced taxi is impossible.
This is your complaint, that the buses don't run on Christmas Day.
Is that it?
When aircraft touch down at, say, Heathrow, their passengers find themselves marooned.
The country beyond the airport is impenetrable unless they can afford its inflated cab fares.
It lies there, hushed and immobile, smelling faintly of roasts, quite unlike anywhere else.
This is really where you're going with this, isn't it?
You can't catch the bus.
You can't catch the bus on the 25th.
So it's a big fucking problem.
This article is mainly just a big fat complaint.
It's not really worth going into.
But why does the end of it have something about Nigel Farage's coat?
It's not like it's a new article.
It still has the end of, it just has an excerpt.
Even reading it, it's an excerpt from a different article.
Did something fuck up?
Sometimes on some websites, if you scroll down long enough, the article changes, right?
You'll even see the URL change.
But this time, it doesn't happen at all.
They just tacked on the end of a different article into this one.
Here's another angry soy boy.
It's time for a real war on Christmas.
This is definitely not the most wonderful time of the year.
I'm not surprised that even in 2014, you were a fucking NPC, buddy.
Let's cancel Christmas.
No.
I understand that this is last minute, and some of you may have already started ordering
presents for family and loved ones on Amazon, bought airplane tickets, or planned a menu
for the big family meal.
But hear me out.
I think we will be better off, all of us as individuals, everyone together, society, the
world, if we stop celebrating this holiday.
In truth, I think we'd be better off if we stopped celebrating all holidays.
Holidays are stupid.
Everything must be equalized.
Everything must be the same.
The entire world must be a globe of tasteless, valueless, grey paste.
Differences are oppressive.
Value hierarchies do not exist.
Holiday cheer must be equally redistributed to all days.
It's miserable.
It's cold.
Everybody's getting sick.
All the plants are dead.
There's too much stuff to do before the calendar year ends anyway, and it gets dark right after
lunch.
And because you have such a terrible time, everyone else must be miserable as well.
We have to all be equal in our misery.
Holidays, especially Christmas, make people sad.
They make you sad if you have resigned yourself to being sad.
You can be affected by tragedies in life sometimes, but if you let them rule your life to the
point that years later they're destroying holidays for you, you have a serious problem
and the problem is not with the holiday.
You've surely read about the seasonal spike in suicide statistics.
It turns out that spike is apocryphal, but its persistence as a trope is instructive.
Well, no it's not.
If it's not fucking true, it's not fucking true.
Christmas and every other holiday simply marks a date on a calendar.
An arbitrary point in time.
Especially when you take into consideration the fluctuations in the rotation of the Earth
and the lunar cycle.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
This is something that I see a lot of lefties do, especially a lot of socialists.
You see like Neil deGrasse Tyson talking about the new year is just an arbitrary day that
doesn't really mean much.
In fact, I guarantee you, check Twitter, January 1st, he's gonna have said something about
that.
He talks about how borders are just arbitrary lines that humans draw and have no real basis
in reality.
While at the same time, of course, having a wall around his house.
The point is, is that when you get into the radical left, they believe that all human
made distinctions are inherently meaningless and that if there is a value structure set
up around them, it is inherently corrupt.
That's why you have open borders activists, that's why you have people hating on holidays,
that's why they hate corporate culture or frankly entrepreneurs or anybody who, you
know, works hard or likes capitalism because capitalism itself is generally a hierarchy
of competence and so they just want the bare fucking minimum of everything and they want
everybody to only have the bare minimum so that everything can be equal.
They'd rather people be equal than be free and in fact, you can see it right here.
The best advice I've ever gotten, the surest path to happiness that I know is this, don't
expect, don't expect anything ever.
The less we expect, the happier we are.
Expectation is the worst.
It leads directly to disappointment, consistently, reliably, expectation produces misery.
This person would rather have a safe, okay life living in squalor and having everybody
else living in squalor with him so that he doesn't have to feel bad about being there
than to take a chance, give it a go, endure the ups and downs of life and try to make
something of yourself.
And now we come to the absolute bottom of the barrel.
No I will not wrap all the presents.
Why are women still responsible for the holiday joy?
Hello Jessica Valenti.
Someday I will do a dissecting a degenerate on Jessica Valenti because she is absolutely
ridiculous.
The holidays bring another set of gendered expectations.
This season should be all fun and family, not enduring more chores and consumerism.
I love everything about the holiday season.
I like the brisk weather, the festive wreaths, you've even decorated a tree already taught
with a cardboard glitter star that I made with my daughter when she was two years old.
It's the happiest season of all.
Maybe you should be redistributing all of that holiday cheer to the other days evenly,
like the previous article said if you want to be a good leftist.
We all know that women do the majority of domestic work like childcare, housework and
cooking, but the holidays bring on a whole new set of gendered expectations that make
the season less about simply enjoying fun and family and more about enduring consumerism,
chores and resentment.
If a present doesn't get somewhere on time, if at all, if the cookies for the school's
holiday bake-off are store-bought, or your family holiday cards arrive just shy of February,
it's not men who get looked at askance.
After decades of feminist progress, women are still considered primarily responsible
for an entire family's holiday joy.
I'm sorry that you live in this kind of relationship or this kind of family dynamic, but my girlfriend
and I take the holiday joy equally.
We wrap gifts together, we make meals together, and we spend time together.
What is it with all of these fucking people just wanting to hate something that other
people enjoy?
So please, as the women in your lives work their fingers to the point of bringing you
holiday cheer, get up and lend a hand.
Santa's not the only one who keeps a list of who's naughty and nice.
Oh god, this whole fucking thing is just stupid.
Like she's saying, I want help, and you know what, that's fine, you should be getting help.
Everyone should be given some help, especially when the chores start to rack up, not even
in a Christmas sense.
Like if the house is dirty, you should both be cleaning it.
And if one person has more time at home than the other, then the one person should probably
be cleaning it more.
But that shouldn't be a gendered thing, it should be a responsibility thing.
But look at how she titles it, I will not wrap all the presents.
Why am I responsible for joy?
How about everyone's responsible for joy, Jessica, including you?
How about the solution is to not act like a petulant fucking child who didn't get what
they wanted for Christmas?
Well this has been an enjoyable Guardian Christmas, I am sure that these people are absolutely
fucking insane, but you know what, it made for a good video, and I absolutely loved spending
the day with you guys.
And I'm going to continue to do so, because tonight I plan to do an extra long Christmas
stream of Yakuza Kiwami, which is a game that takes place during Christmas, so it's appropriately
festive.
My girlfriend and I will be happy to spend Christmas with you guys over at twitch.tv
slash Game Boomers.
Merry Christmas everybody, I hope you all enjoyed your holiday, and I will leave you
with a story told to me by somebody who's very active in my Discord, he's a very prominent
member of the community, he's the guy who wrote the Sargon's Tea poem for D&D, so he
definitely likes spinning a good yarn, and this one is all about Christmas.
Catch you guys later, I love you.
When I was in kindergarten, my dad thought it'd be a good idea to take me hunting on
a Sunday.
It's a foggy day, we're not seeing much, and then all of a sudden we see a deer.
My dad blasted it, all exciting shit, and it ran off.
He almost trips over the deer because it's so foggy, and then he notices it, he runs
back to the truck, grabs me by the shoulders, saying, we got Bambi, we got Bambi.
Now I had a little bit of a problem when I was a kid.
I always got Bambi and Rudolph confused.
I ended up telling the whole kindergarten the next day, I'm sorry, my daddy shot Rudolph,
there will be no more Christmas.
