Alright guys, this is about 5 or 10 minutes after I finished up the weekly sip for today,
and I had commented on this little thingy here. YouTube automatically deletes the Chinese phrase
communist bandits, which is these symbols, in all comments now. It means communist bandits
in Chinese. Now anyone who writes a comment on YouTube which has this Chinese word will
be automatically deleted. Many people have tried it, even if they just write the symbols
in the comment. That comment will be deleted right away. I want to know why this word is
a forbidden word to use. This is not even a swear word. Are we not allowed to be anti-Chinese
communist party now? Well, turns out this was posted on the official YouTube help forms,
the Google support. There are no replies, and the question is locked and replying has been disabled.
So perhaps we should actually see if this is the case. I'll copy the symbols. I'll go to
the weekly sip. Here it is. No comments, at least right now.
Paste. Comment. There it is. I'll even pin it. Pinned. There it is.
I go to the video comments. Refresh.
And there it is. Eleven seconds ago, I posted that comment.
And Yiz and Schnitzel have also posted some comments as well. Oh, the live chat was disabled
and SFO's comments about redacted are not appearing. YouTube censorship confirmed.
Is the live chat not appearing? I don't see it. Look, it's not there. Let's refresh.
No live chat. And my comment's gone. My pinned comment. I mean, it's still here.
I refresh. It's gone. So it's true. If you comment that stuff, YouTube simply takes it down
and ignores it. If it's in the live chat, they simply delete the chat. YouTube is finally
beginning to buckle under the weight of Communist China's censorship policies. Now, more than ever,
we have to be supporting alt tech. It is entirely unacceptable to me
that a Western company who should be promoting our values abroad, the values of free speech,
free expression, political debate, a company that is one of a small group that hold the
near monopoly on the online public space, it is unacceptable that these people are beginning to
censor in favor of overseas tyrants. So I'm on Bitchute. My SFO content is on Bitchute. My
dev kit content is on Bitchute. I'm going to set up a Game Boomers Bitchute as well. I stream on
Twitch, even though Twitch is also pretty authoritarian. And I'm going to start looking
into other alternatives as well, because this can't go on. I'm not a communist. I don't live
in China and I will not bind my behavior or my speech based on what they want me to say.
Fuck China and fuck YouTube.
