A year ago, I did a video called The Identification with Evil, which on its surface was about
the new guy meme, while the actual meat of the video was about how the constant drive
towards equality that comes out of the left causes people to not only excuse evil, but
to become evil themselves, to advocate for and commit evil acts, because good and evil
are ideas that, when you boil it down, change depending on who's viewing the scene.
And there's no reason for them to privilege any one person's view over anybody else's.
Meaning, when your average person reads the original new guy comic, it seems like the
new guy is the good person in the situation, and the purple haired SJW midget is the evil
person.
When the new guy says, how would you like it if somebody stole from you, he's appealing
to a specific moral framework.
A society that values property rights will consider stealing immoral, no matter who's
doing the stealing and who the victim is, because you wouldn't want to be stolen from,
therefore you should not steal from other people.
Meanwhile the purple haired thinks it's okay to steal from Pewdiepie, yes the comic's reference
to when Pewdiepie's house got broken into, because he's rich, he's white, he's a gamer,
etc etc.
She has a moral system where these intrinsic qualities of the victim means that it's good
to steal from them.
The author of the comic herself is a social justice warrior, and she intended for the
new guy to come off as entirely unreasonable, the fact that the public's overwhelming reaction
to it was to side with the new guy, to the point that he became a meme, is a testament
to just how dislodged from reality the author actually was.
But what makes her wrong?
Why shouldn't we accept her position to be just as equal as his?
And no I'm not just bringing up an old meme for the fun of it.
If you spent any time on tumblr before the great migration from tumblr to twitter, you'll
notice that fandom communities are the most toxic things around.
If you like the wrong shows or movies, you're problematic and a bigot, if you play a video
game the wrong way, you're problematic and a bigot, ship the wrong characters together,
that is, believe that person X and person Y in the show or whatever would make a good
romantic couple, and you're problematic and a bigot.
Yesterday this thread went v- I knew you would lock your account, I was right to archive
this thread.
This thread went viral, and it's long and cancerous, but it's worth talking about.
This card does such a good job explaining why pro-shipping is bad holy shit, I am now
going to have to fill your brain with some absolutely useless information, I apologize
in advance.
Pro-shipping is when a person respects other people's fictional romantic pairings regardless
of their own personal feelings toward that pairing.
So for example, let's say you don't like the idea of Rey and Kylo Ren as a romantic pairing
in the Star Wars sequels.
Let's say personally you'd prefer that Rey get together with Finn.
Now let's say your friend prefers Rey and Kylo together.
If you're a pro-shipper, you are declaring that you will not harass your friend over
your difference of opinion regarding who Rey should get with.
This person is saying that pro-shipping, that lack of harassment over differences of opinion
regarding fictional romantic pairings, is a bad thing.
So this card does such a good job explaining why pro-shipping is bad, let's see their position.
I'm going to paraphrase it, because to be honest, my life is short enough already without
spending even more time reading all of this out to you.
Representation doesn't affect reality.
If that were true, representation wouldn't matter.
And if we accept representation in media matters, then representing, say, adults with children
like with loli art, normalizes pedophilic abuse and grants pedos platforms.
Therefore art actively harms victims and validates abusers.
People can ship who they want.
Why do you want to ship ancestor pedophilia?
Even if it's fictional, your ship of them says you justify those actions.
Letting people ship who they want justifies racist and LGBT-phobic caricatures.
And this is like people using memes to recruit kids to the alt-right.
I'm coping with my own trauma.
Then you should be sensitive of how your ship traumatizes others.
You're censoring us.
You dogpile creators and threaten them offline for making nessa and pokemon the wrong shade
of brown.
If you use your artistic expression to say bad things, it is only natural to deplatform
you.
Considering our righteous anger as abusive is an alt-right dogwhistle.
Because racists who commonly present their racism always claim the moral high ground
over bipoc people who are angry at their racism.
It's not my responsibility.
You expect traumatized people to jump through hoops to avoid being retraumatized?
No the onus is on you to self-censor.
I'm only ironically racist for the memes leads to it's only fictional pedophilia
and incest and rape leads to it's only online white supremacy.
Therefore we should stop it all at the source.
Maybe you noticed while I was going through all that but on some level both sides of this
argument are cancerous and the correct response to the whole thing is fuck off.
It's certainly weird when an artist draws loli and I don't approve personally but
I would never censor somebody who does it.
How did we get to this point though?
Where the types of art you consume or create are not only a barometer of whether or not
you're secretly a bigot but actually it's own vector of oppression like race or gender
or class.
Let's go back to the source, what is the philosophical underpinning for legal equality
between people of different races?
Well in the western liberal sense it's that being of another race, let's talk from
an American perspective and use black, it's that being black is an immutable characteristic
and doesn't directly affect the behavior of the individual.
So it would be immoral to treat white and black people differently as neither of them
can help what race they are and it doesn't actually matter in the end as long as they're
behavior is the same.
This same logic was used in my opinion correctly to advocate for gay marriage, again being
gay is an immutable characteristic and doesn't directly affect the behavior of the individual.
Now you can make a slight argument here that there is a difference in behavior because
gay sex and straight sex are not the same thing but when it comes to the institution
of marriage, people devoting themselves to each other exclusively, becoming a stable
unit for the purposes of companionship lasting beyond just sexual pleasure where there's
love and long-term decision-making and pooling of resources and all the other things that
make it an ideal environment to raise children, there is no reason for gay people not to have
access to this institution.
In other words, if gay people can enter into a monogamous relationship, devote themselves
to each other and do all of those stabilizing behaviors that create a healthy household,
there is no reason they shouldn't be allowed to raise children even if there's real differences
between them and straight people.
Same with trans people, if the stability is there, there's no reason a cis man and a
cis woman can't get married and raise kids in a mainly traditional manner despite the
obvious non-traditionalness of their relationship because an individual's positive habits
are more important than their immutable characteristics.
Everything sounds good so far, at least to me, but as you continue through the progressive
stack we start to hit roadblocks.
What about fatphobia and thin oppression?
I did a video laughing at the idea a little bit ago but let's seriously think it over.
Can fat people be oppressed?
Using intersectionalist logic, certainly.
But is being fat an immutable characteristic like being black, gay or trans?
Well, of course not.
Some people have hormonal issues that make it so that their rate of gaining or losing
weight is different.
Some people are injured and therefore they can't work out as easily.
Some people are legitimately traumatized and they use eating to cope.
But all of these issues are ultimately secondary to calories in, calories out.
If you put a fat person on a deserted island, I don't care what hormonal issues they have,
they will lose weight as they starve.
Hormonal issues do not override the laws of thermodynamics.
The formula we've been using is that if a certain quality about a person is an immutable
characteristic and it does not directly affect their behavior, then it is immoral to discriminate
against them for that quality.
Where does fatphobia come into this conversation?
It's not immutable, though it can be hard to change, and there's certainly the possibility
of direct changes in behavior due to being fat.
So is it reasonable to discriminate against them?
Well, what we've been talking about so far is the liberal conception of discrimination,
centered on the individual, their rights, their choices, their behaviors.
And this is also why all of the civil rights victories I've been describing have been fundamentally
liberal in origin.
They're all rooted in that individualist philosophy.
It doesn't matter if I'm black or gay or trans, as long as I can get the job done, is the
liberal view.
It's what you do, not who you are.
The socialist conception of discrimination is completely antithetical to this.
It does not care about immutable characteristics or personal behaviors, though socialists may
sometimes pay lip service to those ideas.
The socialist conception of discrimination is rooted in the power differential between
groups of people.
It's all class conflict, it's all power politics, it's all proletariat and bourgeoisie.
It's bad to be racist towards black people not because of immutable characteristics or
lack of difference in behavior, but because white people have power and black people don't.
That is a key difference between liberalism and socialism.
A big problem with the socialist view is that this analysis can apply to anything.
It's the powerful whites versus the oppressed blacks, the powerful straights versus the
oppressed gays, the powerful thins versus the oppressed fats.
All it takes for this analysis to work is for you to be able to identify a class of
people as existing and then self-identify within that class, and now all of a sudden
you are discriminated against.
The act of identifying as a thing, not simply liking a thing, but pulling it into yourself
and making it a part of your will, grants the person that paradoxical privilege of considering
themselves oppressed.
So for example, if you identify as non-binary and somebody critiques the idea of non-binary,
that is an attack against you.
You are being discriminated against, because this quality that is being discussed has become
a component of your soul.
So let's say you were to identify as a Ray Kylo shipper, as in, taken that stance on
Star Wars into your identity and treated it the way that a liberal would treat an immutable
characteristic.
And yes, these tumblrite people do in fact do this.
Even somebody who disagrees with that Ray Kylo ship, or who promotes a different ship,
can be properly viewed as discriminating against you.
I know this sounds completely wild and out there, but it's actually not far off from
how religious people fit into intersectionality.
The radical Muslim can, and often does, use this framework to claim that he's oppressed
if you don't convert to his religion, and follow his rules.
That's how he can claim bigotry if two gay men walk down the street holding hands while
he's around.
This logic is also used by people in the kink community, where not only do people come out
as gay or trans now, but they also come out as being into a specific kink.
And the most extreme among them will tell you that if you disapprove of their kink,
you know, kink shaming, or even worse, don't share their kink, you're being oppressive
towards them.
You've also got people who have legitimate traumatic experiences, but have chosen to
identify with them rather than work them out.
And remember, that means pulling them into yourself, which in the case of trauma is quite
unhealthy.
How do you expect to improve your depression, your anxiety, your PTSD, if you make those
things an integral part of your personality?
And yes, pedophiles do this too.
Why do you think they now identify as minor attracted persons, worded as if it is their
own biology oppressing them and they're helpless to resist?
All of these people are appealing to the liberal sensibility that if a thing is an immutable
characteristic, then criticizing them for it is discrimination.
But it's just socialist sleight of hand.
Because underneath the surface, it's all power politics.
Sargon did an excellent podcast on this topic over on his Lotus Eaters channel, but unfortunately
it's a premium one, so you're just going to have to go and pay for it if you want to
hear it.
And I'm not going to republish it wholesale because it's not fair to him, but I do have
to lean on it a little bit for this topic.
Part of that podcast talks about the universalization of morality, meaning that for a moral system
to be truly universal, it's not enough that you consider the other person's position.
As in, I shouldn't steal because I wouldn't want the other person to steal from me.
You must also consider the other person's position from his own ethical system to be
truly universal.
As in, his moral position must have just as much weight in your eyes as your moral position.
You must be able to say that while you don't agree with the radical Muslim who wants to
kill gay people, you understand that he is Muslim and from his position, killing gay
people is a moral good and that that position is just as valid as yours.
That is what the universalization of morality demands.
In other words, if you must craft a moral system that covers both you and this radical
Muslim, what moral injunctions would that system include that covers both of you while
simultaneously violating neither of your moral codes?
It turns out almost none because you have almost nothing in common.
And if you must have a moral framework that covers all seven point whatever billion human
beings, you will discover that that universal moral framework has nothing to say at all.
This is why leftists always end up fetishizing the barbaric practices of other cultures while
simultaneously claiming that the West has no culture of its own because what they view
as true Western culture is this universalizing process.
They have no objection to the Muslim because to him, instituting Sharia law is a moral
good.
They have no objection to the pedophile because from his position, he is good to do what he
does.
And when something inevitably goes wrong, when this system inevitably fails, they must
blame everything but the individual, society, culture, white supremacy, the police, their
parents, whatever, because to hold the individual accountable for their actions is to imply
that the liberal position, that the values of our culture actually hold some weight.
This is why almost every single martyr that Black Lives Matter holds up seems to have
a spotty past.
Or why Kyle Rittenhouse can shoot three leftist agitators attacking him and randomly manage
to hit a rapist, a pedophile, and a wife beater.
Or why whenever we see the mugshots and records of various anti-fariators, they always end
up being thugs.
This is also why cancel culture is fundamentally a leftist idea.
To say one thing wrong, one bad tweet, one misspoken sentence, one drop of wrongthink
is to cast doubt not only on that specific instance of the moment, but to oppose the
entire moral framework that they've built up, where we are all obligated to grant an
equal moral weighting to everybody's point of view.
And of course, if the Christians are wrong and there is no true objective morality as
enforced by God, then it only makes sense that this would be the final end of socialist
thought.
Everybody's equal.
Everybody's moral position intrinsically holds no value over anybody else's.
Nobody has the authority to judge anybody else.
And so, the morals of such a society must necessarily be no morals at all.
Such a society has no reason to ban political violence and in fact may deify it.
Such a society even has no reason to ban sex with children.
The consequentialists among the left will complain on the basis of bad outcomes, but
even they have no method to determine that what they consider to be a bad outcome isn't
considered a good outcome to the person committing that act.
And since that person's position must hold just as much moral weight as them, they will
simply be swept aside.
And certainly, such a society would allow you to identify with your own cultural consumption
and make it an intrinsic part of you.
Being a man-child sitting around a bunch of Star Wars figurines talking about the latest
Marvel movie is not simply a hobby, it's your personality, it's your identity, to
the point that violating it in any way is akin to being a racist or a sexist.
And there is no leftist argument against this.
Not within socialism, not within social justice, not within intersectionality.
The end result of their ideas is that everyone has an equal moral weight to everyone else.
And if the Marvel nerd wants to say that that's where his moral weighting lies to him, who
are you to complain?
This is how you get those terminally online smooth brains who will say that criticism
is bullying because their consumption is their identity, and therefore it's a moral good
that they cheer for Disney as a corporation and that your opposition to Disney is just
bigotry towards them.
As weird as it may seem for somebody who only has a surface knowledge of socialism's ethics,
yes, there's actually multiple links between socialism and corporatism.
And yes, as I've just shown, demanding that your identity be considered sacred is one
of those links.
The only real counter to this whole thing, as far as I can see, is to actually have some
standards and stick by them, even when times get tough.
To be brave enough to tell somebody when they're doing something wrong that they are in fact
doing something wrong.
We can discuss where the source of that sense of right and wrong comes from in a future
video, because I don't think it lies in religion.
But for now, I'll just leave you with this.
It's generally good to be polite.
If somebody asks you to respect some aspect of themselves and it costs you nothing, and
you want to maintain that connection with them, then there's no real harm in doing it.
But if someone demands it from you, or if their request makes no outward sense, or if
they get irrationally angry when you refuse or question them, then you know it is a power
play.
And now you know why they're doing it.
You know what the power is, you know where it leads, and you know that you should absolutely
deny them.
It's not just words, it's not just being respectful or being polite or making people
feel safe.
It is an active attempt by them to erode your own morality.
And if you value your character, you shouldn't let them do it.
Thank you for watching my friends.
If you enjoyed this video, please feel free to share it around and do all the other algorithm
positive stuff that the YouTube engagement metrics like, I don't know.
Sub for more or hit up my Patreon or Subscribe star if you want to keep it coming.
And be sure to stick around, because I'm putting up a new video every single day.
So I'll see you tomorrow.
I love you.
