Hello my friends, it's Dev! Yes, I'm here. And no, I'm not here with the CHAZ video. I just basically re-recorded it right before I recorded this video.
I didn't re-record it, I had to add some stuff to it. The raw files now are like three hours long, so it's going to be quite the editing job and I'm going to attempt to get it out tomorrow.
But here is at least a small dev-trospective to tide you over until then, and the title of this video should be For Your Own Good.
And I would just say to you right now, do not trust anybody who claims to be doing something that you don't like for your own good.
And you know what, maybe I sound like a petulant child when I say things like this. Because you know, I can understand, I can remember being like five years old and I don't want to take the medicine that I needed to take because I was sick.
And my mom would say, it's for your own good, take the medicine. Okay, fair enough. But I'm not talking about children here. We are not children.
I know that people who want the government to be the ultimate authority in everything view us as children. They view the government as the parents and the adults as the children, but that's not truly what we are.
The state is not a replacement for God if you're religious, or for your own personal ideal if you're an atheist. Either way, it's the same thing in the civic sense.
The state does not replace that. The state should not be dictating morality to you. Because as soon as you have a moral state, you have something like both the fascist state and the communist state.
In that those people that run the state believe that they know what is moral, they have the right ideas, and therefore the people need to be educated in those right ideas. They need to be indoctrinated into them.
And those people who disagree or refuse, they are subversive elements, they're counter-revolutionaries. And they need to be isolated, both politically and in terms of their personal life. They need to be re-educated if possible, or locked away if not.
That is how the authoritarian operates, and they always operate for your own good.
For example, for the longest time, the Internet Wayback Machine, and also Archive Today or archive.is, whatever it is, those sites have been used for a very long time now, since before Gamergate in fact, to basically hold the media accountable, because this would happen a lot.
Some garbage outlet like the Washington Post or the New York Times or whatever, they would publish an article with a completely outrageous, insane headline, just so that it would go viral on Twitter over how dumb it sounded.
And then a day later, they would change the headline. But by then, they've already had all their clicks and stuff, so it doesn't really matter.
Or even worse, these outlets would sometimes completely change the content of articles and not actually let people know. They wouldn't have an update at the bottom, they wouldn't say, oh, we changed the content because it turns out we said some complete horseshit. They wouldn't do any of that.
They would never actually own up to the fact that they've made massive mistakes. They would simply change it and hope nobody noticed.
And these archival sites allowed us to catch them in the act. We didn't let them get away with it, because as soon as they would change it, well, it wouldn't matter, because somebody already had it archived on one of these sites in a previous iteration.
As a side effect, archiving also deprives these websites of their ad revenue. And that is one of the primary reasons why I try to archive almost everything I come across, because most of the people on these outlets are partisan hacks who do not deserve to get paid.
These archive services are a powerful tool to keep the media in check, which is why it is no surprise that these archive sites have slowly but surely begun to bend the knee to the media.
The Internet Archive's Wayback Machine starts adding warning labels to its archives. This is not taking down those archives, for sure, it's simply putting up a notice, this yellow notice.
This is an archived webpage that medium.com determined violated their content policy. Here is a link to it on the live web.
In most instances, the archiving of a page is an automated process. The inclusion of a page in the Wayback Machine should not be seen as an endorsement of its content in any way.
During previous eras of the Internet, and I think the Internet Archive has been around since before the year 2000, I think, but during previous eras of the Internet, this never came up. This yellow thing. This is a new invention.
Because we didn't feel the need for it. We understood that an archived site is not the real thing, it's just what used to be there. It is literally a history record. We don't need this kind of editorializing reminding us that it is a record of history.
And on some level, I see their point of view. There's definitely instances where blatantly false information, stuff that we now know to be false, is still archived on these sites.
And that the changing of information wasn't necessarily because somebody was trying to cover up their own misdeeds, but was because information has legitimately been updated and the old information is no longer relevant. That's true.
But keep in mind what humanity did before we had Internet Archive sites. We simply let old books lie. Libraries right now are full of old, dusty books that haven't been opened in 50 years, 100 years, whatever, and those books are full of information that is no longer relevant.
But that's fine. We keep them there because at the very least, they are a mark of our history. They are proof of the past. As somebody with a functioning brain, I understand that if I read a website from, say, 2010, what I'm reading might be slightly outdated.
I'm OK with that. I can handle it. And really, it's not that big of a deal, is it? It's just a banner. I assume you can just close it and then get to your actual Web page, I hope. I mean, let's see. This link should bring me to one.
Here we go. It's loading up. Yeah. And there's the yellow banner. This is an archive Web page, et cetera, et cetera. But you know what?
You can still read the article like it's not it's not like it's been scrubbed. It's just that the site is reminding us as to why it was taken down off a medium dot com. Fair enough.
So on some level, this doesn't really matter too much. But this is generally the kind of thing that precedes the removal of articles from these Web sites. I think we can all see that coming, too.
It is a step in that direction because at some point, the people behind the Internet Wayback Machine will realize that most people don't care about this banner.
They're skipping over it. They're not reading it. They don't give a shit, whatever. And eventually they're going to start removing the articles outright.
You know what? I'm betting within the next decade or so, if the political situation doesn't turn around and become more free speech oriented, we will probably see this begin to happen.
Archive Today refused to go down the road of the Internet Wayback Machine and Sticks discovered that his antivirus program Avast began to block Archive Today as a phishing site, as he says, presumably due to pressure from craptivists.
There is nowhere on the site to actually enter personal info. So that claim is objectively false.
And you know what? I've seen this kind of thing happen before. There are like piracy sites, emulation sites, ROM sites, torrent sites, specific sites that I already know to be completely safe.
And Google Chrome just won't open them anymore. It just says, no, the site's unsafe. You can't go. It's not unsafe. It's just that you don't want me going there.
I've actually had applications that generate CD keys for programs or for games or something when I'm pirating something. I already know that they're completely safe and they work.
I've had Windows, as soon as I run that application, say, oh, no, we won't let you run this. It's a virus. And then delete the application and not just put it in the recycling bin, completely delete it.
And I'm like, hold on. I've used this on a different computer. I already know that it's safe. But then I had to go and redownload it because that is what they do.
They're protecting you for your own good. But what for your own good means is that they don't want you to do things that they don't approve of.
And there's certainly a moral element to that. If they view what you're doing as immoral, then they will force you to be moral for your own good.
Unfortunately, they haven't realized yet that imposed morality isn't true morality. Moral behaviors are only moral if you choose to do them.
But check out how some of these outlets are framing this issue. The Internet Archive is warning users about debunked zombie coronavirus information.
OK, fair enough. Preservation meets context. Preservation meets context. That really is what we're talking about here, isn't it?
These people believe that you are too stupid to understand things that are out of date or old or no longer relevant and that you need to be spoon fed context by the powers that be.
And it does not matter if the preservation of the thing is jeopardized by that context.
These people believe that all of history must be continuously updated to current year standards, and that means contextualizing it for modern audiences.
No, unironically, we've all seen this image, right? Aliens from 1986.
This film has outdated attitudes, language and cultural depictions which may cause offense today.
It's from 1986, dude. I get it. It's not the 80s anymore. I understand. They were a while ago.
I think I will be able to view things from an era before mine without losing my mind over it.
OK, 10 problematic films that could use warning labels. I just got to see what these are instead of curiosity real quick.
Dirty Harry, Forrest Gump, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, Me Before You.
Dude, that was like four years ago, man. Once Upon a Time.
That was a 2019 film. Are you kidding me? We're not children.
We don't need this shit. We don't need Huckleberry Finn to have the word Negro censored out of it or whatever it was.
We don't need shows like The Office, Community or Golden Girls to have episodes with politically incorrect humor pulled from their latest releases.
I understand that Gone with the Wind comes from 1935, guys. I don't need this shit.
Maybe on some level, this is just me being grumpy. I could see that.
Like I said, none of these works have actually gone missing yet. They haven't begun to destroy physical copies of them.
They haven't demanded that you hand in those copies.
But to go back to the well of horseshoe theory, and I know that I've gone to that well, like consistently every single video for the past like dozen videos.
But you guys recall back when Harry Potter was was releasing, there were still new books and new movies coming out.
The religious right of the time was screeching bloody murder about them.
They wanted them banned from schools. They wanted them banned from libraries.
They even had some of them actually successfully banned from some libraries in the Midwest and they wanted them banned from sale.
Now, we as a society were smarter than that.
We understood that we should probably just let them be sold because that is free speech and that the moral judgment of the religious right didn't matter.
Well, you know what? Nowadays, the moral judgment of the progressive left also doesn't matter.
I do not care if you think the media that I want to consume is racist by your standard.
I don't even care necessarily if it's racist by my standard.
I'm not there as a child. I'm there as an adult to engage with potentially heavy ideas.
I do not need to be told by some authority that I can't do so.
And it's great that we're on the topic of Harry Potter because every single progressive, every single social justice warrior, every single radical lefty, every single person who forces you to do something for your own good.
Those people grew up hating Dolores Umbridge.
They hated Dolores Umbridge more than Voldemort, and yet they are her now.
It sounds a bit strange, but from her point of view, Dolores Umbridge was actually doing good.
She was forcing students to do things for their own good because she thought that's what morality was.
And that is exactly what made her so tyrannical and oppressive to everyone.
And an entire generation of soy boys, cucks, and raging feminists who absolutely hate this character with good reason have become this character.
And they have no idea how it happened to them.
They won't even recognize that it happened to them.
But this is how we view them.
They're Karens. They're moral busybodies.
They're telling you that what you choose to do with your time, your money, and your energy is offensive to them.
And because they are morally correct, it is entirely justifiable in their minds to use any and all power they have at their disposal to stop you.
We have existed in an era for probably about five years now where censorship has become normalized under the guise of providing context or preventing fake news or setting the record straight or whatever it is.
And this is quite insidious because fake news absolutely is a legitimate danger.
Because sometimes the record actually does need to be set straight.
Because sometimes a situation is missing proper nuance or context.
Again, see ProJared situation.
ProJared didn't censor anybody, but he did provide context.
So I'm not attacking these ideas on their merits.
What I am saying, though, is that these ideas are often used to justify censorship.
And should you ever actually find somebody who is pro censorship and nail them down on the issue, they will inevitably reply that they're doing it for your own good.
But always remember, it is not for them to decide what the universal good is, let alone what good for you is.
That's for you to decide.
And yes, you might make a mistake.
Yes, you might go down the alt-right pipeline or the social justice pipeline or whatever it is.
You might become radicalized because you get comfortable inside of an echo chamber.
It happens, but that's your responsibility.
You have a moral obligation to yourself to seek the truth, but that is a burden you have to lift up voluntarily.
People forcing you to do it for your own good.
Well, there's no good in that at all.
