Let's leave behind the situation in America for a while and talk about Mizzie.
I mentioned in my video about the idiot celebrity who crashed a plane for YouTube views and
Ridge Wallet money that edgy old YouTube was actually really fun.
However, it incentivized people to do ever more extreme stunts in order to chase virality.
By the way, that video got age restricted for some reason.
No idea why.
Thanks YouTube.
Another area of that side of content creation was prank YouTube.
Prank YouTube came about when people wanted to create shocking content but didn't want
to break their backs doing it.
The most famous prank channel from back in the day, as far as I can recall, was Prank
vs Prank, where a couple routinely set up hidden cameras around their house and prank
each other.
Their videos were actually pretty entertaining, but ultimately corrosive to their relationship,
as they ended up breaking up in 2016 over what seems to be a consistent inability to
trust each other.
Unlike extreme stunt content, prank content has survived up until the present day, with
zoomers getting in on the mix.
Seems obvious to me.
Boys from my dad's generation might have put a whoopee cushion underneath a teacher's
chair, or put a fake spider on their desk.
While during the height of pranking online, people were using the exact same fake spiders
and stuff, but uploading the reactions to Vine.
There's something cross-generational about kids fucking around and having a laugh.
But that doesn't mean it hasn't been a bumpy ride.
Prank channels hit a rapid decline on YouTube after 2016, not because of the prank vs prank
split.
That was just coincidental.
At some point, people began faking the pranks in order to chase a greater and greater audience
payoff.
Sometimes, you can still come across prank channels on TikTok, and they are horribly
manufactured.
Like, look at this.
These people are clearly living in LA at a content house, and this entire thing is just
scripted.
It's all fake.
You can tell by looking at their body language they're putting on a show.
Ironically, the most interesting prank videos in the post-fake period are the ones where
something actually unexpected happens, outside of the bounds of the fake prank.
Like a bystander kicking the shit out of a prankster, thinking that it's not fake.
Which leads us to Mizzy.
Mizzy is 18 years old, born in 2004, though he's been making content for at least a
year so far, doing some rather ridiculous, and yes, very real pranks.
He's a UK citizen, born in London, and yes, he's black.
People have made a lot of noise about him being black, and while some of that is just
racism, there is something else going on here that must be discussed.
Mizzy was thrust into the spotlight a couple of weeks ago with this viral clip.
Yes, this was the prank.
Walking into random people's houses, and just sitting down and watching them react.
Man, if you did this in America, you'd be turned into Swiss cheese real quick.
The issue here is that this misses the ultimate point of a prank.
When you prank somebody, yes, you do catch them by surprise.
But by the end of the ordeal, there's an understanding that there was never any real
danger.
Everyone was cool.
Everyone gets a chuckle out of it.
That logic makes sense if we're talking about a fake spider dropping into somebody's
shoulder, or if you startle somebody when they turn the corner, but it suddenly feels
quite a bit different when you're walking into somebody's private house.
After this video went viral, people began to check out Mizzy's channels, and discovered
that a lot of the pranks he was pulling on random strangers just went too far, at least
for most people.
Another notable example is the one where he walked up to a woman, and just grabbed her
dog and ran away.
It reminds me quite a bit of the guy in the previous video who threatened to do just that
to the woman in Central Park, and she reacted appropriately, nobody wants their beloved
pet stolen.
And then there was that time he walked into a library, and just began ripping pages out
of books.
Tic-tock video ripping books, no?
Excuse me, what's going on, guys?
This is not, this is not...
Is that your book from home?
No, it's not.
Is it from the library?
Yeah.
Then that, you cannot do that, guys.
Why can't I do that?
Because it's a library.
The library, if I can get books from the library, why can't I rip the pages out of the books
as well?
Because then other people can't use them.
So who gives a fuck about other people?
Let me get this, sorry.
Can you get Adam, please?
This one could count as an acceptable prank if he paid for the books he destroyed, but
Mizzy's stuff generally moves beyond harmless pranking.
Yeah, he's certainly surprising people, but he's doing so by legitimately being a nuisance.
After the initial shock has worn off, it's not replaced with relief and understanding,
it's replaced with annoyance.
And here's where we have to have the race conversation.
Watch this clip.
Yeah, the yelling's annoying, but listen to what he says afterward.
And this isn't the only time he's done this.
Here's the explanation of this prank.
Mizzy knows that among the white middle class of the UK, there is a stereotype about young
black inner city boys who dress like him, talk in his accent, and carry themselves in
the way that he's deliberately doing in these videos.
The stereotype is that they are violent immigrants who don't care about British law or cultural
norms.
At first glance, Mizzy doesn't seem to be that kind of guy, but he knows of the stereotype,
and he's using it to make people scared to just be around him.
This
is not the flashpoint fear that you feel during a shock.
This is inducing genuine, lasting terror.
Like I said, if this were America, this wouldn't be tolerated.
Hell, forget about the states and their guns.
Most men who are watching this right now, you're probably thinking back to how you were
in your teenage years, where you would have just got up and punched the guy.
That's a pretty normal sentiment.
You don't have to be good at fighting or anything like that, most guys aren't.
But I can't think of anybody who would just let this sort of intimidation slide without
trying to intimidate back.
And yet, there's no retaliation in these videos.
Is it because the UK is full of cucked soyboys who don't want to appear racist?
Maybe.
Is it because the UK's laws are set up such that the indigenous Britain would be treated
harshly while the immigrant is let off with a slap on the wrist?
Maybe.
But for that second one, maybe not.
Mizzy was, for a short time, very happy with his newfound internet stardom.
But it very quickly crumbled away.
In May of 2022, when he first started doing this sort of content, he was slapped with
a community protection notice, prohibiting him from trespassing on private property.
As a result of these new clips going viral, on May 15th, 2023, he was fined for violating
that notice and given a two-year criminal behaviour order.
A CBO in the UK legal system is basically a fast track for legal action if violated
since you've already proven yourself to be capable of committing a similar type of crime
that the order prohibits.
On the same day as the fine, Mizzy went on to Piers Morgan to talk about the situation.
As expected, Mizzy tried to make the conversation about race.
Race is also what the mainstream media and leftoids online focused on, because the progs
are actually ridiculous when it comes to this shit.
They believe that if you object to a black person infringing on your rights, you're
a racist.
But Piers Morgan didn't say anything wrong in this interview.
Everybody is at least partially a part of their upbringing.
A white Mizzy acting exactly the same way probably also had shit parents.
Though to be honest, considering that the articles talking about Mizzy's legal troubles
all reference him having to move back in with his mother in Hackney, not his family, and
referencing no father at all, it's likely that either his parents are split up, or his
dad just isn't in the picture.
Which wouldn't be too surprising given his behavior.
However, in my opinion, the more telling bit of the interview was this clip.
Mizzy's actually completely correct here.
The UK's laws are weak.
Look at his body language.
He just got fined that very same day and he shrugs it off, because he knows the tolerance
of the society that he lives in will allow him to get away with nonsense.
But after a year of online tomfoolery, he finally did push things to the breaking point.
In the two-day space between the Piers Morgan interview and Mizzy's arrest, he uploaded
two more videos to TikTok, a blatant violation of the CBO.
Mizzy's YouTube and TikTok channels have been deleted at this point, so it's hard
to know which videos were uploaded, but most people online claim that at least one of them
was this clip, where the prank in question was Mizzy barging into the conductor's room
of a subway train.
It was this violation of the CBO that led to his arrest on May 26, 2023.
He appeared in court the next day to plead not guilty and was granted bail on the 30th
on the condition that he move back in with his mother in Hackney.
His trial date is set for July 19th.
Mizzy finally might be coming around to an understanding that he's stuck in a legal
quagmire, that he actually is going to face some repercussions for his actions, because
the official Mizzy Twitter account has been going around asking people to remove old Mizzy
clips and telling people that Mizzy is in fact still under arrest and that these clips
are old, not new videos of Mizzy terrorizing more people.
So until that July 19th trial, this seems like the end of Mizzy's story.
He went viral very quickly for doing some pretty objectionable stuff, and despite his
protest that British society was weak for allowing him to fuck around much as he did,
he is finally beginning to find out.
But there's a wider issue here.
The pranks that Mizzy pulled depended on a specific understanding of racial dynamics
in the UK.
The middle-class white Briton who reads news stories about black inner-city youth who look
and talk and carry themselves in a specific way, constantly stabbing each other and macheting
each other.
And then the white Briton finds one of those inner-city youth approaching them with their
hands in their pockets saying, do you want to die?
That's the prank.
That's the source of the fear.
And it has the added layer of, if you react in any way other than complete submission
to this ritual of humiliation, you're branded as a racist by the progressives.
Here's the thing though.
Isn't that like this?
Mizzy's kind of a side character in his own story.
He's exploiting a pre-existing racial dynamic, but he didn't create it.
He's not actually stabbing anybody.
He didn't create the culture of knife crime among London immigrants.
He didn't create the culture of political correctness that indigenous Britons find themselves
living under.
And in his defense, he knows what that culture is.
He's been living in it his whole life.
He knows there's far worse than him out there, and he's seen it himself.
We're just youth from the end, yeah?
Trying to make it fucking out.
You get me?
We're trying to make it out, bro.
Like, cool.
The intention of that video was for it to get some traction and some viewers, but it
was never to cause threat or intend any mental harm on anyone, bro.
Like, do you get me?
It just blew out of proportion.
Like, more than possible.
No one is trying to threaten anyone.
I know this guy personally, and he has no malicious intent.
Like, you're forgetting.
Yes, yes, yes.
He does have a son, bro.
We're all trying to make it out, bro.
That's what you say.
We're in the end.
Cool.
What are we trying to do about it?
We're not out here stabbing people up, bro.
We're making fucking videos.
Some videos may not be the right approach to some things, but look, I ain't at work.
I could have went to the house on a matine.
I've seen people record themselves going to houses.
They've degraded so much, at least in the neighborhoods of London that they're talking
about getting out of, that what Mizzie does is actually considered tame.
And that's a problem because the rest of the world views those tame pranks as gross violations.
Because by the standards of a place that isn't a fucking shithole, they actually are gross
violations.
Remember, pranks were once whoopee cushions and fake spiders.
Not putting your hands in your pockets and asking people if they want to get fucking
shanked.
In other words, while Mizzie himself is annoying and certainly deserving of all the punishment
coming his way, he's also the symptom of a larger problem.
And unlike his contemporaries who actually do turn to crime, he's using one of the few
non-violent methods at his disposal to try and get out of there, going viral and making
some money.
I can sympathize with him, even though I think he's a shithead.
Anyway, that's the story of Mizzie.
I almost did that first viral video on TikTok Tuesdays, but something in the back of my
mind said, hold off.
There's more to this.
It's worth more than just a throwaway video, and I'm glad I did.
Mizzie is responsible for the minor crimes he's committed.
Probably some harassment in there, probably some trespass, but he's ultimately a response
to the degenerating inner-city youth culture that he finds himself in.
He didn't create this culture, and the people who did care nothing for those who have to
endure it beyond simply checking off a diversity box on some government official's spreadsheet.
