Hello everyone, welcome to TikTok Thursday!
Yes, I know, I missed it on Tuesday.
I'm real sorry.
I was actually doing work, real work.
You did at least see yesterday's video.
Things are being made, it's just had to push it ahead.
It's not gonna be TikTok Thursday consistently.
You'll have Tuesday again next week.
Let's get started.
You guys a couple?
Oh, this one's very produced.
What's one thing you dislike about each other?
Um.
I hate that she sells feet pics.
I've literally made so much money.
I bought this Prada bag,
and I bought him a Macbook last week.
Oh Jesus, that's a lot of money.
Oh, fun with feet.
What's one thing you dislike about him then?
That he doesn't make as much money as me.
She's right about that.
Wow.
Well, what do you expect, lady?
You want him to start selling feet pics or something?
Man, I don't get it.
What the hell's with the feet pics?
What the hell's with feet?
Why do people like feet?
Why is that becoming like a normalized fetish?
I hate the modern world.
Oh my God.
Oh, this is a TV show, I guess.
Damn.
Wonder what show it is.
Why is this in the, why'd you guys send me this?
There's been a shooting.
Looks like a show my dad would watch.
So, you've had quite a day.
Damn.
I bet you when you woke up-
Look at this guy.
You wouldn't even end up here.
Does that feminoid have to be-
Ha ha ha ha.
Excuse me?
Feminoid.
Foid.
Foid.
Foid.
Oh my God, this is like an incel episode?
And you don't get to decide who's in this one or who isn't.
Fimoidcel.
Why don't you tell me what happened this morning?
That's Stacey got what she deserves.
Stacey?
Oh my God.
It is an incel episode.
Whenever they want it.
But no matter what I do, they deny me.
This poor, nice guy.
I deserve love.
What the fuck?
But they won't give it to me.
They only give it to those shallow, stupid alphas.
Oh no guys, the alphas.
I'm 28 years old and I'm still a virgin.
Like this is a good looking dude.
This is the wrong guy to hire for this.
I will slaughter them.
Hollywood.
I am the true alpha male and I will make them pay.
You gotta be a sigma.
Man, I don't know why they had to play
multiple music tracks during that thing.
That was fucking annoying.
But holy shit.
I love it when these weird online sub communities
filter down into the normie TV shows.
This happened way back in the day with Furries and CSI.
And then it happened during Gamergate.
There was the Gamergate episode of, man what was it?
Was it NCIS?
It was some kind of crime drama.
You know, the shows that only boomers watch.
And now we have the incel episode.
Add it to the list of classics.
Oh my God, I have to censor this.
She's naked.
This is a naked, morbidly obese black woman
with like five rolls.
It's like two little twigs
and then like just a big ball of rolls.
And she's ripping apart cakes at a grocery store.
I gotta censor this one.
She's rubbing it all over her rolls.
What the fuck?
What am I watching?
Is anybody gonna stop her?
You have security, right?
I mean, I know I wouldn't wanna go anywhere near
that hot fucking mess, but like surely the cops,
security, someone.
Oh my God, the way that like it moves her stomach
just Jesus.
Was it?
It looks like I'm looking at fucking jab of the huts face.
Like as it's trying to talk.
Oh man, why is there icing right in her ass?
Does she like sit on a cake?
Oh my God, she broke a bunch of beer too.
All that glass and she's walking around with no clothes.
She's just trashing the whole store.
Like what the fuck?
You have to stop her eventually.
You can't just let her carry on.
What the, how do you just let them do this guys?
I called Mohammed, oh my God.
Someone's coming apparently.
Oh my God, she's going behind.
She's going behind the desk.
And now the employees like help.
We can't touch her.
The police are coming.
Oh, she's shampooing in the, oh my God.
She was shampooing in the icing.
Yep, she's just rubbing herself and everything back there.
I'm like, this is a five minute video.
I'm still watching it guys.
I'm just, I'm stunned.
I feel like I'm watching a David Lynch fever dream here.
Oh God, she's rubbing the cake
like underneath her fat flaps.
She's out from behind the counter.
Now she's just destroying more stuff.
Oh shit, she's rubbing that whole cake into her vagina.
Jesus, what the fuck?
Oh, she's in the bread section now.
Shoving the bread in her ass.
Yes, I'm going to cut a whole bunch of that out
because I was just like watching in silence.
And early is just more of the same, but holy fuck.
Holy shit, guys.
You ever feel that urge to just strip down
in the grocery store and then destroy the entire place
with your genitals?
I don't know if like that was a psychotic break
or if she's just an asshole,
or maybe like this is one of those ploys
where she wants to get arrested.
So she's like perfectly of sound mind.
She just, she wants to go back in the slammer.
So she just does this casually.
But damn, before she destroyed like all that shit,
she really should have just been thrown out.
I know it's illegal, but it shouldn't be.
Uplifters.
One of them even took the time to explain
more shoplifting didn't pay.
Yep, that's how it is.
Hit anywhere between 15 to 20 times a day.
Out of frustration a week and a half ago,
they decided to chain up their freezer section.
Oh my God.
This is one of the hardest hit areas in their store.
Now, when you want something.
Get the fuck out of California, guys.
Message goes off on the overhead speaker
and an employee comes to unlock the freezer.
Shoplifters have tried to burn the cases.
There's been four shoplifters in a couple of hours.
He was working at the store today.
So basically stealing out of this store.
He did not want his face on camera,
but said he detained eight people shoplifting yesterday.
People were-
They just don't give a shit anymore, guys.
So outside, if they cross the threshold,
they can be put under arrest.
The eight people that I took on yesterday,
seven of them returned the items.
It's a store didn't wish to put a citizen's arrest on.
What the fuck?
Yeah, man, California is literally
just sinking into the fucking ocean.
If you have a society where theft is permissible
because lives are more important than property
or whatever the fuck, this is what you get.
Extremely low trust society.
If you're an actual like legitimate shopper,
you're shopping in hell
because everything's fucking locked up.
And eventually these stores will just close.
I saw something recently that like Walmart's
are pulling out of Portland, I think.
That'll be part of a future video.
You can't expect these corporations
just keep taking losses forever.
Eventually they will just leave.
Oh, I think this next one's a self-help guy.
Let's see.
What if I told you there was a way to buy things
like this $100,000 watch
without spending a single dollar of your own money
using business credit like this
that you never actually had to pay back.
Let's hear about it.
To the average person, guys, this sounds crazy,
but any business owner knows how this works.
I don't know how personal credit works.
Let's say for example,
you will get a car or credit card in your personal name.
You're personally held responsible for that.
So if you were to go get a credit card
in your personal name
and you were to go max the card out,
you're going to be held liable.
And if you don't make that payment back,
the bank could come and sue you.
What makes us different about business credit
with business credit,
you are not personally held responsible
for that line of credit.
So let's say for example, how I got this watch,
I was able to open a business
that I didn't really give a shit about.
I went and opened business credit cards in that account.
I then proceeded to go on, buy this $400,000.
I'm going to turn around and sell it to a jeweler
for $80,000 in cash, which now gives me the cash.
I'll file bankruptcy on the company.
I'll never have to actually pay it back
because I'm not personally liable
for that American Express card.
It's all liable underneath my business.
Dude.
It's weird to explain it in one video,
but guys, if you're interested in getting involved in this
and you could use some extra information.
No, I'm not, sir.
I want you to go to Instagram.
No, no, do not.
Okay, I like how he just openly admits to fraud on TikTok.
This is where we are?
I know like on the weekly sip and previous sips,
I've talked about how like criminals
who have murdered or something,
they like taunt the cops on Facebook and then get caught.
Like it's fucking stupid.
You now got people out here just admitting fraud on TikTok.
Be like, yeah, this is how you do it, dudes.
This is the secret, guys.
Here's how you get yourself a $100,000 watch, guys.
And wait a minute, wait a minute.
Get yourself a $100,000 watch.
He bought the watch,
then returned it and got $80,000 in cash.
And then he filed for bankruptcy on the company.
But if you return the watch for cash,
how do you still have the watch?
Hold on, fuck.
Even his scummy ass ideas don't fucking sound right.
Hold on.
Things like this $100,000 watch.
Yeah, there's the watch.
Without spending a single dollar of your own money
using business credit like this.
Business credit, okay.
That you never actually had to pay back.
How I got this watch.
How'd you get it?
I was able to open a business
that I didn't really give a shit about.
Buy this for $100,000.
I'm gonna turn around and sell it to a jeweler
for $80,000 in cash, which now gives me the cash.
I'll file bankruptcy on the company.
I'll never have to actually pay it back.
But how do you get the watch though, dude?
You sell the watch back for $80,000.
That gets you money.
But how do you get the watch?
You just do it again and then eventually buy the watch cash?
I don't know, man.
I just personally think admitting to your fraud on TikTok
is not the greatest idea.
Actually, let's see if his TikTok's still around.
Green thumb.
Let's see here.
Yep, his main account had 114,000 likes, 8,000 followers.
Wanna work together?
DM me, yeah, so he can swindle you.
Good idea.
Oh, and I found his link tree.
Let's see.
Join the Drop Ship Academy.
Oh God, drop shipping.
It's one of those fucking scammers.
I'm gonna have to do a video
on the drop shipping nonsense at some point.
It's fucking, I don't know if you guys know
about this particular internet subculture,
but it's really ridiculous and stupid.
But it seems like this guy like just
either got banned off TikTok
or deleted his account or something.
And I'm not surprised because Jesus Christ.
Oh, it's the British cops this time.
He just lightly jogs away.
The two cops can't stop, wow.
British cops are like, they're a fucking joke.
They're a fucking joke.
To be fair, considering the absurd laws
they have to enforce, it's kind of good
that they are a joke, but God damn.
When you see British police trying to actually,
you know, enforce a law on somebody,
it's like, nah, I don't got to deal with this.
And they can do it.
There's no threat there.
Yo dude, look at them titties.
Oh man, it looks like that teacher
with the ridiculously giant tits
from the high school, the Canadian high school.
They did a video on them back a few months ago.
But holy shit, I guess this is what we're allowing now.
Why not?
Walk around with giant boobs, fuck it.
If anyone complains, call them a bigot.
If you are not black, if your skin is not brown,
if you are not melanated, then you do not have the right
to come under my videos talking about my law.
And now we have an actual racist here.
Your opinions are not wanted, nor are they relevant.
So why do you feel like you need to come
and keep saying something to my people?
You need to ask me my permission before you speak
or comment on my videos.
You come under my video and say, Lord,
may I please have your permission to say something.
Then you wait for me to give you my permission
before you start tapping, moving your little pasty fingers
around my age.
You people have been talking way too much
for way too long, and your time is officially up.
It is black power forever.
What a legitimately hateful person,
like deep down in their soul.
I would hate to live my life like this person, my God.
Her TikTok is the Black Messiah.
All right, I guess that's where we are now.
Let's see real quick.
Wait, her account is gone too.
These people just keep nuking their accounts
every time they go viral with a dog shit fucking take
or like a dumb short.
Like what the fuck?
Good riddance, I guess, but damn,
I was hoping to find more spicy stuff.
The conception that lesbian means a woman
who loves other women.
Doesn't it?
And actually the definition is non-men
who are attracted to and love other non-men.
Throughout history, there have always been
gender nonconforming lesbians.
And it's interesting to see nowadays
that there are some folks who kind of try to gatekeep
that identity. Oh my fucking.
And only include folks who identify as women.
They're claiming butch women as trans.
There are trans men who identified as a lesbian
for many, many years and still feel comfortable
within that community and that identity.
There are non-binary folks of all kinds
who identify as lesbians.
This is stupid.
There's like a zillion different ways to be a lesbian.
And if that word is what's comfortable for you,
then nobody can gatekeep it from you.
I am non-binary, trans masculine, and I'm a lesbian.
So true.
I guess I'm a lesbian now too.
Why not?
This was a joke back when I was in high school.
It would always be that one smart ass kid
who would come up and say,
well, lesbians are people who like women, right?
So as a guy, you're a lesbian
because I'm a person who likes women.
And it's like, ha ha, I get it.
You're being retarded.
Now they're doing something like this unironically.
So fine.
I feel comfortable with this identity.
So now I'm a lesbian.
And if you complain, you're a bigot.
All right guys, I can't take any more brain rot.
I'm fucking off.
I'll see you tomorrow for another video.
I'll see you tonight for another stream.
Make sure that you're there.
And thanks very much.
Have a good one.
I love you.
