You know, sometimes I don't edit out my own breaths on this channel, but it's always really
weird to hear them stacked up like that, eh?
Welcome everyone to TikTok Tuesday, coming out a little bit late.
I know, I know, I just recorded like an hour's worth of stuff.
It's gonna be a big video coming, so trust me, things are happening.
I'm not just being lazy playing Zelda Tears of the Kingdom, though I still kind of am
being lazy playing Zelda Tears of the Kingdom.
Oh, and speaking of video games, I will be streaming some more of them tonight after
this goes up, so make sure you drop by and say hi.
But for now, let's look at TikTok nonsense you guys have sent me today.
This is why public acceptance of gay people is declining.
Nobody in their right mind wants to be complete- The United Nations replaces all 193 country
flags with LGBT flags.
Okay, yeah, that makes sense.
Nobody in their right mind wants to be completely inundated with the pride flags for the month
of June, whether you are gay or straight.
We are all sick of it.
I don't need to see a pride flag to feel welcome in my country or to not feel oppressed.
Do you know what this says to me?
Not that we're a marginalized community, in fact it says the opposite.
That we are a community that incessantly needs validation in order to feel welcome in society
because we're so insecure about ourselves.
True.
Is this something that you feel like you need every June?
Ask yourself why.
Is anybody in their right mind, gay or straight, doesn't need this or want it?
This is not equality.
This is privilege.
And I hate to break it to you, but true equality doesn't come with privilege.
So are we really fighting for equal rights or are we fighting for special treatment?
This is something I've heard a bunch of actually.
If you talk to let's say lesbians or gay people or bisexual people, they often tend to complain,
usually behind closed doors because you can't really say this in public, but they complain
that the T has taken over all the activism.
It's like, listen, people aren't getting fired for being gay, you know, they can date whoever
they want, they're not getting sharey a lot, at least not yet.
They can get gay married, you know, like legally things are pretty good.
So a lot of the L, G and B people, they don't really see the problem.
And you can make some arguments as to whether or not trans people are actually oppressed.
In fact, there's some very good arguments that they are.
The point is, like I said during my video on pride this year, everyone's done with it.
Even the normies don't want to have this shit pounded into their head anymore.
It's gotten old.
Stop it bro, I'm on break!
You fucking dumbass, I'm on break!
You going to fight bro, you don't even know who I am.
Then why are you behind the counter?
Go to the break room.
I don't want to do anything wrong to you.
Why is he yelling?
And then I offer you, you want to play football?
So look, let me talk.
No, just tell me what I did wrong.
Can I talk?
Can I talk?
You're coming at me bro.
No, can I talk?
I'm giving up sleep.
Oh god, Zoomers.
The Zoomers speak.
I'm going to fucking 6 in the morning.
Why are you on my ass if I get a fucking 30 minute break?
Just so your fat ass can get pancakes and eggs, don't be fucked up bro, that's fucked
up.
It's a privilege, I ain't even working here at this fucking hour bro.
You're getting paid for, it's not a privilege.
It's fucking irrelevant if we're playing right now.
You're going to be fired tomorrow.
I don't care bro, I really don't care.
Cause I didn't do nothing to you but come in here.
You're on the camera now bro.
Oh my god.
You mad cause you yelling?
Cameras have made people insane, I think.
So where's somebody else?
So if you on break.
You just said it.
If you on break.
You just said it bro.
If you on break, where's somebody else?
You're making me mad on my break.
I'm not making you mad bro.
Cause you're saying like, oh why are you trying to refuse service, like that's fucking dumb,
this and that.
Bro, I'm on break, I don't even have to.
Okay, you telling me you sent.
Oh yeah bro.
For the fact that I even asked you to take a moment bro.
Your boss don't see this in the morning.
It's fucking crazy bro.
Your boss don't see this in the morning.
Bro, I don't care bro.
That's what I don't think.
Just walk out if you don't care, like just peace.
I am working 10pm shift to 6 in the morning.
You think I want to work this job bro?
We're missing a lot of context here, but it really feels like, just the act of pulling
out a phone or pulling out a camera in 2023, massively escalates every situation.
Because everyone knows, not to just constantly be referring back to my other videos, that
was what my nostalgia as fascism video was about.
That back in the day, you pull out a camera, everyone's having a good time.
Nowadays, everyone's on edge.
They're all scared they're going to be the next viral hit.
And I don't mean anything positive when I say hit there.
I think this guy actually ended up getting fired for this.
And as far as I can tell, the dispute was probably pretty reasonable.
Like he is the only person at IHOP doing 10pm to 6am.
It is a shitty shift.
Night shift sucks.
I've done it myself.
And he's on his 30 minute break, which is his right.
And someone comes in and is like, yo, make me food.
He's like, I can't make you food.
I'm on a 30 minute break.
No one else in the store.
You got away.
That's just how it is.
There's one person in the store and you're on your break, that store shut down until
you're done your break.
That's just how it is, man.
So like the customer probably wanted his food.
That's reasonable.
The guy probably wanted his break.
That's also reasonable.
But I think it's the presence of the phone, of the fact that this got uploaded to TikTok
anyway, and that it went viral and that they knew what was going to happen.
That probably escalated the entire encounter.
And speaking of restaurants, look at this.
They're just doing it during a flood.
Like now that's the complete opposite situation.
They're hyper committed to their job.
I'd be out of there.
This was a really nice notebook until this happened.
What's going on?
If Malaysia was anime, COVID ball, it's allowed.
You really made me write my name in the fucking Death Note?
I hope that that video clip doesn't get the channel nuked.
At one point, we actually had plans like this is way back during the anime review days of
the channel.
We had plans to do like a Death Note review.
And I think we actually have somewhere an actual Death Note, just like a prop that we
ended up not using.
I still like Death Note, but I mean, the anime reviews weren't making the money.
The gaming stuff makes some money.
The politics stuff makes a lot of money.
So had to scrap it.
Actually, I'm just kind of curious, if you do want to see like the SFO anime review come
back, post something in the comments, I'm kind of curious to see if there's any interest
in that.
That was just some kind of a show?
Is he going to jump into the crowd?
Oh, they're saying no, the crowd's saying no, don't do it.
Yeah!
Holy shit!
They just like parted like the Red Sea and let him go head first into the ground.
Oh my God.
You know, I never understood the whole crowd surfing thing.
I know that there's a there's a stereotype of it.
Did people actually do that?
Like, did rock stars actually get crowds to carry them around?
Was it was it always like all the brown people holding Daenerys up?
What are they?
They were once men.
Hold on, hold on, what did that say?
People watching the WNBA in 2030.
Oh, God, they were once men.
That's terrible.
That's amazing, but terrible.
I think I mentioned this one in a previous TikTok Tuesday where I was talking about the
guy who bit the metal.
I said this is like another example of a really funny TikTok that's kind of been lost.
Well, someone sent it to me.
It's not that lost.
What?
What the fuck?
What the fuck?
Am I watching?
They're just partying with a monkey?
What the fuck?
Okay.
For white girls, it's dog-pilled.
For black girls, it's it's literally monkey-pilled.
Is that where we are?
I wish I understood the human race, guys.
Okay.
Okay.
This isn't like full shade towards you.
I just see a lot of comments like this and this was the most recent one, so I'm just
responding to this one.
What's the comment here?
I don't blame you for not trusting white people.
I'm white.
I don't even know if they're white people.
Jesus.
When white people say shit like this, it isn't the serve they think it is.
Like you're a part of the problem.
Fix your people, bro.
What the fuck?
Like when white people are like, I'm white, and white people do suck, yeah, you're probably
a part of those said white people, so do something about it.
The fuck?
Don't worry.
You're pretty shit too, lady.
Also, I hate when white people try to validate me.
Like, they're literally like, I'm white, but I agree, bro.
I don't know if you noticed, but I don't need validation from white people.
Like, that's the last thing I need in my life.
Like, I feel like white people always try, but they miss, like, and I feel bad for y'all.
Not that bad, though, because your ancestors suck and you're stinky and evil, but bad enough
where I want to call you out and tell you not to leave comments like this because it's
crusty.
Anyways, all the bleached demons willing to learn, you're not as bad as the rest.
Listen, they keep inventing all these slurs for white people.
Look at what they have to do to mimic a fraction of our power.
This person's actually just a racist, like, she's legitimately a disgusting human being,
but it's funny how she's like, I don't need validation from white people.
Okay, fuck it.
No white person should ever chill with you again or give you, or like, give your ideas
any credence.
So you're racist.
No, we're not.
Fuck you.
Fuck off.
If they're actually going to slap the hand of reconciliation, why should anyone stick
it out at them?
Fuck these people.
Oh, this next one I think is really interesting because this is a trans man who said that
as a man, he now gets way less privileged than he used to as a woman.
I think that's what this is.
Nobody told me how lonely being a man is.
I had closer friendships with random women I met in the bathroom before I transitioned
at clubs because of how open women are than I've had.
And I had eight years of transitioning because women are just so much more vulnerable and
deep than men.
But to have known, and I think a lot of trans men feel this, is we knew what depth felt
like before we transitioned.
We knew what it felt like to, like, have people want to hug us.
And I have multiple feelings about this already.
Talk to us.
We all wait until this is done.
And then you transition and you're just a guy walking down the street that people cross
the street so that they're not near you.
And friendships are so much harder to build.
And people are colder.
What's hard is none of this invalidates how real and raw women and people who are in marginalized
groups feel about cis white men.
All of that's valid.
But I also now understand why the suicide rate is so much higher in men because this
shit is lonely and I'm an emotionally mature man.
I know how to build friendships and it is still really, really hard.
There's a few things going on here.
One there was back in the 2000s, there was that famous documentary where a woman cross
dressed as a man to see what it was like to truly have male privilege and then came out
of the experience as a men's rights activist because she was treated so much worse as a
man than as a woman.
That's true.
Definitely.
Unless you are like the top 1% of men, unless you are the top of your field, you have tons
of money, you have amazing looks or something, you're generally treated like shit by most
of society.
And there is a loneliness to it and there is absolutely reasons why the male suicide
rate is so high.
But also I have to wonder because this person's a trans man, meaning that they're biologically
female, I have to wonder if there is something in the trans man experience that is fundamentally
missing of the cis man one.
Because we've all seen that video of Henry Cavill immediately becoming friends with one
of his co-stars or something, simply because they both like Warhammer and the girls in
the room chuckled like T.E.
Men.
That's how men build real friendships.
It's like, oh, they have one common interest, we don't need to know anything else.
That's why you see memes about men grilling or men building holes, dudes posting their
wins as an account just full of male bonding over honestly just random stuff.
But that's how men are, you know?
They bond over activities.
When they get mad, they fight and then they're friends again.
Like there are certain masculine aspects to this that I wonder if because this person's
a trans man and not a cis man, he just doesn't get.
Because it actually is pretty easy making friends with other men.
It's just not in the, what he describes as deep, spiritual, emotional, womanly way that
this person describes.
Though I wouldn't necessarily call men shallow, which is kind of the implication here.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Oh yeah.
Dude.
That's fucking, I gotta like go dig my dream cast out or something now.
That's fucking awesome.
When I was a kid, I always wanted the Sonic soap shoes just so I could do that.
It always seemed cool, but like looking at it again, it looks a little bit strange, doesn't
it?
Maybe just the angular or something, but it's not nearly as cool as like pulling off a skateboard
trick or something.
Oh well.
Childhood ruined.
All right, my friends, that'll about do it for me.
Thanks for being here.
Keep sending me this garbage and I'll keep making these.
I'll keep making these.
I'll see you next time, okay?
Oh, and come by the stream tonight.
We're playing Star Wars.
I'll be dressed up as a fat Luke Skywalker.
It's going to be a fun time.
You can make fun of me all you want.
Okay, I'll see you there, guys.
I love you.
