Alright my friends, this one's going to be a quickie.
I do have some other larger, meatier videos coming out, but they're requiring a lot of
reading and a lot of research, so I figure just to tide us over I'll do something stupid
like this, since this is what currently passes for news right now.
Crowdsurge kills 8 at Travis Scott's AstroWorld Festival concert in Houston.
Gonna be honest, never heard of AstroWorld, never heard of Travis Scott.
Okay, he's a rapper, and I don't give a shit about rap whatsoever.
Wait, partner Kylie Jenner?
I get that confused with Caitlyn Jenner.
But okay, musician, got it.
Crowdsurge kills 8 at Travis Scott's AstroWorld Festival concert in Houston.
Holy shit.
People attending a Houston music festival surged towards the stage during a performance
by rapper Travis Scott, triggering panic in the crowd of tens of thousands.
At least 8 people were killed and many more hurt.
The ages of victims identified by authorities so far range from 14 to 27.
One person's age was unknown.
A 10 year old is in critical condition.
Jesus Christ.
Gotta be honest, I've never gone to a concert, never really felt the urge to go to one.
Never really understood the concert culture or concert mentality.
To me, music, while it can be very good, is something that you listen to while you're
doing other things.
I don't really view music as a primary activity personally.
Maybe that's because I like shows and movies and video games too much, you know?
By the way, this video is probably going to be marked not safe for work and also demonetized
due to the content within it.
So please consider supporting the channel guys.
But yeah, we've got lots of footage from the show.
Footage of fans trying to stop the show as people were dying in the crowd.
I mean, I know you can't just walk onto a stage or walk onto one of the other viewing
platforms but shit man, people were dying.
There's footage of people bailing the fuck out, running in a giant herd, with police
and security.
Holy fuck dude, no one's sticking around for this.
I don't blame them.
For some reason security starts fucking with people, like what the hell man?
This security guy, he's been good the whole time, he just starts stopping people, what
the fuck?
Looks like the horses are kind of spooked at you, they don't know what the fuck to do.
Oh shit, they took the barricades down.
Oh man, imagine the last thing that you hear is this guy's shitty rap as he does the robot
while your cooling corpse is getting worked on.
Jesus.
God, I know I shouldn't be laughing but there's just some gallows humor to this.
You got multiple dudes getting CPR done to them, to the beat of the song.
Here's a comment from somebody who was there.
Everyone crowd surfing was trying to breathe.
I was eight people away from a VIP barricade telling them my girlfriend was suffocating
and was going to die.
Some people just rolled their eyes at me while VIP recorded.
Scariest shit ever when you realize Travis is still performing and nobody gives a fuck
about you.
Me and my GF really thought that's how we were going to go out.
I'm so surprised only eight people died, it felt like it would have been hundreds.
I'm so thankful to the few who listened to me and helped pull my girlfriend out.
We were trying to get out for four songs, nobody deserves to suffocate in a crowd like
that.
All I could think of in the end were the people still stuck in that crowd, suffering while
I watched Travis perform back to back to back.
Now every time I listen to a Travis song, all I hear is animalistic screams from the
people getting crushed.
Jesus.
If you ever wondered why I'm not interested in going to a concert, I guess here it is.
It might sound counterintuitive, but you could actually die standing up in a crowd
assuming that the people are tightly packed enough.
It can get to a point where you can no longer control where you're moving because the forces
of all the other people around you, they're pushing you around.
It can get to the point where your chest is compressed enough that you can't really breathe
anymore.
And if you fall over, you're likely to be either trampled by others or cause a domino
effect where everybody else falls on top of you and you die underneath a pile of people.
Crowds are pretty dangerous guys.
So this wasn't unique to this Travis caught performance.
Apparently he's done some weird stuff on stage multiple times.
For example, he likes to treat the staff at his own concerts like shit.
Hey, hey, hey, get your fucking nerdy ass off the stage, bro.
Go.
Now.
You.
Off.
Yes.
I don't know you, bro.
Go, go, go.
Nobody on stage, bro.
Nobody on stage, bro.
No disrespect.
I'm an artist.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't care if you're working for Summer Jam.
Bye.
That's another video isn't at play, right?
It's another video.
It's unfortunately been taken down because Twitter decided to ban the account that posted
it, presumably for posting this because the content of the video was reasonably disturbing.
But this video showed Travis Scott jumping into a mosh pit, being crowd surfed, all the
while telling the crowd to attack other people.
And he would point out while he's crowd surfing around, he would point with his hands at other
people and say, get that guy.
Wait, wait, wait.
While I was editing this video, I actually managed to find what I was talking about.
And it turns out the reason he was asking the crowd to attack people is because the
guy stole his shoes.
Come here, bitch.
Get that motherfucker.
Get him.
You tried to take my shoes?
You want to be a thief?
Fuck him up.
Fuck him up.
Fuck him up.
Also, apparently he's homophobic.
I ain't cool with none of you faggots who just sitting here looking like a bunch of queers.
You wearing a fucking La Flame shirt, motherfucker.
Then you better act like it, bitch.
I'm gonna rip it off your fucking back.
Based.
No, but really, though, it does seem like Travis Scott is kind of a piece of shit.
And the only reason that he decided to put out a statement is because this went viral.
I'm absolutely devastated by what took place last night.
My prayers go out to the families and all those impacted by what happened at Astro World
Festival.
Houston Police Department has my total support as they continue to look into the tragic loss
of life.
I'm committed to working together with the Houston community to heal and support the
families in need.
No, you're not.
You're already on a plane out of there, dude.
Thank you to Houston PD, Fire Department, and NRG Park for their immediate response
and support.
Love you all.
Holy fuck, dude.
The thing is, from what I understand, Travis Scott seems to have a history of doing this
sort of thing, of hyping up the crowd to the point that they actually begin to engage in
crowd crushes, where the entire crowd moves forward.
And so the people in the center of the crowd have no choice but to keep moving forward
because they're being pushed by momentum, which then pushes the people in front of them,
which then crushes the crowd.
He's encouraged violence.
He already has a charge on his record for inciting a riot.
He's even been deleting tweets on his official account, where he talks about bringing in
ragers and stuff, you know, people who will actually hype a crowd up to that dangerous
level.
And it's not like the music industry doesn't have examples of people who, when they were
giving performances and they saw something happening in the crowd, did the right thing
and stopped the show.
You've got musicians who have stopped fights.
Who have stopped people from being sexually assaulted in the crowd.
Who have stopped the show to help people who've fallen over in the crowd.
Who have used the stage to make sure that people who are having some kind of medical
emergency during the show get access to some kind of help.
This is not just an on-with-the-show mentality, because the pros who understand what position
they're in and actually care about their fans, they do this sort of stuff.
And of course there's just some weirdness coming out of this.
Astro World Security pricked a neck with needle, says the Houston police.
What the f- At least one person had been injected with something via needle.
A security guard was working the event, and he felt a prick in his neck by an unknown
assailant while he was trying to restrain a citizen, and he quickly fell unconscious.
No personnel did indeed see something on his neck that indicated he had been stabbed
with a syringe.
You know, the more I go through this, the less I actually want to even consider going
to a concert anymore.
Like I was 100% not interested, now I'm 1000% not interested.
And of course, as it should be in my opinion, Travis Scott is being sued over the predictable
and preventable Astro World tragedy.
He's being sued by a concert goer who was injured during the tragedy on Friday night,
which left 8 people dead and hundreds more injured.
Emanuel Soza filed a lawsuit against Scott himself, as well as the organizer Scormore
and the concert behemoth Live Nation, claiming the deadly disaster was predictable and preventable,
a motivation for profit at the expense of concert goer's health and safety, and the
encouragement of violence.
Defendants failed to properly plan and conduct the concert in a safe manner, says the attorney.
Instead, they consciously ignored the extreme risks of harm to concert goers, and in some
cases actively encouraged and fermented dangerous behaviors.
A second suit was filed by 23-year-old Kristin Paredes on Sunday.
This suit names Travis Scott and Drake as defendants and they're accused of negligence.
It alleges that Drake came on stage alongside Travis Scott and helped incite the crowd.
The crowd became chaotic and a stampede began leaving 8 dead and dozens severely injured.
There's no way this isn't going to continue, because this is a shit show.
But now we gotta ask ourselves, at what point can we actually hold someone accountable who
holds the attention of an entire mob of people and then directs them to be violent or destructive
in this way?
Everyone can think back to January 8th, right?
You can definitely find instances where President Trump used some pretty inflammatory language.
But you can also find instances where he did not, where he very explicitly said this was
meant to be a protest.
Forget about the potential for fake news or anything else.
In that specific instance, with Trump on stage at the head of a crowd, how much responsibility
does he have for the Capitol riot?
It's hard to say.
You can make an argument both ways.
But it does seem like Travis Scott probably has a lot more responsibility, because unlike
with Trump, Scott's rhetoric seems to have been more direct.
His whole thing is about hyping up crowds to the point of dangerousness.
And I highly doubt he said something like peacefully and amicably turn the mosh pit
into a murder pit.
And then of course you have to ask the question, how responsible should anybody be for somebody
else's actions?
Like if I were to do something supremely stupid and tell you to go kill somebody right now,
and then you did it, it seems like I should be held responsible for that on some level,
because maybe you're a superfan and you wanted to do something, like I don't know.
You can spin this a whole bunch of ways.
But the point is, is that you didn't have to listen to me.
Nobody had to listen to Trump.
Nobody had to listen to Travis Scott.
The point of individual responsibility is that you're responsible for your actions,
and they're responsible for theirs.
But an opposing point of view, one that I think at least warrants some kind of consideration,
is that if you wanted to prosecute a cult leader who talked a bunch of people into doing
terrible things, while not actually getting his hands dirty himself, surely there's some
way in which he's responsible, right?
Of course that's the point of incitement, isn't it?
But I think this is also why there's a lot of ambiguity around individual cases of incitement,
and why the line between incitement and legitimate free speech is often blurred.
I guess the only thing you can really do is keep an eye on yourself.
Make sure you think critically about things.
Don't let your brain go into autopilot mode, go into NPC mode, especially when you're in
a crowd of people where you might need to figure things out.
And also, don't go to shitty, poorly run concerts to listen to horrible auto-tuned musicians.
That's probably a good lesson, too.
Who is it that breaks your fall, puts out the flames, and saves your children?
They love me.
