I was on eFAP last week with a whole bunch of other guests to talk about the current
drama surrounding the React meta of Twitch.
I had a really good time.
I love going on eFAP.
But large panels like this aren't always the best way to get a point across.
That, plus I've had a bit of time to think about it, so I want to give a more nuanced
take regarding the topic.
To really understand what's going on, you have to watch like five videos on Destiny's
channel, and they're each several hours long.
And ain't nobody got time for that.
Let me give you a quick TLDR.
xQc and Hassan are two of the most popular streamers in the world.
Hassan is explicitly a socialist, while xQc seems to be more apolitical.
They both got into a lot of controversy last week, when they reacted to Lomino's hour-and-a-half-long
documentary on the assassination of JFK.
Lomino is a YouTuber with over five million subs, and his bread and butter seems to be
highly researched, highly edited long-form videos like this.
xQc and Hassan both got into trouble for playing the entire video on their stream,
though xQc caught a lot more heat.
This sparked multiple debates across multiple channels about the ethics of reacting to other
people's content on stream, on Destiny's stream, on the E5 episode that I was a part
of, ultimately culminating with xQc going on to the H3H3 podcast to debate Ethan Klein
on the topic.
And you know what?
As much as I absolutely fucking hate Ethan Klein, I gotta hand it to him.
He stomped xQc into the dirt.
So when I say minimal commentary, how minimal are we talking here?
Well, xQc's reaction on stream was cut into a video by his editor and uploaded to his
YouTube channel.
That stream segment clocked in at one hour and fifty-three minutes.
Lomino's original video clocks in at an hour thirty-eight.
That means that if we give xQc any sort of time devoted to intro and outro, pre- and
post-discussion of the video, he added fifteen minutes of his own content to Lomino's video.
Is that enough for it to be considered ethical, or is this simply xQc stealing other people's
hard work and letting it run on his stream?
How about Hassan's reaction?
His VOD is two hours and twenty-three minutes.
Good faith assumption that he added forty-five minutes of his own commentary.
Is that enough for it to be considered ethical?
Lots of people look to fair use, which is an American legal argument.
Fair use permits the use of copyrighted material without permission from the owner under specific
circumstances for various artistic purposes.
Current American law has a four-point checklist that can help determine whether or not a use
of a copyrighted work is copyright infringement or is actually fair use.
When determining whether the use made of a work in any particular case is a fair use,
the factors to be considered shall include 1.
The purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature
or is for non-profit educational purposes 2.
The nature of the copyrighted work 3.
The amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as
a whole 4.
The effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work
Now to be clear, this isn't a hard and fast checklist.
Like, you don't have to tick off the four boxes for a use to be considered fair use.
It's judged on a case-by-case basis, because fair use is what is known as an affirmative
defense.
An affirmative defense is, basically, when you don't dispute the facts of the case.
You make the argument that you had a really good reason to do what you did.
Self-defense is a great example of an affirmative defense.
For example, nobody disputes that Rittenhouse shot those people.
His defense is that he had a really good reason to do so, that he was under attack by them
and afraid for his life.
When you claim fair use, it's an affirmative defense.
You're not denying that you're using the copyrighted material.
You're claiming that you have a good reason to use it.
And these four points can help a judge determine whether or not your reason is actually a good
one.
Point one is basically about the social good of the use.
Are you just making a bunch of money ripping off somebody else's work?
Or are you not making any money and instead using it to educate?
Point two is taking into account what you used.
Using a song is different from using a movie, which is different from using a photo.
What the work is will help you determine whether or not your use of it was legitimate.
Point three is taking into account how much of the work you used.
If you're reviewing a movie, you probably shouldn't include the entire movie in your
review and only use the clips necessary to make your points.
But that doesn't mean that under the right circumstances, using a whole work wouldn't
be valid.
It depends on what you're doing with it and if it's necessary.
Point four is taking into account the loss of the copyright holder.
For example, I remember a fan-made project where you tour the Enterprise-D from Star
Trek Next Generation, which Paramount had successfully shut down as they had for sale
their own version doing the exact same thing.
In this case, the impact on the copyright holder is too much for it to be fair use.
The fan was literally providing a competing parallel product for free, depriving Paramount
of sales.
However, it's not as simple as whether or not a copyright holder is financially damaged
by the use, as a negative review of a movie might lead to the creators of the movie seeing
a financial loss.
A review is not a parallel product in the same way as recreating the entire thing.
Basically, fair use isn't a series of hard and fast rules that can be easily figured
out, but a set of guidelines that can help judge a use on a case-by-case basis.
For the UK and Canada and other English-speaking nations, we have fair dealing law instead,
which is mostly similar with a few key differences.
Here we've got a six-point system.
The purpose of the dealing, the character of the dealing, the amount of the dealing,
alternatives to the dealing, the nature of the work used, and the effect of the dealing
on the work.
These mostly cover the same thing as American fair use law.
This is all to say that fair use and fair dealing are legal terms, not moral or ethical
ones.
When people talk about this stuff, they often use these terms colloquially, in a moral sense,
not a legal one.
When something is found to be a fair use, it's considered transformative.
And the conversation surrounding XQC is all about whether or not his reaction was transformative.
Not explicitly in a legal way, but in a colloquial way.
Like are streamers doing anything unethical by just freebooting somebody else's YouTube
videos for their stream?
Let me draw out a logic tree here.
If you're watching me on your second monitor, now is the time to pause Baldur's Gate and
look over for a few minutes.
If Lomino gave the streamers his permission to watch his videos on their stream, then
the conversation is just over.
They got the creators' consent.
I don't think anybody sane would object to this.
What would they even say?
That they still can't watch other people's videos even if the creators said it was okay?
Well, actually, yes, but we'll get back to that in a bit.
If Lomino didn't give them his permission, then the question becomes, did they mix in
enough of their own original content, in a way that their reaction is now transformative?
Again, not legally, colloquially.
In the case of XQC, most people say no, he didn't.
Mahler highlighted on eFAP just how little XQC added during the viewing of his video,
along with pointing out that whenever he paused a comment, his own chat room would revolt,
screaming at him to stop pausing the video and stop adding his own input.
Those people were there less for XQC's reaction and more to just watch a YouTube video uninterrupted
on XQC's stream.
For Hassan's reaction, despite him walking off several times to do other things and just
letting the video play to his chat room in his empty chair, he did actually add his own
commentary significantly more than XQC did.
It was stupid commentary, yes, Hassan is a gibbering retard, but we're not judging
the quality of the commentary this time, we're only judging if they've actually transformed
the original work into a new experience.
And in this case, Hassan has a much stronger claim to that defense than XQC.
So where is that line that makes a use transformative, in the colloquial sense?
I personally think that the various eFAPs on movies and TV shows, as well as my own
watch party videos of the Rings of Power and The Last of Us, those are all transformative.
Because yes, while we are watching the whole show or the whole movie, there's significant
commentary before, during, and after, discussing news articles or social media trends surrounding
the show, bringing up lore inconsistencies or dumb scenes, or whatever else, sitting
there and simply saying true with your mouth full, or letting a video play while you wander
away to jack off in the bathroom, that's not transformative.
I can't tell you where the line is that makes something transformative when you cross
it.
I don't know exactly how much you should add, but I do know that there is an obvious
difference between the two extremes.
If a use isn't transformative, then how unethical is it?
Well, that depends.
This conversation has come up several times now in terms of internet discourse.
The last time it kicked off was a year ago.
Back then I was also on eFAP, talking about Hassan completely stealing one of JX's videos,
just letting it play providing almost no commentary whatsoever, and going over the dumb fuck defense
for this behavior given not only by Hassan himself, but also by A-Relevant and Denims.
And even before that, there was the Twitch TV meta, where large Twitch streamers would
just watch whole ass real TV shows, like the shit that you'd find on cable.
The argument given by these large streamers as to why they should be allowed to do this
makes me think that they view streaming like it's a watch party in Discord, which explains
why xQc's chat was yelling at him every time you paused the video.
These people often say that they should be allowed to do this because the product they're
presenting isn't the movie or the video or the TV show itself, it's the experience
of watching it with other people, with the streamer, with the chat room.
And on some level, we do know that that is a different experience, just like we know
the difference between watching a movie at home versus watching it in the theater.
But the fact that it's a different experience for the viewer, does that make it a transformative
use?
I don't think so.
Another common defense is to compare it to video game streaming.
The argument is that a streamer deprives a video's creator, or a movie's creator,
or a TV show's creator.
Though let's be honest, nobody gives a fuck about Hollywood's welfare right now.
The streamer deprives them revenues or attention or clicks when he plays their content on stream,
even if he reacts to it in a transformative way, let alone just freebooting it.
But since we allow it for video games, we should also allow it for other mediums.
The issue with this argument is that video games have a performative component.
You have to play it, not just passively consume it.
And a streamer's playthrough is necessarily different than yours.
The experience of playing a game cannot be gained through watching somebody else play
it.
But the experience of watching a video or a movie or a TV show can be gained by watching
it with somebody else present, like a streamer or a chat room.
The claim that watching somebody playing a video game is an infringement on the copyright
of the creator of the game doesn't really make sense.
It's like saying watching somebody play baseball is an infringement of the copyright
of the creator of baseball.
The only place where I think this logic has any footing is in games with almost no gameplay
whatsoever.
Like you're just passively moving through the game world applying zero skill and absorbing
a story.
At that point, it might as well just be a TV show.
But for the most part, this logic doesn't work for video game streams.
The final line of defense for this behavior is the effect that streaming somebody's
video has on the creator of the video.
The video creators will often claim that each person who watches it on Hassan's stream
or XQC's stream, that's one less potential view on their video.
Why would they go watch the original on YouTube when they just watch it on a stream?
This was Adam's main argument on Efab.
And I think there's some truth to it.
There obviously will be some people who would have watched the video who just won't now.
That's lost clicks and revenue.
Streamers can mitigate that by shouting out the creator, linking their video, linking
their channel.
But some of them just won't watch it.
Simple as.
But that calculation has to be balanced out by understanding that some people do go back
and watch it, as we regularly see videos get spikes of viewers after a streamer reacts
to it.
If any of those viewers are new viewers, they might sub to the channel, they might watch
future videos on their own.
These effects also have to be taken into account.
There's also the fact that there's generally a significant lack of audience overlap.
Going back to the original example, there's probably not much audience overlap between
Hassan and XQC's stream viewers and Lomino's YouTube viewers.
The chance of those people watching Lomino's content of their own volition is probably
relatively low.
But now that they've seen the JFK video on stream, they just might.
Something we learned during the era of MP3 piracy is that just because somebody downloads
your music, doesn't mean that that's automatically a lost sale.
Some of these people would have just never bought the music at all.
And some of these people would have just never watched Lomino either.
This is the harm conversation, and to me personally, it's the least interesting part of the discussion.
The question here is ultimately, how many views and subs are lost when somebody reacts
to their content on their stream versus how many are gained through exposure to a new
audience.
If you had perfect information, you can just math it out.
If the video creator gains more than they lose, it's not immoral for streamers to
swipe the video.
If the video creator loses more than they gain, it is immoral.
The only issue is that we don't have perfect information, so we're just guessing a lot
of this stuff.
But there's no real moral question here.
Assume that Lomino saw a net material gain from xQc grabbing his video and playing it
while not transforming it, essentially stealing the content to keep his stream entertained.
If Lomino saw a net material loss, it's an easy conversation.
What xQc did was simply unethical.
But if Lomino saw a net material gain, was what xQc did okay?
I'm not so sure.
Because, and sorry progressive consequentialist, you guys are retarded, not all morality is
based on harm reduction and seeking good ends.
Even if Lomino saw a material gain, it's not like he gave xQc his consent to play the
video.
And consent is a moral concept that exists outside of harm.
People can consent to harmful things and refuse non-harmful things.
It's a different type of morality than simple harm reduction.
If Lomino objected to xQc's use of the video, and xQc replied with, aw shut up, you gotta
benefit out of it anyway, and that was actually true, does that mean that xQc is morally in
the clear?
And Lomino has no place to feel put out.
My gut tells me, I don't think so.
So what's at the bottom of this?
To answer that, we gotta go all the way back to the start of React content itself.
The early internet is full of videos where the purpose of them is to see a person's
reaction.
The oldest one I can think of is the N64 kid.
Yeah that was me back when I got my N64 too.
The point of the video isn't the N64, it's the kid's over the top reaction to getting
it.
Shortly after this we saw stuff like the Jumpscare Maze game in 2006, or Two Girls One Cup in
2007.
These videos are recordings of normal people watching something designed to get a reaction
out of them, fear in the first case and disgust in the second.
We're watching these videos not for the Jumpscare Maze or the video of the girls eating
their own shit.
We're watching these videos to watch how other people react to watching these videos.
React content gives us more information to evaluate than just the original thing.
It shows us how other people react to something, and if our reactions are in line with theirs.
I think this is why Japanese variety TV has had those little reaction portraits of celebrities
watching what's going on for decades now.
There is genuinely something added to the experience, when you're not only enjoying
an event, but watching other people enjoy it too.
Reaction videos hit their initial peak with the Fine Bros back in 2012.
Where they corporatized the model of having seemingly normal people, like kids or teens
or elders, react to the latest viral trend on the internet.
These guys self-destructed when they tried to trademark the react name and the concept
of reaction back in 2016, after other people started uploading their own reactions.
The irony was not lost on the internet.
A couple of guys who made a name for themselves, swiping and reacting to the people's content,
and not really making their own original content, were now mad that others were also
swiping their format and using it for themselves.
Even though they walked it all back, the Fine Bros never really recovered.
Yeah, a few hundred thousand views in a video is pretty nice.
But not for a 20 million sub-channel.
But all of these trends teach us a lot about the nature of react content.
It's enjoyable to watch in a way that just watching original content on its own isn't.
It goes viral easily when it's really good.
It's very easy to make, and it skirts the line on whether or not it's stealing.
A lot of the hatred of the Fine Bros stems from the fact that react content is so simple
to create, and reaps so much in the way of rewards, it feels cheap.
It feels like they're cheating.
If you spend hours and hours making a well-done video, and a reactor just grabs it, watches
it, even if they transform it, and then gets way more views than you do off your work,
especially if you don't see a bump for it, it feels really shitty.
It feels like they cheated.
You worked hard and got less.
They worked not so hard and got more.
Intuitively, that just doesn't seem fair.
And I think that's why, from the Fine Bros back in 2012 all the way up to XQC right now,
whenever this topic comes up, people always get mad.
But things like, it feels cheap and it's not fair, isn't really an argument.
We've already determined that if they actually transform the content, then tough titty.
They've made something new and unique, and that's that.
Even if you don't like it.
A lesson that Akilah obviously had to learn the hard way with Sargon.
But the hatred that people like Sniper Wolf get right now, for making nothing but the
most garbage-tier react stuff, is pretty understandable.
She adds nothing but a pretty face to a bunch of TikTok videos.
Yes, I know, I do TikTok Tuesday.
But at least I don't pretend to bait you in with a cute girl.
And plus, I do real content too.
In fact, that actually reminds me of this little exchange from original Game Grumps.
What Jon is pointing out here is that back in 2012, Let's Play is reviewed kinda like
react videos are now.
Low effort content that is potentially wildly popular.
And how demotivating it can be to make more produced, long-form content in the face of
that potential easy success.
I can see both sides of this.
Creators being tempted to make the easy content and reap the easy success is understandable.
And many people really are simply just jealous that it's that easy.
But on the other hand, look at what's become of the vast majority of people who have done
that, 10 years on now, who have moved away from their produced content and fell into
doing only Let's Plays or only streams or only reaction videos.
Look at the caliber of person they've transformed into.
What exactly did that initial easy success cost them?
I'm not saying content creators shouldn't do low effort content sometimes, like Let's
Plays or streams or reacts.
I do all those.
But I am saying that for content creators who only do that stuff while abandoning what
initially made them popular, what people actually initially wanted to see out of them, it's
no surprise that people view them as shadows of their former selves.
And it's also no surprise that they often behave like it too.
So here's the final form of the logic tree.
If the streamer gets the consent of the video creator, then playing the video on stream
is fine.
Doesn't matter if they transform it or get a bump from it, none of that is relevant.
Consent trumps all other concerns.
If the streamer doesn't get consent, then if the streamer transforms it enough with
their own labor, it becomes a unique work that the streamer owns themselves and it's
still okay.
If the streamer doesn't get consent and doesn't transform it, then you could argue
that if the creator of the video gets a boost in their career due to the crossover, then
it's still okay.
This is the argument that most streamers use.
And the size of that bump is dependent on many things.
If the streamer credits and links back to the original video, or if the streamer is
immediately reacting to a new video and immediately uploading their stream VOD eating into the
search impressions of the original, there's a whole bunch of factors at play here.
Nonetheless, I don't think this is a good argument, but let's just accept it for hypothetical
sake.
If the streamer doesn't get consent and doesn't transform it and the original creator
doesn't get a boost, then it just seems like straight up theft.
So what should change about all of this?
Should anything change?
Should there be a common culture among streamers that they should ask video creators before
watching their videos?
Maybe, but that's never going to happen.
Should video creators use the tools at their disposal to claim the revenue of VODs uploaded
to YouTube?
Sure.
And both Hassan and XQC have gone on record stating that when video creators do this,
they don't fight them.
They let them have that revenue.
The issue is, the streamer already got their watch time and their super chats on their
stream, so the VOD's revenue is probably secondary.
Should platforms be enforcing copyright somehow?
I'm not sure about that one, but good luck getting them to do it anyway.
Here's how I personally feel about it.
There should probably be a moratorium when reacting to new videos, since the majority
of hits and revenue that most videos on YouTube earn happen in the first couple of weeks of
them being uploaded.
Beyond that, streamers should ask for permission if they're just watching and not transforming.
They should also watch any in-video advertisements like sponsorships or announcements.
And they should also link back to the original creator.
There could even be an exception where, for hot new videos, they can actually watch them
immediately but only show the first five minutes or something, and then direct their audience
to the rest of the video.
But that might be expecting a bit too much.
Ultimately, streamers will do whatever they want.
I don't expect most of them to stop doing this shit, even if YouTubers want them to.
Because most of these streamers aren't actually capable of providing interesting content without
having a YouTube video on in the background.
Have you seen the shit they do otherwise?
Hot tub streams?
Naked body painting?
Fucking sleep streams, dude?
I respect the few gamers left on Twitch.
The longplay channels.
The speedrun channels.
That's at least doing something.
That's still what Twitch was originally, and what it should have remained as.
For me personally, anybody can watch whatever they want on my stuff.
I don't really care.
As long as you credit me.
I'm cool with it.
I don't feel that way.
That's their prerogative.
Nonetheless, streamers aren't going to stop anytime soon, and I don't foresee a path
forward to somehow force them to stop that won't unintentionally wreck a lot of other
things in the attempt.
I also personally believe, though I don't have data to back this up, that the vast majority
of people who have their videos watched by a streamer ultimately gain more than they
lose from it.
Unless it's like a hate watcher or something.
That doesn't excuse violating a YouTuber's consent, but it's better than nothing.
Anyway, the final thing I have to say on this topic is that I think a lot of the viewers
of streamers or YouTubers who are coming in to stake a hard moral claim on this topic
are just virtue signaling.
They don't actually care.
Not the streamers or the YouTubers themselves.
They have their own motivations.
The viewers of them who are going hardcore on this on social media, they're just virtue
signalers.
Why do I think that?
Well, because when a streamer viewer complains, it's very obvious they're just defending
their parasocial daddy.
They want what they want.
To watch videos on a stream.
The ality and morality be damned.
And when a YouTuber viewer gets up in arms with the lost clicks, and therefore the lost
revenue, and therefore the damage to a YouTuber's bottom line when a streamer reacts to their
video, there's a decent chance that guy's probably running an ad blocker.
And trust me, as somebody with access to my own analytics, ad blockers fuck me over way
more than React streamers ever will.
A lot of this drama just seems to be based on competing self-interest.
YouTubers want people to watch their videos.
Streamers want to watch what they want on their streams.
Viewers tend to side with whoever their guy is.
But ignoring all of that obvious self-interest, it seems to me that the fair thing to do,
such that everyone's interests are somewhat respected, is for streamers to ask for permission
and give proper credit.
Unless they actually transform the content.
Then it becomes theirs.
But since most of them don't, consent and credit.
Two concepts that I don't actually expect progressive Twitch poll streamers to ever
truly understand.
