Life. It's a thing. That happens. To pretty much everyone in some capacity.
From the day that life begins to the day it ends, it encompasses an experience unique to that individual.
How that individual may interpret their own life is also something unique,
although there are overarching categories that we may relate, such as happiness, sadness, or in my case, boredom.
People's lives beyond one's own, and their own interpretations of it, have become much more intimate to audiences
over the rise of YouTube. We often see what a person may be going through, but we also may see how they react to it,
and how they interpret it themselves. How much of your life ends up on the internet is principally your discretion,
though there are often exceptions. Today's topic, Onision, is someone who's life, on the surface, seems like the pinnacle
of YouTube melodrama, and the eventful nature that surrounds it.
For over ten years, he has projected his life into the public sphere. He has made countless videos and posts
regarding his past, present, and future. He has been the center of numerous controversies,
and the subject of multiple exposes involving his friends, enemies, and so many more people that I cannot even begin to factor in.
When serious drama occurs, the stress and additional repercussions will often drive many off online platforms.
Onision is a clear exception to that rule, in fact, attention just seems to bring him back with even more aggression,
so I didn't want to make this video under the pretense that it wasn't going to play into his hands.
In fact, even Onision wants me to make this video on him, though I'm not sure it will be exactly what he hoped for.
He did contact me stating that if I'm interested, he can offer evidence to exonerate him of certain claims.
However, over the last couple of months, I have already grown an aversion to such private interactions,
I'm not going to be a YouTuber's shield when they have more than enough platforms to defend themselves already.
Anything that someone wants me to present in public, they can present it themselves.
Today's video is going to be a look at as much published, and the attempt to understand what that says about the person in question,
and maybe a few laughs and jokes along the way, but given the volume there is to look at, it's hard to tell exactly where to start.
I guess the best place is a brief history of Onision, but trying to summarise exactly what has happened there is a task much easier said than done.
What we could really use is a historian, for the internet, you know, an internet historian of sorts.
Oh, what's that? He's busy. Doing raid sponsorships. Well, that's fine. I didn't want him anyway. I know someone better.
Hey, hello, thanks for having me on, that's really nice of you. I'm very happy to be here, actually.
I hope everyone's just having a fantastic day. My name is Pinely, I also have a YouTube channel that you should really subscribe to.
And fun fact about me, I'm actually a pretty massive Onision fan. I think he is just the best.
I don't want Mulder to take me to Area 51!
Oh, he's so swell. How could he even not like this fine young man?
You know, I remember how a few years ago I was watching him dancing around and singing in that banana costume,
and at that moment I was thinking to myself, damn, I guess this is it.
This is where comedy has truly reached its peak, and since I'm such a massive fanboy of Greg,
I've actually made sure to keep track of everything this man has ever done since he was born.
So this is what we're gonna talk about today in Pinely's Corner.
Greg's various projects from before he started his YouTube channel.
Ready? Okay.
So back in 2002, when Greg was just a 17-year-old boy, he created this very cool website called Hybrid Eye.
As you can see, the design is really scary... and orange.
Let's read the description, shall we, folks?
Please feel free to browse all of the links. If done so, you will find many intriguing pieces of literature and graphics.
Some areas of Hybrid Eye will have a symbol like...
Oh, basically stating that the words or images could be slightly disturbing to those under the age of 14.
And sadly, some in their 40s.
Greg also decided to call himself Odd on this website, that was his name.
Just so you guys can know that he's really weird.
He's not really your average Joe.
He makes really deep poems about religion, the Stone Age, and some other sensitive stuff.
That website lasted a whole year before eventually collapsing into itself and dying.
He later moved on to making quite a lot of gaming related websites with a friend of his called Jad.
They had one about Metal Gear Solid and a game review website called Gamer's Shadow.
Apparently, there was some drama surrounding that one.
Some evil people were making fun of poor old Greg.
So yeah, he had to ban all of them.
2003 was also a pretty busy year for him.
He made yet another gaming website with his friend called Extreme Gaming Headquarters.
Yeah, you heard that right.
It's extreme.
You can see from the design of it just how extreme it really is.
The Extreme Gaming Headquarters is an online gaming society made up of elite gaming fans and pros.
He also created like a billion different websites for web hosting,
website promotion, and website developing.
But that's kind of boring, so I'm not gonna dwell on that.
More importantly, he made another website to show off all of his literature and poems and whatnot.
It's exactly what's been missing from my life.
First off, again, a sick design.
Looks real futuristic.
And what's really good about this website
is that I was actually able to find some of the pieces that were on it.
So I hope you're ready to hear one of them because here we go.
What is a pointless fight?
Why do senseless conflicts happen?
Who are the ones who fall victim to these battles?
Over the past, humanity has been damaged deeply by pathetic and disgraceful wars
that happened both between politicians and among average peasants.
Today, smaller verbal battles occur all over our schools.
An individual calls another a foul name,
and immediately the victims think they have some sort of honor to defend.
And this resorts to a fight.
I find this very funny.
This is clearly a guy who really wants you to think that he's so, so smart.
When in reality, that's not really too accurate.
Average peasants.
Jesus Christ.
Then we reach 2004.
Greg graduated from high school,
and you can really tell that at this point he was all like,
Oh, well, I'm not going to see any of these people ever again.
You know what?
I might as well just show off my really, really awful opinions,
because why the hell not?
And that's exactly what he did later that year.
So the first website he made in 2004 was definitely not as bad as the second one.
Greg would just talk about some radio show he liked.
I don't really care.
Later on, around a year later, he turned that site into a website all about him.
The Gregory J website.
He also made this one really, really, really stupid website.
I think it also showcases what kind of person we're really dealing with here.
The site was called Rape Prevention Info.
Yikes.
And here's the description of it.
My name is Gregory J. Daniel.
I am a man of dignity and integrity.
And today I look at our society in recognition of what mockery we have become
due to lack of enforcement of rape crimes that occur every moment of every day.
Not too long ago, I was appalled by suggestions that women dressed themselves up as if they were
homeless or mentally handicapped just to avoid an attack.
This is terrible advice, as hostiles do not always choose based on attraction.
They do it off of who looks most vulnerable.
Weakest.
Today, you will learn how to defend yourself.
When you are through, you will find what true freedom is.
Dress how you like, live how you like, and be ready for the worst.
For if you are, no attacker will ever be able to walk away without they themselves being a victim.
I don't know what made him think this is a good call to make this website.
He's just so clearly full of himself.
You can just see that he thought that he's some sort of savior for all women all around the world.
I know, you might say,
Oh, finally, he was just trying to help people out.
Why are you being like this, man?
Well, I don't know if that's really something that could be said.
When some of the advice that he gave is stuff like,
I don't know.
Act like you are possessed by a demon or mentally handicapped.
Oh, and who can forget about have a bowel movement and rub it in his face.
In 2005, he went on to make another website dedicated to documenting his time in the army.
And then a year later, he found himself on YouTube.
And I think I'll let the right opinion continue from here.
Thank you all for having me on this channel.
And hey, make sure to subscribe to Pinely.
It would make me feel really good and happy.
Oh, guys, look, it's the Internet Historian.
Yay!
Uh, thank you, thank you.
Is Tro here?
Uh, no, I don't think so.
Good.
Why are you running a balaclava?
Showman here.
That's right, I'm even on other channels.
Have you heard about Rayman Legends?
It's a new game sweeping the nation like a deadly virus.
And now it's coming for you and your family.
Play clip of large crowd of people talking about Raid.
You haven't heard of Raid Shadow Legends?
Raid Shadow Legends is a free RPG PVP.
Look at those ratings.
People are going wild.
That one didn't look too wild.
Here's a more measured review.
It has over 15 million downloads in the last six months.
That's over three times the population of the Central African Republic.
And six months, that's over three times the average lifespan.
Wow, impressive.
In fact, I'm so impressed, I'm flying there right now.
Please put your phone away, sir.
We are about to take-
Just fuck off, lady.
I'm customizing over 400 champions that I can collect in the game.
Raid Shadow Legends, huh?
Sir, please, the plane is about to crash.
Wow, what a spectacular view.
Almost as spectacular as the 13 unique in-game-
True, how much longer does this ad go for?
Speaking of dungeons,
make sure you participate in the weekly events to win extra prizes.
The prizes are off the charts.
I can barely contain my excitement.
They've even got a new roadmap.
Who needs Google Maps when you have this baby?
You can play with me, too.
Please raid someone.
I'm gonna raid Shadow Legends.
And you should, too.
Click on the link and claim your epic new hero
and 50,000 non-transferable pieces of silver on...
Raid Shades of Light.
I do sincerely hope you all feel enlightened, because I know I sure do.
But this is the last non-dramatic phase that we'll be covering,
because Onision, believe it or not, is quite a dramatic person.
Now, that was a rather neutral, albeit humorous, perspective on Onision's background prior,
and during his ascent on this beautiful platform.
As noted, he was a real veteran of the internet who had a vision of where he wanted to be,
before many people had even realised the potential of online stardom.
But he was much more a person who tended to fire whatever at the wall with the hope it would stick,
and that formula would not deviate with YouTube.
Old YouTube was created off the basis of weird, wacky, and typically quite annoying.
The obsession with LeFunny voice and LeFunny face is what bolstered Onision's career,
but there was something edgier to what he made, though not always.
You see, Onision was more than just a performative persona, like many creators at the time.
If you were going off his main channel, you probably would have the impression that he takes
pride, and maybe even catharsis, in a slightly unstable character.
However, it didn't stop there, Onision had created a more personal side to him.
This would mainly be projected on the Onision Speaks channel,
although it did sometimes spill over to the other sides of the internet.
Imagine if Fred started a channel where he scrapped the funny voice and began discussing abortion.
That was basically what Onision Speaks was to Onision,
but I think this quickly spelled out two things to a large majority of the audiences.
Firstly, that Onision's personal life was going to become a very public matter,
and secondly, my god, Onision likes to talk about himself.
Now, narcissism is a trait found in a fair few creators, and it's not always disruptive,
but with Onision it was a different brand, and many audiences played into that brand,
whether that attention was positive or negative.
One thing that I would say is that the design of the brand Onision Speaks,
initially being an outlet of Onision rather than making it a more personal venture to him,
showed the proximity of the Onision brand to our friend Greg here,
so he probably weren't going to receive the best dose of sanity.
A great example was his early crusade against meat-eaters.
Onision's main channel would put out some wacky video, maybe with an underlying message,
but you wouldn't take it too seriously.
Onision Speaks- If you feel kicking an animal isn't right,
if you think that torturing living creatures is wrong,
and yet you yourself still consume animals,
don't even waste your breath, Moo.
Don't waste our time, Moo.
You're just as bad as the people that slit our throats, Moo.
And Onision would come in and undercut that with a clarification about how this wacky message
was actually very authentic, and you should definitely listen to it.
Onision Speaks- Vegans do what they do out of necessity.
They save animals by doing what they do.
They save themselves by doing what they do.
Meat-eaters do what they do for whatever reason they do.
Slowly killing themselves.
Onision was online, and alongside came a close-up documenting of his life,
and the next decade of relationships and drama that we will have the displeasure of covering
over however long this takes.
In many ways, it'd be convenient to create a linear timeline of Onision's behaviour,
but honestly, I don't think that we'll be able to do that justice,
because that implies a simple rationalisation,
or at least explanation that can be observed in a chronological way.
And let's face it, Onision isn't exactly known for his rational behaviour,
so we're going to be doing a documenting of all of it, all over the board,
and seeing what exactly it tells us.
Let's start small and move on to greater things.
I'd also like to preface the fact that I've split this video into three rather meaty parts,
and apologise for any inconvenience that may cause.
I hope they will all be worth their time.
Onision has been relatively successful given his stint on YouTube,
and success means you're doing something right.
I think for this part, it's best we look at that before delving into the darker side.
Now, I said at the start that Onision clearly enjoys attention,
and I do believe, to an extent, that motivation is the real bedrock of his content.
Now, so what? A lot of people enjoy attention,
and even if the subject matters were a bit socially loaded,
you could take a lot of his earlier content as somewhat removed from the constraints of discourse,
even if they were bizarre as hell.
Nonetheless, the desire for attention manifests itself,
particularly when you, as a creator, have very little to offer.
And let's be honest here, Onision isn't the most inherently talented person,
he couldn't really sing, he couldn't really act,
he didn't really have any exceptionally insightful social commentary,
all he knew was about attention,
and as people's bar for comedy and other creative content was rising,
Onision wasn't changing.
In spite of this, there is a key to maintaining internet relevance,
and that's creating a relationship with your audience.
Relationships can be created over different mediums,
but for many creators, that relationship can be as simple as sharing experiences.
Sometimes a creator will make more personal videos to do that,
sometimes that means breaking character.
With Onision, openness became a gimmick, there was nothing off limits.
When many creators open up, we will see it as brave,
as it's often a risking element to their persona.
With Onision Speaks, every time he spoke about something, it tackled sensitive topics,
and even if the views themselves weren't the greatest,
he was developing something of a cult persona.
It also allowed him to tackle more serious topics with a degree of clout.
He would upload videos on an incredibly regular basis,
and it provided a medium to create a closer relationship with Daddy over here.
I don't really know where I stand on a few issues,
if I am the villain or the hero, if I am good or pure evil myself.
If by doing everything the right way, the way that I thought was best,
was really even the right way at all.
Because it seems that by doing the things that I feel makes this world better,
or doing the things that I feel make me a good person,
I am in fact contradicting everyone else, and I wonder if wrong is right and I am wrong.
You have to remember that we're in 2010,
a time when many of the largest creators wouldn't be considered celebrities,
so many of them would have a decent interaction with their audience.
Onision at that point was in the top 100 most subscribed creators,
as strange as that is,
so having a channel which allowed people to become closer with him
was a strong foundation for a more dedicated fanbase,
and the fact that he had that level of attention at all
would mean that there would always be a certain amount of people
who idolized him for that popularity alone.
However, not necessarily satisfied with the simplicity of a regular fanbase,
Onision always had a slightly different approach to developing his fanbase beyond.
You cannot choose who supports you,
however, your actions and behavior can definitely shape your audience to a reasonable degree,
particularly if you know how to exclude a demographic.
This can be done, for example, by taking advantage of polarizing insensitive topics.
Now, it's hard to say I know too many people who actively shape their audience,
it's something hard to do if you're just trying to make content for yourself,
but I am of the belief that Onision definitely did.
I'll explain more soon, but first I want to focus on his techniques.
And what this all clearly comes down to is if you are pro-circumcision,
then you are helping the rapist.
You cannot feel with something that does not exist,
and when you promote the removal of the foreskin,
not only are you making the penis less sensitive,
but you are also desensitizing it to pain.
A pain that is intended to naturally occur in the uncircumcised penis of a man
who is attempting to destroy a woman both physically and psychologically.
One thing that Onision knew was how to provoke.
He was never one to be afraid of confrontation,
and confrontation is sometimes a good way to really build an audience.
If you pick a point of view or a strong opinion,
you will find an audience who will respect your outspoken and confident demeanor,
even if you have no actual clue what you're speaking about.
Onision was not qualified in any of the topics that he spoke about to my knowledge,
but he tackled them nonetheless.
Obviously, this sort of drama was documented with his meat-eater's content.
However, over the years, he would regularly have public fallings out,
with whoever he could manage.
Sorry, I'm just starting to get really sick of hearing about this asshole starting a new drama,
and he can sit back and say,
oh, he's learned his lesson and it's so hard having these opinions,
and we all know in another three months when his views start to plateau again,
that he's gonna start some new shit.
From 2010, when he had a feud with Shay Carl,
over Shay's decision to circumcise his son,
to 2016, when he had a feud with Cyr,
because he voted for a third-party candidate in California.
These are the sorts of ideologically loaded topics
that would obviously attract fans and critics alike.
He would regularly express controversial opinions on rape,
self-harm, suicide, and multiple other issues that would really rile people up.
He would also regularly go after multiple creators
whose content and audience may even overlap into his,
such as his feud with Shane Dawson,
a person who he collaborated with, was friends with,
and even shared a romantic kiss with.
Yet, in spite of this,
him and Shane had a significant amount of drama,
particularly relating to how Onision felt Shane had treated him as a friend,
which there may be some legitimate annoyance in.
However, since then, Onision just made multiple videos on Shane Dawson,
mostly attempting to call him out,
but often just trying to work out a way to bring problems back to how Shane had treated him.
Shane Dawson.
Oh God, Onision's making another video about him.
But talking about him has a lot of advantages.
Number one, his name attracts video views.
Number two, on a regular basis, people imply that I look like him,
which gives me this immortal, annoying association.
Number three, I really don't like him,
and ranting about him is therapeutic for me.
The one time that Onision did try and make a more serious call-out video
is in the form of this 50 millet pseudo-documentary,
in which he states that he believes Shane Dawson is a pedophile.
Actually, no, that would be unfair.
He doesn't say for certain he's a pedophile,
he just goes through talking about how Shane Dawson fulfills
a large majority of the prerequisites to being a child predator.
Wait, Shane Dawson just said that he doesn't tell those jokes anymore.
So lying is obviously the number one tactic of predators,
as you can see at the top right here.
Not telling the whole story, that's what Shane did
by not addressing every single clip that he says was taken out of context,
but instead he only addressed one where he proved that it was taken out of context.
He was jumping all over the place with mood swings by screaming and cussing
and then being all normal and then getting kind of emotional.
The punishment again is the yelling and the cussing.
The denial is very clear.
Finning the truth, trying to devalue everything that's said about him
by saying it's all just jokes and that he was saying messed up jokes,
but never really again telling the whole story
like him trying to justify people being a pedo.
Where in one podcast he said that he didn't view it as very different
from people who have foot fetishes.
Or the clip that I played you where he states that he doesn't understand
why people get arrested for looking at children who are not clothed.
And again, that's minimalizing.
And then of course he went to play the victim.
You could say he targeted the victim, i.e. people calling him out,
but the real victims are to be determined,
because so far all he said is that he googled actual children in that situation.
So I guess it would be all the children that he googled
and describe the results that he saw.
These were claims he reiterated for a significant amount of time,
and although he did apologize approximately five months ago,
it is undisputed that this feud likely alienated audiences
who may have found Onision through Shane's content,
something that Onision does acknowledge himself.
Now, to be frank, I think the treatment of Shane by Onision has been rather poor,
given the number of videos made, the tone of these videos, and the message.
However, you could at least make the rational argument that
Onision was bitter and upset about a friendship.
What would happen if we went one step further and visited a situation
where there was no way of stating any coherent explanation together,
and yet as of right now, it is probably one of the key examples
to the next point in my video.
But maybe to illuminate this situation,
we should spin the wheel and see which commentator can help me out.
Take it away, my G.
Well, mom, I finally made it.
I'm on the right opinion.
But I'm talking about Onision.
I'm currently a bit under the weather, but never as sick as my buddy Greg,
the man who obsessively harassed, mocked, and exploited a fellow YouTuber
with an eating disorder for nearly three years.
I'm of course referring to Eugenia Cooney.
If anybody was in the dark about Eugenia Cooney and her controversial time on YouTube,
Shane Dawson swooped in and filled everybody in.
But if you're still out of the loop, Eugenia Cooney was your average 2013 YouTuber,
just a happy young girl doing Q&As, participating in tags, and showing off outfits.
Fast forward three years where a man named Greg would make a video on her,
and unfortunately, change her life.
And just so you're aware, the majority of these videos are AWOL in the shadow realm,
because deleting evidence is always fun.
But thankfully, they've all been documented.
Believe it or not, but the first video that Onision made on Eugenia Cooney on May 9th,
2016 was actually defending her.
I mean, with a title like Eugenia Cooney is anorexic, you wouldn't think so,
but Onision simply compared her body to a supermodel's, claiming they weren't that different.
Four months later, Onision's opinion quickly changed with the titled video,
Eugenia Cooney.
And a whopping 10 Eugenia videos would follow in the next two months.
Onision was clearly worried about paying rent or something because it became very apparent
that Eugenia was more so a cash cow to Onision than a charity case.
A supposed cry for help became a target on Eugenia's back.
Onision would urge his viewers to unsubscribe to Eugenia if she did not gain weight in a
certain amount of time, claiming that if you continued supporting her, you would be helping
her die.
Now, thankfully, Onision announced in early October of that year that
he had no plans about making any more Eugenia videos in the future.
But tweets?
That's fair game.
At Onision,
Give her a more I care about you but I'm not humiliating you approach.
Tried that, but Eugenia, the obvious sociopath
Onision accused people of being a sociopath before it was cool
continues to inspire young girls to starve themselves regardless.
At Onision, you think humiliating her is the way to fix it?
If someone is without any doubt killing themselves,
bringing attention to their condition is the least you could do.
Anorexia is lethal.
Greg has a funny way of responding to people.
Yeah, I'll take a voting the question for 500 Alex.
Shortly after a petition was made to get Eugenia off YouTube,
Onision just couldn't help himself and off the wagon he went.
This would quickly become a trend.
Onision would say he's resigning on the topic of Eugenia,
but then proceed to talk about Eugenia because
Last time I checked, when you resign from something, you can take it up again if you choose.
Why even say that Greg?
The hell's the point?
Just say the possibility is always there or don't cap it off.
Just just leave it.
Regardless of what somebody is saying, you should always look at their intent.
Why are they doing this?
Onision could push his anti-anorexia campaign all he wanted,
but as long as he kept uploading videos like this
His intent was clear.
Now sure, some could say,
well his method of saving Eugenia is abrasive, but it could prove effective.
I wouldn't be so sure.
This is essentially the equivalent of fat-shaming,
which according to a professor of health psychology at the University of Sarain,
a 2019 article from BBC, shaming is the wrong way to move forward.
Even in the example of somebody claiming fat-shaming led to them losing weight,
Professor Jane Ogden says that experience is atypical.
At this point, Greg's videos were garnering hundreds of thousands, if not millions of views.
So it wasn't a surprise when the milkman kept chugging away.
I have nipples, Greg. Could you milk me?
I don't even think he was hiding it at one point.
In one of his videos, he was quoted saying
Hey there, I haven't made a video on Eugenia Cooney's weight in months.
My videos on Eugenia Cooney always do very well.
So as a person who's concerned about Eugenia's health,
and a person who wants to make successful videos,
I'd like to take the opportunity to publicly check up on her now.
Really? What's wrong, Greg?
Onision Judge is not hitting like it used to?
Probably the most pivotal piece of evidence is when
YouTube mass demonetized videos about Eugenia Cooney,
and then Onision re-uploaded a video to another channel of his titled
Please Help This YouTuber Heal.
Not doing this for money.
Many more Eugenia re-uploads later.
She announces on Twitter that she is taking a break from social media
and privately working with a doctor.
Please respect that.
You guys saved Eugenia.
I may know who saved Eugenia.
It wasn't me.
How Eugenia Cooney will look after recovery.
Those are some things I need to say.
If you have anything positive you would like to say to Eugenia Cooney,
please post it to the page where she can go to see nothing but supportive
slash loving statements.
Thanks to you and the awesome mods.
I'm happy we're making a safe place for her and others.
Yeah guys, please go tell Eugenia that you support her
on my website's forums that have banner ads.
It's to help her.
Trust me.
As usual, the rumors are not true.
I am not making videos on Eugenia Cooney for money.
This is an important topic that needs to be discussed.
I have a Patreon to help me when my videos do not get monetized.
I truly do care about her.
As usual, I come with proof.
His proof is a screenshot of only four videos out of this 60 he made
that were dinged for demonetization.
Here's seven reasons why this tweet is horrible.
The number one thing you need to give an eating disorder is attention.
Not making videos on Eugenia for money
and not making money on Eugenia videos are two very different things, Greg.
I've made a lot of videos about Eugenia Cooney.
It seems you requested a review for one of your videos,
and the only reason you would do that is in the attempt to monetize it.
You just outed me yourself.
It's very possible after you tweet this,
you put in a review for the rest of the videos and maybe get them all monetized.
Your argument is decimated.
I have a Patreon to help me when my videos do not get monetized.
Did you guys know I have a Patreon?
Well, I mean, not anymore.
Do I want your attention?
Why even bring up Patreon?
That hurts your claim, if anything.
Guys, I'm not making these videos for money.
I get my money from Patreon, so it doesn't matter.
Being stupid means you lack intelligence or common sense.
I might be mistaken on this one, but you should have a more recent video up
that's not in this screenshot for some reason.
You just put it out there even more.
Just a week after this tweet, Onision listed 21 of his Eugenia videos
because he didn't want his more negative videos.
Still hanging over Eugenia's head as she dealt with her disorder privately.
At least that's what I would have said if Greg wasn't a scummy hypocrite.
He placed those 21 videos behind a paywall on his Patreon.
Not doing this for the money.
It's extremely gross at this point.
Greg is literally taunting her with these re-uploads and these money-grubbing shenanigans.
Don't worry, guys.
He took them off his Patreon a month later after he already took everybody's money.
After everybody went in there, took the videos and downloaded them.
And he knows that.
He knows that wasn't going to last long.
He wanted the quick buck.
This saga ends with videos like Eugenia Cooney's beautiful emails to me,
where he basically emailed her saying,
I wish the best for you.
Sorry about those jokes in the past.
All 600 of them.
Sorry about accusing you of quite literally murdering kids because of your disorder.
Dick move on my part.
And Eugenia, being the nicest person alive, replies saying,
Yeah, you should have really approached all of that differently, but thank you.
And Greg cashes in two videos off of that.
Did you just want more content, Greg?
Or do you actually care now?
We may never know.
But what we do know is that the majority of Onision's Eugenia vids were made pre-adpocalypse.
So he has made, I would assume, tens of thousands of dollars off of her situation.
That is excluding the subscriber jumps that he most likely received from those videos,
which then trickled views into his other videos,
trickling money into his Patreon, trickling money into his merch.
If Onision making 60 plus videos on Eugenia Cooney was not for money,
then I guess the down payment on a mansion was just an unfortunate byproduct.
Those videos that were made intended to help Eugenia Cooney
get to rehab and start to rehabilitate.
Eugenia Cooney has since gone to rehabilitation and is rehabilitating.
Correlation does not imply causation, but whatever helps you sleep at night, Greg.
Thank you, Mr. GG.
What a G.
So here we have a man who picks fights with half the YouTube community.
Some of the most popular creators, including many of his former friends are Onision,
not Mr. GG though, he might do too.
Onision is provocative, offensive, unpleasant, and all around completely contradictory.
You'd have a hard time pinpointing where his principles and beliefs often lie,
owing the most loyal of fans would support him.
But maybe that's the point, and I will elaborate.
Many moons ago, I found myself for the first and only time stumbling across an Onision Speaks video.
I can't really remember too much about it, but it was regarding some social rights,
and on the whole, I remember agreeing with it.
It seemed like a sincere appeal to humanity.
Now, I didn't know much about him back then, but there are sprinkles of videos,
given the volume of them, that will typically appeal to an audience.
Onision embedded himself with certain behavioral characteristics
which were tailored towards people who may be vulnerable.
I'd identify four techniques that were very specific to what he created.
Firstly, his nature speak directly to the view often.
It allowed him to craft narratives that felt personal.
It felt like he was speaking to you a lot of the time.
That can be really endearing.
You can still walk.
You can still move your arms.
You can still talk.
You're very capable.
You're emotionally damaged.
So what?
I am too.
But that doesn't mean we just end it.
That doesn't mean we just quit.
There's hope for you.
This allowed him to create a more personal connection with the viewers he resonated with,
especially in environments where people may not have felt cared about.
Just having someone talking to you like that can really make a difference.
Secondly, his nature used a lot of language that one might class as compassionate,
with a framing that may feel more rational.
It appeals to people's emotions while giving them a security in the reasoning that he presents.
I'm not saying this is a bad way of arguing.
We can appeal to principles of morality a lot of the time through this,
but it will definitely attract a certain type of audience.
Because the relationship situation you find yourself in later on in life
does not necessarily define your fucking sexuality,
as sexuality doesn't necessarily have a whole lot to do with appearances.
You're acting like just because I don't own a fucking castle,
I'm not interested in owning a castle.
Just because somebody isn't with a beautiful man or a beautiful woman
doesn't mean they don't want to be with one or the other or both at the same time.
Thirdly, he would appeal to an authority.
Which authority?
Well, himself, his experiences, his life.
This would embolden him in the audience's mind.
Now, we all appeal to our experiences from time to time,
but he often did it in a very personal, revealing way, and he did it very often.
The best I can tell you is to use your best judgment.
When I deal with people who have cheat, I tend to disassociate myself with them
because they don't really have any reason to have done it beyond their own perversions.
So please decide for yourself what is best.
And don't do what I've done in the past,
where you forgive them for cheating.
Finally, he wasn't perfect, but he knew it,
and he knew his audience wasn't perfect either.
He'd appeal to the beauty in the imperfection,
being the outcast, the other people.
He was your voice.
Are the values of others so important that whenever you look in the mirror,
all you see is what they tell you you are?
Is the person you wish to be truly someone else?
You want to decide your actions based on what you think others will think of you?
Or would you rather live your life the way that you want to?
When you discover who you truly are,
when you finally decide to take on your dream,
to live by what harms no one, what feels right to you,
the ridicule and mockery you get from others becomes irrelevant.
Once you have found who you are, once you discover the truth within yourself,
no lies or corrupt persuasion can change who you are.
They can't change who you wish to be.
He could be confrontational, but he also could be sincere, soft, well-spoken.
But his messages were clear.
He wanted you to be stronger.
He'd been there.
He had been to the darkest places in the world and came out on top.
His imperfections were your imperfections.
He was as tortured as you, but you didn't have to let that hold you back.
An idol is meant to be someone we can aspire to, but also someone we relate to,
and Onision was crafting himself as the idol to the vulnerable, broken youth.
He'd have all these opinions, but then he'd have this deep fleshed out backstory.
He was this walking character study slash sitcom
who would derive a lot of his opinions from his very serious experiences.
But because of all his contradictory, destructive, hurtful behaviour,
you'd have to lack some capacity and critical thinking to give him a pass,
and yet some people did.
In fact, in spite of this, he had a lot of devoted super fans,
which is probably what he wanted.
One of the tones that he has conveyed is a consistent distrust in authority,
even those who might be qualified.
And let me let you in on a secret, or at least a personal observation that I'm making.
He wants to be the authority.
Before Onision's YouTube venture, hopefully mentioned by a good friend earlier,
he ran a site called Sesesca.
I think this represents eventually what Onision wanted his channel to be.
Sesesca was a religion that Greg started when he was 17,
although he stated he had subscribed to the doctrine since he was 11.
I personally find that unlikely,
but hey ho, I think deciding the truth on such a statement would be a bit of a tangent.
Sesesca as a concept had all these bizarre ideas
that one might expect from a new start-up religion.
Onision would regularly spend time in forums promoting the religion,
sometimes acting as a follower, sometimes acting as a founder,
maybe he was testing a response,
or maybe he was just doing what he felt was the most socially beneficial.
He also posted some emails he thought were of value from the site,
including ones where he credits his sociopathic traits
as giving him some form of god-like qualities.
How very inspiring.
There are many other highlights, but you can see it for yourself.
In a way, it makes him a monster.
In a way, it makes him a god.
Now we may laugh at things like this,
but the truth is that all over the world,
cults like this are formed under the belief that the person at the helm is some sort of god.
Onision knew that,
and therefore tried to replicate the formula to create a cyber cult of sorts.
Abuse of power within cults is often solicited when a person is roped in
by an individual's charisma or sincerity or extensive wealth or any other values like that,
but once they're in and once they have become indoctrinated with this belief system,
they become often dependent on the cult leader, often financially and emotionally.
This allows people in power to exploit that control.
Creating a cult online has a few downsides,
one of the biggest issues is physical proximity.
When you're trying to escape a cult, it's not just mental entrapment, but physical.
Even if it's not exactly a prison, the feeling that you may be chased or face a consequence,
even worse if you get caught, is scary.
If a cult leader has shown themselves to be capable of exploitation,
who knows what lengths they'll go to maintain that.
Obviously, although someone is not powerless over the internet,
the window between people often gives them more control to make decisions
that may help them distance themselves from controlling individuals.
On top of this, it's hard to channel assets like charisma and sincerity into text form,
so it made sense that actually Onision's YouTube channel worked better as a medium.
To all you pro-lifers, I have a question.
How many times do you need to be raped and impregnated before you figure out
that having a choice
may be a little bit more important than you originally thought?
When you originally look on his channel,
maybe you're met with one of the less atrocious takes,
maybe you're met with something you feel passionately about,
maybe you're in need of help and you're looking for a philosophy to latch onto.
Onision isn't incredible, but he can communicate those feelings to a competent degree,
and every now and then he'll say something that will resonate.
Onision would talk about his personal life, his background, his time in the army,
the time he almost took his own life, it's all very personal.
He would talk about these experiences as if they weathered him in a way,
and gave him some found wisdom.
In my mind, the moment that gun was to my head, I stopped being afraid.
I stopped caring.
I've changed as a person since that day.
Because now I feel like no matter what happens to me,
I made it way further than I should have.
The thing is, although I said there was no discernible explanation for his behavior,
many people have created theories over the years, including Greg himself.
For example, one situation where he diagnosed himself with Borderline Personality Disorder
to explain his volatile moods in videos regarding a relationship with another person named Adrian.
This explanation was actually initiated by one of Greg's viewers,
and this led to a saga itself where he discussed it in a video.
Hi, I just found out something great from an Onision.net member.
I have Borderline Personality Disorder.
So now we know the problem.
Although he would denounce this four years later in another video claiming to be ignorant,
it definitely represents these sort of fleeting explanations that many of his audience grapple at
to justify and understand his behavior, and maybe even explain it themselves.
In that situation, many more critical viewers have believed he was attempting to manipulate
Adrian back into a relationship with his videos,
before then scapegoating mental illness to avoid accountability for his behavior.
But hey, at least he had that elaborate backstory in trouble and pain
that reeled in so many people who felt like they knew him.
Ladies and gentlemen, they really didn't.
As mentioned, it was a guise so people would feel some sort of semblance of sympathy
for all the terrible things he did over the few years.
So before we go any further, I suggest we document the lies of Onision.
But to do that, I brought my friend once again, Jay Aubrey.
Take it away, my friend.
It's been a good few months since I've gotten to speak my shit,
but it seems Greg is just the gift that keeps on giving.
What better way to ring in the new year than by revisiting our good pal, right?
Looks like it's time for round two.
When James asked me to cover the many lies of Onision, I really didn't think it was possible.
I mean, with an online footprint as monumental as Greg's,
keeping track of every intricate fable he's spun over the past decade
is like stapling jello to a tree.
But his rampant dishonesty does go on to further illustrate the type of creature we're dealing with.
And with a timeline as clunky as this one,
I suppose it's only right we try and keep everything as concise as humanly possible.
Why don't we start at the beginning?
I was brainwashed since a child to think that America was just the greatest place on earth
and the Air Force is not full of nothing but elites, OK?
Now, before I continue, I want you guys to know none of this is confidential information.
OK, there are movies about how corrupt the military is.
It's not new news.
For years, Onision has used his veteran status to glorify his own image
while simultaneously criticizing the U.S. military.
According to Greg, he signed up for the United States Air Force
when he was 19 years old in January 2005,
not graduating boot camp until May of that year.
He joined SCRE school the following day,
but immediately dropped out after refusing to kill a rabbit
before moving to San Antonio, Texas, to begin special training in August.
He was finally deployed to South Korea before his honorable discharge in 2008,
only it wasn't as honorable as he'd like it to be.
Hey there.
So as of late, there's been a bit of debate over what my discharge was from the U.S. Air Force.
Somebody posted this to Twitter.
I thought that was interesting that someone actually went digging
to find out whatever documents are out there.
See, Greg has tried to get discharged a couple of times.
Apart from regularly uploading videos in uniform,
he also tried to convince medical professionals he was depressed,
along with stripping naked in his sergeant's office
to prove he was human and, quote, not a robot.
He got thrown in a cell and received an Article 15 for that little episode.
Probably wouldn't warrant an honorable discharge, for sure.
But Greg was adamant about this and proved his nobility
by showing off some documents as evidence in a video.
Sure enough, honorable was checked off, so everything seemed to add up.
At least until 2017, when it became public knowledge that he received a general discharge.
You guys imply that I wasn't discharged how I said I was.
I wasn't discharged honorably in any way.
And then you release a document that says I was discharged how I was described
and that I was discharged under honorable conditions.
And you know what? That's fine.
If I was discharged generally under honorable conditions,
that is still literally honorable.
By the title, it says honorable.
Receiving a general discharge under honorable conditions
is not the same as an honorable discharge.
But you know that and you still don't care.
With a discrepancy this minute, is there anything you won't lie about?
I started a religion when I was 17 called Seska.
Thank you for doing that, Dubbs.
I started a religion when I was 17 called Seska.
You know, if I had to guess, if I want to play this little religious game,
I would go with the following theories that I'm going to express over the next few days.
Since the young age of 11, Greg has denounced the teachings of the Christian church,
turning away from the Bible and embracing a unique belief system of his own, dubbed Seska.
But after being exposed for trying to turn it into a religion in 2006,
Greg denied his affiliation with the ideology,
deleting the website in a frivolous attempt to sweep the incident under the rug.
Though unfortunately for you, Greg, you can't hide from me.
According to the archived site, the lore behind Seska goes as follows.
The earth creates all energy, humans come from the earth, humans are to protect the earth,
and our bodies are used as shells to feed our spirits.
Yeah, that's a rare glimpse into the mind of an 11 year old onion right there.
The website originally stated that Seska found its way into millions of homes across the globe,
until Greg later bumped that number down to thousands.
Both, we can assume, were gross over-exaggerations meant to feed
an already inflated sense of self-importance.
Greg's religion would never meet its full potential, not only due to its insane principles,
but also his ridiculously ego-driven attempts at recruitment.
Outlined quite vividly in a 2005 email, where he depicts himself as a sociopathic,
god-like figure in search of a loyal following.
Seska would make a reappearance, however, under the religion tab of the Onision website in 2008,
writing,
Though this description barely lasted a year, disappearing from the website again before 2009.
It was later revealed through public court records that Greg had filed to have his name
legally changed to Seska at one point, perfectly demonstrating his mental
follies and further illustrating the man's twisted perception of himself.
A god whose omnipotence knows no bounds.
Though in 2013 his mastery was challenged after being called out for another infamous
controversy widely known as Turtle Gate.
I just looked up tortoise, uh, what exact kind of tortoise I have.
It's a Russian tortoise, not a desert tortoise, but guess what that means?
It means that the basking temperature of a tortoise that I had, look it up,
look up Russian tortoise, and you'll see a turtle that looked just like the,
the tortoise I had, sorry, I just keep saying turtle, it's just easy.
Anyway, Greg announced on Instagram the death of his Russian tortoise,
Reptar, with a photo of a plastic bin laying upside down in his backyard.
According to Greg, Reptar's death was not the result of heat or a lack of oxygen,
but rather a panic attack likely induced by noisy neighbors,
claiming it could not have overheated because he bought the tortoise under a heat lamp,
disputing any claims of ignorance by playing victim and labeling his
critics as hypocrites since most of them probably eat meat anyway.
You guys owe me a fucking apology, you do, all y'all, all y'all smurfs,
you don't even deserve names, you're just smurfs, okay, you smurfs, you owe me,
you owe Onision an apology, I did not kill my tortoise, you want to know why?
Because basking temperature for a tortoise is 95 motherfucking degrees, look it up motherfucker.
But in case you think his consistent incompetence is anything other than purposeful,
maybe you haven't heard about the wetlands.
See, Onision's property in Washington is actually sitting on some pretty sizable wetlands,
only he isn't allowed to do much with them, the law specifically prohibits him from damaging any
of the land surrounding these bodies of water, which is why questions began to arise after his
neighbors shot some footage of what looked like our friend doing just that. This wasn't confirmed,
of course, until Greg literally filmed himself cutting down trees in his backyard after being
explicitly told to stop, landing himself in some deep trouble with the law.
And if you talk to your neighbors and the housing organization, then guess what,
you wouldn't have gotten any fees and you would have been perfectly fine, they would have said,
yes, clear these out, it is totally okay, but no, what you did was ignore the county coming to you
and telling you that you can't do it, and then you rented a fucking bobcat and you're on video
doing it, that's what they showed in court, literally a clip of you and a bobcat mowing
down a tree. Seeing as the man isn't exactly the upstanding citizen he may claim to be,
he later emphasized that he did nothing wrong during his process of, you know, breaking the
law, but I guess it's all well and good because he still forces audience to pay for it, so I can't,
what else is new? Long story short, to all my haters, I know you're useless, irrelevant,
and wish you could be my boyfriend, but you can't, and I know that's why you hate me,
so instead of flucking me, you'll just have to settle with my parting advice,
you should fuck yourself, you should fuck yourself, you can't fuck me, so go fuck yourself,
I am a god and you are peasant scum, so get a broomstick and fuck your own bum.
Onision may not be the brightest crayon in the box when it comes to wetlands,
but he sure could teach a master class in manipulation, there's not one thing that
falls out of this cretin's mouth that you can take at face value, with his rampant
deceit dating back literal decades, I'd sooner trust James to pay me, and we all know that's a
stretch, but as one of YouTube's most prolific and notorious sociopaths, it'd be ridiculous of
us to expect anything less than unbridled deception and overt immorality. Uh, I didn't
bake my turtle, okay? That just was not, it's not possible to be hot enough, unless of course,
putting him in a plastic tub outside, a large plastic tub that has air coming into it,
and it has air coming into it, and if he wanted out, he could just dig, you know, because he's in,
he's in dirt and, and grass, he could just, because they're digging turtles, those turtles dig.
Anyway, oh, you didn't know that about the turtle either? You didn't know he's a digging turtle?
You guys don't, you need to do your research, to, to quote you, you need to do your research.
I was fucking right and you were fucking wrong, huh?
You probably still think you're a good person deep down there somewhere.
Idiots don't escape anything but reality.
There's a phrase that money does not buy happiness.
The thing is, with all these lies accounted for to many people,
they weren't lies, even if there was evidence to prove otherwise, that's the point of a cult,
people leave their reasoning at the door, and once he had that grip over a dedicated fan base,
he could move in and take what he needed. Onision is like one of those badly worded spam emails,
but in this instance, it's badly worded by design, so that only people who can't notice
its insidious nature will be interested enough to fall for it, and once they've taken the bait,
Onision moves in, like a crocodile.
This can be observed over a number of methods.
The first one, of course, is using his power to ask fans for favors.
One of the most common in this regard, especially in the YouTube regard, is money.
Now, I don't know how much money Onision has made, but he has three channels that
have all approximately amassed 2 million subscribers each with a lot of views.
Until very recently, he had a Patreon, he has his own website with ads, he sells books,
songs, even an album. Now, I highly doubt that too much of his YouTube content is now monetized,
and to be frank, for good reason, however, in a less sensorious time,
I'm sure he was making more than enough.
This is a guy who uploaded a lot, and I mean a lot.
If you consider that at the peak he was uploading onto all three of his channels,
in very short time periods, this was something he was heavily committed to,
and then you have to count all the videos he's deleted as well.
So it may come as a shock to many, when in 2017, Onision announced that actually,
he was in a serious amount of debt.
Onision's initial response, like all creators under stress, was to place his main channel
behind a paywall. After this was met with annoyance from many fans, he once again flipped
making an angry video telling people that their reluctance to support such content was because
he was worthless to them, a classic guilt trip. He goes off on this massive diatribe about people
stifling his dreams, he has truly lost his marbles.
And what I've gotten from all this is, not only am I not worth 49 cents to a lot of you guys,
but I never really had a real connection with a lot of you.
It was always about you getting something out of watching me,
and never about actually having a real bond with the person you're watching.
It's frustrating that there's such a huge amount of entitlement on this site, and no realization
or recognition for the person who's actually behind the camera, who's actually trying to
follow their dreams, rather than just fall in line with everyone else.
So when you look at the monetary aspect of $5.50 a year, or the 49 cents a month, it's not just
money. This is you establishing that you're different than everyone else and that you can
shell out half, is it a third of the candy bar? Is that a third of a candy bar that you'd be
shelling out? That you could shell out that small fraction just to actually help somebody you care
about, who you say you care about, survive the huge financial wall that's about to crush them.
Obviously, this was a terrible way to respond, and people quickly picked up on that,
and he had to change his tune, so he came back a month later,
singing a different key, and explaining the situation in a bit more depth.
Hey guys, I talked to the IRS today, and representative of taxaudit.com,
and I got some really bad news, and the bad news is that there's certain tax laws that
I did not know about, and one of these tax laws is telling you that you cannot deduct
more than 1.29th of a business property acquisition each year.
Now, initially, I didn't see anything threatening about this video. He opens up about his issue,
takes responsibility, and appears to just be asked to be able to support if they can,
which if he genuinely needed money, he could ask, and although I think anyone would be
justified in telling him that this is his fault and he doesn't need any more money,
if you actively enjoyed his content, then who am I to tell you what not to support?
In that moment, at least.
This is my screw-up. I screwed up hard. I wasn't educated on these taxes, and I used TurboTax,
and I hoped that they would educate me on those, but TurboTax didn't have a pop-up dialogue that
said, hey, when you claim this property, you can only do 1.29th of it. Never got a pop-up dialogue
saying that, so it's a tough one. I do have a Patreon, patreon.com slash onision. You guys
are keeping me going, especially now that we know I have at least $150,000 in debt.
However, not too long after, he decides to go off on another diatribe blaming an app called
TurboTax for telling him that it was unlikely he'd be audited before complaining about the
society he does indeed live in.
As for chances of me getting audited every single year, it was in the green.
TurboTax told me that it was a very low chance of me getting audited, so never trusting TurboTax again,
and surviving this is going to be rough, it's going to be heartbreaking, but this is the country we live in,
and this is the government we're dealing with.
Honestly, although I accept people can criticise the system while accepting personal responsibility,
it's a necessary part of providing perspective, I just find his tone and structure rather unsettling.
It gives me the impression that he's attempting to manipulate an audience into having the perception
that on one hand, he's remorseful, and yet it's over something that's not his fault, it's society's.
It's like he's trying to manipulate people into thinking he's wrongfully remorseful, and that he should
He also released this weird video on his main channel, which seemed semi-ironic, but then had
these very unironic statements directed at some of his exes, which I think confused the audience as much as me.
I'm now making, you know, what normal people make, and I basically am feeling suicidal because of that.
I recently went through a breakup, I dumped somebody, and they didn't worship me after, I don't know why.
I think I have an STD, I didn't cheat on Lainey, I just somehow got an STD, even though Lainey doesn't have STDs.
Still paying alimony, literally, that sucks. We divorced like six years ago, but you know,
f*** me, right? My riding lawnmower's broken, donate today.
Now, though that's my opinion on that set of videos, I'm willing to provide benefit of the doubt to a
degree that people respond to distressing situations in an often irrational way. However, Onision wasn't
finished with his crusade, and another situation which demonstrated this more clearly came into
clutch, this relating to Onision's wetlands. Onision moved into another house in the last year,
and decided that he wanted to clean out some unwanted content from these wetlands. Now, the
wetlands were a protected area, so Onision was not allowed to make too many changes to the surrounding
environment. In a legal document, it's reported that Onision wanted to clear the area for the
purpose of having a clean view of the lake, but even after being warned, he persisted, and
eventually concerned neighbors caught him on video.
Onision's Dad So, category two wetland.
There's a hundred foot buffer from the edge of the wetland for development.
Need a permit at the very least, and mitigation for clearing.
Now, there is no doubt after watching this that Onision acted recklessly, and has full
responsibility. The documents show he had been warned at point of penalty, and he persisted.
What exactly was the outcome? Well, we can't exactly be sure. We know that fines of up to
$10,000 were threatened. However, in the final legal settlement, we do know that Onision was
requested to replant all the damaged and removed items. So, after being called out by many people,
clearly annoyed at his behavior, what does he do? Well, he obviously misframes the situation for a
bit, but then in response to all this criticism, he starts a GoFundMe.
Onision's Dad This GoFundMe also received pretty immediate
backlash, and then in response, Onision turned into a bait and switch, claiming that he was
baiting people into showing that they didn't actually care about the environment because
they weren't actually concerned about his wetlands, and they didn't want to give him
money to show them that they wanted it replanted. That is some A-Star grade logic there.
Onision I didn't think anyone would donate. I was actually doing that whole thing just to make a
point, and my point was kind of destroyed when some people started donating, so...
I did get the joke, but I also feel the methodology was flawed. If he started a GoFundMe to prove that
no one actually cared or could put their money where their mouth is, surely he'd have made it
a more serious video to actually test people, and even then it fails as a concept. Anyone with
basic reasoning skills would say that donating to the untrustworthy man's crowdfunding project
to restore the garden that he destroyed would not be a good idea. Although masqueraded as a
vague point, it was once again a desperate attempt to raise money, because he does not like losing
it. He has more than enough money, no doubt about it, but he hates losing money, and around a similar
time, it appeared he also started another GoFundMe which was for a new Onision forum,
but that one is long gone. It's like a broken record running round, and round, and round.
The real campaign is a message board. I have a message board that I want to fund. I really love
forums and so forth, and I want to fund that. Onision doesn't want money because he needs it.
Onision wants money as a statement of power, and he wants to see how loyal people are to him. He
never wants to lose. It's a test of who really cares about him, not the wetlands. Onision has,
and have, multiple videos up where he has lamented the little money he makes, and yet continues to
live a life of reasonable wealth. Onision- Despite all this, despite this overwhelming debt that I
cannot pay, I don't see how I could, because I don't see how any bank is going to give me $450,000
as a loan or anything. If he cared about money as much as he claims to, he wouldn't behave so
recklessly, but like a child, it's all about how much he can get away with with the audience,
and see how they will excuse it. It's a power trip to him, and he's flying first class with
a crowdfunded ticket, but this plane is about to take one deep dive.
So Onision's pity party for favors is certainly part of how he plays with his audience's
dependence on him. However, why would he stop there? There are multiple examples that have been
documented in other people's videos for how he levies this control, but there are points that
many have argued this is pushed into rather perverse territory. Onision is a person who
doesn't hide much, and when I say that about Onision, I mean it in the most troublesome sense.
When I was working on a video for Jay Aubrey covering the relationship history of Onision,
I realised that he projected a fair amount of fetishes onto his own channel.
Onision. I'm coming for you. Jay Aubrey. Come to me. Onision. Almost there.
Jay Aubrey. Wait, what? Onision. That's right, baby. Your lips taste like cherry.
Jay Aubrey. Oh my god, no. Onision. This feels so right without whiskers. No more
sandpaper except down there. Mmm, girl. This one is from when he was having a weird
three-way relationship with two people who we'll cover in the next video. In a way,
this is presented as a funny comedy video, but it's not. It's a cuck fantasy, and this is just the
tip of the iceberg when we get down to it. There's a lot to talk about, but we'll start with the
tamer stuff, which isn't saying much. So Onision has a third channel, a commentary channel.
Uh-oh, bro. Such a nice name. Not satisfied with two channels, he started this little project in
around 2012, centering around commentary. However, this channel was very strange. It posted on some
instances very childish content, but also a lot less savory stuff. Now, obviously, we have the
wonderful Onision forums, the wholesome oasis in the barren internet desert, and uh-oh, bro has a
channel where people send him pictures of themselves, and he decides to rate them. This was also the same
channel in which he took a test to find out if he was a pedo. Excellent optics, I must add.
suggested I take a pedophile quiz, and I know a lot of you probably thought I would never take a pedophile
quiz, but I think that idea is freaking hilarious, so I'm gonna do it. In fact, this channel is quite
unpredictable in the tone, with many criticizing him for placing child-oriented content alongside
much more mature uploads. Now, if a person has a range of interests, then they are more than
welcome to express it, but I don't think those were his motives, so let's talk about this
delightful rating system. In Onision's forum, he had a place where people could post pictures of
themselves and ask to be rated. Now, I admittedly find the concept alone rather strange. I understand
why people send pictures to be roasted, or complimented maybe, but to be rated by Onision,
well, strikes me as a bit off, and Onision has a habit of making everything strangely personal,
as always. And even unsettling.
I'll add a minor caveat that those clips were from a video on his Onision Speaks channel,
although he has done videos on both channels with similar tones, the comments from that video in
particular were just a personal favourite. I mean, if you gave it a passing glance, you may not see
anything dangerous about it on principle, it's just with the context of his other work considered,
he probably shouldn't be rating people, and with the latest clip, he's made it 100% clear he has no
issue if they're underage. I'll be honest, I'm not exactly sure what barometer he's rating these
people on, I'm sure many of us have told other people they look good or they look nice as a good
compliment, as a way to maybe encourage them or provide them with confidence, but the sort of
dynamic he's operating is slightly strange. He's a large creator, he knows his power, he knows he's
gonna have a load of young fangirls who want to appear in these videos because he's popular.
That was probably the major complaint relating to this content, this extended to individual cases,
including a woman who claimed to be the sister of an 11 year old child who posted a picture in the
forum to be rated. Onision states that he likes to keep his children off the internet due to
these communities, and yet actively engages them when they're not his own. Despite knowing the risk
and the amount of creeps online who would take advantage of this sort of content, I dislike the
whole dynamic, I think it's unhealthy, and I think given the context we're aware of, once again it
was a power trip that Onision likes to feel control over his fan base, the idea that he can provide
his personal approval to people and they can be recognised by him. I mean, of course Onision put
out a condescending response video where he stated that the fact that he placed disclaimer in the
forum stating it was 18 plus was, of course, reasonable precautions. Excluding his other
comments that make it look very flimsy, people were not buying it at all, and people didn't
think that Onision really had the protection of children at the centre of his heart.
Onision- First off, I want to establish that the forum specifically stated 18 plus only, so if you
submitted a photo and you're not 18 plus, you either weren't paying attention or you're a liar.
Either way, shame on you. It's not just a simple thing, it's Onision taking what he can get, and as
we know from his history, he doesn't have many limits, and he has curated an audience who will
consent to him doing anything and supporting him through multiple controversies, and the fact that
this sort of thing happened for years without anyone being able to take him down a notch was
a testament to the commitment of many of his most dedicated audiences. Uh-oh bro seemed cultivated
towards reeling children in with seemingly childish videos and then involving them in his
much more mature rating game, and other videos of the sorts. It was a trap. Onision's sexual desires,
paired with the immaturity of his tone on many of his videos, is a concerning combination for many
apparent. It was Spider-Man and Elsa, but more subtle. However, the notion of subtlety had worn
thin by 2019, as his Twitter became something else altogether.
Hello everyone, my name is Fainted, and today the right opinion has kindly requested that I use my
professional tweet reading skills to narrate some Onision tweets, and um, it's about to get pretty
graphic. Just a warning. I don't care if you hate yourself after you masturbate to me, I just want
you to be satisfied. Just woke up with an erection. Will you take care of it for me? We'll make you
breakfast while you recover. Bro, give up on lesbians. They will never be into you. If they are,
they're not lesbians. I need more cute British accents in my life. Well, this may be the video
for you, my friend. We've got the right opinion. We got Fainted. What more could you want? I love the
look in your eyes when you realize my baby is growing inside you. You know, I'm kind of over
denying how incredible I am. Your screams of pleasure say it all. I wouldn't fuck you if I
didn't think you were beautiful. I wouldn't come inside you if I didn't think it belonged in you.
You were made to be fucked by me. Others may hate you, but they don't win unless you hate them.
In other news, wanna give me a blowjob? They say when you have sex with someone, a piece of them
follows you for life. I'm cool with that. Everyone has something beautiful about them. My best moments
are spent unloading inside of you. Oh wow, I really hope my parents weren't listening when I was
recording that. The true colors were showing, and people were starting to pay much more attention to
his reckless behavior. But there was a lot of digging to do. Over the years, whether it was the
lies, contradiction, infidelity, animal abuse, many people stood by him. But even worse, people went to
him. I wish we were near the end, but we are not. And that's why you should join me in part two,
where we talk about the individual cases, and the mentality of the man behind them.
So yes, that was the video. I want to thank all my collaborators who've done such a fantastic job.
Your contributions are greatly appreciated, and I'm sending my love to all of you. I don't really
have too much else to add to this video. As said, stay tuned. Wanna give a big shout out to my
editors, my patreons, editors and patreons together. Imagine that, that would be wild.
But yeah, my editors, check them all out. Patreons on the screen right now, I've got a few individual
thanks to give. I wanna give a big shout out to my $50 patreons, Sam Hallabaloo, Nico Deschamps,
and Caroline, and a very special thanks to my $100 patreons, Brandon and Stanton. Stanton's a new
guy. Thank you again, Brandon's a classical OG, thank you too. If you wanna reach me, my Twitter
is at TheRightOpinion, Facebook, TheRightOpinionOfficial, Discord, in the pinned comment,
Instagram as well. As said, I don't really have too much else to add, I'm gonna go die now,
so I hope you guys stay tuned for when I re-emerge for part two. Hopefully not too long in the future,
because I wanna keep everything on a relatively tight schedule. Thank you. So until then,
I'm TheRightOpinion, and I will see you in the next one.
