Hello! I'm Sam, this is my channel, this is That Wikipedia List, and this is That Wikipedia List.
September 3rd, 1967.
Sweden decides to switch from left to right.
Swedish motorists accustomed to left side of the road driving
join the growing trend throughout Europe to cross over to right side traffic flow.
That was a crazy day for Sweden.
Prior to 1967, Sweden, much like many other European countries,
drove on the left.
Most countries in the world, in fact, began driving on the left because that's how carriages
did it and carriages did it that way because that's how horses did it.
The rules started in the first place because back in the old days,
most would brandish their sword on their right side.
So when riding, they wanted to be able to respond to an oncoming attacker on the right side.
Archaeological evidence proves that left side riding was the norm throughout much of
the ancient world. The shift to right side riding came when freight wagons got larger.
As trade became more common, demand grew so teamsters, the old term for wagon drivers,
started adding more and more horses to pull heavier and heavier loads.
There weren't seats on these wagons so teamsters just sat on a horse.
Most chose to sit on the back left horse so they could whip with their right hand
since the vast majority of people, especially at the time, were right hand dominant.
Therefore, the teamsters chose to ride on the right side of the road so that oncoming
wagons could pass on their left and they could clearly see that their wheels were clear.
Fast forward 200 years and 65% of the world's population drives on the right side of the road,
which, as it turns out, is the worst side to drive on.
You see, humans are naturally right side dominant. As we know,
the vast majority of the world's population is right handed—about 90%.
But the vast majority of the world is also right eye dominant.
Humans actually do have an eye that works better than the other.
For about 70% of the world's population, that's the right eye.
While driving on the left, the right eye will focus on oncoming traffic
while the left will see what's passing by.
This may contribute to the slightly lower accident rate in left side driving countries.
Anyways, let's get back to Dagen H—the name for the day Sweden switched.
In 1955, Sweden held a referendum on the issue of driving directionality
and a staggering 83% voted against changing the direction.
The national legislator known as the Riksdag promptly responded by deciding to make the change.
The rationale was that every single one of Sweden's neighbors drove on the right,
and most imported cars, which were the cheapest cars, were designed to be driven on the right.
In the months leading up to Dagen H, every intersection was outfitted
with an extra set of signals and signs wrapped in black plastic.
8,000 buses were retrofitted with new doors on the right side,
and the rest were sold to Pakistan and Kenya.
New lines were painted on the roads, then covered in black tape.
Milk cartons and underwear with the day's logo were sold in stores around the country.
Contests were held for songs about the change, then finally, on September 3rd,
1967, at 3pm, the law switched, and the entire country had won enormous traffic jam
as drivers slowly inched across the white line to get to the new normal.
No one died that day on Swedish roads. In fact, nobody died the day after as well.
There were only 125 collisions compared to the average of 164.
It seemed that the switch worked. However, by 1969, collision rates were back to normal.
It turned out that the roads were only safer because drivers were more cautious
as they learned the new traffic patterns. I'll end with an only somewhat related but
interesting tidbit. The Geneva Conventions have a treaty that outlines international rules of
the road, including the rule that traffic directionality must be uniform throughout
the same country. The vast majority of countries follow this rule with no problem. However,
the good old US of A holds the territory of the US Virgin Islands, where all drivers drive on the
left, and therefore the US is technically in violation of the Geneva Conventions,
which, as the no-longer-existent country of Yugoslavia knows, is kind of a big deal.
Anyways, I hope you enjoyed this video. Make sure to click subscribe to catch more episodes
of That Wikipedia List and other videos I make. You can also follow me on Twitter
at WendoverPro. Additionally, you can check out my last video on the secret symbol that
stops you from copying money here or watch an old video of mine on space law here. Lastly,
I think it's worth mentioning that I've been putting out videos far less frequently recently.
I work seasonally in outdoor recreation and summer is a really big time for that,
so I just don't have as much video-making time. Once mid-August rolls along,
I'll be back to releasing videos almost every week.
