The whole gamergate 2 thing came about when Sargon brought up on the killstream how hilarious it would be if Trump tweeted about gamergate, years after it was done.
Of course, because the crowd, or should I say, the cowd, that orbited the killstream back then were a bunch of spurgs,
they all thought that Sargon's been living in the past for years now, pining away for the good old days of gamergate, hoping for it to make a return.
There are a few people from gamergate like that out there, who wish that it was still 2014, but I don't think Sargon's one of them.
The point he was making, as far as I can tell, is that to the twitter verified crowd, gamergate was their Vietnam.
Most of us who were pro gamergate back in the day rarely talk about it anymore. It's over.
But social justice journalists keep trotting the corpse of gamergate out whenever they need a boogeyman to pin something on.
Or, more commonly, whenever they need to rile up their base by inducing PTSD flashbacks about that one time the commoners were able to actually oppose them in the cultural sphere.
The conservative wing of politics basically abandoned pop culture 50 years ago, to their own detriment because politics is downstream from culture.
And it's only been in the past decade, and even then only sparingly, that we've seen cultural works revolve around conservation rather than liberation as their central theme.
Here's just one example. It's no surprise to me that Game of Thrones, Attack on Titan, and Fallout 4 all prominently featured spirituality projected onto a huge protective wall,
and that they all came into the zeitgeist during the rise of the alt-right. I'm not saying that media shapes the politics of the people.
It can, if it's an ending propaganda, but that's not what this is. This is more like the politics of the people shaping the media.
But here's my point. When the conservatives abandoned pop culture, pop culture became the domain of the center left and the radical left.
The radical left, being radicals, went to war with the center left, and slowly began to eject them from the Overton window.
This is why Hollywood's always been more left than the rest of the states. This eventually filtered down into the rest of society through prolonged media exposure.
And it was relatively easy for things to quietly and slowly shift over time.
Without the balancing force of conservatism, academia was easy to radicalize.
The academic is, by their very nature, a force for liberation rather than conservation.
They want to discover the unknown and bring it into balance, hopefully for the good of society.
This is also why radical governments of both stripes slaughter academics when they come to power.
They're the ones who are most likely to discover all the ways in which the government's wrong.
Journalism was also quite easy to radicalize. The journalist is, by their very nature, a truth seeker, a stone turner.
They also want to liberate rather than conserve, this time truth instead of pure knowledge.
I'm sure, in their own demented way, even pipsqueaks like Carlos Maza view themselves as speaking truth to the great orange power.
It's the same with movies and TV, business and governments. In nearly every area of society, HR departments had a field day.
There were only two cultural domains that the radical left had a natural disadvantage in. Sports and video games.
And it's not hard to see why. Both revolve around competition.
You can learn to cooperate in most areas of your life, and it's usually for your betterment to do so, because cooperation is an important skill.
But some areas are strictly competitive, and in fact do not function without competition.
Social justice is finally making a foothold in sports using trans ideology.
Their claim is that a trans woman can spend most of their lives inundated in testosterone at levels equal to a man,
then identify as a woman, transition, take some estrogen which will decrease their strength,
but not nearly enough to counter a decade or more of what is basically steroid doping,
and then turn around and compete with cis women in physical sports.
This is why there's now the common joke, men make the best women.
Well, that and traps.
Because trans women are demolishing cis women in professional sports in ways that are, quite frankly, unfair.
But the SJWs didn't gain their foothold in sports by trying to dismantle competitiveness.
They simply changed the rule of the game so that their guys, and I'm using that word gender neutrally, would always win.
It's the height of narcissism that somebody like this would hold her arms up in triumph,
like she's actually the victor of anything meaningful.
That's not to say that winning in women's sports isn't meaningful, but rather it's this victory that strips it of the meaning.
It's just disrespectful towards the women who didn't have the advantage of testosterone-producing genitals.
However, video games are the one cultural domain where the usual SJW tricks just didn't work.
It worked in sports because, one, the physical ability between the genders is huge,
and enforcing an everyone is equal or it's oppressive dogma onto the sport basically meant they'd always win.
And two, because sports are public.
Normies watch them, normies play them, normies talk about them around the water cooler at work,
sports stars are idolized by normies.
But video games aren't like that. They're not nearly as public an activity.
Yes, I'm sure you can have some great conversations about games in the lunchroom nowadays,
and that's great because when I was a kid you'd get beat up for being a gamer.
But the big names in esports are speedrunning? They're not household names.
Nobody puts posters of them up in their rooms, or wants to be like them when they grow up.
Sure, those people can still make good money doing what they do, but it's still a largely private enterprise.
I've taken the long way to get here, pals, sorry about that, but you needed the context.
Gamergate is the progressive Vietnam, because when the progressives came for gaming like they had come for everything else under the sun,
and the average gamer learned about it due to the incredible incompetence of Zoe Quinn,
we were basically able to run them off.
It was the first true defeat of social justice in the field.
Yeah, there may be more SJW indies out there than ever.
AAA games are sacrificing quality for politics, game journals are becoming ever more extreme,
and like I said in yesterday's video, garbage business practices like the Epic Store or Games as a Service are on the rise.
But all this stuff is happening in the open because we pulled the curtain back.
SJW indies are desperately maintaining a crumbling, cliquey power structure
against the influence of YouTubers and streamers, like myself, who are willing to just play the games they like.
AAA developers that excessively misbehave end up destroying themselves, like BioWare or Blizzard.
Game journals are becoming more extreme because their industry is dying and this is their final gasp.
And hopefully, as time goes on, the market will speak out against the Epic Store or Games as a Service.
Do your part, lads.
So, when Sargon said, let's get Trump to tweet about Gamergate, he didn't actually want to start Gamergate, too.
Rather, he understood that progressives would be waking up at 2am in a cold sweat if it ever happened, because they just cannot let it go.
Really, think about it.
Why did Patrick Klepek write, we need to get ready for gamergate politicians?
Sargon's done other noteworthy things than gamergate.
But for this specific crowd, gamergate is the sticking point.
It's the battle scar that still aches.
It's the Jerusalem they failed to hold on their crusade.
What is gamergate and why parents should know?
You're about five years too late, man.
It's over. Nobody's talking about it anymore.
But if you search gamergate on Google News and limit it to the past few months, you'll still unearth a massive pile of articles.
They just can't let it go.
There's been a few things that felt like the sparkings of a new gamergate.
The stuff in my MasterCard video last year, maybe.
The Patreon purge, where Sargon was unjustly removed from Patreon, and their official rationale on the topic basically amounted to them tripping over their own two feet.
The Adpocalypse, where Carlos Maza's retaliation against Steven Crowder for some frankly pretty lame jokes led to the demonetization of thousands of channels, including channels not even remotely involved in the controversy.
And hell, there's a new event right now that could even be another gamergate-sized event.
Facebook plans global financial system based on cryptocurrency.
Facebook unveiled an ambitious plan on Tuesday to create an alternative financial system that relies on a cryptocurrency that the company has been secretly working on for more than a year.
The effort, announced with 27 partners as diverse as MasterCard and Uber, could face immediate skepticism from people who question the usefulness of cryptocurrencies, and others who are wary of the power already accumulated by the social media company.
The currency, called Libra, will also have to overcome concerns that Facebook does not effectively protect the private information of its users, a fundamental task for a bank or anyone handling financial transactions.
You know, I don't trust Facebook with anything. I certainly don't trust them to be a global bank.
Big tech is looking to monopolize every single sector of your life, not just the online speech domain.
Oh, and also, the 27 partners also include PayPal and Visa, not just MasterCard.
So there's a chance we're all just screwed.
But my point is, all of these felt like gamergate-sized events, but never seemed to generate the massive online cultural shift that gamergate did.
Maybe it's because you could only have the scales fall from your eyes once, you know?
Before gamergate, my channel was anime and video games. I still do that stuff on alternate channels.
But now I talk politics here because I feel like, even with my microscopic reach, it's still some contribution to the discussion.
Gamergate felt like the betrayal of an enthusiast press that I thought had my back.
And as a result, I realized I had to be a lot less lazy when it came to interacting with the wider gaming culture.
I couldn't just blanket trust anymore that the people in the industry, whatever that meant, were properly doing their jobs.
But I also met a ton of great people who I do trust are doing their jobs, from YouTubers to streamers to let's players to indie devs to journalists themselves, people I would never have known about otherwise.
And as vitally important as the Patreon purge, or the Vox Adpocalypse, or Facebook creating the New World Order is, they'll never be gamergate 2 because it was never about gamergate 2.
Gamergate was where we cut our teeth. I don't think things will ever blow up like that again.
But I also don't think they ever need to again. At least, not until the next generation comes up.
We're more alert now. We're smarter now. We're more informed now. We're less likely to swallow people's BS.
And now that we're actually present, we've got some exceptionally tough problems to solve.
Let's solve them.
