The last video was all about the train wreck that is Santa Inc, go watch that if you missed
it.
One of the best barometers of just how bad Santa Inc is, and this also works for the
Star Wars sequel trilogy, for the cowboy bebop live action remake, ghostbusters 2016, or
really any shitty woke modern retelling of a classic story, is the ratio it got on Rotten
Tomatoes.
Rotten Tomatoes is a website for movie reviews founded in 1998, boy looking at this brings
back memories.
It was meant to be a place where anybody could log in and leave reviews of any movie, following
in that late 90s and early 2000s trend of internet services as democratizing cultural
forces.
The system is easy enough to understand, there's a series of professional film critics who
contribute to a film's fresh score.
A total average score of 60% or higher indicates a fresh film, 59% or lower a rotten one.
A certified fresh score indicates 70% or higher with at least 80 reviews and 5 from top critics,
whatever that refers to.
Meanwhile the audience score is more simplistic.
The audience can't rate from 0 to 100, but from 1 star to 5.
A full popcorn bucket means that more viewers rated the film 3.5 stars or higher, and an
empty popcorn bucket means that more viewers rated the film as lower than 3.5 stars.
Seems real simple right?
What could go wrong here?
Could it be that given enough time and political interest, the creator class and the audience
class would have diverging interests, leading to those two scores representing entirely
different things than advertised?
I mean it's 2021 so yeah that's exactly what happened.
The critical score seems to be balanced heavily in favor of left-leaning politics, and that's
no surprise to me, it makes sense that a more left-leaning person would have the personality
type that draws them to professional film critique.
But that doesn't mean that the audience score is a mirror of that, being heavily balanced
in favor of right-leaning politics.
In fact the audience score seems to be more balanced in favor of the apolitical.
Leftists, rightists, and centrists all have access to the audience score, and I'm not
surprised that a more neutral take would shake out of that.
So when you see a film that has a high critical score but a low audience score, your best
bet is that it's a bunch of woke garbage that explicitly pushes a prog message to the
detriment of quality.
While if you see a film that has a low critical score but a high audience score, it's either
explicitly anti-woke, which is kinda rare nowadays, or more commonly it's a series
that has ducked the revisionist trend as of late and held off in the politics in order
to create a more authentic experience.
Also keep in mind that this effect can still take place even if the film itself is apolitical.
If a writer, director, or actor makes a very public political statement, or finds themselves
in some kind of controversy online, then this effect will still happen, and it can bend
either way, left or non-left.
Here let me show you some examples.
Let's begin with Santa Inc, that godforsaken series that's kicked off my dive down this
rabbit hole.
Yep, it's still at a 4% audience score and no critical reviews.
Not even the establishment is trying to prop this dumpster fire up.
Back in 2019 it was a bit of a controversy that film critics were shitting all over Rambo
Last Blood, before Rotten Tomatoes even opened up the movie for audience voting.
This massively enlarged prostate of a film can only make you wince with its badly acted
Geronto ultra-violence, its Trumpian fantasies of Mexican rapists, and a hilariously insecure
US border, and its crass enthusiasm for rape revenge attacks undertaken by a still-got-it
senior dude 73 years young on behalf of a sweet teenager.
Gabriella falls prey to a Trumpian array of bad hombres, including a pair of central-casting
cartel sex slavers.
Rambo has long been a symbol of imperialistic rage, and Last Blood is no exception.
Transplaining the action to Arizona provides the natural setting for a border drama that
plays into Trump-era fear-mongering, right down to its ominous shot of a border wall
as Rambo heads south in search of justice.
Trump Trump Trump.
Jesus, I forgot what things were like during the Trump era.
I wonder if these idiots are all still screeching about Trump nowadays, especially considering
that the reality of the situation on the Mexican border occasionally turns out to be
exactly like the movie.
Nowadays, Rambo Last Blood has a 26% from critics and an 81% from audiences, almost
like the screeching outrage of the progs only made people like it more.
But it could also be more simplistic than that.
Sometimes people genuinely like simplistic movies, or even bad movies.
And I don't mean in an it's-so-bad-it's-amazing kind of way, like The Room, Troll 2, or Birdemic.
These movies generally end up with extremely low critic scores, with audience scores that
are all over the map.
Consider that The Road to El Dorado, A Goofy Movie, Hook, and Jumanji are all movies that
are just sort of okay, but nonetheless have a lot of nostalgia attached to them.
I'm not surprised that the audience score is higher based on love of the idea of The
Thing rather than the quality of The Thing itself.
You know the new Batwoman show?
One where they made her black for political reasons, and the costume design looks so shit
that the Batwoman porn parody had better costumes, and the director of said porn laughed at the
show about it?
Yeah, we've got an 80% from critics and a 16% from audiences.
I don't know if the show is actually good, probably not, but even if it was, public disrespect
for the source material by the creators is another reason for audience backlash.
You can see similar trends for stuff like Sausage Party, Ghostbusters 2016, The Last
Jedi, and Captain Marvel.
It turns out people don't want to eat shit, no matter how much the reviewers polish that
turd up.
In recent years, the various scores on Rotten Tomatoes have actually proven to impact a
film's success or failure, to the point that studios have begun to take notice.
There's been complaints from a whole bunch of different people about how movies are flopping
due to having a bad score on Rotten Tomatoes.
The answer to this, of course, is to make a better movie.
But Rotten Tomatoes itself has had its own share of controversies over the years.
Back when Joker came out, people noticed that a 3 out of 5 rating for the film was given
a Rotten Icon, but other movies around the same time, given the same rating, were given
a Fresh Icon.
The person who posted the reviews in question didn't know why it looked that way, and
that it wasn't their fault, but the fault of Rotten Tomatoes.
This led people to assume a subtle suppression attempt of Joker on Rotten Tomatoes, and because
of the highly politicized nature of that movie, everyone lost their minds over it.
The thing is, though, the article I'm showing on screen describing this story is around
the middle in terms of length, and ends by saying, ultimately all of this information
confirms that there is no conspiracy against Joker and Rotten Tomatoes doesn't have a bias.
But the article doesn't actually prove that conclusion.
No, really, I linked the article in the description, pause this video and go read it really quick.
It points out other instances of this same discrepancy, but doesn't actually explain
why it's happening.
Additionally, when Captain Marvel came out, Rotten Tomatoes deleted thousands of audience
reviews on release day, simultaneously claiming that the deletions were accidental and due
to a bug in their service, while also claiming that the reviews were false and created by
bots.
I mean, if they really were bot reviews, there would be no need to claim that their deletion
is a glitch.
They would be doing their job properly in that case.
Of course, it didn't matter to the score at the end of the day, Captain Marvel now
has 100,000 audience reviews with a 45% approval rating.
But I'm sure it mattered during that opening weekend rush, when a good chunk of the money
on the movie is made.
It doesn't matter if everybody knows the movie sucks nowadays, if you can hold off on publicizing
that realization for just long enough for the studio to make their money, it'll be worth
it.
The same thing happened with Doctor Who.
Frankly, in my opinion, Doctor Who is never good.
Its best moments really only reach the height of mediocre.
But their new stuff is a real dumpster fire, and fans have been letting their displeasure
be known on Rotten Tomatoes, where they roundly rejected season 12 of the show, only to later
discover that their reviews were being deleted by the site.
And don't get me started on explicitly political documentaries.
Mayor Pete seems to be a stinker.
I Am Greta and Hillary are even worse.
But probably the hardest ratio of all is for Fauci.
Here's something that's real interesting.
On most pages, you see a heading called What to Know, which includes an explanation of
the critic's Tomatometer score.
But only on the Fauci page is there an additional heading, explaining that 2% audience score.
After Fauci's digital release, some viewers express their dissatisfaction with the subject
matter by giving the documentary a Rotten rating.
In other words, Rotten Tomatoes felt the need to add a disclaimer to explain that people
are downloading the movie not based on the movie's quality, but because they don't
like Fauci.
And fair enough.
But when the movie in question is a biopic, it's reasonable to expect those two topics
to be linked.
Of course, like I said in my Get Woke, Go Broke video, all of this still doesn't prove
the existence of a hard and fast rule.
The RBG biopic is still well liked by both critics and the audience.
The Cowboy Bebop live-action remake was panned by both, while The Wheel of Time is loved
by both.
And yet, both shows are doing so poorly financially that journos are feeling inclined to try and
spin their failures as positive.
How far do you have to go down the Bezmenov subversive hole before you start to say such
incredulous shit as, being rejected by the common person is a sign we're on the right
track?
Cope.
Seethe.
Unionize.
Over the den of sexual abuse, Vice.com, titled Rotten Tomatoes Reviews are the Culture Wars
New Battlefield, show that critics know exactly how all this looks, and that they have a need
to maintain that facade of neutrality.
Because if they're neutral and everything just so happens to be flowing their way from
a neutral power structure, then they're obviously just objectively correct.
And their opponents are all just right-wing review bombers who are mad about being phased
out in the new modern cultural landscape.
This article looks at Dave Chappelle's The Closer, 43% with critics and 96% with the
audience by the way, and frames it as a part of the wider culture war.
Over the past few years Rotten Tomatoes has attracted political actors, especially right-wing
ones, to the site to review big pop culture events like Marvel movies.
This is a part of a broader cottage industry.
Weirdos on YouTube, for example, make dozens of videos about the box office numbers of
Marvel movies with non-white, non-male leads in order to make a central point about how
being woke, i.e. making movies starring people who aren't white men, leads to poor box
office numbers.
Of course, Vice would describe their political opposition like this.
The term cottage industry is only partially true, but its use delegitimizes critics of
broader cultural leftism specifically because those critics lack institutional backing.
The description of woke as being about movies that don't star white men losing money is
an obvious oversimplification.
For example, the issue with the Star Wars sequels isn't that Rey is a woman, it's
that Rey is a shitty character, playing out a shitty story.
And the whole weirdos on YouTube remark is wallpapered over a deep insecurity and resentment
that online print media has towards YouTubers nowadays as YouTubers replace them, just as
online print media replaced TV, TV replaced radio, and radio replaced newspapers.
This is a problem far larger than just Rotten Tomatoes.
Remember back in 2020 when The Last of Us Part II dropped, one of the shittiest games
released in the past decade or so, and it was shown on Metacritic to have a 95% reviewer
score and a 3.3 out of 10 user score?
Meanwhile, releasing around the same time was the remake of Spongebob Squarepants Battle
for Bikini Bottom, an absolutely beloved game by fans of the original, where the critics
score was 66% and the user score was 9.1 out of 10.
I'll tell you straight away, I never liked the Spongebob game, and the remake wasn't
very good, at least not for me, but that's because I didn't play the original game
as a kid.
There's no nostalgia for me there.
And while nostalgia can cloud your judgement, that doesn't mean that the fun derived from
nostalgia is somehow illegitimate.
People just like what they like.
And if that means the dirty, unwashed masters are going to massively upvote their mediocre
Spongebob game because it was a formative part of their childhood, while rejecting The
Last of Us Part II because it's absolutely fucking awful, who might argue?
I do the exact same thing with Earthbound.
That game's got loads of technical problems, but I love it because I played it when I was
a kid.
The difference is, I don't feel personally attacked when people say they don't like
Earthbound.
I don't feel like it's some huge assault on a grand political project I've been slowly
building up behind the scenes, subverting institutions left and right in order to piece
it all together, because I'm not a fucking commie.
That is the reason they're doing it.
The everything is political, quasi-fascist mentality pouring out of prog activism at
breakneck pace nowadays is something to behold.
That's the political goal of all of this stuff.
Again, just like the last video, you've gotta read Gramsci.
But there's also a distinct personal reason for it too.
All of these aspiring professional critics on Rotten Tomatoes and elsewhere, and I say
aspiring because there's no way in hell most of them are living off this shit, are
the product of years of not being taken seriously by anybody besides film school dropouts and
SJW indie developers.
And they reek of desperation to be recognized, to be taken seriously.
Everything screams adulthood to the stunted growth of a man-child than making everything
political.
Meanwhile, an actual adult knows that there's a time and place for politics, but there's
also a time and place where you turn it off and relax.
We're at the end of the video, and where this topic of conversation continues is far
beyond the scope of Rotten Tomatoes, so we'll have to do a deep dive into it another time.
But here's the basic idea, the split between critics and the common person is a symptom
of a much larger problem, and that problem is best described as the general lack of trust
in our institutions right now.
Consider this, when you buy food at the store, how do you truly know that the food is what's
advertised?
Well, that first level trust will be established by yourself.
If the sign says apple and you look at it and it looks like an apple, you're probably
going to assume it's an apple.
But for example, how do you know what the ingredients are in a box of crackers, or in
a loaf of bread?
Well, you can always check out the nutritional facts printed on the box, but how do you know
those are accurate?
The answer to that is that it's generally illegal for companies to falsify those sorts
of things.
But how do you truly know if the system is working properly for this specific box that
you're holding?
How do you know that there wasn't a mistake in the printing?
How do you know that this company didn't pay off the government?
How do you know the whole thing just isn't a huge sham?
We can follow this logic down to its inevitable conclusion.
You can only truly know what you yourself are currently personally experiencing.
Not even what you experienced.
Not even the past is really that safe.
That might have been falsified, or maybe you misremember it, but the situation has changed
since then.
Who knows if your old childhood home or school still looks like that?
This is the how do you know if Africa exists if you're not currently living there problem.
We have many trustworthy accounts of Africa's existence, but there's still a very tiny probability
that it's not real.
Trust in social institutions works the same way.
As an example, consider the current coronavirus situation right now.
The governments of the world, in lockstep with the news and social media and Hollywood,
are all pushing the vaccine extremely hard and stifling even good faith conversations
about it.
Even assuming that the vaccine is perfectly safe for everybody at all times.
You shouldn't be surprised that there's a sizable minority of people who just don't
want to get it, considering how people in power were completely willing to shred the
social contract on live TV for the world to see.
The issue isn't whether or not the vaccine works.
The issue is whether or not you trust the various social institutions telling you that
it works.
And the way that those institutions have behaved during the pandemic have contributed to a
widespread feeling that public trust has been breached.
The commonplace mockery of stuff like experts weigh in, studies show, and so on, shows exactly
what I mean.
An expert in any field is not only required to have expert level knowledge on the topic
at hand, but also needs to be considered trustworthy enough to be listened to by those
people who don't have that knowledge, but would nonetheless benefit by listening to
them.
Trust is built up by, among other things, being consistently apolitical in their judgement,
and showing political bias is one fast way to destroy that trust among the common people.
And so, we have our current problems.
From people seeing the heavy hand of COVID authoritarianism and rejecting all measures
outright, regardless of whether or not they would actually work, all the way down to movie
critics being biased on RottenTomatoes.com and facing a backlash from people who reject
them out of principle, trust in our political, social, and cultural institutions is at an
all time low, and the only way to fix that situation is to be as honest and truthful
as you can in your own dealings.
This is why I fully reject that boneheaded view on the right that thinks that non-leftists
should be just as bad as leftists, but in the other direction, and that all institutions
are inherently corrupt and always will be, that's just some paleo-libertarian cope frankly.
Either view will create the exact same authoritarianism that we're currently facing, just with a
right-wing coat of paint instead of a left-wing one.
I'm sure that take will get me pushback from rightoids that watch me, but that's fine.
The reason I always say in my videos what I genuinely believe to be the truth is because
even though I'm not a journalist, I am part of an industry that is replacing journalism,
and I would never want you to stop trusting me the way that we have stopped trusting them.
The only way out of this nightmare situation is for us to be trustworthy in a way that
Prague politics will not allow.
In other words, truth, rather than pendulum swinging to the far right because the far
left exists, is the greatest cure for socialist subversion.
