Hey guys, Dev here. I've, uh, I've gardened at this location for about four or five years now, but I haven't really documented it.
So maybe, maybe I'll do that this year. So here we are. This is my gardening video. I guess I'm taking the idea from Styx.
I don't have quite as magnificent a garden as his though. Um, this is a very small location as you can see.
There's, there's our deck. There's our shed. We only had this little bit of land to do a garden with.
Before I moved in, there was like nothing there. It was just like weeds and a few stones. And I was like, you know what?
I'll, uh, I'll make a garden out of it, but why not? And I mean, I didn't have much money back then.
Um, so I used a door. As you can see, there is a door and it's kind of weathered at this point.
There's a door there. There's a door in the back as well for the back part.
And the rest is just made out of scrap wood that we had lying around. This is like a low income area.
So, uh, when we moved in, there was a lot of just scrap wood and random junk and garbage lying around.
And we cleaned the place up pretty nicely. But I, uh, I kept all the wood in case I ever wanted to do something like this one day.
And well, now I have. Anyway, it's late April. I just opened the garden up. There's just some leaves in there.
I've been digging around and just mixing things together. I'll probably have some plants to put in by, uh, by next week.
That's the plan anyway. So I'll come back next week. Oh yeah. Also those stones that I used for the little path, those were also scavenged.
There was just like, there was just like little bricks hanging around for some, I don't know why. I don't know.
A lot of this place doesn't really make much sense. Anyway, I'll see you when the plants get here.
And we've got the plants. Here we go. I've got kale, peppers, cucumber and tomatoes.
Those there are just herbs. And this is a celery butt that I've chopped.
And it's actually, I don't know if you can see it because of the sunlight, but it's actually starting to grow there.
Is it even a dish of water? And, uh, I'd say in a week's time I can probably put all these in.
So the plants are all in. It's been a week since you last saw them.
Um, some of them are a little bit wilted from being inside. I don't know if it's not enough water or not enough sun.
I did water them every day, but it doesn't matter. Hopefully they will survive out here.
So the garden is filled with eight kale, eight peppers, eight, um, tomatoes and 10 cucumbers,
as well as two celery butts that I chopped up and put in there.
You can get those two there. And along the edge here are some peas.
Now, what I've done is there was actually a bunch of, um, a bunch of scrap wood that wasn't being used.
Just lying around the property. So I gathered it up and I made a very ramshackle lattice.
I'm going to put some mesh in between these bits of lattice.
So that bit over there will hold all the cucumbers and they'll grow out probably onto the deck.
And then this bit here, I'll put a lattice there and that'll be where the peas go up, up to the top of the shed.
It's about a week later, guys, and I had to do some replanting.
A few of the plants died, in fact. It wasn't due to frosting or anything like that.
It's been above zero this whole time, but basically I got some of the seedlings from a, I'd say, a less than reputable source.
So I went out, got some more. I had to replant four cucumber. That's that row there.
Got a couple more kales. Got some red kale just to spice it up. Got some more peppers.
Garden update, guys. Here's the current state of my garden.
As it turns out, this is the end of May right now, and we had a freak hit of frost, potential frost.
And, you know, might not have been frost actually, but who knows?
My neighbor's garden is, in fact, covered up in much the same way.
So I had no way to actually cover the plants.
So we just put down garbage bags and other things and weighed them down.
I'm about to pull everything else off. Let's see if, let's see if stuff survived.
Let's move this aside.
Come on. Yeah, looks like the plant is just fine.
So I'll be pulling all this stuff off and we will get back to regular gardening.
This is now mid-June. Check it out, guys. Those peppers aren't going at all.
But I think peppers take some time. It's about time for the first harvesting of the kale.
Same with the lettuce. The peas are starting to climb. That's good.
There's a squirtle in there. Can you see him? Maybe he's gone now. Oh, well.
And the cucumbers still just kind of seem to be stunted. I hope things turn out.
It's now about the, what would it be, near the end of June. And this is the garden now.
The celery died. I have no idea why. I guess I can't do celery.
But peppers are going good. There's a lot of snap peas, man.
Tomatoes good. Cucumbers came back. Lots of lettuce. We've been eating the lettuce.
We've been eating the kale. Some pretty excellent. Here, let's see if I can get a snap pea, actually.
Yeah, check this guy out. Check this guy out.
Look at that. Hell yeah.
It's pretty good. All right, so it is about, I'd say, early July.
The pepper plants are all going great. We'll probably have peppers soon. Look at those pepper flowers, man.
Yeah. I'm out here primarily to harvest the kale. There is so much kale, man.
Look at that. That one little kale in the corner didn't really go anywhere.
But the rest of it's going good. You see back there, cucumbers.
There's some cucumbers in there I got to pick, but the cucumbers are growing up the lattice quite nicely.
That is a lettuce that I failed to harvest. I completely forgot about it.
And that's just a ton of seeds. But the actual leaves are still good.
There's the tomatoes. Tomatoes are really overgrowing. Basically everything is kind of growing like crazy.
Look at it. Look at it. Wow. That's a lot of food, but still.
There's the peas. I've been eating a lot of the snap peas.
You can see there's actually one right there. In fact, it's ready to go.
But something I've noticed. How come some of the snap pea leaves are turning white at the bottom?
What's the deal there? But in any case, though, the snap peas are generally doing fine.
I'm probably going to be harvesting right now. In fact, basil needs to be cut.
There's a basil plant there. That's spicy basil. And this is just regular basil.
They both need to be cut. So I'm going to do that right now. Ah, geez, I'm sweating everywhere.
So here's the haul. There's three cucumbers. There was actually four, but my dad grabbed one when he came over to visit earlier this morning.
There's a baggie full of basil. There's three baggies, three very big baggies full of kale that we put in my freezer.
I generally use it for smoothies and stuff, so I just freeze it and put it in a smoothie when I'm done.
And there is a very big lettuce plant that I let go to seed, mainly out of laziness.
Oops. But all those leaves down at the bottom are still good. So I'll be having salad tonight.
Um, here's the look of the garden now that all the kale plants have been have been cut.
And they'll they'll just keep growing. You can kind of see this one here. That that's like three harvests worth of trimming.
It'll just bloom out at the top again and I'll trim it again.
And these things will get to be a couple of feet high by the end of the year with all the various trimmings.
I just noticed there's a there's a big tomato right there. That's that's coming along nicely.
But I don't quite understand is why some of the lettuce regrew and some of it didn't.
So, for example, see if we can see this. Can I show you properly?
This is the lettuce stump that I just cut. OK, this down here is the lettuce stump that I cut like two weeks ago.
And there's a bunch of new growth coming out of it. So new lettuce is growing out of the stump.
I cut this stump in the same way and it's not growing at all. I think it just died.
I don't quite know the difference as to why sometimes lettuce comes back and sometimes it doesn't.
I left a few bottom leaves on this stump in the hope that the leaves will help it grow back.
So I'll get more lettuce because I would rather these lettuce these lettuce plants that I bought not be one and done.
But who knows? Oh, yeah. I also did harvest some some snap peas, but I ate them all.
There's a bunch of small ones here at the top. You can see that there's a whole bunch of small ones at the top.
I'm just I'm just waiting for those for a couple of days for them to be bigger.
I like them generally bigger than this. This is this is a good size.
I'm going to grab that right now in fact. Yeah. That's delicious, man.
And I should probably point out gardening is not hard, but it's also not easy.
But there are people who are like, I can't garden. I can't do it. Actually, Sargon said this once that he didn't know what to do about gardening.
Well, I mean, I'm not I'm not like as pro as Stixxenhammer or something.
I do end up getting store-bought plants. And once the gardens filled in, I just basically dug holes,
put a little bit of a sheep manure in the bottom, just a handful and put the plant in.
And here you go. Water every day, every morning, and you're set like it takes some work initially, but now it's just kind of going on its own.
I just got to basically remember to water as part of my morning routine. So it's not that hard.
Sargon, if you ever actually end up listening to this video, I I know you have a yard.
I recommend you trying it out and everyone else, too. If you have a spot where you can garden, I actually definitely I definitely recommend giving it a try.
So as you can see, I've picked off all the usable leaves from that lettuce and put them in a bowl.
I'm going to put it in the fridge. So the plan is get yourself a piece of paper towel.
Add water to it. Drench it in water. You drench it in water. You can hear me.
Don't rip it, though. Just make sure it's like completely soaked and you like lay it on top of the bowl of lettuce like so.
There you go. And that will keep the lettuce moist and relatively crunchy for several days.
Now, because I did wait until it was a giant stock and I didn't harvest it earlier, this lettuce will be a little bit bitter, but it's still good to eat.
It'll just it'll just be a little bit better than normal, but that's fine. It's not a big deal.
It is now late July and look at it. Look at it, guys. The the basil.
I put another trim. I've been cutting the kale recently.
However, this type of kale here didn't really do so well. These traditional plants are doing great, though.
Check out the peppers growing. Look at that. Yeah, man.
Peppers growing on the pepper plants. They're coming in everywhere.
Look. Yeah, man. The peas aren't doing so well.
And frankly, I don't know why I've been watering them.
I've been weeding around them, but they're all just turning yellow.
They're still growing peas, but I don't know quite what to do about it.
You know, tomatoes are going crazy.
There's a bunch of tomatoes in there so you can reach one. Can you see that in there?
Yes. They'll be coming along in a few weeks. The lettuce just gave up.
That's done. You can see that stump there regrowing, but it's not going to take off.
I got to do something different with the lettuce next year. And here's the cucumber patch.
Look at this. That's almost ready to eat, isn't it?
Maybe another day or two just to get a little bit thicker.
But, yeah, the cucumbers are winding their way up properly.
Actually, maybe I'll adjust this one right here. I want it.
Don't grab onto the lettuce plant or the tomato plant.
Come on. Off. Off. Let go.
Yeah, I'm going to try to get them to grow this way so they'll climb up this trellis here.
Yeah, you see those cucumbers in there? Yeah, it's doing great.
It's doing pretty good.
I think what I'll change next year, though, is I have a planter that I'll put the lettuce in.
And I'll put seeds down so it kind of grows like grass.
I can just snip it rather than have to deal with full hearts.
Probably more cucumbers in this corner. This stuff will all be the same.
And maybe I'll go for the traditional kale over there next time.
Yeah, it's been a mixed bag this year, but peppers are coming soon.
Those are going to be great.
Oh, I just noticed. Yeah, the screw came out holding all the earth back.
Oops. About to reattach this or get a new door or something.
It's now August 1st and about 7 a.m., in fact, and check it out.
So these kale didn't really turn out. And to be honest, I don't like the taste of them,
so I probably won't buy them again. The regular kale is in the time for them to trim.
Cucumbers are doing very well. Look at that. They're growing up at the side of the deck there.
Tomatoes have gone completely insane.
Peppers. Check out the peppers, dude. I think there's actually some peppers already to be picked.
Let's see if I can... There's a couple there. Yeah.
There's some small ones coming in there.
Yeah, dude.
Look at that giant pepper. There's a fair amount of food here.
Basil needs a trim. And even though these peas are dying for some reason, I don't know why,
there's still a lot of peas on them. They're still popping up pods like this.
And these are delicious. I'll probably grab some for my salad tonight.
The lettuce didn't work out. It's all gone. There's a few lettuce remnants in there,
but they're just not going anywhere. We should probably pick this. It might be a bit too big.
Oops. I'll grab that right now. A couple of the cucumbers in there that are probably gonna
be worth picking in the next day or two. But yeah, things are going good for the most part.
There's been a few minor problems. I don't understand what's going on with the peas,
and some of the kale didn't work out. But it's soon pepper season, so I'll come back then,
so check out those peas there. Look how many there are. Awesome.
Can you see that? There's one tomato that's ready in there,
and there's some rather large cucumbers over there as well. Lettuce is all gone.
Kale seems to be doing okay. Probably ready for another harvest in the next couple days,
I think. Tomatoes are going absolutely insane. The peas are strange. They're dying.
They're still growing more pods. There's a whole bunch right here. Can you see this?
There's a whole bunch of pods in there. The roots are now springing up new shoots,
so I don't quite know what's going on. But I've been eating a lot of peas,
and they're still good, so that's good. You can see a ton of not yet ripe tomatoes.
They'll be coming along. This looks like a giant weed if we can pull it out.
I just... Oh, it broke off. Okay, there's that. Look at those guys. They're ready,
yeah? There's a curly one coming in, and then for this one over here. I can't really get
through the lattice. Okay, come on. There we go. Oh yeah. Excellent. And I'll probably
get that one tomato too. That's two big cucumbers. It's tomato time. I can't even get the snips in
there though. Can I just pull it off? Oops. I broke the branch. I guess we're getting too
small of tomatoes along with it. God damn it. There's also some peppers that are kind of ready
to go. I'm not going to pick them just yet. It's really warm right now. It's like 36 degrees
Celsius, and I don't need peppers yet. In a couple days I'll need some, so I'm going to let them grow
a little bit bigger before I start pulling them off. Yeah, there we go. Garden is mostly coming
along great this year. Look at that. So fast forward to early September, and a freak early
frost has kind of destroyed the garden. Oops. The peas just died. I don't know what killed them,
but they're done. We got a lot of peas out of them though. Even as the vines were dying,
they were still producing some pretty good peas, so we actually had quite a few, but they're done.
Everything else is slowly on its way out. The kale, I've since harvested the rest of the kale
just to basically get the last few leaves that were edible out of there. They're done. We have
maybe 20 frozen bags of kale. I pulled all the peppers off because there's going to be another
frost tonight. There's a lot of peppers. I pulled off all the tomatoes. There's basically a sink
full of tomatoes in the kitchen right now, so we had a few tomatoes. They're all green, but they're
going to basically die if I leave them on there, so I decided to pull them off. There's actually
a number of cucumbers that are still growing, so I pulled off the ones that were sizable enough to
eat, and hopefully the small ones will survive and will give us a few more cucumbers in the next
week or two, but this is basically the end of the garden, I think. So this is it. Oh yeah,
the basil got way too much rain and has turned kind of yellow. Look at that. Look at all the
water in the pot there. It's been raining non-stop for the past couple weeks. I mean,
it makes watering easier. I don't got to water it. One cucumber I missed. I can probably grab
that one too, actually. Come on. There we go. That'd be the last one. And here's Naomi washing
the sink full of produce like the good and proper housewife she is. Yeah. Well,
I harvested it all. Why shouldn't you do this? It's your garden, Dad. You eat the tomatoes.
Your garden, Dad. You know what? Ah, get out of here. It's like September 9th. No,
it's September 10th today, and there is a frost warning tonight. Oh well. So it's early October.
Hopefully you can see the frost on the roof there. This is the first frost of the fall,
and here's what remains of the garden. It's pretty much dead. Now, I let the garden go
maybe about a month ago. I got the last harvest. We pulled everything off of it. I just left it
alone. However, I noticed even without watering it or whatever, it kept growing slowly. And you
can see, I think over there, like one cucumber that's not going to make it. It's really tiny
there. But it kept growing. And today was the first frost, so I came down here, and I basically
grabbed whatever was left. And what was left was there's going to be three or four good-sized
tomatoes that managed to grow in the cold, so good for them. There's a couple small peppers,
a whole bunch more kale. That just kept growing normally, so I guess that's cool. And then three
or four really tiny cucumbers. Not that tiny, but pickle-sized cucumbers. So for the last month,
the growing definitely slowed down. But I basically said, you know what? We'll just leave
everything up and see what comes out of it. And I got a little bit more food. I didn't have to put
any effort either. So I'll probably pull all this apart. I'm not getting anything else out of this
now. Not even dregs at this point. So I'll pull all this apart, and we will come back next year
and see what happens next year to this garden. It was pretty good this year. Wasn't as good as
last year. Last year was my best year ever, but this year was pretty good. Of course, the door
got broken by Naomi, but that's okay. We have another door that we're getting rid of anyway,
so I'll just shove it in there. Anyway, I hope your gardening excavates were just as fun as
mine this year. I'll see you guys later.
