Buzzfeed
Everybody knows Buzzfeed as a garbage website that publishes garbage articles,
full of woke nonsense and progressive apologia. But did you know that Buzzfeed actually began
as something completely different? This is the founder of Buzzfeed,
Jonah Peretti. His first footprint, at least in terms of online stuff, was back in 2001,
when his email exchange with Nike went viral. It was actually published on The Guardian way back
then. Nike was offering a custom shoe printing service, where you can ask them to print whatever
word you like on a pair of shoes. Peretti asked for a pair of Nike shoes with the word
Sweatshop embroidered on them, which Nike refused to do. Nike emailed him, stating that the custom
text was cancelled because it 1. Contained intellectual property, 2. Contained the name
of an athlete or team that Nike didn't have a contract with, 3. It was left blank, or 4. It
contained inappropriate slang of profanity. Nike didn't say which rule had been violated,
so Peretti replied by saying that Sweatshop isn't trademark, it's not the name of an athlete,
it's not blank, and it's not profanity, and that he wanted to remember the toil and labor of the
children that made his shoes. Nike responded, stating that Sweatshop was indeed inappropriate
slang. Peretti replied by citing Webster's Dictionary, where it's written that Sweatshop
isn't slang but is actually a normal word. Nike finally pulled the obvious trump card,
that they can actually just decline service for any reason they want.
Peretti then requested that instead of the embroidery, Nike send him a picture of the
10-year-old Vietnamese girl making his shoes. That was a wild ride, and I can appreciate a
good troll, but Peretti's politics are pretty clear from this exchange.
Back in 2001, when this happened, he would have been in his mid-twenties, and he likely
viewed himself as some flavor of revolutionary. He graduated from the University of California
in Santa Cruz in 1996, with a degree in environmental studies, with his most
notable academic work being the article Capitalism and Schizophrenia, published in a journal of
critical theory called Negations. Peretti's 1996 paper sets the stage for the rest of his career.
Here's how it begins. Every major corporation in the world has a web site offering product
information, interactive advertisements, and, increasingly, the ability to buy products online.
Discount books from Amazon.com, pizza delivery from Pizzanet.net, stocks from Schwab.com,
and just about anything else you can imagine, like the virtual mall,
VirtuMall.com, are available for purchase in cyberspace.
Wow, this paper really was written in 1996.
My central contention is that late capitalism not only accelerates the flow of capital,
but also accelerates the rate at which subjects assume identities. Identity formation is
inextricably linked to the urge to consume, and therefore the acceleration of capitalism
necessitates an increase in the rate at which individuals assume and shed identities.
The internet is one of many late capitalist phenomenon that allow for more flexible,
rapid, and profitable mechanisms of identity formation.
This almost sounds prophetic, doesn't it? Identity politics is a primary tool of the left,
though the right has begun to pick it up as well in recent years. And despite the
left's anti-capitalist stance, they have hyper-capitalized their identities.
From your random leftoid consumer demanding that you watch Captain Marvel or Black Panther
or Harley Quinn or else you're a bigot, to breadtubers growing ridiculously wealthy
off the backs of their viewers while simultaneously agitating for a revolution,
to champagne socialist coffee shop co-ops, to progressive clothing brands selling Che
Guevara t-shirts and trans rights hats, all of them made in overseas sweatshops.
Most of the paper is spent drawing links between capitalism and schizophrenia,
as the title would suggest. The point seems to be that the postmodernist youth art of the 1990s,
the erraticness of MTV programming is used as an example repeatedly, is schizophrenic in nature.
It mimics the schizophrenic experience. As such, the capitalist mindset and the
schizophrenic mindset are identical, mindless nonsense meant to be consumed
unthinkingly with no real purpose behind it. Schizophrenia is characterized as capitalism's
deepest tendency, but also that capitalism must ultimately fight back against it,
as schizos cannot be consumed, unlike other capitalist elements.
Schizophrenia is therefore the contradictions of capitalism finally made manifest,
an image of its impending collapse. Paredes' prescription is that activists
use schizophrenic strategies to accelerate consumer-based identity formation and
dissolution in order to destabilize the mental health of individuals and thus weaken capitalism.
There, I just packed 6,000 words of nonsense into one paragraph,
and V said that I couldn't summarize things quick enough.
The point is, before Jonah Peretti founded BuzzFeed, he was a Marxist, a postmodernist,
and a critical theorist. When I read that paper, it seemed to me that he had a specific interest
in how modern mental illness was created by, and was a mirror of, late-stage capitalism.
How self-identification drives consumerism, and how the destabilization of identities,
through rapid capitalist consumption, can generate mental illnesses and hasten the
collapse of the current system. Keep all of this in mind for later.
After Peretti's academic career slowed down, he was a co-founder of the Huffington Post
back in 2005, along with Kenneth Lehrer, Arianna Huffington, the site's namesake,
and surprisingly enough, Andrew Breitbart. Arianna Huffington was a conservative in a previous era
of her life, and Andrew Breitbart had mentored under her. She shifted leftward during the George
Bush years, and the initial idea of Huffington Post was that the two media titans, left and
right-leaning, would keep the site balanced. But in actuality, Huffington Post gradually drifted
leftward over time, and Breitbart moved on to found his own outlet. Peretti, for his part,
did a lot of the background tech startup stuff for the Huffington Post, but he used the experience
gained there to found BuzzFeed a year later in 2006. Now, for those of you who are younger,
you might not know this, but BuzzFeed actually didn't begin as a news outlet.
Peretti marketed it as the internet's popularity contest, and it aggregated stuff going viral at
the time, almost like a primitive version of Reddit. The term viral hadn't even been coined
yet, though, so they called any story that was blowing up online buzz instead. Unlike Reddit,
though, BuzzFeed also produced its own comedic content and added that into the mix, similar to
Cracked or College Humor. Though this era of BuzzFeed did have political commentary,
it wasn't the site's main goal. Politics came up when a political story was either
viral or funny, but otherwise, the site focused on short, snappy, shareable bits of content,
with no real overarching theme behind it. In a sense, it was quasi-schizophrenic.
BuzzFeed also brought in a now-ubiquitous innovation in website design. It seems obvious
to us nowadays, but the idea of having a trending tab, aka a dedicated box on the front page,
featuring the stories getting the most clicks right now, rather than a simple chronological
order? Yeah, that wasn't a thing in 2006, and BuzzFeed popularized the feature. Also,
their 2006 About page really reads like something out of an AI conversation from right now,
explaining that their automated algorithms detect what's popular and filter it down to
BuzzFeed's staff. To put this into context, this is from right around when YouTube was first
launching. Nobody except maybe Microsoft was tinkering with software like this.
Of course, they could also just be blowing smoke up our asses, who knows.
BuzzFeed made the official jump from comedy aggregator to political news outlet in 2012,
when it was the first publication, both online and print, to break the news that John McCain
was going to endorse Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential race. Breaking the story first
massively raised BuzzFeed's profile and led to several rounds of investment, with the intention
of turning BuzzFeed into a serious force in political news. And though Peretti would use
the investment capital to massively expand BuzzFeed out, that didn't really change its
reliability in the eyes of the public. A 2014 Pew Research Center survey found that
while the majority of people didn't even know or care about BuzzFeed, most people who did
viewed it as an inaccurate news source. In order to combat this, BuzzFeed's real journalism split
off into BuzzFeedNews.com, but that didn't really help them. BuzzFeed's actual history of reporting
basically shows us that there is no barrel too deep that they won't scrape the bottom of it.
Following in Gawker's footsteps, BuzzFeed has no problem holding a double standard when it
comes to celebrity nude photos. They published an article decrying people wanting to see the
Jennifer Lawrence nudes, but they were completely okay with the babies. BuzzFeed staff have been
fired for plagiarism, and not just some random intern, but senior reporters. They have no problem
publishing stories without confirming the evidence that they're citing in the story.
And of course, BuzzFeed published the legendary Trump Piss Dossier back in January of 2017.
I don't know if you remember, it really went viral back then. The majority of the political
claims in it, regardless of their veracity, were completely overshadowed by the fact that the
dossier falsely claimed that Trump rented out the same hotel room that Obama stayed in in Moscow,
hired prostitutes, pissed all over them in the same bed Obama slept in, and that the Russians
caught it all on tape and they were blackmailing Trump with it. That was all fake, by the way.
No other news outlet would touch that shit with a 10-foot pole, but BuzzFeed jumped right into the
piss pit without a second thought. They even admitted, again, they had not actually verified
the contents of the dossier, and other journalists were rightly angry with them for undermining
the integrity of their profession, which is prophetic considering the state of journalism
six years later. But nonetheless, they had a point back then. They lost those morals to Trump
Derangement Syndrome eventually, but the objection to BuzzFeed's actions was rooted in the idea that
journalism had to focus on accuracy rather than partisanship, which is a good objection even if
they eventually abandon the principle. And then there's the financial troubles. By the end of
2017, the company still wasn't profitable. And in response to investor pressure,
Freddie began to close the doors of some of BuzzFeed's satellite outlets and laid off a
round of employees, 100 in the States, 100 in France, and 45 in the UK. Another round of layoffs
hit in 2019, this time approximately 200 people. In 2020, BuzzFeed shut down its UK on Australian
divisions entirely. In March of 2022, three top editors announced that they'd be resigning and
that the whole of BuzzFeed News itself would be facing widespread layoffs. And with the writing
on the wall, BuzzFeed News was finally shut down on April 20th, 2023. That doesn't mean that
Freddie is without a news mouthpiece, though. The failed upward success of BuzzFeed allowed him to
eventually purchase the Huffington Post, his old stomping grounds, and his plan seems to be to
focus on making news content over there and leave BuzzFeed for trash, I guess. In an email to his
staff, Freddie said, I made the decision to overinvest in BuzzFeed News because I love their
work and their mission so much. This made me slow to accept that the big platforms wouldn't provide
the distribution or the financial support required to support premium, free journalism
purpose-built for social media. To be fair, BuzzFeed has published some good work. They
won a Pulitzer for their expose on the Uyghur genocide in China, but they've also done a lot
of garbage. They've done mostly garbage, in fact. Amidst all of this, a failing company,
no profitability for years, would it surprise you to learn that BuzzFeed also had strikes?
Yes, despite BuzzFeed being run by an ideological Marxist, there were still labor disputes. Who
would've thought? Now, I've spoken about unions before on this channel. I'm not opposed to the
idea of unions in principle. I just don't think that they're good for every single type of job.
I've personally seen examples of very good unions that have protected workers who are being bullied
by particularly sadistic managers. I've also personally seen examples of bad unions where
the worst employees were simply allowed to fail upward due to their seniority. A union is not a
guarantee that things in the workplace will be better. A union is simply what it says on the tin.
Collective bargaining. In a job where your skills are in high demand, where you're raking in the
money and other companies are actually headhunting you and giving you better offers, you don't need
a union. In that case, the worker actually has the power, despite how Marxists might cry about
how that can never be true, because their labor is specialized and rare. They can actually negotiate
on their own for a good contract. In other words, individual bargaining. Low-skill workers whose
labor isn't individually very valuable, they don't have those perks, which is the main argument for
collective bargaining. However, history has also shown us that collective bargaining in the face
of a collapsing market does nothing. It's one thing when the industry is booming and the owners
of businesses are rat-fucking their employees. Unions can do some good work there to get the
standards of living up for their workers, but in an industry that is shrinking, where there is
actually little money to be made, the demands of unionization tend to hasten the company's demise,
rather than actually help any workers out. To put it simply, you just can't squeeze any more blood
out of that stone, and that's the situation that BuzzFeed has consistently found itself in.
From 2017 onward, while Peretti was downsizing his company again and again in an attempt to
keep his head above water, he was also facing demands from his workforce to unionize. These
efforts finally came to a head in February of 2019, where the employees of BuzzFeed News voted
to unionize. At the time, the editor-in-chief stated, we look forward to meeting with the
organizers to discuss a way towards voluntarily recognizing the union. But when it came time to
actually sit down and work it out in April, the executives failed to show up for the meeting.
The BuzzFeed News union on Twitter put them on blast with a viral tweet and staged a walkout
in response. But by 2021, they still hadn't hammered out an agreement. Another viral tweet,
another walkout. And when all the layoffs came in 2023, the BuzzFeed News union Twitter account
was crying about how unfair it all was, and shilling a GoFundMe for the former employees.
The union, for all of its news coverage, for all of its agitation, for all of its walkouts and
threats of strikes, and viral tweets, only ever managed to get BuzzFeed to come to a tentative
agreement in March of 2022. Various unionistas were hailing this as a huge win at the time,
but considering that the fucking business died a year later, it didn't really matter.
Now, I don't think that unionization killed BuzzFeed. Far from it. But do you think that
spending even more on labor while already not being profitable would have helped their situation?
Obviously not. Peretti himself was ultimately opposed to the idea of unionization,
despite what his politics might make you believe. Back in 2015, he was asked about unionization and
gave a pretty long, in-depth reply. I think unions have had a positive impact on a lot of places,
like if you're working on an assembly line, and if you're negotiating with management,
it can make a huge difference, particularly when labor is more replaceable. I don't think a union
is right for BuzzFeed for two reasons. One, I think the way we pattern BuzzFeed is after
companies like Google and Facebook, and the tech startups are very competitive for talent. They're
all trying to get the best talent. That's how I see BuzzFeed as well. We need to provide amazing
benefits. We need to provide as much incentive for people to pick BuzzFeed over any other company.
A lot of the best new-economy companies are environments where there's an alliance between
managers and employees. People have shared goals. Benefits and perks and compensation are very
competitive, and I feel like that's the kind of market we're in. A lot of times, when you look
at companies that have unionized, the relationship is much more adversarial. I think that actually
wouldn't be very good for employees at BuzzFeed, particularly people who are writers and reporters,
because the comps for writers and reporters are much less favorable than the comps for
startup companies and tech companies. In general, I don't think it's the right idea for us.
The other thing about BuzzFeed is that we're global. Most unions are national.
We have people who move between different roles, and in general, unions do a lot of defining clearly
what individual roles are and what a job function is. So for a flexible, dynamic company, it isn't
something I think would be great. There's a lot of good points in here, like how BuzzFeed is already
incentivized to keep talent around through better offers due to the competitiveness of their market,
which isn't the case in blue-collar work. But I think the most interesting point is when he
mentioned that he views BuzzFeed as having an alliance between managers and employees,
where other industries have more adversarial relationships.
Now, Peretti is a Marxist. We established that at the beginning of the video. He should know that,
in Marxian terms, the managers and employees, the bourgeois and the proletariat, are inherently in
an adversarial relationship due to their differing connection to the means of production. The
bourgeois own the means of production and seek to extract surplus value from the proletariat.
The proletariat work the means of production, and they must sell their labor in order to survive.
Socialists view this relationship as inherently exploitative. It cannot not be adversarial in
their book. It's impossible for them to have aligned goals in their view.
When Peretti talks about the alliance between managers and employees, this is what socialists
call class collaborationism. Because the adversarial relationship between the bourgeois
and the proletariat is inherent to the Marxian class dynamic, it can only be abolished through
abolishing the bourgeois itself and making the means of production worker-owned.
Any other relationship that allows the class dynamic to continue,
even if some workers are treated better than others, is collaboration between the classes.
Socialists use the word collaboration specifically to call upon images of the downtrodden
collaborating with their oppressor, victims collaborating with their overlords. Oh,
and of course, they call it fascist. In other words, by the socialists' own morality,
it doesn't matter that Peretti is, himself, an ideologically committed Marxist. He's still
bourgeois. He's still the owner of the means of production, the head of an extractive institution
that inherently oppresses the workers by trading capital for their labor and not giving them
ownership. Regardless of his personal beliefs, he is still behaving like a capitalist.
Now, in the real world, that's because as creator of a company, you're responsible for it. It's
both your labor and your capital that created it. If you took loans or investment money to grow the
company, you're responsible for that too. And the workers just aren't. In fact, the workers are
often entirely oblivious to the responsibilities of ownership, which is how they were all so stupid
as to make demands of BuzzFeed while they weren't even fucking solvent to begin with.
But in the socialist La La Land, Peretti is a class traitor and probably a fascist capitalist
pig. Every time a round of layoffs would hit or BuzzFeed announced another satellite was closing
its doors, other media outlets would immediately start to sing their praises, talking about how
important it was that BuzzFeed continue, how unfair it was that they were failing all that jazz.
The journalist class is always hypersensitive when one of their fellow propaganda arms withers
and dies. They all, of course, blame late-stage capitalism or social media megacorpos or whatever.
Never once is the question asked, do these companies fail because the public at large
just doesn't like the slop they put out? There's a detailed timeline of BuzzFeed's decline,
which is quite interesting to read. Too much detail for this video. It goes into stock price
fluctuations, universally going down since public in 2021, the slow hollowing out of BuzzFeed news
and Peretti's denial that it's even happening to him, the ramping up of using AI to create the most
banal of their content instead of having to employ writers to pen the next Game of Thrones
or Marvel online quiz. But it's all for naught. BuzzFeed news has closed its doors and BuzzFeed
itself is on life support. This is part of a wider trend of layoffs, strikes and bankruptcies all
across corporate media. Vice, Vox, Insider, Disney, Washington Post, NPC, plus the writers and actors
strikes, all stuff that I'll cover in future videos. It's all going up in flames and it's not
because of late stage capitalism or whatever. It's because your average person just doesn't
care to consume what they put out anymore. People are tired of the everything is political mantra
that lies at the heart of all of their publishing. They're tired of diversity, inclusivity, equity
being a constant political statement. They're tired that companies at the behest of champagne
socialists like Peretti have turned each possible brand, outlet and franchise into a soapbox.
They're not even necessarily tired of politics itself. The recent political drama about Trump's
documents or the Hunter Biden court case are popular enough. They're tired of no longer having
spaces where politics isn't talked about. This is the news that pretty tied for BuzzFeed long
before it was even born, all the way back when he was a critical theory academic. And BuzzFeed has
been slowly strangling within it for the better part of two decades. Anyone who looks at Peretti's
career can understand this right away. This outcome was inevitable.
