It's time to get rid of the horrible, racists, and sexists.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and heaven knows what is going on in the world these days.
There are some very pressing matters.
Now we often speak about the importance of grave issues, such as language.
We all know that there are some words that are a bit more unsavoury than others, however
there is still a colossal grey area.
But fortunately we have a lot of fantastic individuals to put us in our place when people-kind
goes astray.
Hello Justin Trudeau.
Now Justin Trudeau is a truly fascinating being, and one that becomes more entertaining
day after day.
Apart from being known for his smouldering looks, he's also the Prime Minister of Canada
and leader of the Liberal Party.
He also likes to wear socks, so more power to him like that.
I'm not here to judge his electoral term, he seems to be one of those quote progressive
guys who make certain social issues at the media forefront, so I cannot assume the prosperity
of Canadians right now.
Maybe everyone's having a great time in Canada, and Trudeau's just bored so he's taken to
doing all this silly shit.
The hypothetical boredom may have been put on show at one of his latest talks, where
he decided to interrupt a person to correct their phrase from mankind to people-kind.
Now it would be dishonest to say that he didn't claim it was a joke.
Apparently there is context that was needed, but I just found it too funny to ignore, and
the fact that we've reached peak politics where we genuinely can't distinguish between
parody and reality.
And to be honest, when I first saw that clip, I thought to myself, parody has become reality.
Everyone hopped on it, one side to accuse him of mansplaining, another to bash him for
the sheer ridicule of such a statement, and even with the context it doesn't make too
much sense.
But, you know, who am I to judge?
I think the main problem with this joke is that it didn't appear to be a joke in many
people's logical functions.
Why is that?
Because if it was a joke, there was one of two outcomes, that he was taking a jab at
the questioner, or that he was taking a jab at the culture, now it was clear that he's
not one to take a jab at such a culture, it's not really up his street.
So with regards to the questioner, now, with enough thought, you can actually get a theory
of the joke.
So the concept of God is typically an androcentric concept, and therefore the questioner noted
that her church was challenging that concept, henceforth Trudeau was mimicking that style
by challenging the perceptibly androcentric use of the term mankind.
That was the humour.
But even with that said, the joke's not very clear, and it was said in a fairly straight
way, and it would still be out of character for someone like Trudeau.
But why isn't it clear?
Well, if we'd made a comment on this a few years ago, we'd all chuckle, great banter,
hahaha, life goes on.
There are a few reasons why it's not the same anymore.
Firstly, it was Justin Trudeau, who, as I said, is known for flaunting his progressive
credentials, but also the environment of internet paranoia, to say the least.
Not that that paranoia is wholly unjustified, recently it seems that many have attempted
to bastardise a few words that have had a foothold in language, so the atmosphere was
just brimming for someone like Trudeau to come and catalyse the tension.
There were two examples that stood out to me.
However, to speak about one, I've decided that my good man Jay Schlatt can come on and
talk about it, because he found it great banter, and I thought, you know what, let's get some
mates on.
This is a good ol' mates club right now.
Come on, Jay Schlatt, take him away, talk your shit.
Thank you so much for having me, and you know, it's truly an honour to be here, helping cover
some of society's most pressing issues.
There are some real problems going on nowadays, and I'm glad I'm able to-
Stop saying marijuana.
Why?
Because it's racist as f***.
This is what you brought me on to talk about?
Marijuana being racist?
Okay, remind me to never come back.
Stop saying marijuana is the newest installment of NowThis Weed, the pot-only chapter of NowThis.
Of course, NowThis being the news corporation that has a reputation for ruining things.
And today, this fine gentleman is here to drop some red pills on us.
The term was used to knock on people of colour and their devilish ways.
Now, the word itself isn't inherently racist.
The word itself isn't inherently racist, he says.
And in fact, he even suggests that the term marijuana came from Mexican immigrants, the
very same group of people he later claims the term demonizes.
He gives us a quick backstory next, explaining how the Federal Bureau of Narcotics started
a smear campaign against the drug in the 1930s, claiming that it led its non-white users to
commit violent crime.
Which is ridiculous, he says, because-
All I see people do when they smoke is sit on their couch, watch TV, eat munchies, and
fall asleep.
Imagine having the gall to crack a joke on a video about how the word marijuana is racist.
Not only that, but imagine only providing anecdotal evidence in your think piece.
Anyways, the origins of the word aren't racist, and the word already had a history completely
detached from the United States.
So all you're doing at this point is demanding we all stop saying an extremely popular word
because at some arbitrary point in time it was used by some people in an entirely different
culture than the one it originated in to make someone look bad.
You're actually insane.
You see, this is what I don't understand about the culture of word policing that's becoming
more and more prevalent.
At the end of the day, this fine gentleman, as well as everyone else who tries to tell
you what you can and cannot say, are coming from a good place, insofar as they're trying
to keep other people from being offended.
But prohibiting speech is the hilariously backwards approach to solving this problem.
Whenever this topic comes up, I always point back to a rare moment of sanity from iDubbbz
in his Tana Mongeau video.
This is a very important lesson in critical thinking.
Have you or your friends ever said a word so frequently that it's lost a lot of the
initial punch that it had, and eventually just lost all meaning entirely?
I remember initially hearing the word cunt and how awful that sounded, but I've used
it so frequently that it means fucking nothing to me now.
So all of you people out there who hold these words at such high esteem, you are giving
it the power that you so desperately want it to not have.
In attempts to control speech, you ensure that certain forbidden words will always have
power.
They'll always offend people.
It seems pretty counterproductive, considering you're only policing us in the interest of
protecting other people's feelings.
But not only are these people keeping certain words in this forbidden category, they're
adding new ones to it.
Marijuana!
Marijuana!
Put that next to all the other words that are insanely racist now.
You know what?
I want to see how far this rabbit hole can go.
Let's see how bland society gets once we're inevitably only allowed to pick from a list
of 20 different progressive-approved words.
I bet PeopleKind is on that list.
Thank you, JSlatt.
He is a devilishly underrated creator, so you should definitely check out his stuff
if you haven't already.
And JSlatt was just the appetizer to the main course, because it's one thing to complain
about the use of your own language, it's another to claim offense to the use of another that
you clearly demonstrate no understanding of.
So let's bring in this final example, because the marijuana situation is a molehill compared
to this mountain.
Now, in Twitter, there are some people who can be quite unpleasant, to be honest, and
that was demonstrated recently when a poor lady lost her dog.
The name of the dog?
Negro.
Now, negro is the Spanish word for black.
The dog was black, therefore, in spite of its simplicity, the name made sense.
However, some people were not having it, and being the slightly on-edge people that
they like to see themselves as, felt insulted that she had the audacity to name a dog such
an offensive word.
One Twitter even went as far to suggest that the fact that negro was the Spanish word for
black was racist as fuck.
Now, once again, we've reached a stage of international wokeness of oppression.
The fact that a traditional word that predates the forms of suffering that many reference
to these days is somehow a contentious issue that needs to be discussed as racism, with
no link whatsoever, just bewilders me.
The sheer usage of such objective words to take offence to.
Is anyone really victimised by this?
Or is it just another crazy, crazy Twitter moment?
I think, personally, you know, this is just my hot take, I guess.
It's the latter.
But this is the thing.
You have a few irrational beings who threw a tantrum, it's covered in various news articles,
and it creates this atmosphere of uncertainty that people are gonna live in the word police
state.
I do not believe it myself.
Unless some are gonna start growing up and realise that words exist, some words that
have bad roots, some that may even correlate with negative things of another language,
heaven forbid, people are just gonna have to get used to it.
Unless you want to live in a padded cell, you have to live with these words.
And if we're gonna start talking about objects like colours, or drugs like marijuana, then
you're gonna have to get used to it and stop wasting people's time.
The Trudeau reaction, whether it was a joke or not, it was an insight to what people these
days expect.
Overreaction?
Maybe.
The internet definitely needs to cool off.
I think we all need to cool off.
But let's create an atmosphere where we can cool off, eh?
Good.
Anyway, I would love to hear your thoughts down below.
Should we deal with that dog, that cheeky cunt, or should we leave the joyous canine
alone?
Thankfully, he's back home now.
Until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Bye!
Bye!
Bye!
