Recently, conservatives on social media were up in arms for some inexplicable reason over
a resurfaced Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez high school dancing video.
This is about as dumb as going after Trump over Kofefe or Obama for smoking weed in college.
I understand why conservatives want to do it, don't get me wrong, people are getting
fired left and right right now for the shitty tweets or takes or YouTube videos or whatever
from 10 plus years ago, even if they happened back during their school days.
So I can really understand why the right would want to take a page from the left's
own handbook and try to destroy the newest socialist poster child.
But this is just dumb.
There's a lot of ways to discredit Cortez that don't revolve around somehow trying
to make a scandal out of innocent teenage fun.
That's just a nothingburger.
For example, you could talk about the absolute amount of bullshit frothing from her mouth
when she revealed that she was somehow Jewish.
And the story, you know, the story goes during the Spanish Inquisition, as so many people
were forced to convert on the exterior to Catholicism, but on the interior continued
to practice their faith, continued to be who they were, even though they were pressured
to not be that on the outside world and a strong group of people, strong will that were
determined to continue living life as they wanted to live it, decided to get on a boat
and leave Spain.
And some of those people handed in Puerto Rico and some of those people decided to flee
up into the mountains.
And as is the story of Puerto Rico, we are a people that are in amalgamation.
We are no one thing.
We are black.
We are indigenous.
We are Spanish.
We are European.
And to think about that, to think about how the culture in Puerto Rico was that people
would open up closets and there would be a small menorah inside.
Yeah, this is the most blatant attempt at trying to grab at a community for votes that
I've ever seen.
And notice how she says that she's black, she's native, she's Spanish, she's Jewish.
The implication is, I want all the votes from all of these minority groups.
I'm one of you guys, though I have to say, that's a pretty amazing picture of the Washington
Post chose for the story.
Or you could talk about her comparison of the migrant caravan to Jews fleeing the Holocaust.
Yeah, I'm not sure about that one, comrade.
The migrants at America's southern border aren't fleeing genocide.
They're funded by radical left advocacy groups hoping to slip by the border police before
the wall goes up.
Or you could talk about her insane Green New Deal.
You're talking about zero carbon emissions, no use of fossil fuels within 12 years.
That is the goal.
It's ambitious.
How is that possible?
You're talking about everybody having to drive an electric car?
It's going to require a lot of rapid change that we don't even conceive as possible right
now.
What is the problem with trying to push our technological capacities to the furthest extent
possible?
This would require raising taxes.
There's an element where, yeah, people are going to have to start paying their fair share
in taxes.
Do you have a specific on the tax rate?
You look at our tax rates back in the 60s, and when you have a progressive tax rate system,
your tax rate, let's say, from zero to $75,000 may be 10% or 15%, et cetera.
But once you get to the tippy tops, on your 10 millionth dollar, sometimes you see tax
rates as high as 60 or 70%.
That doesn't mean all $10 million are taxed at an extremely high rate, but it means that
as you climb up this ladder, you should be contributing more.
What you are talking about, just big picture, is a radical agenda compared to the way politics
is done right now.
Well, I think that it only has ever been radicals that have changed this country.
Abraham Lincoln made the radical decision to sign the Emancipation Proclamation.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt made the radical decision to embark on establishing programs
like Social Security.
That is radical.
Do you call yourself a radical?
Yeah, you know, if that's what radical means, call me a radical.
I would say that socialists don't understand that if you overtax the upper class to the
point that it's no longer profitable to run large enterprises or build businesses or create
jobs, if you overtax the upper class to the point that it's actually more profitable on
paper to be middle class, considering the relative time and energy investment, that
all of the rich people in society simply pull out their money and businesses and go to other
countries.
I do think, on some level, socialists do actually understand this, which is why the existence
of a capitalist society on the other side of the planet is oppressive to them.
It's why socialism has to be worldwide.
The producing class must not have a place to escape to when the government decides to
come down on them for being too successful.
And that's what Cortez sounds like here.
Either she's simply a utopian ideologue who doesn't actually understand basic economics,
or she's on the same path as every other communist dictator in human history.
And the answer is probably both.
Or to continue this train of thought, you could talk about her membership with the Democratic
Socialists of America.
This is a group that, like most socialist organizations, believes in the abolition of
capitalism in favor of an economy run either by the workers or the state, though the exact
specifics of abolishing capitalism are fiercely debated by socialists.
I've talked about why this is a huge red fucking flag, no pun intended, on this channel
multiple times, so we don't need to go too deep into it.
But while capitalism is certainly not perfect, it is the best economic system humanity has
ever produced by far.
When one, only money matters, not your race or your class or your gender, but only how
much money you have in your pocket, and two, money is a rough estimate of how much value
your work has brought to the lives of other people you interact with, and it is because
they were willing to pay you for it, when one and two are both true, capitalism is equally
a method of exchange and a measurement of morality at the same time.
Socialists just don't get this.
They assume that structural inequality puts some people at the bottom rung in capitalism.
In some cases that's true, but it's also the continuing life choices of the people
that find themselves there.
Socialists do not like to consider the personal responsibility argument, because socialists
don't want to grant individuals personal responsibility.
It's all about government force, mountaintop edicts, and the rights of the collective taking
precedence over the rights of the individual.
And Cortez is exactly that type of quasi-religious zealot socialist.
She and many others like her act like they've been given divine wisdom from beyond the veil
or something.
It doesn't matter if it's anything close to reality, what matters is that they believe
in it.
It's about feelings to her, not facts.
A pragmatic argument about politics or economics will never interest somebody like Cortez,
because she will always fall back in ideology whenever one of her positions is refuted by
something pesky like reason or proof.
That's why Cortez reframed Ben Shapiro's invitation to debate as catcalling.
It's the emotional response to a pragmatic question.
Cortez actually sees a challenge to her ideology as if it were an assault on her person, because
all her person consists of is her ideology.
There are many good ways, and many good reasons, to attack Cortez's political positions.
The philosophy she's guided by brought about the greatest catastrophe of human history,
and she's too young, too dumb, and too ideological to understand that she's following in the
exact same footsteps.
Conservatives don't need to resort to something as petty as old high school videos.
Of course, if you're just in it to troll, you could also ask why a dyed red commie is
teaming up with the capitalistic robber baron of big tech known as Twitter.
Cortez's Twitter handle used to be OKZO2018, now it's just AOC.
I thought maybe she bought an old account and switched over, and a premium Twitter like
that must not have been cheap.
But as it turns out, the original AOC was an Islamic spam bot before getting banned,
and Twitter just decided to take the name out of the banned retirement pool and give
it to her.
I know it's only a Twitter handle, but it's still a tiny symptom of a massive problem.
Socialists will talk all day about the working class and the proletariat revolution and all
this other nonsense, but when the chips are down, socialists in power will always cut
deals with the most exploitative capitalists, and become robber barons themselves.
This is how Maduro got so fat while Venezuela continues to starve.
This is how Stalin and Mao killed millions of their own people.
And Cortez will never say it, hell, she'll never admit it to herself, but if she ever
got her hands on real power, the path from legitimate good intentions to the gulag is
very short indeed.
