I do not like Jeremy Hunt. Not. One. Bit.
**
Hello, I'm the Right Opinion and today we talk about Jeremy Hunt, everyone's favourite health minister.
This is a request from one of my many subscribers.
**
Apologies for the voice, I have a cold.
**
Now, Jeremy Hunt is the worst thing to happen to the NHS since MRSA,
and why the hell anyone in their right frame of mind would put him in charge of such an influential workforce is beyond me. Completely.
Everyone in Britain knows what situation I'm referring to, the junior doctor contracts.
**
In September 2015, the Department of Health, which is in charge of all that,
stated that they would pursue a new contract for junior doctors.
These new contracts would extend the working hours that doctors would not be paid premium while increasing the pay marginally.
Something that Jeremy Hunt claimed to be completely cost neutral.
Here's the problem. Jeremy Hunt was a lying twat.
Yes, many doctors were about to lose a fair bit of money, some up to 40%,
being forced to work more unsociable hours, while Jeremy Hunt and other MPs pocketed a nifty pay rise.
Jeremy Hunt also lied about the 11,000 excess deaths on the weekend, when in fact the data collected covered Monday and Friday as well.
He's done all his negotiating through the media, and has relied on icons such as Katie Hopkins and Kelvin McKenzie to try and support him.
How?
**
Now, I'm no doctor, and from what I've heard, a lot of the disputes lie in areas that I will never understand.
Safeguarding, patient safety, etc.
What I do understand is that Jeremy Hunt is not qualified to run the NHS.
His approval rating lies at 17%.
17 fucking percent.
Fantastic Four has a better public rating. Fantastic fucking four.
It's probably wasted less money as well.
I'm also of the belief that Jeremy Hunt is not qualified to be in government at all.
When someone allows their agent to stay at the cost of the taxpayer for approximately £10,000,
and then claim it was a mistake, then they are either too incompetent to be in government, or they're lying through their teeth.
Jeremy Hunt is the epitome of why businessmen with vested interests should not be put in charge of areas they have no experience in.
He has negotiated with all the grace of a sumo wrestler, and with his overtone of contempt for the people he is supposed to be working with.
The atmosphere is just too toxic, and no matter what Jeremy Hunt did or will do to try and amend it,
he needs to step down and allow someone else to take the helm and restart negotiations.
It is the only way they will be able to realise their vision of the supposed seven day NHS, without losing a lot of their workforce.
And a seven day NHS isn't a bad idea.
Everyone wants health to be as good every single day of the week.
But when you have Jeremy Hunt in charge, it just does not work.
It will never work.
Get someone with a bit of experience, and then everything will sort itself out.
So, there you have it. There's my opinion on Jeremy Hunt as unbiased and objective as always.
I'm sure I'm going to upset a few people with this.
Well, anyone who watches, I know.
Not really many people watch me, but you know, fuck it.
Have a little rant.
For my friends, that's what I do.
This is how we do it.
You enjoyed it, like it, subscribe it.
Bop it.
Fuck it.
Do it.
Yeah.
And if you didn't like it, well then, that's cool.
I'm The Right Opinion, and that was the thoughts of a twat with too much free time.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
