Tesla has never been good at building cars.
Even before deliveries began, forums sparked up with concerns over the Tesla Roadster's
panel alignment.
Since then, as the cars hit the road and the company shot skyward, complaints about Model
Ss with windows that leak when it rains or mispositioned wire looms, and Model Xs with
drooping window seals or mysterious rattles when reaching speed have become commonplace.
When the Model 3 started rolling off the lots, the feedback was more of the same.
The car was exciting and mostly great, it just wasn't built great.
Condensation fogged headlights, interior paneling popped off, exterior pieces were misaligned,
paint jobs were inconsistent, and some seals failed to hold while others were drowned in
adhesives.
No matter the year, the model, or the factory of origin, buying a new Tesla has always been
a roll of a dice where the bad rolls have been laid out on Twitter.
Of course, social media posts are inherently anecdotal in nature, but Tesla's struggle
to deliver a consistent product goes beyond outraged individuals.
Scroll YouTube's results for Tesla build quality, and the search will populate far
more videos offering negative feedback than positive.
Or take this poll on Tesla's subreddit, where a majority of all respondents reported
at least minor or cosmetic issues with their vehicle.
While Twitter, YouTube, and Reddit may all have a bias towards negativity, you can take
it from the man himself, Elon Musk, who admitted that the company's build quality waned when
production ramped up.
Or for perhaps the most objective stance of all, there's the Consumer Reports annual
reliability rankings, where Tesla placed second to last in 2021, and 19th out of 24 manufacturers
in 2022.
The company simply struggles to deliver consistent, reliable, well-assembled vehicles.
It's been a problem since the beginning, it's been a problem the company has sought
to address time and time again, and it's been a problem that's taken different forms
over the years.
But it's not a problem Tesla's tried to hide—it's not a deep, dirty secret, but
rather something that comes with the territory.
Tesla has lacked the consistency of legacy car manufacturers.
After all, they aren't a legacy car manufacturer—they're the plucky upstart, the company that's been
bent on changing the world, the company that's moved fast and broke stuff.
The side effect's been inconsistent products, but from the perspective of the consumer,
what's one minor rattle or subtle paint problem when you're leading the charge towards
a brighter, bolder, greener, gasless future, right?
But even after building the car, Tesla struggles with a step that customers never even knew
could go sideways.
If Tesla's bad at building cars, then they're at best hit or miss when it comes to delivering
them.
At certain points, when favorable conditions exist, Tesla delivery has been more than punctual.
In the case of the Model Y at the end of 2022, slack in demand and increasing production
capacity at Tesla's Texas factory shrunk delivery times to a matter of weeks, but for
every November of 2022, there's a September of 2018.
By the middle of that year, long after Tesla announced the arrival of the sedan-style Model
3, and after some 450,000 eager customers had put down deposits for the vehicle, the
company was way behind, only having delivered around 10,000.
By September, Musk described Tesla's predicament as delivery logistics hell, but to be at the
bleeding edge of what feels like a revolutionary purchase, Tesla buyers are generally willing
to wait.
In fact, as the delivery problems mounted, some of the brands most loyal offered to volunteer
at delivery centers and help with customer service.
What Tesla customers didn't like, however, was being left to wait in the dark, or worse,
feeling misled.
Some of those who were once happy to wait showed up at delivery centers for their new
Model 3, only to find that there wasn't one waiting for them, or that it had been
damaged in shipping, or that they had been mistaken for someone with the same first name.
Others excitedly waited for their delivery deadline, only to receive a call just days
before that there would be another delay.
Some of the scorn demanded refunds, others went to Twitter searching for answers when
they couldn't get through to anyone at Tesla.
Many let the experience shape their opinion.
Now, ultimately, Tesla pulled itself out of the hole it dug, and the exasperated early
adopters finally got their cars.
But the problems persist—buyers still check in on their delivery date only to see that
it's been bumped back a month, customers save their get-ready-for-delivery-in-two-weeks
notices only for them to start piling up in their inbox, and the frustrated still ask
what's going on over Twitter because that's the easiest means of getting an answer.
Frustrations have also expanded beyond the labyrinth-like buying process too—not only
are Teslas more numerous than ever, some of them are now a decade old.
As it's become common to see Teslas almost anywhere nationwide, the company only established
163 service centers spread across the US.
That means if you own a Tesla in Flagstaff, Arizona, you're about 150 miles or 240 kilometers
away from anyone certified to work on your vehicle.
If you live in Wichita, Kansas, your nearest options are all a state border and a two-hour
drive away.
Making things more difficult, service centers are low on loaner vehicles, so getting from
Phoenix back to Flagstaff or Kansas City to Wichita requires a creative application of
Tesla-supplied Uber vouchers.
Even as the company continues to expand its mobile service fleet, the growth of the service
team is being outpaced by the total number of Teslas hitting American roads.
So, whether stationary or mobile, Tesla's service capabilities are being overwhelmed.
What were once appointment wait times numbered in days have become numbered in weeks that
are increasingly liable to cancel.
Tesla's driving functions are reliable—an inherent plus of the electric drivetrain—but
everything else is clearly not.
So facing inconvenient service, Tesla owners just wait, listening to their rattles, air
tones, and wind squeals for years, feeling increasingly fleeced by the company that demanded
luxury car prices for something that looks nice but feels cheap.
So, the company is burning through their existing customers—a group most likely to buy future
Teslas—which is certainly a problem, but perhaps even more concerningly, it's tough
to understand what they're doing to attract new ones.
It hardly seems like it's by offering them a deal—compare a Model Y Long Range to a
Mustang Mach-E Premium, and it has slightly better acceleration, slightly longer range,
but a slightly higher price.
As far as distinguishable differences go, there are a few.
It's a similar story upmarket with the Model S—the lucid air nearly matches on acceleration,
beats it on range, and is close enough in price that few in this market segment would
bat an eye.
And then if you go all the way to the other side of the market, Tesla is bested by Chevrolet,
whose base model Bull EV starts for some $15,000 less than the base Model 3, while coming close
on many specs.
So, it's clear that Tesla is not trying to compete based on price, so it's probably
something else.
Maybe it's by offering something different—maybe they're trying to entice the market by offering
a vehicle that nobody else does, but everybody else wants.
Well, while unique in their minimalistic design, the broad strokes of Tesla's product lineup
is uniquely basic.
Upmarket sedan, mid-market SUV, upmarket sedan, upmarket SUV—that's it.
Bafflingly, Tesla had the opportunity to differentiate its product lineup, and it recognized how
massive an opportunity doing so would be, but then just didn't.
Year after year after year, it's never been a surprise who will top the list of American
vehicle sales.
It's the Ford F-Series.
It's always the Ford F-Series.
In Kansas or Texas or Louisiana, the pickup represents about one of every 20 new car sales.
In Wyoming, it's more like one in 16, while up in Montana, one in every 13 new cars is
a Ford F-150.
These pickups are just so popular, and the only vehicles that even come close to their
sales figures are close equivalents like the Chevy Silverado or Ram trucks.
Americans just love their pickups, and the market is uniquely consolidated compared to
other vehicle types, so recognizing this, a decade ago, Musk announced Tesla would go
after the F-150 with an EV equivalent—a prime opportunity to disrupt a vulnerable
market.
Six years after that, Ford announced they'd just build an electric version of the F-150.
Three years after that, it entered production, and today, there are thousands of F-150 Lightnings
on the road and exactly zero Tesla pickups.
Adding to the woes, the F-150 was merely joining a market already kicked off by the Hummer
EV and Rivian R1T, meaning there are three manufacturers already in production, working
out the kinks, ramping up to massive scale in 2023.
Even the earliest possible Tesla Cybertruck production dates will therefore compete against
at least three major entrenched mature competitors.
Plenty have criticized far more about the Tesla Cybertruck concept, speculating that
consumers will shirk its audacious shape, that regulators will reject its innovative
design, that component costs will make its purported price impossible.
That could all be true—in fact, considering Musk himself admitted the company did zero
market research for the vehicle, it more likely is—but perhaps the most crucial critique
of the vehicle is the fact that it doesn't yet exist.
First moves matter.
Consumers can read a review about the Lightning, take a Rivian on a test drive, even walk up
to a dealer and buy a Hummer EV today, while the Cybertruck is relegated to the More tab
of Tesla's website, featuring absolutely zero specifications or even prices—merely
the option to leave a $100 refundable deposit for the chance to get in line to buy the vehicle
once it finally exists.
While the devoted few will maintain that the Cybertruck will change the game, it would
have been far easier for Tesla to define the game—years ago, when it first recognized
the opportunity that it later squandered.
But maybe they're not trying to compete on cost, and maybe they're not trying to
compete on differentiation.
Maybe China is the answer.
Tesla believed that enough to cozy up at the CCP and open a factory in Shanghai, largely
to produce cars for the Chinese market itself, and this has gone decently.
They sell tens of thousands of vehicles to the country each month, accounting for about
40% of the company's total sales, but in the largest EV market in the world, Tesla
is not the largest EV manufacturer.
That's BYD.
No company globally produces more EVs—they are now bigger than Tesla from a volume perspective—but
that's not the most staggering part.
This is.
Their growth rate is ferocious.
And here's Tesla's.
It is famously difficult for Western companies to sustainably compete in the Chinese market.
Amazon failed, Uber failed, Airbnb failed, Google, Best Buy, Home Depot, Macy's, eBay,
Yahoo.
It's harder to find one that did work than didn't.
China is just such an immense market that there are equivalent quality alternatives
to Western products that are better suited to the needs and wants of Chinese consumers,
which leave Western managers dumbfounded.
They don't understand why they're getting beat, and that's the point.
They don't understand.
Chinese companies are able to fulfill the tiny, unique, nuanced preferences of Chinese
consumers better than foreigners, so in Tesla's case, inevitably, their vehicles are going
to be worse for Chinese consumers than the homegrown alternatives, and unless they succeed
where almost all their equivalents have failed, they just won't be able to understand why.
Foreign-made vehicles do sell in China, but primarily as luxury goods—selling American-ness
or German-ness or British-ness as a brand—rather than competing on the merits of the vehicles
themselves.
That means that China can be a massive market for Tesla, but they'll struggle to go mass-market.
They'll always be a secondary player, meaning it might not be a market worth betting on.
So maybe it's not price, not differentiation, not market, not any of the traditional ways
that companies gain an edge.
Maybe it's innovation.
In 2016, after being dropped by its previous autonomous partner over safety concerns, Tesla
charted a new vision for full self-driving, and quickly started selling a software package
referred to as full self-driving for $3,000 soon after.
But full self-driving didn't exactly mean full self-driving.
Rather, it meant adaptive cruise control, auto steer, auto lane change, auto park, traffic
light recognition, and a few other driver assist features depending on street type,
each requiring driver intervention to manage and monitor, but not full self-driving.
Not yet.
Musk said that would probably come in 2017, when the vehicle would be able to drive coast-to-coast
from LA to New York without a single human touch, not even for charging.
That didn't happen.
It also didn't happen in 2018, or 2019, or 2020, or 2021 either, and all the while,
Musk and Tesla salespeople, following orders, pressured consumers into paying for the software
upgrade, telling them to get it now before the price would rise, which it did, all the
way to $15,000, despite the fact that, still today, Teslas are not capable of full self-driving.
There's now an open beta for something closer to true full self-driving, but far away from
that vision of touchless trips from LA to New York.
It's erratic and imperfect, in a way that requires a significant degree of human oversight
and intervention to avoid becoming a liability on the road.
Arguably, right now, it's more trouble than it's worth, but the issue for Tesla is less
about whether its full self-driving works.
It's that, for the better part of a decade now, it sold consumers on the promise, failed
to deliver, made new promises, failed to deliver, and repeat, and repeat, and repeat.
The type of autonomous that was promised will be game-changing, so the sales pitch worked,
but once again, the company has burned through its most promising customer base—existing
owners.
Tesla is facing class-action lawsuits and Department of Justice investigations over
its autonomous program, but even if those lead to nothing, even if it's navigated
strategic ambiguity properly to legally mislead, the reputation Tesla has earned as a company
whose word means nothing has to have an impact.
Okay, so, not price, not differentiation, not market, not innovation—maybe it's
Musk?
Maybe his call to personality is so strong that consumers will buy the vehicle specifically
because it's his?
Maybe he's the brand?
In fact, maybe he's deliberately calibrating his public image to appeal to a demographic
less likely to buy an EV, strengthening that fledgling consumer segment for the company.
Well, if that's what's happening, it's not working.
According to a morning consult survey, Tesla's net favorability among Democrats plummeted
by 20.3% between October and November 2022, when Musk purchased Twitter and started making
a series of controversial changes and statements.
Among Republicans, the favorability actually increased, but only by 3.9%.
That's not nearly enough to make the move worth it for Tesla, because Republicans don't
buy EVs—only 25% of them said they would even consider them in the next year, while
44% of Democrats did.
So, if you make the very simple assumption that a company's favorability correlates
to its shares, Elon Musk's actions objectively reduced Tesla's sales and took money out
of its shareholders' pockets.
While Musk might have been the visionary behind the disruptive behemoth, today he's a liability—an
increasingly unlikeable loose cannon who can't seem to separate his image from the company's.
There's not a whole lot left to set Tesla apart.
This isn't an existential threat—it's not like Tesla is going to suddenly start
fading away.
It's still a tremendously large, profitable company with an incredibly passionate fanbase
that will find ways to defend any and all accusations of weakness, and there are clearly
hordes of people that love their vehicles.
But people are learning to love other EVs, too.
Rife with quality issues, poor customer service, broken promises, and a generally amateur feeling,
consumers are taking the safe route and increasingly opting for the options put forward by the
incumbent manufacturers.
Meanwhile, startups like Rivian are looking at Tesla's shortcomings and addressing them,
offering better quality, better customer support, and better communication.
So, Tesla's just sitting there, preying on their downfall, letting market share just
march out the front door.
Tesla's competitive advantage was built on scarcity.
For most of their history, they were the only legitimate horse in the EV race.
Consumers were willing to deal with bad quality and service and communication, because it's
the price you have to pay to get something groundbreaking.
But Tesla is no longer a startup—it's one of the largest companies in the world,
yet it still operates like a startup.
Meanwhile, Ford, GM, Volkswagen, Rivian, and others are acting as the adults in the room.
Company culture is notoriously difficult to change, and that difficulty mounts the larger
company becomes, so when you have something as massive as Tesla that is still in startup
mentality, it is really hard to understand how that will change.
Tesla's fumble is what it could have been.
They had a decade-head start on the burgeoning industry that, within decades, will just be
known as the auto industry.
They could have been the auto manufacturer.
They could have been a giant.
They could have been Ford, GM, and Chrysler.
But instead, the other EVs are here.
They're popular, they're competitive, and while Tesla keeps making excuses, breaking
promises, burning bridges, and swinging wildly for the fences to keep the hope alive, everyone
else is slowly and methodically chipping away.
Maybe Tesla succeeds.
Maybe it's able to use its dominant market position to maintain its dominant market position,
but what sure is that it's going to be a whole lot harder than it had to be.
This day of mature mainstream EV market competition was always going to come, and yet Tesla did
little to prepare, and did lots to open up pathways for their competitors to eat into
their market share.
So if, in ten years, Tesla is anything but the biggest car manufacturer in America, the
explanation will likely be less about what it does over the next decade, and more about
what it didn't do in the years it squandered, leading up to today.
This video sponsors Wren, and some of you may be surprised by that, because Wren is
a carbon offsetting provider.
Last year I made a video about how the carbon offsetting market is a scam because it incentivizes
ineffective offsets that actually increase overall carbon output.
That video got a ton of attention, even making it onto Last Week Tonight with John Oliver,
meaning it made it all the way to the people behind Wren.
Their whole idea is to be a carbon offsetting provider that has the greatest chance of actually
working.
Now, I want to be careful to say that I'm not encouraging anyone to carbon offset.
I think that's really down to you, because at the end of the day, carbon offsetting is
not going to solve climate change.
Only top-down legislative action can do that, but if you, like me, want to do everything
possible to reduce the likelihood that your life is perpetuating the problem, then Wren
is probably the best offsetter to use.
Before even considering taking a sponsorship, I got on the phone with their CEO, had a project
evaluation, and a few others from their leadership team, and grilled them with questions for
more than an hour about how their project evaluation process works, why they pick the
projects they do, what they do if a project goes wrong, and they had really thoughtful,
detailed, upfront answers to everything.
Inherently, there's always going to be uncertainty when creating a carbon offsetting program,
but Wren has worked to reduce the risks that uncertainty poses by only allowing Offset3
a portfolio of their eight active projects, meaning if one fails, the others are still
there to keep the average stable.
That also means they're able to fund projects that certainly have an impact, but are tougher
to quantify.
For example, their Carbon180 project funds political advocacy for other projects and
policies that will curb carbon emissions, which could be incredibly effective, but is
obviously high risk and tough to quantify compared to a more traditional project like
producing and distributing clean cooking fuel to refugees.
I can't possibly explain all the methods Wren uses to assure the effectiveness of what
they do, but they do a really impressive job of explaining it in an understandable way,
so I'd encourage you to dig into their website until you're satisfied.
So if you want to offset your carbon footprint, make sure it's effective and do it with
Wren.
The first 100 people who sign up by clicking the button on screen or in the link in the
description will have 10 extra trees planted in their name.
