Cut the head in half have your halves cut these pieces into smaller pieces
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the right minion, haha, the home of an epic gamer with too much free time.
I'm running on like 4 hours of sleep and my life is misery, how are you today? That was a rhetorical question, you can't answer it because this is pre-recorded,
though obviously you can comment it so I wasn't thinking that far ahead.
Some of you may be asking, but Trove, James, my mate, why is your life misery? Well a multitude of reasons,
but I tell you recently, all this drama has had my brain fried, so much going on in the world that I need to catch up on,
which honestly, with all my other commitments, does not electrify me with enthusiasm. It drove me insane to the point where I decided to relax by playing a video game,
but in the end I just stayed up until 8am, letting my sanity further deteriorates.
Though I did complete the game, so you know what? I thought, who needs trending topics anyway? How about we do something a bit more out of left field,
a bit more fun? Hey, I like fun, that's the sort of thing that gets me up in the morning on top of my parents' crippling expectations.
Haha, now many of you may be wondering why I'm in such a hilarious mood today, well it's because we're going to the ever hilarious genre of pranksters.
Pranksters are a legendary genre on YouTube, if you are not at least familiar with one prankster out of the countless controversies that they have brought us,
then you're either not looking hard enough, or you might even have a life. But either way, they reigned supreme for a few years throughout the mid 2010s,
and there are many still going to this day. The thing is that although the golden era may be long behind us, those pranksters still made a lot of money,
and we're not talking about loose change here, some of the most viewed videos have over 100 million views. It was repulsive in a way, but that's what people wanted.
Now being a YouTuber isn't just about creating videos, for some of us it is, because we get turned off by all the additional business work,
I know it's always a gruel for me, but when you're a prankster, there is a very fine craft. You see, although these videos may get you millions on top of millions,
and in some instances even billions of views while you're making it big in the game, there is basically no longevity.
Eventually, once you've milked every single idea dry, people will begin to see that there's nothing really to stick around for.
And on principle, this isn't inherently true, just because someone makes prank videos doesn't mean they suddenly have an inability to make videos in other genres,
I mean someone who did manage to sensationally transfer their skill set was Roman Atwood, a person who really did incredibly well considering how moronic much of his content was.
However, that's the thing, prank videos didn't blow off the real connection between the audience and the prankster, the closest you might have got was FusiTube maybe,
but that's only because he loaded his content with ham-fisted social messages that won over audiences with fairly low bars of expectation.
Most other pranksters either became extremely infamous very quickly and then quickly lost it, or were mostly invisible behind their inane pranks.
This is likely because some of them don't really have much going for them otherwise.
Make no mistake, I almost do have a grudging respect for how much they put themselves through to turn out content for the sake of views,
you need to have an incredible amount of drive to do that. But that's all it is a lot of the time, drive,
and the ability to pick out the most provocative topics that will interest people.
One of the people who certainly embodies this idea is Joey Salads.
Joey Salads, or Joey Saladino, is one of the more politically charged pranksters.
His pranks, or quote social experiments, have caused him controversy over time.
He's been on and off the grid for a while, you probably know him for his multiple run-ins with H3.
However, he is more than just a prankster, he is now a politician in waiting.
Now some of my friends interacted with Joey at last year's VidCon, which I was at, but I never got the chance to have a conversation.
But either way, they received the big Joey Salads follow, and since then, they have been keeping up with what he's doing,
and obviously this little stunt being one of the newest, most interesting developments to be going on in his life.
Also, for the record, I will again be at VidCon this year, July the 10th to the 13th, definitely recommend coming.
You see, as a prankster, as long as you didn't do anything too criminal, you should be able to rebrand.
But the problem is, although you may have made a fat stack of dollar, you're somewhat limited in your scope,
particularly when it was established that most pranks were completely fabricated.
With social experiments, that was an important revelation, because a lot of the points that could be drawn from those videos had genuine social repercussions.
Therefore, it made sense for a lot of pranksters to take three routes, either move into a different genre,
one not heavily reputation-based like Roman Atwood did with his family blogging, smile more, oh yeah be happy, be nice, do pranks in the hood,
actually scratch that part, I'll save that for another time.
The other option is to milk the pranks dry and run them into the ground, a perfect example of this would be someone like Prank Invasion,
who has recently taken to pranks that are basically incestuous and questionable in whether they're even pranks.
It basically boils down YouTube pranks to what they are, their core essence, clickbait, and all other considerations for what even qualifies as a prank can go out the window,
some people just like weird stuff and branding it under a prank makes them feel better about it.
The third option is just to carry on hustling but out of the public eye, maybe you'd go into some business, maybe you'll invest your money into Bitcoin and turn 2 million into 35,
buy a nice mansion in LA and settle down with a lovely lady or gentleman depending on who you are and what you like of course.
Or the fourth option of course, be FouseyTube.
However, one option that we don't see touched on is public service, in the internet age it's difficult to go from the public internet platform into politics,
because of all the history you leave on it, as shown by people like Sargon.
When you're online you have a mindset that many of the things you say and do are much less consequential than they might be in real life,
and they are to an extent, but at the same time you can still break it down to its individual conduct,
and when you go into politics one of the hard truths is that the media will completely be at your throats,
regardless of how virtuous you truly are, the media love drama and anything they can twist their way they will,
so it seems bonkers that a prankster would run for Congress, but that is what Joey Salads has chosen to do,
with his announcement coming in late April.
So what exactly is Joey doing? Does he have a chance? How might his past affect his campaign?
And should it affect his campaign? And will he receive an endorsement from the mighty right opinion?
These are all questions that I plan to answer over the process of the next half an hour to an ample degree.
I hope you'll accompany me for this journey.
So yeah, this is Joey Saladino. As said, many people probably know him for his pranks, but we'll be discussing them very soon.
Let's lay down the basic facts, let's have a look at his biography, and see if we can get to know him as a person,
because that's what matters isn't it?
Now looking at his bios, it's clear that either the authors of the pages have a deep adoration for our macho hero here,
or that he might just have had a hand in creating these bios.
Famous birthdays credit him as the video creating phenomenon on YouTube who is known for creating funny prank videos.
Such a great sentence.
And heightline are even more flattering, branding Joey as a household name,
known for uploading mind-blowing social media experiments and pranks.
So what is beyond the aggrandizing, and what do we actually know?
Well, Joey was born in Staten Island in the suburb of New York, I like how they had to clarify that makes him part of the US,
clearly they know Joey's demographic well.
He grew up, attended a Catholic school, he proceeded to college, he became a pizza delivery boy,
a fairly ordinary life of a guy from a New York borough.
However, Joseph had bigger dreams, and quickly transferred from pizza delivery boy to the humor delivery boy.
You see what they did there? Hey, life is suffering.
So basically Joey's catchphrase is, it's bashing time, which obviously calls back to the fact that he loves a good wank, I jest.
It's anti-relating to the fact that when he started, he used to bash various items as pranks, such as his sister's laptop,
his sister's door, his sister's computer.
Honestly, his sister had it pretty rough.
Please don't read into that comment, you sick, sick person.
I know what you're thinking, that's disgusting, shame on you.
That's not how I meant it.
Leave comments below on what I should bash next, and maybe I'll pick one.
This is the first content that he gained traction from.
There was information about a speech he did regarding the deterioration of social values allegedly going viral,
but I cannot find that, I wish I could.
He gradually moved towards more mainstream pranks, and obviously into the content that he became infamous for.
This content was rather typical of the prankster comedy around then.
Cheap clickbait, hijinks, huge reaction, not exactly what I'd brand as funny, but hey, comedy is subjective.
Now in defence of this article's rather slanted tone, it does highlight that Mr Saladino's YouTube career
has been ridden with pitfalls, particularly relating to some of his more distasteful pranks.
As noted here, the three that receive a bit more attention than the others,
though there's more to discuss later, are the Muslim vs Christian terror video,
the transgender person in women's bathroom, and the infamous trump car.
They're not just controversial because they're provocative topics,
they're controversial because they are actually terrible.
Let's start with the Muslim vs Christian one, which basically presents an imminent terror threat.
Now if we set aside the fact that this is almost certainly fake,
one of the biggest issues is that the Muslim is dressed in such stereotypically Arab clothing
that it falsely pushes a pretense that Islamic terrorism can be identified by a fashion choice.
It also doesn't help that the person acting as the Muslim ran in a much more aggressive fashion
and moved with much greater intent.
This video was actually removed at the start of 2019 for violating YouTube's terms of service.
Then you have the transgender person in women's bathroom, which is just incredibly uncomfortable to watch.
He spends the first minute and a half trying to validate this rather awful idea
by appealing to the authority of his quote transgender friend whose identity I shall not question
because I do not know and it would be distasteful of me to do so if they are indeed transgender.
Looks good. Is it transgender approved?
It's 100% transgender approved.
Alright.
I also found out through the transgender community that some of them actually keep their voice the same way.
So going through the requirement checklist, penis, you're allowed to have voice, you're allowed to have
technically speaking I would be considered somebody just starting their transgender transformation.
Let's go into some girls' bathrooms and see what they think.
The point is that speaking to one transgender person does not count as validation for a prank.
And listen mate, if you want to do this and let people judge you then I'm not going to stop you.
But don't try and commodify the support of a transgender person as a deflection from criticism.
As said, it was obviously a stupid idea for multiple reasons and left people once again pretty annoyed,
even receiving a reaction video from H3.
Now let me make it clear, these videos were bad, but they were just a drop in the ocean.
In many regards, plenty of pranksters forced quote social experiments to try and prove something,
and needless to say, the numerous quote hilarious pranks in the hood have not aged well.
I do not think Joey would have stood out if he weren't such a character in a way,
the fact that he was at the forefront of a lot of his videos and he often seemed completely oblivious
on how to justify such content.
A lot of creators were smart enough not to bother trying to explain why it existed, because it shouldn't.
But Joey is a stubborn man, he loved to explain why this important social experiment meant something,
and by loading it with meaning he immediately opened it up to greater social discourse,
and involving himself in it explaining what the study could mean.
This is particularly important with his Trump card video.
What's up guys, Joey Salads here, and you may have seen on the internet and through the polls
that a lot of black people don't like Trump, and they don't even like his supporters in some cases.
So what I did was, I got a car, put some Trump apparel on it,
and we're gonna park it in a black neighbourhood and see what happens.
In this video, Joey parks a car in an allegedly African American community,
as many polls had shown that African American support for Trump had been rather derisory.
In the video, an African American gentleman turns up and calls his friends,
who then proceed to vandalise and ransack the vehicle.
Here's what Joey Salads concludes.
As you can see from this video, the black community is very violent towards Trump and his supporters.
Now, when I was filming this video, there were people out the window yelling,
F Trump. And after filming, I talked to some of the spectators who were black,
and said that they did low-key support Trump, but they're afraid of the backlash from their community.
This is in a way what makes them stand out, because although many pranksters went into the hood
to conduct their pranks in a rather insensitive fashion,
many of them acted in a provocative way that would justify reaction from anyone,
such as stepping on shoes or running at them, or stating some provocative slang with double meaning.
Joey's initial action of parking a car with Trump logos on it is not inherently provocative,
and therefore the implication about communities was much more politically inflammatory,
and given that it was fake, many people rightfully called him out for it.
The dangerous stereotypes that could have been enforced were quite concerning.
He has been confronted by creators such as H3, and has apologised since.
But the video is still up, and must I mention, still monetised,
so YouTube better treat this video right.
Joey's content since then has touched on many politically charged topics again,
and tried to provide takeaways. In a way, this should explain what has driven Joey into politics.
He's clearly very passionate about the modern political landscape,
and wants to use his content to drive a message.
But at the same time, given how controversial a lot of his old actions were,
it seems bizarre that he would involve himself in the political sphere.
People have been torn apart for a lot less, and he's still making this brand of videos.
What I'm gonna be doing today is going undercover at one of these campuses, the University of Maryland,
and I'm gonna be going undercover to see what they think about the LGBT treatment in Palestine.
Yo, Joe, one question. If you're a household name, how come you can go undercover with a hat?
Let's talk about his political campaign.
In case it isn't clear yet, Joey is a Republican.
He registered as a candidate in New York's 11th district on April the 30th.
Now for those who wonder what the hell the 11th district means, don't worry guys, I've got your back.
I'll explain in a bit, but for now we should really try and nail down what sort of platform Joey is running on.
Now like any person who's running for Congress, Joey has a page with all his political positions on it.
As comprehensive as ever, he covers five issues.
Economics, the seawall, immigration, New York, and national defense.
Now I'm not going to go into details, as I feel that would be unnecessary.
As always, I leave my links in the pinned comment if you want to read more into it.
He seems to come across as a rather traditional Republican with a local populist streak,
saying that he'll fight the current mayor, Bill de Blasio's quote IVD tyranny.
Ooh, that's rhetoric.
Essentially, as New York's 11th district covers Joey's birthplace in Staten Island,
Staten Island is often considered the quote forgotten borough.
Joey's slogan is forgotten no more.
It's a tactic commonly used by many people, particularly when these elections cover rather local areas,
a lot of problems that people encounter will be local, or at least feel local,
even if they derive from something more national.
When you see where you grew up deteriorating, and just wish it would be like it was 10 years ago,
that's a potent feeling that resonates with a lot of people,
so it's understandable why Joey would adopt such a narrative.
So the reason why I'm running for Congress is because I am sick and tired of seeing Staten Island
and the New York City Republicans that get tossed to the side when it comes to policy
in that state, in that city, and even up to the federal level.
Too many times is the voice of Staten Island and South Brooklyn
completely ignored by de Blasio and the other Democrats in the city.
This was from his announcement video, which certainly contained some entertaining statements.
I want to start a revolution, I want to start an ideological war against Democrats.
Not a physical one, a figurative one.
We need to fight back with facts, we need to fight back with raising our voices,
we need to fight back with our influence.
The new generation will come up and they will start voting Democrat.
We need to reach the younger generation now.
So this way when they're of voting age or even coming into the voting bracket right now,
we get them voting Republican for their entire life.
I had to hire the best of the best employees because I had to pay them the minimum wage
which was draining my business account drive for that particular business.
Overall though, he speaks about how his journey has led him to this point of view,
that his business drive really makes him qualified and that he has a vision.
But I'm here to tell you, you set your own worth.
As long as you have the tools to set your own worth,
as long as the government stays out of your business, you can set your own worth.
And I want to get that message across to the youth growing up
to let them know anything's possible as long as they set their mind to it.
If you're growing up in the ghetto, if you set your mind to a specific goal
and you work towards it every day, you have the internet now,
you have the source of the knowledge of the world at the palm of your hand
where you can actually teach yourself anything you want.
His campaign has been interesting, mostly running on social media.
Alongside his prank channel, he has a personal channel which is much more opinion based
but basically just mocking a lot of political mishaps, particularly related to Democrats.
She was pandering.
She was nervous.
No, because I think she's not being honest with herself and I think she's trying to pander.
It's like when Hillary Clinton was like, I put hot sauce on everything.
And that's what she was doing, she was trying to pander to the minority.
It's fairly uneventful, but you do get to see more of his views.
One of the things that Joey constantly faces down are the allegations
that he's not informed to speak on certain issues, or that he's against a demographic.
He often responds, much like his appeal to his transgender friend,
to an appeal to the relevant demographic.
For example, Saladino alleged his Democratic opponent, I assume Max Rose in this instance,
the current representative of the district, alluded to the fact that Joey mocked the disabled.
Joey's response was, look at my disabled friend.
Joey, that's not how it works, and you know that.
Near more recent conflict on his Twitter timeline, one of Joey's tweets about his opinion
on the pro-choice, pro-life debate gained some traction,
but also quickly received backlash because of how it opened with the statement
that he had had sex thousands of times.
How much money for Bang Bang?
No? Okay. I didn't speak English.
Now I'm not here to question whether he has had sex thousands of times,
particularly given his chad-like features,
but this braggadocious way to open up a statement on a serious political discourse
rightfully attracted mockery.
When people mocked him, he turned it on them by saying,
oh I'm sorry, what's wrong with having sex?
Of course, he could just be using it as an example of experience,
but equally, aside from being a rather invalid point,
having sex does not give you experience to speak on these issues,
he must have known how his statement would have been interpreted.
After telling people that they should be having sex or they're just sad,
he remembers that one of his key voter demographics are devout Christians who wait until marriage,
and promptly backtracks on that point.
To finish this off, he then appealed to his girlfriend, who provided a woman's perspective on the issue.
Oh dear.
From a girl's perspective, I want to know, maybe it's not your perspective,
maybe it's a perspective of people that you know,
their thoughts on abortion and the selfishness that goes through their heads when thinking about abortion.
It's just kind of like a safety net you have in the back of your mind,
saying like if I do, let's say have sex one night at a club,
I do have a safety net of getting the abortion if something were to happen.
So it's kind of like an unconscious, but in the back of your mind safety net.
Now looking at this, it might seem kinda bizarre that we're even having a discussion about this political hopeful.
Well, Joey's got no chance, I see American politics on the news every day,
and you gotta establish yourself as a reputable figure, surely,
and New York is one of the democratic strongholds.
Yes, but no.
As noted here, Joey has a questionable past, most well-remembered through H3H3,
particularly when he did a run of pranks depicting the African-American community in a very negative light,
eventually escalating to the Trump car and subsequent interview with Ethan Klein regarding that,
where he was pretty much held down for the entirety of the interview.
Don't let this video judge the entire race, the entire culture off the acts of very few individuals.
You kind of specifically say the opposite of that.
As you can see, black people got really emotional.
You can see from this video, the black community is very violent towards Trump and his supporters.
You don't say black lives matter activists, you say black people in general are very hostile towards Trump supporters.
See, that's more of just a mistake on my end.
That's not something that I purposely went out like.
I meant it, the video even says black lives matter versus all lives matter supporters.
I meant it to be specific to the people who support black lives matter.
Now, as many articles on him have been quick to point out, he has made these pranks with very political intent,
and therefore, it's not completely irrelevant that they're brought forward when his eligibility to be an actual serving representative of people is considered.
Now, in his announcement video, he decides to allude to this, referring to it as his controversial past,
and here's what he had to say.
But on screen, I was a jackass, I ain't gonna lie.
I did a lot of jackass things and at the time, I never thought that I would run for Congress.
So do I regret anything I ever did in the past?
No, I don't regret a damn thing.
You wanna know why?
Because without those experiences, without me making mistakes, without me doing these particular things,
I would have never grown as a person.
You gotta take every negative thing in your life and take it as a lesson learned.
Now, on first glance, this sort of comment isn't particularly bad.
Alright, he knows what he did was wrong, he doesn't regret it, which I probably would,
but he makes up some rhetorical reason for how he's grown and I guess it's part of a politician to be stubborn.
So, okay, maybe we'll let him off, but then there's this one comment that really stuck to me.
I was a jackass, I ain't gonna lie. I did a lot of jackass things and at the time, I never thought that I would run for Congress.
At the time, he never knew he'd be running for Congress, which to me is an amusing statement to make.
You have the platform, right there, in that moment to make a sincere apology, and instead we got,
well if I'd known I'd run for Congress in the future, I'd never have done it.
Implying that he wouldn't feel the same if he wasn't running for Congress?
It's just such a terrible arrangement of words, and it perfectly encapsulates the issue with Joey Salads.
I know I said at the start we don't think about consequences sometimes when we're online,
but that's not how you express it.
Joey Salads has such a surface level understanding of many of the concepts that most people resonate with.
When you make an apology, you have to understand why you're apologising, or else even if it was an error,
even if it was a misinformed call, you're prone to making the exact same mistake again
because you're demonstrating that you don't understand why you made that mistake in the first place.
You have to understand the harm that it creates, not say, oh I'm sorry guys, please vote for me,
I didn't realise I'd be running for a job where understanding much of the social tensions is key.
Joey Salads mindlessly exploited those social tensions for personal gain,
which is hard to look past, so he has to do better.
I don't think a hokey apology should be means for cancellation completely,
people word things poorly, and you can't expect someone like Joey who's admitted he's gone off the script
to be completely clear in this instance, that I would encourage him to have a somewhat decent idea of what he's doing.
Generally, most people justifiably take a stance against cancel culture,
because we want to believe in people's ability to improve as human beings,
and we want to see them succeed under that new philosophy.
However, on the other hand, what Joey did was incredibly irresponsible,
and as someone running for public office who's going to be dealing with those specific issues,
it just seems mad that he has an expectation that people are gonna be able to let it slide,
because it was really quite terrible.
He refers to his entrepreneurial spirit with a tone of pride,
yet it was his entrepreneurial spirit that drove him to making racist social experiments.
It wasn't like someone spontaneously saying a slur or a joke that went too far, it was a business move.
Those pranks didn't materialise for any other reason, it was calculated.
The environment for pranksters back then was incredibly toxic,
and it is not impossible that the macro mindset took him over and he lost sight of what was moral,
but unfortunately that shows a weakness for financial gain.
Now, there are many politicians who've done worse things and survived scandal,
I mean, they're notorious sex pests,
but then again, Joey did stick his manhood in a plate of food on Snapchat asking fans to touch it,
so actually, on second thoughts, he might be perfect for the job.
It really is bashing time.
Once again, he's apologised for this,
but it seems it advised that he'd enter into politics without taking a break
and giving him a chance to let his character progress.
So there's pictures of him putting his dick in a hot dog bun, putting his dick in spaghetti,
he's just a lot of homoerotic stuff to be quite frank.
I think that's the final point for me.
If Joey had taken some time off YouTube, come back, a changed man, had a new philosophy,
then I think I'd be more inclined to defend him,
but he has continued with his brand of clickbait, melodramatic videos that push slanted ideology
on the basis of a few interviews or experiments that just seem uninspired,
and tell me that he really hasn't learned anything other than don't get caught,
which really isn't what you should be taking away.
Do I think he should have his career ended now for what happened?
No, he can continue doing whatever he wants to do,
but I personally don't think he's completely proved himself ready to take on public office,
regardless of the party that he identifies with.
I think that will require some additional time and self-reflection.
He speaks about how his come up is so fantastic, and yet being completely aware of its immorality.
In his campaign video, Joey Salads brands himself as the embodiment of the American Dream.
I am a living embodiment of what you can achieve with the American Dream,
and I want to share that with everybody else.
That is why I'm running.
And for me, maybe that outlines the ultimate problem with the American Dream, and Joey's campaign.
We become so fixated on wealth and success, and not about how it's achieved.
Joey may have achieved his wealth, and I can't take that away from him,
but as a public figure running for Congress, you can't pick and choose what parts of your career you want to discard
when they've been so tightly intertwined with constructing that wealth in the first place.
Joey can say that he's making moves behind the scenes, and that's what makes him eligible,
but he's still running on the platform that he established in front of the scenes,
a platform which everyone knows is a platform which he openly portrays himself and his behaviour on camera,
and he has done that in the past, and in ways that have been very destructive.
You can't deny that, and you can't really avoid that.
And unfortunately, that's why I can't provide my endorsement to Joey Salads this election cycle.
Although I don't think his past should cast an eternal shadow over his prospects,
it seems to me that he's still in the shade, and he has a way to go before he should consider running for office.
I doubt he will be elected, but in the scenario that he is, I hope he undertakes the proper responsibility of an elected official,
and is a voice for those he feels has lost it.
But you know what? Maybe this is all just Joey's most elaborate prank yet, and we've all been trolled.
Who knows? I would never put it past someone who's so successful already.
Okay, so there's the video, I hope you guys enjoyed, I hope you took something away from it,
I'd love to hear your thoughts on the topic in the comments section below.
I'd love to give a big shoutout to the editors, they've once again done a fantastic job,
I really can't express how thankful I am for them, I'm gonna leave their links in the pinned comment,
definitely go and check them out if you have the time, send them some love,
they really do deserve it, they're great people.
Also, I wanna give a big thanks to my Patreons, $10 patreons up on the screen right now, thank you so much guys,
and also individual mentions to some hullabaloo on $50.
Also, cheeky thank you to my other $50 patreon, Dual Angel One, they donated towards the end of last month,
and therefore I got them in the initial draft, but they are here now, so thank you very very much.
And Evening Steel and Brandon on $100, you guys are mad, fantastic, I'm genuinely astounded by your commitment,
it means so much to me, if you wanna reach me, you can get me on Twitter, at The Right Opinion, on Facebook, on Discord too,
all those links will be in the pinned comment, I do not really have too much else to add,
apart from the fact that I hope you enjoyed this video, and I hope your week is going ok,
mine's a bit mental, but we'll get through. Until then, I'm The Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Bye!
