Hey guys, I'm making a quick short addendum to the How YouTube Sucks Better Help video.
At the end of the video, I said this, let's just listen to it again just so we're all
on the same page.
I know I'm a bit late on this one guys, thanks for listening anyway.
I can promise you right now, I'm never gonna sell you guys out.
I mean my description contains a Humble Bundle affiliate link, but that's a service that
I use and I actually think it's good.
And you won't see a paid ad on this channel for anything unless I've used it myself already.
Alright, that about does it for me.
I'll see you guys later.
I love you.
So I still for the most part stand by all of that, with the exception of the Humble
Bundle stuff because a bunch of people in the comments decided to drag me.
Let me just scroll through here.
Humble Bundle shill.
You got me.
Honest question, how do you endorse Humble Bundle with the way they funnel money to leftist
organizations such as the ACLU?
I actually didn't know about this when I made this video guys, this is news to me.
My bet is he did not know, I did not know.
Sargon knew.
Fun fact, Humble Bundle are owned by IGN and donating money to the LCAU.
Ah shit, see I didn't know.
Pour one out for Humble Bundle.
Humble Bundle is a terrible service, it floods your Steam library with hundreds of games,
what shall I do with it?
You mentioned you support Humble Bundle even though you support the ACLU.
Hasn't Humble Bundle been outed in some bullshit funneling money to the ACLU?
The quartering did a video on it.
See I didn't know, the quartering is a, not like a close friend, but a friend of mine
and I don't watch every single one of his videos unfortunately.
Doesn't Humble Bundle pay the ACLU?
Etc.
Etc.
Guys I didn't know.
I legitimately didn't know.
And I did watch the quarterings video before making this one so I have a rough idea of
what's going on.
Apparently IGN bought Humble Bundle and Humble Bundle has now been doing these various bundles
that support really shitty groups like the ACLU because the ACLU is a pretty shitty group
if you look into them.
And if you want to look into them go watch the quarterings video, it's a good video.
However the quartering states in that video that he's not a user of Humble Bundle and
he missed a few points that I want to bring up.
This is not necessarily a reply video to him though it kind of is.
This is not necessarily me defending Humble Bundle because very clearly it's indefensible
to support the ACLU like this and not tell people about it.
But I am going to maybe offer a reasonable justification as to why I won't be removing
my Humble Bundle affiliate link.
Even though frankly I don't think anyone's used it yet.
But let me just show you, I'll go through the process with you so that you can see what
exactly I'm talking about.
So I'm open on an incognito window so that I'm not logged into anything.
This is just an incognito window in Google Chrome.
Here's my Humble Bundle affiliate link.
It's right here, see?
Let's open that up in a new tab.
Because you've clicked on my partner link, you can actually do all of these various bundles
that they have going.
So let's do the gaming one.
It's the WB Games Classics Bundle.
Let's open that one up in a new link.
As you see, seven days remaining, you get Scribblenauts, Shadow of Mordor, Batman Arkham
Oranges, et cetera.
You pay more than the average of $4.13.
You also get these games.
You pay $12 or more and you get these games.
And this is all the stuff.
You get these various things partnered with Short Fight Otaku.
So something that people kind of know, but not necessarily, is that at the bottom here,
there's a tab that says choose where your money goes and you click this.
And if you didn't go through an affiliate link at all, let's just say that you were
just using Humble Bundle without any affiliate link active, you would see WB Games, Charity,
and Humble Tip.
And you can adjust these sliders to see how much of your money goes to certain places.
The charity this one has selected is Choose Charities, Be The Match, and Crisis Text Line.
And I think you can actually change these charities.
Is there a button to change it up here?
I think there was.
Let's see.
Yeah, yeah.
If you want to change charities, here's more charities.
You can select a new charity.
So you can, in fact, choose various charities if you want to donate money.
Now let's say you want a custom amount.
Let's say you're going to spend $25 in this bundle.
Okay.
It's already $25.
$25 is already in there.
$35, just so I can show you how this works.
So you decide to spend $35 in this bundle.
And look, it automatically calculates using these sliders, the percentage of which goes
to whoever.
So WB Games gets $21, the charities each get $1.75, Humble Bundle gets $525, and I would
get $525.
You could also, for example, make this charity get nothing, and then that one, it automatically
evens it out.
You could, in fact, just do this, and they're linked together because it's a proportional
thing.
You can also make the charity get nothing, and then the other three will adjust, right?
The other three will, and you can make WB Games get nothing.
So they're linked together in a proportional way.
So for example, if you really don't like Humble Bundle because of their ACLU bullshit, you
can just do this.
You can just give me all the money, right?
In this instance, you'll be buying these games, these Humble Bundle games, and I will get
every cent.
And because Humble Bundle is honestly so shitty, I would recommend that you do that.
If you are going to use my Humble Bundle affiliate link, and you want to support my channel in
doing so, just give me all the money.
It sounds a bit self-serving, and on some level it is, but it is a reasonable way to
fuck this company over.
I'm probably going to lose my affiliate link for saying this, but it's a good way to fuck
this company over for their shitty business practices and still support me.
If this wasn't allowed, if this option here to choose where your money goes didn't exist,
I would take down my link.
I would disable it, and I would no longer support Humble Bundle because they do seem
to be acting quite shitty.
Let's go back to the Humble Monthly, for example, and I'll show you what I mean.
This Get the Vote Out Bundle is what everyone is up in arms about right now, and here's
why.
These are all kind of SJW-style books, they're political books, you pay money to get all
these books, and as they say at the bottom, this is resist, as they say at the bottom,
it supports the charity of the ACLU.
There is no link to change the charity on this page.
If you keep going, you can still set your custom amount, but instead of a place to adjust
the ratios with those sliders, it just says, all for one, and one for all.
So if you're purchasing this bundle, everything goes to the ACLU, and you have no choice in
the matter.
I think that's a shitty business practice.
I have no intention of morally supporting Humble Bundle at all, ever.
You know what?
I don't know if it's possible for me to use my own affiliate link and then just give me
the money that I spend.
That'd be hilarious.
I don't mind doing that until it gets banned.
If it does get banned, I will use a friend's affiliate link, if I know a YouTuber has an
affiliate link, and I will just give them all the money using the sliders, I have no
intention of giving Humble Bundle a cent now that I've learned this.
However, because the bundles are a good deal, and because they give you this option to basically
exploit them, I'm going to exploit them until I'm banned.
And if you want an easy way to buy some games and support my show and support me and support
what I do here, I would suggest you exploit them as well until I'm banned.
But no, aside from basically fucking Humble Bundle in whatever small way that I can, I
no longer support this company.
Thank you guys for cluing me into the Quartering's video, thank you to the Quartering for making
that video, even though I think he missed this slider stuff here.
And I am sorry, I didn't know.
But now that I do know, hopefully everyone does this.
Okay, I'm out of here.
I love you guys.
