Greetings everybody, it's ya boiii!
Banished Goku 3000!
The world renowned critic of all things anime.
You know I'm legit because I have FOUR FUCKING NUMBERS IN MY USERNAME!
So for the topic of today's video, we're gonna talk about ANIME.
Boy is anime a shit.
God, it's all just fucking terrible, and I hate it.
And I hate YOU.
I'M A MOTHER ANIME, YOU SHOULDN'T REVEAL ALL OF YOUR IDIOT IN THERE!
But anyway, just because every anime sucks doesn't mean that every anime isn't also excellent.
Man, do I love anime.
Boy, anime sure is swell.
So today, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you not a top 10, not a top 5, not a top 25,
but a top 10 list on the greatest animes of all time.
Now, this is usually the part of most videos like this where the YouTuber's like,
Oh, don't get upset by this video.
These are just my opinions.
But I'm not gonna say that.
BECAUSE I'M NOT A FUCKING PUSSY.
Seriously though, if you disagree with the content of this video, well FUCK YEAH.
My opinions are fucking better than yours.
Just as they're better than any other human on this planet.
I'M AN ANIMATION REVIEWER ON THE INTERNET.
I didn't spend 12 years of my life studying animology at the top internet universities
just for your butthurt child mouth to squeak at me.
Oh, jeez, I don't really agree with this list.
Suck a fucking dick, baguette.
Anyway, uh, here's the top 10 best animes of all time.
Number 10, Avatar Last Airbender.
We start this list with the birthplace of all anime, China.
Hey, China is still cool!
Anyway, Avatar takes place in feudal China where our heroes must summon the power of all the elements.
Fire, water, grass, electric, mountain dew, and purple.
They must use their powers to protect the Na'vi people from the evil dictatorship of Mao Zedong.
It's a pretty good show.
Definitely one of the greatest animes of all time.
Number 9, Steven Universe.
Slow down, I'm gonna spurt.
Sorry.
Steven Universe takes place in feudal America where our heroes must summon the power of rocks.
This anime features a light-hearted whimsical tone with playful dialogue
when all of a sudden, holy shit, that got dark.
Seriously though, watching the show is like walking out of Chuck E. Cheese's into the Holocaust Museum.
You know, they say you shouldn't play with people's emotions,
but that's a bold move on their part and I respect that.
You don't know shit about my mother.
Number 8.
It seems today that all you see is Peter Griffin and Family Guy moments compilation.
Hey guys, check out my Family Guy funny moments compilation.
Give me a million views.
Number 7, Hentai.
Number 6, Dragon Ball P.
What can I say?
It's one of the greatest animes of all time.
How can you not enjoy its memorable characters,
amazing action sequences, great food, and brilliant animation?
Number 5.
Number 4, Toy Story.
Toy Story is my most favoritest movie ever.
Did I mention that I'm a 90s kid?
Don't you ever hate on Toy Story because it's my childhood
and my childhood is better than yours because I was born in 1998.
Well, anyway, Toy Story gets a bonafide top 5 spot.
Number 3, Weinfeld.
Just a note here, I was gonna put Bee Movie in this spot
because you just gotta put Jerry Seinfeld in the top 5 of any anime list,
but I ran by the numbers again and it turns out that a Bee Movie is in fact not anime.
I'll have you guys know that I take incredible care
in making sure that my top 10 lists are as legitimate as possible.
Anything that could even marginally de-legitimize the validity of this 100%
USDA certified grade A for anime list is completely unacceptable.
Which brings me to number 2.
When you think of excellence in anime,
Cory has got to be one of the first names that pops into your head.
Never before has an anime been crafted with such exquisite animation, compelling characters,
ingenious attention to detail, thrilling plot, and not to mention serving as the inspiration
for one of the most innovative and groundbreaking video games of all time.
But wait a minute, if Cory in the House isn't the best anime of all time, what is?
Well, without further ado, the greatest anime of all time is...
Are you ready?
It's fucking Shrek!
The fucking-
How could it have been anything else?
How could it have been anything else?
Holy shit!
Are you fucking shitting me?
Do you literally think anything else would be number 1?
Oh my god!
You know what, ugh.
Oh my god.
Okay, that's the end.
It's over, everyone.
