you
All you guys saying that I was gonna be late you were wrong. I mean, I'm early
But we're definitely gay. All right. Yes. I'm probably late. Definitely gay. Yeah. Hey guys, welcome to week this up
Mmm
What's going on? Oh
Things are shaking. I know there are some people who have been like, I don't want they help me to be on the sip anymore
I don't care. I'll do whatever I want. I
Do not care I don't care I will do whatever I like
Hey dev new timer to the discord, well, don't worry, there'll be a new disco
Actually, I need to work on that today in fact after we're done here
Well, you don't need to have an entire conversation about it
Yeah, yeah, okay, but where's the media literacy video on the side channel and it's not coming out yet
Basically all my demonetized videos were moved over to the side channel
They're coming out once a day to avoid like fucking everyone's upload feed
So
See my list of things that offend Twitter freaks. No
No from the sip let's try to get ahold of nowadays she's very busy. All right, Peter. Fuck you are done
If he does third chair, thanks for the $2
Fuck. Yeah, let's been too busy with real life stuff. So I've been brought in as the unfortunate replacement
You're not even on the tubcast. Yeah, I know
So here's the thing I want to outline real quick what I gotta do today
Yeah, I want to I already wrote that one script that big long one. Yeah, I
Put I don't know if you guys saw it's an hour and 20 it's an hour and 20 minutes and it's gonna be fucking huge
It's we're gonna edit down to about 45. I think
But it's gonna be about like Sargon and James Lindsay's feud and but more importantly the idea is they're feuding over, okay
Dev cream, please not bring up Trump this time. Oh too late. Okay, that's okay. That's fine. That's fine. You don't bring up Trump. Okay, so
I
Talk about your cash as well and we get this out first so I want to write at least one more video. I want to
Maybe record tick-tock Tuesday today. Mmm sometime in the afternoon
It'll probably time to be honest we have a whole day ahead of us
I
See it real late anyways, I don't care
um
What else
The discord I want to work on
and
If all if all goes well, and I'm not being a fucking blob, which I probably am
I didn't do a stream last night. So I was working all night on that long video
I would like to fire up a tune extreme or something like some sort of make it up to you guys stream
If I do that, it'll be late at night though. It'll be the late stream
Because I want to because these these things I just listed off the discord the new discord the the tik-tok Tuesday
And then the new script they're all priorities, right?
so this the the
The tune extreme will be maybe probably not
But it might be a bonus surprise if I can keep it together then why mention it
Why not just have it be a surprise. So like I like laying on my thoughts. Okay
$5 from our nose following Naomi and Louis has never been hurt on the same stream together quince
I think I think you have I think you came in and likes talking to the Michael little hose on the stream once
Yeah
There was there's definitely been at least a couple of times were like
Somebody yelled a question at me through you and then I answered through the mic
Yep
Coming tricky Mario, I'm doing my best but hey
If for some reason I decided to turn this channel that this channel into just like a fucking stream channel, it's my business
Yeah, but you're I've always taken the opinion that I'm just gonna do whatever I want
Yeah, I know but your actual thought out videos are the better videos. Yeah, maybe yeah, that's no no, maybe
Fact
Zonta $5 coach red pill Russian spy and
Propagandist has passed from pneumonia
Of course Carl's who's Carlson and Don Jr. Who's Don jr. These people with the mentor Russian propagandist passing away
I should do a video on coach red pill to be honest because I mean
At that he's dead. He's not gonna be relevant ever again from this point on like he's fucking he just died
so if I have a bunch of um, I have a bunch of
Coach red pill stuff saved up from the internet blood sports days. I might as well drop it
So fuck it like not now is the time to make a video on coach red pill
No, he's a fucking asshole he was an asshole back then he's an asshole now
It's been like four or five days already
Another we have to wait a week till you found out then make news
Yeah, that's how that's how the niceties of the world work
hmm
It was apparently from neglect
Yeah, I heard like he he was in a Ukrainian prison because he was living in Ukraine
Spouting Russian propaganda getting paid with a Russian. So of course, he got fucking arrested
He's like what a retard right but even if you agree with Russia, like how dumb can you fucking be, right?
Don't live in Ukraine during a war with Russia and then spout Russian propaganda on the internet. Yeah, it's no so he
Gets you actually didn't you try to like hop the border into Hungary or Poland or something and he got arrested at the border
So he was put in a prison and the prison sucked and he caught pneumonia
Well, he was in the prison and there the conditions were just so poor
He just fucking died good to know that prison conditions all over the world are the same
He was also a spy when he avoided prison the first time and riding up the five spies he was working with fucking hell
Dude, I enjoy about $20. Thank you that video better mentioned liberalism self-destructive nature demand
You fight with the hand tied behind your back fact that defies your rule doesn't the reflection of your rules just because we're better
That will be actually a different conversation. I'm talking about philosophy not necessarily practical
implementation
But I do agree with you there
So basically, um, yeah, I have a lot of things I want to do today Oh
I'm
Speaking of the discord. Yep. New there's a new discord being built because the old ones a fucking trash fire new discord coming soon
I'll make sure to announce to people
Shouldn't you say that because of discord's new rules that to discourse new rules as well
Yeah, well no cuz like discord's new rules means that the new discord server is gonna be a lot more like it has to be stricter
Yeah
authoritarian
Like most anything that dev has ever done I have to because discord's like
Discord will fucking ban everyone on a server if someone on that server misgenders like it's fucking ridiculous. Yeah, it's fucking ridiculous. Yeah
So fucking awful, so I'm making a discord, um, what else
What else is really important to talk about? Oh
So
I haven't been talking about this anywhere else, but I have been talking about on the weekly sip
So I'll talk about it again here
Thank you very much. Derek. Appreciate it
Glad you enjoy. Um
so I
Did finally decide to try vyvanse? Oh
Yeah, I've been talking about like okay. I didn't realize you were talking about it on the set good to know
but only in the set
only only sippers know and
And here I'll give you my vyvanse take okay one it was way too easy to get
Considering that it's basically controlled meth. Mm-hmm. I
Feel like anybody sufficiently smart enough whether or not they think they have any sort of condition that requires vyvanse
can simply walk in fake it and get it because I I had a
Bottle like I went into the fucking
The the clinic I had a bottle of vyvanse within an hour. Yep. Congratulations
That is the same drug as I don't know how much destiny takes yeah, but it is the same drug. Yeah
You know, I'm gonna feel real stupid if I ever go to the doctors and I'm just like hey
Maybe I should try this and they're gonna be like yeah here and I'm just like I should have done this like
Yeah, I won't just go cuz I'm lazy and I'm also not as smart as you
So I might not get it
Like I was talking about after I came back home
I spoke to Taft edge for a whole bunch because we were talking about it now. It's just like, you know
The best way to learn how to lie is to watch Death Note, all right
To learn how to not lie like Light Yagami who makes all these fucking crazy ass faces anytime he's lying
Like when when Light Yagami lays out his thought process for lying
He'll say okay
You need to adopt a personality of the person who is innocent of the thing that you've actually done
Yeah
Which might mean in some instances implicating yourself in some way because that's what an innocent person would do
right
So yeah, of course I was at the crime scene
I just walked through cuz I was walking there like I walk there every day, you know
Like do something like that right where that's how you lie effectively is
You even if it means you you you hurt your own case in the short term
You you have to present something you have to present a false
Psychology that is consistent with a person who is actually telling the truth, right? So
That's a really good tip on how to lie, right? And so
when I was like sitting in the doctor's office and I was like I
Was thinking about it
I'm gonna lie about maybe
Felt like, you know, it felt like I was lying when I was laying it out because here's the thing
if she asked me to like
You know focus on something for 15 minutes as part of a test
And if I and if I couldn't do it, then I would be given the drugs
I could definitely focus on the 15 minutes
So I did feel like I was lying almost like everything everything that I filled out in the form was completely true
But it also felt like it wasn't even though I knew it was like it's like, okay
Well, do you do this behavior? It's like yes, I do. Do you do this behavior? It's like yes
I do like I was checking them off checking like yes, I do. Yes, I do. Yes, I do
Right, but it also felt like a construction
It felt like I was constructing the personality of somebody who was actually quite ill. Mm-hmm. You know, I mean, yeah
Well, I mean that's the problem with like being able to have good days and bad days, right?
Like you're a competent enough person that you can actually go to the doctor to get shit
You need to be fair to me took me five days to actually go to like I suppose go on Monday
No, I know but like it's still the fact that you can force yourself to go
You're not like a person who's like stuck like in a home like who's like actually
Helpless and can't force themselves to do anything. So it's definitely a what's that called?
I'm gonna read this super chat. Okay, sure. No, no, I'm done. That's fine. What's that called? What?
Okay, well there you go I knew you're done okay here in the lead of Columbia
Thanks for ten dollars
When things James Lindsay makes clear is that any response against the left has to be measured and well thought out
Because like because the opponent's reaction is the left's goal like in Spain or Argentina
Um, yeah, that's true. That's definitely true for sure. I agree
Hi food drops. Oh
My grandfather was a b-17 tail gun in World War two. He passed away r.i.p. Dude. I'm r.i.p. Grandpa
Dev hasn't seen code geass. I've been trying to convince him to not yet. Sorry. It's really good
You should watch I think I saw like a first episode with a long fucking time. You should watch all of it
It's really good. Yes, you gotta lean in more
Stop okay. So basically basically like
It's one of those things where I would say before vyvanse, I
Hey Jew lady, what about the tunnels? Have you got tunnels underneath the house yet? No. Maybe if it was like, only our house
Someone else was in the basement. Yeah. Okay. So here here, let me try to lay this out real quick. Okay, so
Basically, I would say before
vyvanse I
I had what I would call a sufficiently productive day about 30% of my of the time
That's not about right. I yeah we're like a lot of days
I'd be trying to do work and I just I'd be forcing it and it wouldn't be happening or I do way less work than
I should or I'd like do other semi-productive work that wasn't essential like cleaning the house or something, right?
You know what I mean?
And there has been some difference
Since it's been four days, so there's not gonna be a fucking crazy difference yet, right? And also
I'd say watch gundam. I already watched gundam. You're at a really low dose, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So here's the thing
I was given a 10 milligram dose for the first week and then a 20 milligram dose after that right and so
Basically with the first week I was given a 10 milligram dose for the first week and then a 20 milligram dose after that
Basically with 10 milligrams
um
Dom said it was a uh, it was a child's dose, right? Which makes sense
But also here's the thing like on the one hand vyvanse doesn't like alcohol
So it doesn't like it's not like you need more because you're heavier. I'm a fat guy, right?
It's not like that, right? So it'll affect the same amount no matter what but also
High blood pressure is an issue for me because i'm overweight and i'm out of shape, right?
And there definitely has been like oh same
No being overweight enough shape you can be out of shape and overweight, okay. Yeah, you definitely can yeah. Oh, well, yeah
Okay, I guess never mind. Yeah, never mind
It's called being thin fat. Yes winter wait winter dev is the laziest stuff. Yeah. Thanks for two dollars, man
It is kind of winter and summer dev are the same dev. Are they? Yes. Are they really? Yes
Yeah, so i'm so here's the thing i'm still on the initial like ramp in week where the idea is the doctors
Okay here i'll give you one week of 10
And then like a month and and like six weeks or something of 20
and basically this will be like the trial where like
The 10 will ramp you up and then the 20 will be where you stay. I mean like dom's on 30. Um,
I don't know where what?
I'm, pretty sure that's common. Yep. Sure. Yeah
Did I say something I should have said I don't know everyone forget what I just said the point is
The point okay food shops show feet jesus. Okay. The point is
Is that um, i'm still in the ramp up period but I have noticed like a little bit of a difference
But it's not like you know when you get high
Hold on you wouldn't know no
Lots of people report getting high and they feel it in that not just in their body, but in their mind
Lots of people get drunk and they feel it not just in their body, but in their mind, right? Yes
I've never felt any drugs in my mind. That's because you don't take drugs even when I have
Only my body whenever like
I i've definitely like had enough alcohol to be considered drunk before and it's only ever and it's only ever affected
It hasn't affected how I think it's only been like oh jesus. I can't fucking move like anything properly
But my brain's like pretty much intact. Um
and um
Same with same with weed right where it's like but you've done like once
I've done both these like a handful of times not very much though. It's been like over 10 years before
It's only it's been like over 10 years
So I expected that there'd be some sort of effect
On vyvanse
And there hasn't been I think the exact same way
People who are like people say like listen if you take adhd medication, you're gonna lose all your creativity. That doesn't happen now, maybe
If I get more which i'm going to it might as if if the dose goes up I might yeah
It's only been a few days. I think you need to like actually take a longer time before you form an opinion
Yep, it's very true. Um, however
At the same time I have noticed that my twitter binges when I go on them
They don't last three to six hours anymore
They last about 15 minutes and then I get bored of them and then I go do something else
And it's actually no longer. It's like oh I can just stop this like oh, I don't I don't it's no longer appealing to
To reply to this fucking retard
Right, yeah, because you're not chasing that dopamine maybe
Anyway, we'll see I mean, I guess I just started so who the fuck knows right? Yep
You're in your mid 30s all your career creativity is gonna anyway nah, that's not true i'm still pretty creative
I mean, what about those like musicians that are still like still going like 70 plus still making new music. That's actually good
so
And also like another a side effect of it one is high blood pressure
So I need to keep it and I need to keep a start working out more. I need to but also
Another part of it is yeah, I've got like fucking once every two weeks right now the the other the other part of it
Is um
It's not attention span. It's it's not actually affecting my attention span. It's affecting my ability to
drop
a negative feedback loop of reinforcement
That's what it's affecting right? So like every tweet on twitter is like another loop. It's another cycle
And getting the next tweet is always like when i'm arguing with somebody
It's like the next reply the next reply the next reply and it's all and each one is its own reward
Like i'm talking about like psychological reward, right?
Yeah, well, I think it's more serotonin, but whatever either whatever happy drug. Here's the thing. You're using dopamine in the meme way
I get it. Okay, so
but basically
Um, it gets to the point where it's like
Like for example, lots of people with adhd
They'll like hyper focus on like a video game for 18 hours a day, which I have done before right?
And it's because video games have this reliable reward pathway where like you're always
Attracted to the game because you're because you're getting steady
You're you're getting steady advancement through work in the context of the game
So like every time you do something in the game
It takes a little bit of effort and you get a little bit of reward and it's the steady feed which is like which which is
Extremely appealing to people who have adhd, right?
um
But also if you're sat down to do something that is very intellectual and very tough like writing for several hours that can be harder
and i've definitely been in days where it's like
I need to write this and I fucking can't get myself to do it because I can't like I can't fucking do it, right?
Um
So the fact that I was able to like I was able to write just out of fucking nowhere. I was able to keep
My mind on the task of writing this giant script that ended up being an hour and 20 minute recording
Like a couple days after taking these pills like oh, maybe I can actually do do some of these things now
Um
So here's okay. Yeah, and also i'm sad that I don't know the tune to that song so I can't sing the super chat
Song of touch
I'm out of shape i'm out of air, but my blood pressure is sky high fat rolls high
You know how to touch I know listen, I know out of touch but like not off off on the top of my head
Now listen
All I know is i'm out of touch and that's all I know really in my head. Yeah, okay
Thanks lady. Columbia for the five dollars
So here's the thing I actually agree miss sparkles like
so so on the one hand like
I I genuinely have the adhd symptoms. I generally have
The adhd symptoms
Where i'm like i'm like I went down the list and I checked it off and it's like I do actually do this
I do actually do this. I do actually do this check check check check check, but then like
The fact that I came in extremely knowledgeable about the drug and its side effects, yep
I knew exactly what to say. I already knew what form she was going to give me to phillips. I found it online
And I already like I knew what to say. I knew how I knew how to how to behave
I had it all pre-planned in my head. So it felt like I was faking it
Yeah, that's because you make yourself sound like a fucking scammer. I already knew what to say
I researched everything I did I did I did I did it doesn't matter if the doctor might have said something else because I knew
Let me put this way I went in so knowledgeable about the topic
That it felt like I could just drip feed her information about myself, which I did
To direct the conversation making yourself sound better to direct a conversation
To direct the conversation towards an end point that I wanted that was the correct end point
But nonetheless, I was the one who was in charge of that entire conversation. The doctor was going where I wanted her to go
You make yourself sound like a scam artist and I was just like well here's the thing
That's why I felt like a scam artist you make yourself sound like a scam artist that makes sense
Yeah, this is not imposter syndrome. This is just dev being a scammer even though he needs the drugs
Everyone does this and they know it. I don't do that
I just go to the doctor and be like I am not knowledgeable about this subject and you are because you took eight billion years
Of school for it. So tell me what to do
So here's the thing like a lot of people in the chat are saying like this is a bad idea dev you shouldn't be medicating
You should be able to do fair enough, right?
Here's the thing like if I go on these drugs for a month and they make me worse i'll go off and i'm like
Oh fucking like i'm not i'm not like devoted to I must be on the drug. Look I want to try it. So i'm trying
I mean like that's that's the way with like antidepressants too like sometimes for some people it takes like
Like so many tries with like each antidepressant to like actually find one that doesn't fuck them up
Really bad it fucks them up in the right way. Not the bad way
Yeah
Dev goes in age management when we get the trucker video based
One more day. Okay, you can re-up my bad neuroscience takes if you want next house, that's fine
Also, hey next house. What's up?
Listen, that's what information yeah, I know food shops. Okay here listen guys food shops isn't real really trans. All right
Food shops is the kind of person who watched way too much like sissy hypno
Porn and and like looks at way too much like like futa hentai
All right, and she completely psy-opt herself into becoming a girl. Okay. Yeah
Like I know I know everyone's going after food shops for the loli thing right now, but the real deep lore
The real deep lore is that food food shops is agp. All right, that's the jesus i'm trolling by the way
Oh, no, listen, I know I know the doctor here shit i'm actually well aware
but i'm just saying that I don't like
Do all the research and make myself feel like a scam artist when I need something from a doctor
Luke says food shops did nothing wrong giga chat
Okay, so here
Yeah, let me put it this way. Okay guys, there's a lot of people
Who say um that this is not it's not a good idea for me to uh for people to go on meds including me
And you know what?
I like
Kind of agree. Here's the thing
because
There's definitely a way there's definitely paths where like through enough meditation
And through enough like mindful. No, don't roll. I'm not doing giving some hippie bullshit
All right, like people change their behaviors all the time
through self-improvement
Listen just because you fucking can't don't oh, yeah
Don't you say the fucking man who's just like I want to move in like two years after we started dating
I'm gonna lose all this weight and get my fucking eight pack
It has how long has it been it's been seven fucking years you got even fatter and we were still in the same place
Yeah, I don't want to fucking hear your rules about oh anyone can just as long as they like do this and this ever
No, sometimes you just fucking need the medication to take that step to get you there. It's very possible. Yes. Yes. No, that's the truth
Sometimes you know, not everyone does because they have wait, let me explain what i'm gonna say you fuck
Also, hold on a lot of this is also your fault. That's why we're still here too. Yes. Yes
Okay, okay. Do you want to actually start airing shit on the fucking stream now me?
No, then stop
Don't fucking just start pulling real life shit out when I I have so much I can say with you
I'm holding back so much right now. Oh, yeah. Okay. Yes makes you a bad boyfriend for holding back when you when you're not
Okay, I won't do that then now me you fuck
Listen, i'm not the one giving a bad take about fucking shit like being hypocritical about myself
I didn't even finish the take you don't even know what's bad yet or not. Can you please yeah, but I know you know what?
Shut up. Shut your fucking mouth
Shut up
Okay here
Okay here here let me put it this way, okay, so
there are definitely paths for people who let's say
They get like let's say you take like like an addict who like someone who's addicted to like league of legends or something, right?
Someone who like definitely will spend eight or like overwatch like 18 hours a day on overwatch and just like lose their fucking mind
Because you don't lose your mind unless you lose well, no, yeah
But like at the end of that 18 hour
League of legends or overwatch binge and you like turn the computer off. You don't feel good. You know, yeah you do if you rank up
No, even if you rank up like there's like a hollowness to it where you're like if you rank up it's good
No, no, you fucking
Degenerate listen, all right. You're definitely like when you like
Get caught in some sort of in some sort of like cycle of perpetual reward
Even if you
Get more wins than losses. You still feel like empty and burnt out after you're done right do it. No balls
Thanks for the fiber Artemis, but you still feel empty and kind of burnt out. You're like, uh, you know like you're like, uh,
It like there's something there's something there
That like just it feels like like you fried your brain
almost
Doing like like spending that much time on something because it's just been constantly like feedbacking you
Um, you never played good video games. I'm sure I have I
Dude, can you hold on you never you've never been able to like relax enough to enjoy playing a game for 18 hours
So when I was like a kid or like a teenager
This effect that i'm describing did not exist for me
Yeah, I could sit there for 18 hours and play a fucking video game and just be like, yeah
But like in my 20s, that's when I started to feel like oh, I that's because you were supposed to be doing other things
Yes, well, no, it's not it's not the fact that
I have if i'm gonna sit around and play a video game for like all day on my day off
I'm gonna feel absolute terrible by myself. No, you're only gonna feel bad about yourself
You're supposed to be doing other things even if I had nothing to do
Let's say that I was like a billionaire
Okay, and I had nothing to do and I could just sit around for 18 hours a day playing a video game
I would still come out of that being like, oh that's a bit too much only after one day of 18 hours or multiple days
Of 18 hours, you know what probably like I do it once in a while and feel okay
but if I was doing it like
Every day or like multiple days in a row. I'd be like, nope. See that's understandable. Nope. That's a bit much
Uh, so like but here's the thing you kind of get caught in these feedback loops
these um
The these neurological cycles where like you're you're getting like the next dopamine hit constantly, right?
You get caught in that and so you're looping and looping and looping and looping and looping
Right, you use the phrase earned dopamine 18-hour gaming system versus finishing a roof makes sense
Yeah, but I don't even know how to start a roof. Thanks you. Thanks for 20 dollars, man
There's definitely like, uh, here's a personal problem. I'm talking about a personal problem. Thank you for three dollars, dude
um, so like here here, let me let me try to let me try to try to
The weight the bad gut bacteria tones for a lot of mood brain issues tons of research on it
I should die before you're trying that farmer crap. Oh, don't worry. My dad's actually a lot better recently sammy for sure
Oh, and you know what? That's another side effect of the fucking
Drug is my appetite's rat like is decreased by quite a bit rapidly. Uh, yeah, dude
It's actually day one day one. My appetite was down and it's been down ever since yep. I'm like, oh I could just not eat
What do we had today? I've had one piece of avocado toast and I feel like
Not hungry, but not full. I feel like satiated. Yeah. Yeah
I can't tell if they need any issues meds or not. Maybe i'm just poor on self-motivation or need less caffeine
So can I answer this? Okay, go ahead. Okay, so the actual way to be able to tell is that if you can't get yourself
To do the things that you know, you need to do
Like for a really long like if it's been like if you're just kind of noticing these symptoms attempt to try self-discipline
And if self-discipline works great, but if it's been like many many many years and it's just like oh, well
Maybe i'm just poor at self-motivation
Yes, because you need some pills to help you out. Maybe maybe to help out your self-motivation just a little bit
This is like years years of notice. There's there's there's there's one weird trick you can actually apply. Okay?
Okay
If you drink coffee, well, no, I make the avocado toast myself. Like we make it here
We don't we don't spend twelve dollars for like delivery avocado toast. It's cheap to make at home
We make we make it ourselves. Okay, so
If you drink coffee and rather than riling you up it calms you down
Then you might actually like be you might there's a decent chance you'll respond positively to adhd meds
Because coffee is a stimulant, but it has always calmed me down and like made me focus
Well, isn't that what coffee's supposed to it's just coffee's just supposed to wake you up
But Naomi you drink it and like bounce around and jitter
Because i'm not awake beforehand just because you wake up and are actually perfectly able to like go and do a task and i'm not
It's different
They're having these effects on day one. Well next house
I didn't I didn't I didn't even get to get a chance to finish what I was saying
Because the chat and Naomi pulled me off multiple tracks regard
regarding the dosage
I'm seeing minor effects
And they are ramping up over the course of the days
But the first day I felt almost nothing
um
Actually, I also fucked up my first dose, too
So if you take vitamin c with vyvanse the vitamin c neutralizes the vyvanse and I took like a fucking
500 milligram vitamin c tablet the same time. I took the vyvanse. I didn't know
It's fucking funny dude i'm like wait nothing happened
It's like oops
But no like like things i'm actually
Happy with how things are ramping up
Because I am noticing like yeah, i'm able to log off twitter more i'm able to not waste so much time on nonsense
I'm able to do more writing. I feel absolutely no need to go snack in the kitchen whenever i'm bored like
A lot of things have already changed and it's quite nice
Um, so i'll probably stay on go take grape juice with your drugs. I'll probably stay on the regimen that I have right now
And if after the after the trial things need to be changed we'll change them if not i'll just yeah
Here's the thing right you'll just start taking actual death it'll be fine. Oh, yeah, sure
the other thing I wanted to say though is like
A lot of behavioral stuff
Theoretically can be changed through good habits and good willpower
however
Responsible use i'm keeping i'm on make it very clear responsible use
Of a prescription medication can often just get you there. Yep
That's supposed to be the point of like
Stuff like this is that it just lets you live like a normie
instead of your your secretly depressed self well, it's funny because like
Like dom described it as getting her to baseline. Yeah, but I don't describe this as getting me a baseline
No, I describe this as getting me over baseline
Yeah, and which is why another reason i'm like maybe maybe I actually did just make it
Well, no because like the problem with like adhd and autism is that it's such a fucking wide spectrum of so many like
differing
Every symptoms and everything is that well for some people it might just be like yes
Now you're at the baseline can act like a normal person for other people
It's like now I can just actually focus on tasks and that's all I needed. Yeah
so so for example like, you know
is it
A feedback reward problem when you're like addicted to a video game when you play for 18 hours and you feel terrible afterwards. Yes
But it's also a habits problem
And with good habits, you could actually overcome that and however, it is like a completely uphill battle to have somebody who's already predisposed
To engaging in those bad behaviors to build a good habit that allows them to resist those bad behaviors
You can do it, but it's not a battle
Well the the ideal the ideal use for for drugs like this is to get on them
So that you can then build the habit and then even if you get off them the habit remains because you've now
Because now you have behaviors that are reinforced through just daily routine and not simply
Uh a drug of some kind it's kind of like using stone staircases to get to level 100 of the skull caverns in stardew valley
Instead of just fighting all the monsters and finding a hole the meds are the staircases. Yeah
And the thing is like there is some virtue in actually fighting your way to that point
Because you can then say like I actually did it like it's a it's a character thing
I know you don't agree with me, but I think I generally think that there is sure there's stop taking the meds right now dev
Um, actually build the good habits that you've been saying you needed. So here's the thing even though you just chastised me for
For uh being stuck in in the mud for a couple of years. Here's the thing
I've gotten pretty far
Without any sort of help
More than most people. Yeah, and i'm proud of you for that
Yes, well, but wait, why would you be proud of me?
Hold on if you don't believe no no
If you don't believe that there's any virtue to be found in getting through something based on your own willpower and your own efforts
Then why would you be proud of me for doing for doing as much as I have?
I'm proud of you. Oh
Because you know that i'm right i've never proud of you for anything ever again
Nope, never mind
So
Come on I was trying to be nice
Don't be nice to dev ever again. What do you mean? What do you mean?
But here I appreciate you being nice. No, but okay. I just want you to tell explain it to me
Um the fact that you can still do work
Okay, you know what?
No, I cannot explain this. I want to hear it. Listen, I can't explain this well enough
But thank you for the two dollars. It is pretty good for me so far
I will take the mental note not to be nice to you anymore
But I what why I do not have the vocabulary at the moment to explain myself
Dev's debate brain rot is strong to be honest. We actually do I think that actually is a problem on my end is like
You'll you'll say something and i'm like
Namely, that's the complete opposite thing of this thing that you said like three fucking weeks ago that I remember like with pinpoint precision
You're like what the fuck and i'm just like yeah, I mean, how come you're consistent and you're just like
Fuck you
I do this a lot and it probably is a problem on my end. Do you think I don't know?
Do I I don't know do you I don't think about anything
Dev do meth and beat nooms
Dev doesn't understand women
But anyway, yeah like it's one of those things where there is virtue if you can
Get there yourself
But the people who are very puritanical about it and they're like you should therefore you should never actually like you
It's like no no fuck that like if you go on drugs for a couple years and then build a bunch of good habits
Then go off of them and those habits maintain and you have like a good life
Like what I don't see a problem with that. You know what I mean? That seems like it's it's good. It's okay
Uh, what do you think sure
Okay, listen just because you're currently mad at me for really bad reasons
Yeah, doesn't mean it doesn't mean that you you can just not reply on the fucking show. I did reply. I said sure
I'll also pay more attention to the chat than you because they deserve it. So you know what?
I got breast implants because of foreign. Wait what food shops really? I mean, why not breast implants are good
Dev is doing meth. Yeah giant tips like I know like meth is the meme but vyvanse isn't exactly meth. Yeah
And things are doing actually, okay. You know what like it's I I you know what let me put it this way
Okay
I am starting to see
uh certain improvements
They are ramping up. I'm liking where this is going
But if like if things go wrong, i'll stop but right now I actually feel pretty okay
The only downside is that I had a heart attack a couple days ago, but that's fine. We'll just get we'll just get through it
Nobody's giving me like a weird look did you no i'm joking
Oh
That's what you get for being mad
You get trolled
Hi, i'm dev and I make jokes low
But i'm gonna make it a totally straight tone and then just wait to see if people realize it's a joke
Even though I know it doesn't sound like a fucking joke
Jesus fucking christ
I'm, so fucking done with you
I've only been up for like two fucking hours. I'm already tired of being alive
Five dollars, I didn't have a heart attack. We're joking five dollars
Five dollars from lives and dev's walls. Thanks very much. Doug said he couldn't make it
He told me to tell you your butt also. Hi newms. Hey lives and dev's walls. Come comfort me
Okay
We do a little troll
I I did figure out though that like there actually is there can be heart issues if you like
Okay, one if you have already high blood pressure like I do because i'm a fatty and two if you have your high blood pressure
One wasn't even that bad. It was only a bit higher. It was it was it was higher. Yeah only a little
Okay, hold on. We literally had this discussion in the car with dave and dom
Okay, I don't know. What should
your blood
Pressure be
Should be between 90 90 over 60 and 120 over 80
Okay, high blood pressure is 140 over 90 or higher low brush. Okay, so yours was 130. Okay
It literally takes you right there. Okay, let's see
Yeah
so I had
Hypertension
I had high blood pressure stage one hypertension. So it's like what between 130 and 139 or
180 89 so like I had that doesn't say 180. Oh, sorry 80 and 89. Yeah, so I had
One I think was 130 over 100
Okay
Which is definitely considered to be high blood pressure, but like I said, like it's high
It should be lower but you're not in a danger range yet. Yes. That's what I just said. Yeah. Yeah
Thanks rock
So, yeah like because my blood pressure is
Already higher than normal. Um, they're like listen, you can take the vyvanse
However, it does come with higher than normal blood pressure
So you got to keep a watch on it like take get some blood pressure tests if you start to again
If you personally hit dev out
Thanks for the two dollars
So wait if since it's two dollars does that mean I get to hit you twice? No, okay
It's five dollars. Can I hit you twice? No, what about ten? No, it depends on the message. Okay
So basically, um
I have to like measure it
Because i'm already kind of over like out of shape. I have to measure it constantly
and
I will lose weight. Yes, but also like not eating as much will help but they also said like listen do not have coffee
Around the same time as you have yeah vyvanse
Yeah, because one the coffee will actually neutralize the vyvanse the same way the vitamin c does but if it doesn't
You'll be hit with like a double dose and it'll like really fuck you up
And I might have had I might have had um
Coffee at one day. I think I think I had coffee too close to the vyvanse
So I was like I was like, oh I was feeling it just for a minute
Wait an hour is what I have to do. Oh titanium. Are you on vyvanse? I didn't know that I didn't know that wait an hour
Yeah
I mean, that's what I did. Uh, i've done that aside from the first day where I fucked it up
I've been doing that pretty consistently like waiting an hour or two
Yeah
Which sucks. I like having coffee since I wake up, but whatever, you know
Coffee's done
We're 15 years now i've used it really so how is it for you dude i'm kind of curious
Normal
Yeah
Yes, I guess it'd be easier to use it just normal now
All right
Okay, has it really been 40 minutes what do you talk so long
I'm gonna open this package. I forgot to set up the camera though, but i'm gonna open the package anyway
Well, listen now we won't accidentally talk someone this time
You literally hit the mic what are you doing it makes the autism more powerful it reigns in the age of 80d base
What what how much do you do you take titanium?
Oh, it's a card there's a card in here. Hold on. Thanks for the package over. It was by the way, there's peace on earth
Look at this, but look at the button. Yeah
Does it have a user name?
Merry christmas to the s at 40 really because i'm on 10 and going on 20 next week
Well, yeah, because remember what dom said that we're gonna keep trying it like a normal is about 30
But like look there's like she knows someone who's on 70. Yeah. Oh my god 70 sounds wild. Okay
At the rate of devs trolling he will one day say on stream. I have cancer and he only will say good
I know cardio. I know I know I know I have to do work. I know will definitely thank you
Thank you for the five dollars. Okay before you
I guess you're just gonna fucking take it out. I didn't
You can't see it. Only I can see it read the card
here, okay, so
I do not recommend 70 30 or 45 recruit. Yep. Well, here's the thing man like
This is a trial right and actually because of uh, canada ridiculous
Um, you know, you know ridiculous canadian health care where they kill you sometimes if you fucking
If you're too much of a burden, but you still get decent health care. Otherwise, um, they gave me this for free
Just like here have have six weeks worth of fucking meth for free and i'm like, uh, okay
Sure, dude
Okay, wishing you peace wishing you joy
Merry christmas to the sfo crew. Thank you for the hours of gaming entertainment and political understanding from dapper. Tengu
Thanks, man
Dapper tengu is one of the true fans
Dapper tengu is one of the true fans who watches the gaming channel. So he sent me a christmas card. Thanks very much
also, there's like
Okay, you guys know the the 4chan meme awesome dot png where it's just like a fucking it's a troll face before a troll face
Yeah, it's the yellow emoji where the guy's like has a big wide smile and he's looking up and he's like really annoying
He sent me a button of that like a pin good yeah like a natural nice, okay
Are you ready to see the present? I like the pins because I put them on my backpack
I think a backpack full of pins from all these things that i've done over the years
Yeah, that's that guy walking down the street like a billion pins. Yeah
Yeah, yeah that that is it. Yeah
Awesome, are you ready to see the present? Thank you very much for the card
Thank you present and yes real real sfo fans watch the gaming streams. Yes. Okay, go ahead. Let's see the present
What do you give?
He gave dangerous. It's milo yanopoulos's book. Oh my god
Wait, is this from before milo went like full retard?
Oh, is that his dog that's so cute
boop
Boop to the dog snoop
Yeah, because here's the thing milo had I will in a minute. I just want to see their book. Okay
Milo is a right wing gay guy, which I still don't understand in america, but okay
Yeah, he wrote this in 2017. Yeah, because like he went through like several
several iterations
of of his career
and right now he's gone through, uh
He has voluntarily gone through conversion therapy and he claims that he's now just fully straight lies, obviously
He's just like every other republican politician who's having sex with young boys on the side and now he's like trying
He's trying to play up like how he's this. Um
He's totally this completely reformed straight man who's fully christian and he looks like a fucking
Unironically like a fucking meth addict like he looks completely like strung out, right? Well, maybe he actually is strung out
Maybe maybe but this was written in 2017 when he was still on the rise and wait is milo. He's not american
What no he's um, he was greek who moved to britain at a very young age
Then he moved to america, uh when he was older. Ah, okay
Well, I apologize to the americans in the chat. I obviously offended
No
Yeah, milo went through like several cycles of like just relevance and fading away and relevance and like he's got he's reinvented himself several times
And it's all been retarded
Milo fell off so hard. Richard spencer is now higher than him
Yeah, like I saw that destiny milo debate like six months ago and milo looked like a fucking wreck. Okay, you know, okay milo looked like
What ken looks like?
Who?
Ken in the barbie movie when he has like the two pairs of shades and the big fur coat
Like like that's funny, but milo actually looked like that and he's like I look good
But he also looked like he was fucking like high on drugs the entire time. I'm like jesus christ. Milo. What the fuck?
So he doesn't look this cute anymore. No, that's unfortunate here. Hold on. So like
Let's see
milo
That's just the milk
Come on, but just search up his last name. Jesus. You don't even have to spell it. It's right there. It's right there
Damn it, you fucking boo. Okay. So like yeah, this was like milo 10 years ago
Not that cute
all right, and
No, yeah, like his moments, right like he's
He's like justin beaver. He's
He's definitely like kind of made a name for himself being like
A twink even though he's right wing
And he kind of went through several iterations of it, but now milo in 2023
Like
Yeah, he fell off hard I do well I think it's also because he doesn't look that great with blonde hair yeah
No, just like like a lot of this a lot of this go back go back. I don't fucking know
Why is there a pacifier? I don't know in that woman's mouth, but here compare this right like this is when he was like
He was young. He was still gay. He was hot. He was still right wing. He looks like a pop song. Yep
Not a singer a pop song pop song
but like compare that
To this and the problem isn't just aging
Like eight there's aging present, but it's not the the problem isn't just aging
It's also that he's completely transformed himself into a completely unlikable person when at least before if you hated him you couldn't deny yet style
You know what? I mean like
Yep, damn
Even with the bags. He's still hot. Yeah
like he just he just
I don't know dude milo really fell off
Hold on like here. Can I see all he needs to do is dye his hair back dark. It'll look better
Okay, i'll i'll pull up the the video at least okay
Like yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, like what are you doing buddy?
He doesn't look that bad. He's also hair isn't blonde so he looks better. Oh, yeah
Well, it's also like the things he's saying and how he's like like he's jittering around he's talking
He was never like this. He looks like he's he's not even fucking present. I don't know. I'm only judging him by his looks
to the crazy gay man talk
Yeah, okay. Sorry. I I didn't share the screen. I'm sorry. I forgot. Okay, there's a card though another card
Uh from dapper tengu. Thank you
Another spicy book for the sfo library put it between mine camp and on the jewish question to get those twitter retards and both sides
howling lol
Thanks, dude. Oh number sign. Listen, I am very aware about how how unattractive I am. So
I know so fuck you number sign
It's like like here's the thing everyone has to get old right not me everyone has to go
I want to live and be young forever bullshit. You're already old
Everyone has to get old. Okay
Everyone will eventually lose whatever physical appeal they had in their youth
That is it
Even if you stay in good shape throughout your 30s and your 40s and your 50s one day if you're still alive
You'll be a hundred you'll be a big old bag of wrinkles and that's just how it is. All right
But
There's a difference between like aging gracefully and looking pretty good for an old person versus
Like being fucking madonna, okay
Kilometers matt for the five dollars. Thank you. Hey dev. Just want to thank you for your political insight
I felt alienated as a black libertarian your class and your style of classical liberal ideas fit. Well, thank you very much, dude
Um, i'm not a libertarian though, but i'm glad that you at least uh, enjoy my uh, my content. So thank you
I hope I hope it you it helps you somehow. Yeah, because like here yeah, i'm gonna I will pull this up
Okay, well you're gonna actually share i'll actually share the screen this time. Okay. So here, uh, let's see
um
What was his name?
Okay, yeah so like
And then i'm gonna pull up
No, can we not look at madonna nope, we're pulling it up
Okay, so here i'll show you what I mean
Okay, yeah, i'll bring it in so
Here's pierce brasner with his wife, you know back in the 90s
And now like he's aged pretty gracefully. Okay, if they're in hollywood and they are aging gracefully
They've definitely had plastic surgery done, but it's been subtle plastic surgery. No, that's not a possible. Here's the thing like okay
She's 60. Yeah, and she looks great. She looks good for 60. She does but she's doing great
Probably had plastic surgery to help make herself look good. Yeah, and like just fine aside from being part of the hollywood degeneracy
Pierce brosons always said like why would I abandon her because she's getting older
So am I she you know, we've had kids together. We're a family like I love her like no
What the fuck like why should I have some fucking side piece like like this is my family and it's like, okay
Yeah, you know fair enough, right and I mean like like he still looks pretty good
Yeah, he's hot and she looks pretty good for for being 60, right?
Yeah, and then so like like they don't look young anymore is the point but they still look good
Silver foxes and cougars are my bread and butter
Like they look good for their age. You can't be 20 forever. So it's better to
Accept aging with dignity and and do what you can with it and settle plastic surgery and this is the good
The good example with subtle plastic surgery. It doesn't have to be surgery. Yes. I'm telling you if you if you can afford
Here's the plastic surgery. All right, that's also plastic surgery. So
Here's madonna
Here's madonna before and here's her now
And she looks like a fucking alien. Yep, and like
She I think she's also in her 60s and it's like
Why would you do this to yourself? You know, what's a you know, it's a better one who's who uh, pull up share
Share. Oh god. Yeah, you want to really see the unfortunateness pull up share because madonna
You know what still kind of looks the same but it's weird because we know she's old
But she still like sort of has the same face and I say sort of
Yeah, like if you try to stay young for too long, you just look alien
Yeah, but no you need to pull up current share 2023 versus share like 19
20s
This maybe yeah
like
It you it's kind of funny to share actually kind of looks okay there
But like you can tell because you can like see the outlines of her cheeks, it's weird
That's also kind of a good picture of current share yeah see bad pictures of share fucking no
That one's not great neither's that one oh, yep
Yeah, like yeah, she's 77 when will I feel old will you keep injecting yourself with the blood of infants?
Is that anne boleyn who did that no someone else I don't remember
But yeah, man like
This is not accepting aging gracefully no and you look worse for it like
You're an old lady now madonna it sucks, but that's just that's the natural cycle of life
You know, you don't get to be young forever. Yeah, the point is to be a hot old person not a hot
Like not an old person who's trying to look young and be hot. You gotta be a hot old person
There was actually what's funny is that like I
I was with my grandparents and they were like visiting we were all visiting like some of their friends
Or whatever and like there was a lady and she was she was super fucking hot and she was like
65 or something and she was like like super thin and she like just all the style. She looked great
No, I can't
Do you just did no problem
Okay, ow, ow, ow, okay
Sp elite five dollars. Thank you dev. Your beefs will be over faster. You just stopped arguing so they called them fucking
Okay, i've been advised wait, I didn't mean to leave it, but I did I didn't mean to sorry that was an accident
Can I delete it?
I can't shit. I didn't mean to delete that message. Sorry, so much for freedom of speech. Whoa
Okay
Sigourney weaver
Pull her up dev. Okay. I'll take a look. I'll take a look search google you boomer. I'm gonna add 2023
Yeah, it's gonna be still hot, okay, that's uh, that's pretty good
I mean, yeah, she's out on the older right? Well, yeah, she's like an old lady now. Yeah
I want Sigourney Weaver to step on my face
Really?
She looks very old there. Well, that's awesome movie. Yeah makeup
So here's the thing, right like
People that that guy it wasn't number whatever his name was
He said that like you guys are talking people who fell off like this everyone gets old, right?
But no listen, we already fell off so ergo we can talk about everyone else
Everyone gets older but you don't have to get old just because you get older. You know what I mean? Like
Bye sketch you can find pictures of me on the show from 10 years like the gaming channel from like 10 years ago
And I definitely look younger and thinner. That's how it is
Even if i'm at the point now where even if I lose all my fat i'll probably still look older
That's that's just the natural cycle of life, right?
You don't have to you don't have to lose your spark just because you get old but I think
Chasing youth is what makes people lose their spark in the end. Yes. Yeah
So, yeah
Okay
That's why I tell you not to dress like a hobo
I just like a hobo though. You kind of do every time people complain. It's like damn, you know
I'm just i'm buying another fucking another fucking pair of shorts another fucking oversized shirt. I am full hobo mode
You just said you don't dress like a hobo. I said I do. I know I said I do. No, I said I do
You just said no, I don't dress like a hobo and then you just now said that. No, I didn't. Yeah, you did
Rewind it. I'd fuck you
Um tricky mario for five dollars seeing those images will forever making respect betty white
She ate your ice cream just I have a hundred. Yeah, man. She did it. Okay. Also listen. Oh,
Kilometers matt for five dollars. Thank you. As long as you hold the classical liberal ideas and hold both heads accountable
I don't care for the priority. Honesty is king. Here's the thing about classical liberal ideals, right is
They're good, but they're incomplete
You can't only be a classical liberal else. Everything just falls apart and it's the main reason why socialists have been undermining liberalism
And honestly libertarians have the same problem like here. I know a lot of you guys are libertarian
I'm now going to make all of you angry real quick. Okay?
um
libertarianism and socialism
They ultimately pursue the same goals
Now they have drastically different methods for achieving those goals and the methods are so different that they are mortal enemies
But they're still aiming at the same target. All right, they both claim to desire freedom
And they both claim to desire material prosperity and they both and they both claim to desire human rights
Now they have very different paths that lead to those goals to those end states, but they're aiming at the same thing
Else you missed the super chip
Oh, did I let me scroll back up? Where's it? Where's it? I don't know
This one compare. I said this one compared to deli parton. I don't know. I said you miss it. I I I I don't know
Yeah, deli parton is also fucking like terrible. Yeah, she's yeah
Yeah
Here goes dev talking no, it's true it's true. Yep, of course, that's true. Yes. How is it not true? It's totally true
He's right when you think about the basic president, of course think about it like so if you ask libertarian, what do you want?
He'll say freedom. He might even say equality depending at least like equality of access
Because you know if you if you um remove monopolies from the market you have equality of access to the market right so freedom equality maybe
uh material wealth and prosperity
um
Human rights, you know, but then you ask a socialist they'll say the same thing
Socials will say I also want material prosperity. I also want freedom. I also want rights
Wait, I thought but oh no, that's communism. Never mind
However, they just have very very very different ideas on how to achieve those ends, but they have the same ends
Now if you talk to somebody who
Is completely different someone who says I don't want freedom. I want order
Now he's actually aiming in a different target, right?
so
libertarians and socialists
they uh
And some in some very strange ways they're two sides of the same coin
Because they want the same things. They just have very very different ideas on how to get those things
If you want to be safe and secure and you don't really care about freedom that is something different yeah, yeah
Yeah, see here's the thing here in a leading company. Yeah communism's freedoms are not freedom. It's a here's the thing right that criticism
Even though I agree with it
That is you simply saying hey
The socialist says he wants freedom, but socialism won't give him freedom
So you're not arguing over the you're arguing over whether or not the method will get you to the end point
You're not arguing over the end point itself. You understand?
Sierra 7 10 dollars there are actually a lot of former right-wing libertarians that swap to be a bit more authoritarian because eventually they see
How libertarianism can't sustain itself from being undermined by socialists. Yes exactly so a lot of libertarians
Either they leave their ideas undeveloped which does happen a fair amount frankly
They become more authoritarian over time because they understand that you need some sort of social fabric to hold the whole freedom thing together
And that's like I think like dankula is slowly going that way scrump definitely went that way
um
Or they become more left-wing right and for example, that's kind of how lilith drifted over time
So I think like libertarianism
Is like an unstable position that reads and that falls in a certain direction
The rest is zero two dollars libertarian responses actually leave me alone
Oh, there is a coin
Oh, there's a uh, there's a cool. There's um
Dapper, thank you. Thank you. There's a piranha plant coin in here super mario
Oh, thanks very much, dude
You can flip this coin piranha plant or logo
Not heads or tails actually would this be heads and this would be tails probably
Yes, because there's no head. Well, I mean unless you count toad's head on the other side, but it's so small
You just dropped it under the desk. I did I dropped it under the desk. Well, it's down there now. We'll get it later
Yeah
All right, I sent a video of a dude saying that dev has socialism wrong the title says it's for sfo fans
Okay, I'll look at it later. Thanks miss sparkles
Uh, two dollars real hold center dev. Did you read my ten dollar super? I'm sure I did
Surely I did. I don't think we've actually missed any I think I don't think we have yeah
Five dollars from those and does walls. Thank you
I'm willing to hear arguments, but you need a stronger case than they both want good things
The stated and vision looks very different. Um, it really doesn't in some ways, right?
If you were to if you were to ask them about their ideal society, both of them will say well individuals can
Prosper and be free and flourish and you know, they'll have their idea and but it's all utopian bullshit, right?
Um, but also here's the thing when you say they both want good things that presumes that these things are good
Right, like you're presuming that freedom and equality and human rights and material prosperity are all good things and for me
Those can be good things in some instances and they can also be very bad things in other instances
Which is why i'm not on the libertarian socialist spectrum
Have you missed five of my bit chats on twitch? Oh, no blonde
Oh, you can't fucking insult me by spending one dollar to give a giant fucking paragraph anymore
Fuck you
Okay, i'll go look at him. Fuck. Okay. Let's see this bullshit
Okay
Hi, naomi. Yes. Yes. This is the milo book is from before he went full retard
I was actually supposed to get a signed copy of his book, but I realized he was fuck's ever put in my address. That's funny
Uh, you mean why do you hate your fellow blondes?
In some water too, actually, um
I don't know
I hate everyone equally
I could be wrong but the old photo on the right might have been brosnan's first wife who died before he came
He became james bomb maybe
Maybe so but he has been dating her for like not dating married to her for like years and like decades, you know, so
Okay, so
Should we actually get on today? I mean it has been in like a full hour. It's fine. We're having fun
We're hanging out. You guys don't want to hang out. I don't know
You know, you know what would probably be better if
Is that we did this and then at like and then you finally get to the articles
but after we're done the stream if you are the person that puts in the time stamp of when the articles actually start in like
In one of the comments and pin it that's the monster. He does that. No, they don't
Hold on
Kilometers matt for five dollars. Thanks for shattering my belief steff. I'm now an anarcho-communist demi-queer trans femboy nice based
Haha, yeah, the reason that i'm a liberal and not a libertarian is because like there's obviously a place for for government
Sometimes there's actually a place for very heavy government intervention depending what we're talking about
And to ideologically be committed to the government should do everything or the government should do nothing. I think those are both failed positions
Like no, I don't want my co-workers having votes and what luxury goods am I allowed to purchase my personal earnings
See good emperor that is again a conversation about methods
Right because libertarian says the libertarian will say co-workers having votes and what luxury goods you can purchase
That will lead to less freedom
But a socialist would say co-workers having votes and what luxury goods i'm allowed to purchase will lead to more freedom
So you're disagreeing on method but not on goal the way out of the trap is to understand
That you actually shouldn't be advocating for freedom at all times. Sometimes you actually want less freedom
Which I know is it's a very bitter pill to swallow for westerners to actually have to understand because
Every western political school of thought whether it's liberalism or socialism or libertarianism or even conservatism
They all advocate for different types of freedom different ways to get more freedom, but sometimes freedom is actually bad
It just depends what we're talking about
Yes
Well, oh fuck there was there was oh god, I came across a fucking take from some socialist who was like
um hot take
But if the child's enjoying it and isn't injured
It doesn't matter if she can if if liberal society thinks she can she can consent or not
Okay, I want that person like to actually that's an argument from freedom because it's about consent
And listen, I want that person to be raped in the ass
With the cactus it's so ridiculous and then be like, oh well, no you you consented
That that person was named food shops
No, i'm kidding. I'm kidding. I'm kidding
If I ever if I had a gun and I ever heard someone say that in real life, I would just immediately shoot them
I don't care if I go to jail. I actually would
I 100 fucking would this is one of the reasons why I don't let myself own a gun
I would kill too many people
Kilometers matt two dollars. I'm not that far libertarian. I'm sitting moderate. Okay, here's another like black pill for libertarians, right? Um,
I know that you guys like to divide up positive and negative rights
But they're actually the same thing just from two different points of view
And you cannot truly divide them up
and in fact the um
The mechanism by which you divide them up
Which is basically defining who the who the who the initial aggressor is
That only makes sense if you value libertarian principles
And if you don't because sometimes there actually is a good reason to aggress upon somebody else if you don't
Um, then the whole thing falls apart
Uh, but that's I don't know I feel like marty mcfly being like you guys aren't ready for that one yet
You guys aren't ready for that one yet
Um, let's see I do have news articles we can talk about if you want
Probably should you talk about the news articles? You probably should okay
Acknowledge me. Hi
Nova two dollars from blonde. Thank you. You know, we killed plenty of people with a machete
But listen now that people know that I did I can't use a machete anymore that's the way it goes
I'll change it up
Add some pizazz to my murders
Bro what the fuck
Hey food traps
Any example of bad freedom is overshadowed by the negative consequences of the externalities of restricting freedom in the first place. That's not true at all
That's not a universal rule. No
I
Like how this heart thing is just blocking it's right in the way the fucking chat. Yeah, I hate it
So bad at everything is this dev this dev's nrx root. Here's the thing
All right, because well no food shops will know this because she's been going through the open lettered open minor progressives. Um,
The neo-reactionaries have their place in politics. They have good critiques of things sometimes but
Their solutions are ultimately
um not convincing
But they've identified real problems and most liberals ignore those problems by simply screaming you guys are fascists
Which is not it's it's not an intellectually satisfying answer
Oh, don't don't get it. Wait, hold on sparkles. Listen. No, wait, wait
If you send the glitter package send it soon because we're moving soon
Okay. Well, listen our place is covered in glitter because for those of you who watch the gaming streams, you know
I have to wear a peach dress which I do not look good in but yeah, I think you look good in it
But um the thing is covered in glitter and so now there's just pink glitter everywhere all over the house
We just keep randomly finding it
On everything and I don't even go that many places in the house while i'm wearing that dress so
You can but it's already covered in glitter
glitter and sparkles
Also from dave's fairy wings, which he likes to wear all the time around the house off camera
I got into the vents
Sorry
Put more glitter on naomi and dave. Okay, we'll do
Yeah
Okay
She's trained you well, though. What do you mean? Listen? I say she looks good in the dress
I think she's good in the dress
Listen, if he even puts on something I don't like i'm gonna tell her i'm not that fucking cuck
I'll be like does my ass look fat in this it'll be like yes or no. I'll just say it
My ass looks fat all the time. Is it fat?
Well, that's pretty good
Yeah, let's be elite okay dev baby i'm sorry, but you have trump derangement syndrome late it's okay though. No, I don't know
Here's the thing trump derangement syndrome is marked by people who can't articulate when they don't like trump. I can articulate it very easily
It's not like he's orange or he's evil. He's a fat
No, like I can actually tell you why I don't like him. It's easy. That's because he's orange and rich. Oh
Okay, we should start the articles
Throwing a flashback
Is it article time guys, it's been an hour article time an hour and 10 minutes. Wait, hold on I need
Guys stop blonde. Thanks for five dollars dev. I'm serving for you so hard
You better get your knees and call me master. And if I give you one bit you say, thank you massa and you're like
Fuck you. Thanks
Okay, so
uh
art was foul
I'm gonna call it artemus specifically because he's the only guy I know who might
Shut up, I'm not promise not to bring up trump. I never fucking said what the fuck's wrong with you
Fucking trump. You just how am I supposed to do? Well, because you're then you let me fucking say it first
You you dumbo you're a dumbo. You're a dumbo
Okay, hold on are you even still there oh star hawks five dollars dev you're breaking my heart you're going in a bath
I can't follow no
Uh sierra sierra seven ten dollars. Thank you hot take anorex accelerationists and neo left-wing people are converging towards the same conclusions
But accelerations want to make the problem worse. I have no idea what to do. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, i'll do with that
Yeah, I can't i don't think artemus is here if artemus isn't here I guess I won't yes don't I guess I won't
So it feels bad though feels bad I wanted to articles. Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't even much from you fuck. I don't care
Some other goddamn political thing and we've been talking for an hour about literally nothing. No, hold on
I want to ask artemus what it would take to get one of those fat
100 super chats because he sometimes drops like 100 or 300 dollars before like listen if you play a certain game
Or you watch a certain movie or you do a certain video on a certain topic
I'll give you a big fat super chat and to be honest
I want one of those big fat artemus requisitions because i'm i'm willing to do a video now now that
Video now now that i'm all vivanced up I can answer your question now that i'm all vivanced up
I can sit down and watch and do a review of whatever the fuck I can answer your question
It's called you got to suck his dick more
Rather than having your own
um
I'm back and looked you skipped my sit down or super whatever before you go with the package. Okay, was it?
I'll go look i'll go look real quick. Okay. I'll go look before we do articles. Sorry real quick real quick
Real quick
Stop
Your time isn't worth as much as arches fuck you see
Gotta suck his dick more. Oh, no
Gotta facetime live and make those motions
Yep
Okay, let's see if we can actually find it
Just scroll down until you see ten dollars sierra. Nope. There we go
No, I did answer this one. Yeah
I think there is virtue in doing it without meds
And I think there's virtue in having humility and awareness to take meds if you need them rather than trying the same thing
That doesn't work
Yeah
So like if you can build positive habits such that you don't need the medication you should do that
If you do need the medication, then that's also fine, right?
Yep. Yeah, I completely agree. That's what I said. See this was my take and you didn't even let me fucking get it out
Because you just raged out when I said there is virtue doing it without meds
I was gonna say the other half of it and you just fucking lost it. Listen. I all I did was roll my eyes
You're the one who reacted
No, you fuck
That's what happened
Maybe he'll do it if you add a dev beg email
You fucks
You fucks
Yeah, actually i'll do it before we start even though it's been like an hour jesus
So
It's all good holtonator, you know what I think we both might have read it
And then like didn't like totally respond to it out loud. Maybe yeah. Thank you for the thank you for all the donations today
Um
Probably you haven't tried building positive habits. Oh, I absolutely have star hawks. I built a here's the thing
I've built a ton of positive habits over the years my habits like 10 years ago were fucking
I actually can confirm that dev actually has a lot of positive habits
Wrong artemis, but hey, hey artemis, too
Yeah, okay
So let's let's get on the road on the road
On the road again, that's okay. You have a different argument in the chat
Okay
Well, goodbye partial goodbye chat because now you're small and I can't read you
Pop it out make a big I don't need to see the rest of the screen. I want to see what's going on here
Why shut up?
so
Here's the p.o box as always actually when we move the p.o box is up in july
Should we just like keep it keep it here for three months where you move it?
I'm, not driving six hours to check on a p.o box. No, of course, of course, but like well
But we'll probably come back to visit at some point
My parents so we'll just check it on the way back like once or twice no
I can't close it. You already paid for it. They send packages
Here's the p.o box, by the way, send your packages to this this address and also donate to the channel tomorrow
I really do appreciate it you were saying
I was saying that just make sure to tell everyone not to send stuff. Are you abusing my fucking?
Back scratcher. Yes
Why because I can give me that no fuck you. It's mine. It's mine. It's mine. I don't care
It's mine now
Bitch, you know what?
I'll scratch. I'll scratch you don't stop it out. Stop it. I don't want to use it. My back my back
Listen it's my back scratcher I get priority
I saw your hello message. Nova dev was just going on a long rant so I couldn't respond
Try and get the op box redirect, is that a thing?
Yeah, you honestly
Shortly before we should just ask
If we can get them redirected to somewhere else
Uh, oh
Yeah, because I mean I can just read I can like get another p.o box redirected to where we go. Yeah, I mean it's possible
Yeah, well, I mean if we're getting it redirected
We could probably get it redirected to our actual address and then like set up a p.o box there. Um, yes
Thanks
So
God dev shut. No, shut up. I'm telling him
Ah
Sp elite for five dollars while dev's typing. That's why I said tds late
You're not a sketcho about it, but you do just have the worst takes about him debate sticks about him though
He's literally an orange he's literally orange
Imagine if we got on the news today, I know I know dagoth I know
Okay, hey honey bun five dollars from sp. I already read it. Oh, yeah while you were typing sure god
Okay
Let's get to the news
That is a different thing
That's also a fascist newsletter. Listen, it's for research. Don't fucking think anything too late. Don't do it
Okay, let's go
On to the articles for today
Nintendo switch 2 will reportedly feature 120 hertz display. Oh, I sent this to you. Yeah
New new details regarding hardware specs for the upcoming successor to the nintendo switch dubbed the switch 2 have been revealed
The handheld will feature 120 hertz display
So that means that it can go that in handheld mode. It can go up to 120 frames per second, which is way well
Most computers run between 20 30 and 60. Um
Well, wasn't there more than 60 is kind of overkill frankly, wasn't there that research that you actually can't see over like 30 frames a second
Yeah, that was all bullshit. Yeah, that was bullshit if you say so. Yeah, everyone says that but it's like
Yeah
Yeah, that's bullshit but this is happening hooray, yeah, wait is it gonna look like that no this is just a mock-up
Yeah, uh, we're supposed to learn here's the thing people are saying that the switch will probably release next christmas
Which means we'll probably learn about it sometime in the next few months
So I want to switch I want to say that I was I think I found this on reddit
And so I was reading the comments and he was a redditor. Yes
so I was reading the comments and people were just like, oh man nintendo never puts out like
Anything that's current gen it's always like like it's the power of the ps4
That's been the case since gamecube. Yeah, I agree
However, everyone keeps forgetting that this is also a handheld console and it's primarily a handheld console
So without having the power of a ps4 the handheld console is actually really fucking cool. Yeah
Well this here's the thing. So the gamecube came out and the gamecube was roughly on par graphics wise with the ps2
And the original xbox, yeah, they were pretty much all the same
Yeah, um, and then the wii comes out and the wii was not much better than the gamecube
So therefore it was one generation behind the ps3 and 360 which were about comparable
Which is why the wii didn't get all the multi-platform games that ps3 and 360 did but what the wii did get
It had the wii remote and it had the huge install base
So people started putting out a bunch of cool things on it then when the wii u came out the wii u was
About the strength of the ps3 and the 360. Yep
So in the ps4 and the xbox, um, the xbox one came out they were again one generation ahead
So the wii u got a few of those ps3 and pia and and 360 games
It got a few of those initial entry level ps4 games
But for the most part the ps4 outclassed the wii u right now the switch came out and the switch
Seems to be more powerful more powerful than the wii u but not by much
So nintendo has definitely said, you know what we're not going to go with better hardware
We're going to go with other things that make the game
The system that make the console unique
So we the the wii remote was a success the wii u gamepad was not
And the switch the the idea of having like the joy cons are basically just wii remotes
But they're much better and the idea that it's both a uh, a handheld and a docked platform
Is also pretty incredible. Yeah, right
So and also like nintendo basically started
A new era of handheld gaming because after the switch success that's when you saw the steam deck
That's when you saw like the rog handheld
That's when you saw like all these little handhelds were showing up because nintendo proved that oh you can actually have
A devoted portable gaming device that also docks with your tv so you can use it in both modes. Yep
The switch was a massive success
All right
So I have a feeling
because nintendo's kind of
Nintendo has has had this
Back and forth with like one generation has been a success one generation has been a failure pretty consistently now for a while
If the switch 2 is just the same thing as the switch
But with better graphics, it might not be a very big success might not that's fair. I'm gonna get it though
I like yeah, read the thingy
Mark the cyborg. Hey mark mark. I didn't know
All right, actually, I think I knew but I forgot that your girl from his x-ray girl, right?
Yeah
Um mark the cyborg low target fidelity spec means games which don't cost hundreds of millions to make
Nintendo can be dumb, but their dev target philosophy is based. Yes, that's true
The only issue is that like when the big multi-platform games come out
They're always not on nintendo systems and that can be a problem, right?
So like when like what's a big multi-platform game right now?
Right now. Yeah
Yeah, like if that's not is that even on console? Yeah, is it? Yep. It's on ps4 and xbox
You mean ps5 ps5 and xbox?
But it's not I don't know the kind of but it's not on switch. It's not on the switch
Like before it was like the arkhams the arkham games, right? Those are big multi-platform games
The arkham games are now on the switch. I believe yeah. Well, yeah, but they're like they're like 10 years old now
Like when they first came out they weren't on nintendo's console, right? Yeah
What's the deal with v and his audience seemingly having derangement syndrome towards you? Here's the thing quinn. Um, it's because
V and his audience and I am critiquing v now, but we are friends and this is not me backstabbing him
I've told him this to his face. We have our disagreements, but we are still good friends
v
V believes in some things that personally I think are wrong
however
He and his audience have actually built an echo chamber where they're not challenged
And because i'm somebody who consistently shows up in his orbit and challenges him publicly
Um, I think his audience really doesn't like that, right?
They his audience have in their own way become the same snowflakes
I hate I hate saying that because it but it is true the same snowflakes that like
Left wing left wingers were you know, five ten years ago where they didn't accept any dissenting opinion. They didn't accept any sort of um
of disagreement and they just get irrationally angry and attack the person who's making the um
Who's making the opposite point? Yeah, the opposite point. Yeah, who's having either opinion?
All right, a lot of right wingers are finding themselves in this sphere now now to arch's credit
Arch is somebody whose audience definitely acts like v's but arch himself isn't like that
Arch will actually accept other points of view and he'll like he'll he'll uh, wait does v not accept other points of view?
um
Like we well here's the thing. We have civil conversations about it for sure
But they definitely don't don't really go anywhere the conversation with arch do the conversation with v don't don't really wow
They have bash in his friend's life
No, because we bashing it's not the same thing as bashing
None of this means that I dislike v or anyway, okay. I'm just going i'm just saying let me see. Let me see
You haven't missed anything else. I've been checking
Yeah
I pay attention to the chat unlike you v is good people
I'm pretty far removed from his from this echo chamber aspect if it really exists, of course it exists
Of course it exists. Hold on here. I'm gonna show you this. All right
Here this is not articles we've gotten to the first shut up
It's vee nova, it's the first one
Okay, hold on
Okay, here we go, yeah
Got it. Okay, so
An epistemic bubble is a social epistemic structure in which other relevant voices have been left out perhaps accidentally so
an epistemic bubble uh bubble is when
Bubble is when like you believe in an idea x because everyone that you see around you also believes in idea x
You go on social media. Your entire feed is just idea x you turn on the tv
It's all idea x you just so idea y you don't believe in idea y because you're never exposed to it, right?
And then an echo chamber is a social epistemic structure from which other relevant voices have been actively excluded and discredited
So an echo chamber is when everyone believes in idea x but as soon as you encounter idea y
You don't actually deal with idea y
You simply discredit the source that it came from, right?
So if you were to walk up and say to the echo chamber say hey, this is idea y they don't actually
um
They don't actually debate with you over the merits of idea x versus idea y they say hey
You're you're a bad faith person. Therefore. I won't even consider your idea or or oh
That idea came from an institution that I don't like. Oh, that's obviously biased. We can't trust them
It's attacking the it's attacking the source of the new knowledge because it doesn't fit with your current worldview, right?
That's what's going on. Don't you do that sometimes? No, sure. No, okay
Yeah
In instances in which I have in the past i've tried not to do that and do that do that recently like here's the thing
I don't like vosh at all
I think all of his ideas are bad, but this idea is bad because vosh said it is a poor reason
For it being a bad idea. Okay, right you have to have a reason outside of that
Five dollars from arnimas i'm telling you yeah arnimas you fuck you came back for that
Also lives in dev's walls and no walls no, it would not help because dev would like that too much fuck you
I don't know what you're saying, but fuck you
You do do that dev no, I don't so here's the thing like when someone says so
To use the obvious example, we're not going to go down a rabbit hole right when someone says something positive about trump
I don't be like that guy's a fucking right winger. He's obviously fucking like I can't trust him like no
No, i'll be i'll say okay. I'll look at the evidence. Let's take a look at it. What does it say about trump?
I'll read through it. This doesn't make sense. Okay, here's here's why I think this is wrong like it's not just
Attacking the source of the information because you don't like the outcome
It is actually examining what is there and saying oh the actual content itself doesn't hold up a scrutiny. That's the difference
This is because people keep calling you bad faith, maybe you shouldn't be calling other hypocrites by adopting hypocrisy
Oh, no, no, no, here's the thing. I will I will just spitefully be a hypocrite towards hypocrites until you fucking stop
Simple as that
Okay, cool. Let's go back. Nope end of conversation back to the switch 2. Yes
exit
Good boy
You know what?
Okay, so
anyway
Taiwan Taiwan's economic daily has reported a new rumor regarding the hardware specs for the nintendo switch 2
The sources mentioned that the console makers ready to launch the new switch this year in 2024 as per market expectations
However due to constraints such as global inflation
The new product will retail for a hundred dollars more than the switch will be four hundred dollars to get it rather than three hundred dollars
Which was the switch was three hundred dollars in 2017. There's been some inflation. Okay, that's just kind of how it is. Yeah
Sfo entering his trolls remorse phase. No
What the fuck? I don't regret any any of the trolling that I did before trolling is fun
Uh, ethan largest ten dollars tbsw. You can't be the same way on certain things
I've seen you not respond to points that seem valid when you'll respond to others
Feels like you all both have his habits and degree, uh, no and here's why
Um, there's just a practical reality of how many comments I can respond to right?
There will always be good arguments that slip through the cracks because it's a random chatter or a random commoner
And I can't read them all and I can't respond to them all right
It's just that's just how it is. But like when i'm sitting across the table with v and we have real disagreements. All right
He might send me certain certain points and i'll be like let's examine these. Okay, and okay
Here's why I think this one's right. Here's why I think this one's wrong when I send v my points
He tends to say I don't believe this because of the source that it comes from not because of what's actually said in the argument
That's the difference. Okay
And again, none of this is a slight against v. All right
We're still friends. We're still we're still good
Uh five dollars even dozen walls. Thanks for explaining comes with echo chamber. Could you explain it again more slowly?
I'm, not sure my poor wall brain can take it really
Yeah
Basically an echo chamber is not only a place in which you encounter one idea
It's when you attack the it's it's when you attack the legitimacy of other ideas rather than actually dealing with them
Okay, so
Here's the specs of the switch 2 the nvidia t2 t 239 processor. What is that?
Oh
It's always gonna say oh, yeah, it's it writes a tegra. Yeah, because tegras are like they're they're uh, they're tablet chips
Okay, it makes sense
um
Eight gigabytes of memory. That's that's not very much
like
Computers have 32 64 128 gigabytes memory now. Like why does that only have eight?
64 gigabytes of internal storage
This seems like even for like a switch like this is what you'd expect a tablet from 10 years ago to have even for us
Like hold on
Well, maybe they fucked themselves over already that is not true apples ghost
You are saying inaccurate things about me and kind of proving my point what i'm saying. Okay, hold on switch
Switch ram
Okay, the switch has four gigabytes of ddr4 ram
This one has eight switch internal storage
So
32 gigs that's not 64. So it is an improvement but like I would have expected maybe 16 gigs of memory
maybe a terabyte of storage like
Considering how big games you're getting nowadays. Yeah, it seems like not. Yeah. Yeah
My pc has 128 gigs of ram
Yeah, like all my pcs have 64 gigabytes of ram and 64 is more than enough for almost everything you have to do nowadays, right?
um
My the one that I buy next will have 128. Yeah
Um
like it just
These are phone specs. Yeah, like
I was calling you condescending
Well do it again in a super chat
Yeah, this is not enough
I think I think the chat's agreeing like this is not enough dude. Well, I guess nintendo is just following its pattern
Maybe one good console one bad. Maybe yeah, I mean like like I have a fairphone four
Fairphone four specs
Display yeah, yeah. Yeah
Memory 128 gigabytes six gigabytes of ram
Um
No, no, this is um, six gigabytes of ram and internal storage of 128. So like my phone has more
More internal storage and roughly the same amount of ram. Yeah, like
Well nintendo's dumb
This is this like
I understand making an underpowered system. Yeah
To put it out at a lower price. Yeah and work in other interesting things instead. Yep. I understand that. Yes
Even for that even for that this is too low
Like I think this needs to be 16 or 32 megs and this has got to be like
10 times the storage. Yeah, like it's this ain't working man. This ain't working. Nope
Do you believe is what he does because he and his family lived under
Costco or I can't I can't pronounce his guy's name. I know who he is though
And knows how bad socialism can get that's all true cjr like I agree with you, right?
But this is why like this is why i've been telling him he hasn't accepted this logic
But i've been telling him this whole time the difference is between our societies, right?
He lives in a low trust society and you know, the the liberal capitalist democratic west
Is not a low trust society
That's the issue, right?
Which is why they're different he keeps falling back and making the joke about it's like a race thing or like an ethnicity thing
It's not
It's it's it's a cultural thing for sure
Ernest fowl five dollars common in ten cuck at hell. Thanks, man
You fucker, uh
Jiggy calzone five dollars dev in your echo chamber comment
One thing that concerns me is seeing right wing forms slide into the same tree to spiral destroy the left of course
Yeah, it's gonna happen. It's it's not possible for it to stop it at this point
The right wing is gonna go insane. Of course they will
The right wing will cobble itself into a fucking rampaging monster that'll just consume itself from the inside out just like the left did
Read brian's comment. No, not brian's. Where did it go? I lost it
Shit there it is. Nope, which one x that one
Zero consumer the psi only has 16 gigs of ram ps4 had eight gigs of ram. Yeah. Okay. Well, then maybe it just needs 16
Okay
Okay, let's move on because this is coming out actually they've been saying there's gonna be a nintendo switch probably in january february
What are you doing scratching everything you're not supposed to crack don't complain about me cracking my knuckles
You're scratching your whole fucking body. Get out of here
I forgot to moisturize last night. It's not my fault
Lol at dev thinking we still live in a high trust society
You know what dude if you actually think we don't go the fuck outside you've been on twitter too long
Article 2
Chilling moment brother carries his 18 year old sister's severed head to a police station and a sack
After decapitating her for trying to marry against her family's wishes in india
Oh
My god really sad. Why do you always have sad articles? There's actually a lot of sad articles today to get used to it. No
Twenty dollars from terrace chevenko. Thank you. Switch doesn't have to have 200 google chrome tabs
And open and watching twitch youtube streams and monitors two and three while gaming that's all true. Yes, that's true
Zamzy, thanks for becoming a member like your content recommending the divine comedy
Translated by john cacardi for reading to me. It lays out a rational framework for divinity. I'll check it out. Thank you
Right there
Holstein for five dollars you and v are both right, but you're playing different games
He wants to stop the left. You want to find what's true generally? Yes, and that is the difference between us
I think that if your ideology is not aligned with the truth, it will inevitably fail
Doesn't matter what whether you have power or not doesn't matter if you're on the left or the right or whatever
Truth should be the goal
So let's read it
A brother beheaded his teenage sister for trying to marry against the family's wishes in india
Before carrying her severed head towards a police station in a sack
Ashifa an 80 year old woman who lived in barabanki
utar pradesh had eloped with her partner chand babu. They were both from the same village of mithwara
However, her 22 year old brother riaz disliked the match and murdered her in a horrific honor killing
Before carrying her severed head in a bag
In chilling footage, he can be seen walking towards fate for police station carrying
Jesus christ ashifa's head members of the public saw him with a blood-soaked bag reported to the police
Young woman had wanted to marry a man of her choice, but her father abdul rashid and brother riaz were against it
She what jesus christ fucking barbarians, dude
I'm never visiting india ever. We should not have allowed india to be independent
jesus deaf
They're gonna do this with their freedom
Okay, I want I want to rule them over with an iron fist until they until they lost all of their cultural diversity and values
And made them completely copies of us
Yeah, there's people in america who do shit like this. Yes, we should also rule over them, too
You want to be american you can't say you want to rule over america as a canadian
Hold on wait, what american like beheaded his fucking sister though. I bet you if you search up american beheadings that you will find something
Okay, are they gonna be muslim immigrants? No
Okay
Let's see. Let's see
American beheadings modern modern beheadings
Nope death penalty
No
Oh look beheading can be linked to middle eastern culture, okay, so not those
Botch executions. No, okay. I'm not finding anything
Let's go to news
There's nothing there's nothing dude, it doesn't it doesn't happen naomi because there's actually a difference in culture naomi i'm telling you i'm telling you
It doesn't be fine. Maybe not by headings, but like still like really fucked up shit. Of course. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, I agree
Listen, there's a fucking thanks for sure
A five dollars art of your ideology constantly finds you on the wrong side that gets conclusions wrong
Is the ideology wrong or reality, but i'm not though artemis. That's the point
That's the point of all of our arguments recently artemis is that every time you bring up evidence?
I'm, like this looks interesting and I look into it and you're wrong
In the chat see the most else. I just want to point out in this very sad article
And these are two really hot women
Yeah, naomi
Okay
Carrying the head g like fucking ridiculous, man
On may 29th. I've dual lodged a complaint with the police against chan babu under charge of abducting women to marry
Ashifa's partner was arrested and sent to jail where he and she was returned to the house her brother and father lived at
And on july 20th when she made it clear for her family. She would like to marry chan babu. We guys became violent
In a fit of rage she picked up a shirt and beheaded his sister before packing her head in a sack went to the police station
Yep, he was sent to jail fucking hell dude like wild
Wild
Um five dollars question from thank you questions should be asked with those when they want an order is in what terms
What do you want hold on questions that should be asked with those that want order is one on what terms two?
Why do you want this above all and three? What will you do with it? That's true. I mean order is important
But there's definitely times an order is stifling. That is definitely true. Thank you
so yeah, this is
This is fucking barbaric. Yep
All right, let's continue on
Student because if I know I keep them in case I want to use them later, okay, which I usually don't okay, um student 15
Sometimes I do I usually don't but I keep them to look at them later
Um student 15 allegedly attacks teacher while hallucinating on drugs leaving her with a severe brain injury
Fucking hell dude, I want more funny ones
A 15 year old high school student allegedly punched a teacher in the head while hallucinating on drugs
Leaving her with a severe brain injury that required the removal of her skull cap, holy shit
Holy fuck, dude. Yeah, it's wild
The kolarain high school student began acting distraught after he ingested an unknown drug in a classroom on thursday
He allegedly punched the 60 the 60 year old teacher in the head and caused a severe brain injury requiring extensive medical treatment
He also was accused of attacking another 15 year old student by grabbing him and pinching his neck
Teacher this actually isn't locking memory for me. Oh
Yeah, there was a teacher when I was in grade 12
Uh, either 12 or 13
We had grade 13 here for a while by the way guys. Um, you know, it was 13, I think um where like
There's a teacher who was like very heavily pregnant like we're talking like eight months or something and she was still teaching right?
And then one kid
in class
Like he started going wild
And I think like people were teasing him and it was kind of funny but like he's he like lost it, right?
So he picks up
A desk. Oh, no, I think I think I've I think I might have told the story. I have a faint memory of this
He picked up the desk and he wanted to like throw it
um, and the teacher was like trying to stop him and like
It was me and like five other guys all just got up and it's like she clearly can't fucking handle this
So we like we all like grabbed him, right?
And like we were we were worried for a bit. The school was gonna be like students are fighting you're all but like nothing happened
right, but
I was like she couldn't fucking do anything dude. So like
There's like five of us and we all just like grabbed this dude and we like we prevented him from throwing the desk
And I was like listen, you gotta fucking calm down man. And what do you think like he didn't even get carried out
by like
Police or like like other teachers and nothing basically we calmed him down
And then he stopped and he just went back to where he was sitting and we just kept going with class like crazy
Nothing fucking happened man
You and dave have these like crazy school stories I always hear crazy school stories from other people you want to know the most like
Insane exciting thing that happened to me. There's two your music orgies
No in in school
jesus
You guys spread to the music club where they all fucked each other one
Yeah was an elementary school where a girl had like the like a giant bundle of like, uh, like pencils
And stabbed another guy in the chest with them fucking hell. There's no blood or anything because it was like such a big
like
Mound of stuff
That like nothing actually happened like he was hurt a bit
But like there was no like it was not as bad as it would have been with just a single pencil
Yep
The other one was also an elementary school where me and a whole bunch of the guys got on a rock fight
And I was the only one who actually had good aim. So I hit a guy in the eye. Oh, dude
No, he was fine. The worst part was that he was my neighbor. Naomi had the tutor up approve her. Yep
Yep, because this one time in band camp
Apparently she's actually really mad that people keep quoting at her whenever they see her
Like she's well, well like she was she was like like 19 or something
When you came in that movie and now she's like walking around with her kids
Yeah, and people interrupt her and like say it. Yeah, and she's just like the whole thing
Yes, the whole the whole thing and they're like, she's like, please stop. I have my kids with me like you need to stop
You're only supposed to say the save for work version in front of the children. Jesus
Okay
Oh, let's see. I'll just scroll back up a little bit
Okay
Five dollars from our most foul dev that is your subjective opinion of the things I bring you your conclusions are wrong on many outcomes
Looking predicted hillary would win
Did you predict that? I don't remember I might have way back in the day
I mean, yes, i've been wrong before. Yeah, of course. Not everyone is 100 but the issue ultimately
is that like
okay, you and I have had this conversation but like
If you say something with no proof
And then in the future proof comes out
That actually does prove what you were saying initially, but you had no proof before that doesn't actually make you retroactively, right?
It means before you were guessing
And yet you guessed correctly, but you didn't have a reason to think that though. That's and like that's that's just
rationality
You know like you you can you can guess things and have that guess end up being correct
That doesn't mean that you had a good reason to guess it before
Because you're always going to forget due to due to selective bias all the times when you guessed and you were wrong, right?
Okay
That's why I always say hey
Wait for court wait for documents to come out wait like wait for the ruling wait for if there's if there's indictments coming
Wait, wait, you read the indictments like always say wait for these things, man
Uh five dollars from holtzner more proof that men are stronger also the brain injury is probably from her being a woman. Oh my god
Uh five dollars, uh butters, thank you working retail in california is definitely the words of trust in the high trust society
Nine percent people do wait in line and buy the product. Yeah. Also california is like a uniquely degenerate place in the west for sure
Now five dollars in donovan gill. Thank you. There's a recent beheading look up taylor shabazzness. Let's see
Word of shad theory. Nope. Nope, go back one
Taylor shabazz
Gets life without
Killing and dismembering her ex-boyfriend. Oh
Oh
See
People do fucked up shit. Let's see wisconsin woman gets life without coral for killing him and swimming her ex-boyfriend fucking wild, dude
Yeah, but see this is a different before it was like muslim honor killing. It was part of their culture
This is just this is just indian. We don't even know this is just crazy femoid
Wait, hold on are you defending crazy femoids now i'm defending you're obviously attempting to make fucking point with bad take
Okay
Hey, i've been looking for a while i'm gonna say hi. Thanks rana. Thanks, man. Love y'all
I was gonna be chill the fuck out on twitter on twitter
Thanks, dude. I really appreciate the support. He's not going to uh, but I have been hold on. What do you mean?
That's the whole point of the vibe is I have been um blonde two dollars artemis and the methods rationality dev is fat
Thanks, um
Uh, you know that it could be five dollars. Thank you
All right dev say I want to debate a point of yours or another what terms and criteria to show you this person is being
honest and legitimate what's the thing like
I'm, i'm not saying that v or even as fans are being dishonest
the issue is that they don't have like
proper thinking methods
They don't have good thought no, no, no, no, it's not the thoughts that are bad. It's the
It's the methods by which they come to their conclusions
Like
Can't think right ergo bad. No like like rationality is definitely an art form
Like you have to understand like what makes a thought like grounded in reason and what doesn't right like good thoughts good bad thoughts
No, not good. I'm not talking about good or bad. I'm talking about reasonable versus unreasonable
You fuck I know
Okay
Ten dollars arnold's foul. All right
I'll pause it an idea for ten dollars. Thank you conservative bedrock world views are more capable of predicting outcomes in current events than liberal world
Views dev is bad at predicting outcomes of current events. Okay, so artemis if that's what you say
when I say for example
It looks like based on the evidence provided
There is a decent chance that trump is going to be convicted in the documents case specifically
Is that in your opinion a good or bad prediction
Assuming that you've read the documents indictment
What do you think
Um, i'm giving him the chance
Uh, well, listen ten dollars. Thank you, man
Crazy school story bully in school broke off the blade of a paper cutter attacking their kid with it
Both kids got punished because zero tolerance bs. I know because I was the stabby
Yeah, that's fucking insane. Isn't it?
Like anti-bullying. Yeah, and also, you know what like if you're if you're gonna get punished because someone fights you and you don't fight back
Yeah, just just kick the shit out of them man. Yeah, like you're getting fucking
um
Wait, I've been reading your bit chats blonde you fucking winer. I'll go back over you fucking grumble grumble. Okay?
I read them all blonde. What do you want?
Fuck you. Okay. Anyway
Um
Holds there for five dollars. The difference is naomi honor killings are insubstantiated in their culture
While random killings in the us are apparent freak things, you know what I will actually give that to you holsonator
That's what I said. You just got mad at it
Because you said it in a worse way. Yeah, I said insane femoid
Because most femoids aren't insane. What's the problem naomi?
Oh, are you saying we are are they are they insane naomi? What do you say?
Hey
That you don't know how to word anything ever
What are you saying? That's what i'm saying. Okay, let's let's read this one, I guess
Let's see a wisconsin woman was remembering a former boyfriend scouting his body parts of various locations was sentenced to life in prison
without parole
taylor shop
Wait sha business. What a last name 25 very 2020 of shad therian. See I was right bad prediction
I can predict the future. Oh
okay, so
you think
So so artemis, what do you think?
Will come out of the documents case for trump
What what what is your prediction regarding specifically the trump documents case? Give me give it to me. Let's get it on
On fucking camera on recording right now
So so we both have our predictions down. We'll see where it goes. Okay?
Because I think I think there's like a decent chance. He will get fucked with this indictment
Okay
Okay
Silence was definitely, you know, she uh, pleaded not guilty and I could present mental disease or defect
But the jury found she wasn't mentally ill
Yeah, she huh?
She smoked meth. Oh, dude, i'm gonna fucking behead you it turns out being on meth in the basement of therian's mother green
But it's okay
Strangled decapitated dismembered left the party branch throughout the house in a vehicle wild dude
wild
No, they are that's why I support a cab, what do you mean
What do you mean by that hold center?
No, no, they are that's why I support a cab. I don't know what you're saying. I don't know
Anyway, yeah
Yep, she discovered her son's head in a bucket in the basement. Oh my god. Imagine fucking discovering your son's head in a bucket
Oh jesus
No fight someone in court hold on she attacked her attorney why
Why
She was sentenced. Okay. She was sentenced
And she attacked her attorney. Oh, yeah, that makes sense. I don't want to spend my life in jail
I want to attack you because you said you I wouldn't
That's yeah, that's fucking insane dude
Blonde five dollars. I said you weren't reading him. So I came to youtube. I was answering answering my question
Also, why don't you pretend that you like me?
Listen I appreciate the donations but blonde because you are a gaming stream viewer
I do like you of course
Remember the time that name we defended this woman like two minutes ago. Yeah, I do
I did not defend her. I was defending life from doves bad takes
Okay, no
No, we're still on this article. Yeah, jesus
This guy this 15 year old got high in unknown drug punched the 60 year old teacher gave her a severe medical injury. She was uh,
Taken to the university of cincinnati medical center where she had her skull cap removed to prevent damage from swelling. Yep
The police then found the alleged attacker in the school's career center lobby who was apparently hallucinating had a self-inflicted head wound. Oh my god
He's he's fucking losing it dude
He was taken to the hospital and then to hamilton county juvenile detention center on a charge of felonious assault
And the school was investigating the incident honestly to be honest
But 15 year old is on drugs that hard they probably should be in juvie. So that's yeah
There's no current threat to the school community it seems to be like an isolated thing. Yeah, but still like
The fuck are you doing kid making bad life decisions the fuck is wrong with you?
Jesus you already read that. Yeah, i'm just looking up not allowed
Okay
teen arrested in federal terrorism probe
What? Okay
This guy I don't know if this is in the article. I did look it up
This guy is the son of a prominent attorney. Okay, um leaders from the city and federal law enforcement on monday
Announced that a 17 year old residence
And that's the 17 year old resident of western delhi has been arrested and charged a part of federal federal terrorism investigation
The juvenile was taken into custody by fbi swat officers at his residence in the winefield section of philadelphia
Um investigation led by fbi joint terrorism task force which includes detective details from president from philadelphia police department is active and ongoing, okay
I think me too dev even though I watch more dave solo streams because I like watching entertaining people. Fuck you goes in your band
Uh
Rsm 10
It will evaporate into the ether
If trump doesn't win outright due to how poorly the prosecution has been ran
He will appeal until he wins in november and then the case will be dropped after okay, so rms actually here
I'll agree with you on this partially, right if trump wins the election
In november, I think these cases will go nowhere. I agree with you on that
If trump loses the election in november
I do think he will probably um, he will probably be prosecuted
He'll probably be
He's not going to win the documents case, I think all right
the other cases like you mentioned artemis file the georgia rico case is now in question because they discovered some weird shit happening with one of
the uh
With one of people they brought onto it. So that's true. That seems to be true as far as I can tell
So maybe the georgia rico case falls apart possibly right the documents case. It seems to be dead to rights
But if trump wins in november, it might not matter at all, right?
So i'm saying if trump loses
The election in 2024. He probably also loses in the documents case. That's my prediction. Okay?
Let's get it on record
Okay, so
the district attorney's office has charged the juvenile with weapons of mass destruction criminal conspiracy arson causing arson catastrophe attempt to
To commit criminal mischief possession of instrument of a crime and recklessly endangering another person
Okay, listen, I know mischief is like an actual legal term but attempt to commit criminal mischief is just really really funny. Yep. I know
The work of the fbi joint terrorism task force potentially thwarted a catastrophic terrorist attack in the name of preferred
Ideology that in no way shape or form represents the beliefs of the overall majority of peace seeking people of faith including muslims
You're reading this too fast. This was a 17 year old. It's not going to be completely said in this article
This is a 17 year old son of a muslim immigrant who is a lawyer
Who got radicalized probably online and he joined some fucking terrorist group. Jesus
How about just don't be radicalized guys
Just don't do it
Yeah
Damn, wow
Honestly that poor dad. Yeah, like to like move. Well, maybe well, maybe he's also like a fucking extremist
Well, like maybe but like listen, let's just go on the assumption that he's not right
Can you imagine like immigrating to a better like a better country like at least that you think is a better country and like
Actually being able to like achieve your dreams of having a good job in said country
Right and then having your kid just like ruin your image and reputation forever
that's just that's just
Unfortunate like that is just you would probably feel like an utter failure of a parent at that point in time
Yeah, that just sucks
Apples ghost says obama struggled to win at 34 percent ruling about 39. Yeah, here's the thing polling is often right
But every once in a while it's wrong like polling was wrong with trump 2016, right?
The polls had hillary to win hillary did not win
Um, but generally polls are pretty correct. I think biden's kind of screwed. Yeah
Armors file five dollars
Um free to the poisonous tree all current indictments have been tainted by the same bad actor working together as one gets thrown out
The rest well, I don't know about that
I'm, not sure you're using through the poisonous tree correctly because they are coming from different different offices different people like different states
I don't know if if what you're saying is completely true there artemis
But thank you for all the donations do
okay, so
The juvenile is alleged to have been in contact with individuals and groups designated by the u.s. State department as global terrorists
including katabat al tawhid while jihad
Who is believed to primarily operate in syria's responsible for attacks including the deadly 2017 attack on st
Petersburg russia metro and the 2016 suicide car bombing of the chinese embassy in bishkek kurzakstan
What is this kid doing fucking getting linked up with these guys
Making bad life decisions self-radicalization by young people via the internet is a threat to all families
Yep, so guys you should instead join the cult of dev where you send me all your money
You get radicalized, but you yeah
Yeah
Uh real holes in their five dollars look at how the media takes care to say this doesn't represent all of them
Imagine if he was a conservative would they take the same care? Of course, they wouldn't if it's like a right-winger
They wouldn't say they're obviously not all right wingers. Like it is like their their bias is kind of disgusting
Even though they should be saying it. They should be saying yeah. Yeah
What's next?
Pennsylvania toddler allegedly killed by dad's girlfriend who fed her acetone batteries and a screw
Oh, this is the one you were looking at earlier and I just kind of cried
Guys, listen, she looks like a fucking baby, too. This is just she's 20. Yeah, I know but like
This is just fucked up. Why are there so many fucked up articles today? This is sad
A pennsylvania woman is accused of fatally poisoning her boyfriend's 18 month old daughter by feeding her batteries screws and nail polish remover
After she researched the harmful effects the items could have on a child before the killing
Well, I'll just do it in incognito mode dude, it'll be fine
This is why you go to the library and search up stuff
Oh
Alicia owens 20 was arrested thursday for the suspected homicide of iris rita alfera
After an autopsy determined the child died due to fatal levels of acetone in her blood
Owens had been living with iris's father bailey jacoby when he left the house to go to the store on june 5th, 2023
Jacoby who had visitation rights with iris then received a call from owen saying something was wrong with his daughter
He rushed to the newcastle home to find his baby girl unresponsive and quickly called 9-1-1
Can you imagine just going to the store to get stuff and coming home and your kids like dead
Holy shit, that's really fucking sad. Yep
She was rushed to umpc jamison hospital in newcastle, pennsylvania for treatment
But she was later airlifted one roughly one hour away to upmc children's hospital in pittsburgh
She died four days later due to organ failure
Iris lived with her mother emily alfera and her grandparents while her father jacoby had visitation rights
owen said that police that
Owen told owens told the police the girl had hit her head after she cramped up and fell off her bed
Autopsy showed that iris had ingested numerous water beads along with a button-shaped batteries and a metal screw
Months before she died. Oh my god months before she died
A search of uh, are you okay now?
A search of owen's phone revealed she had been looking up information on household products that could cause a child serious harm or death
Including water beads batteries and nail polish jesus fucking christ, dude
Jesus fucking christ, dude
Like the fact that it's months ago shows this was just premeditated too like
She's she's fucked
Like she's going to to giga jail
She also searched beauty products that are poisonous to kids and medications leading to cause accidental poisoning deaths in children
Holy shit, dude
Yep, the findings on her phone were a crucial piece of evidence against her
Okay, listen, I know I say I don't like kids all the time and listen like I don't
But like it is always really sad when a kid like that young
Dies like like situation like in situations like this because like they didn't even get the chance to live
this is the mother and the child and then the father had visitation and then
This was this was the new girlfriend of the father. Holy shit
It honestly if she ever got out of jail and I was that dad I would straight up murder
100
So there was uh, there was no evidence linking the father to the death at all
There's nothing throughout the investigation to show that he had any knowledge or involvement what happened to the baby
He was questioned multiple times was cooperative
I actually think you know what? I actually think that's true
I think in this case, it was just like some really fucked up
Young woman who was just like I want to spend time with this baby dad with this with this baby's daddy
Yeah, but I don't want him to actually be a daddy so i'm just gonna make him be mine fucking hell man
Fuck that's what's next. That's really fucking sad
Irs identifies agent shot and killed during training exercise. Oops. That's a big oops
An irs special agent was killed during an accidental shooting by another agent during a training exercise thursday
wait
An irs special agent. Yeah irs has agents
For
Yeah for what?
Well, they're the they're the taxes guys, right? Yeah, I know. Yeah. Well if you don't pay your taxes, they come and raid you
With special agents specifically for the irs. I didn't know that I thought they just used like cops
Before you have some police involvement. Yeah, but like they have their own enforcement arm too. Really? Yeah. Holy shit pretty much every
every like
Even in canada, it's the same way like every branch of government has its own like enforcement arm
So like that's why like park rangers. No, okay. They they have the same some of the same enforcement powers as police do
Yes, the park rangers are different
A statement released thursday fbi officials confirmed that they are investigating the death of an irs special agent. They're not share further details
significant tragedy for the agents involved the agency their families
Just really sad to see the federal bureau of prison says investigating a shooting incident at the federal correctional institute institutional phoenix firing range
So I know people were people on twitter were saying like oh my god, dude
They obviously killed one of their own because they're covering something up
It could also just be like an accident. This is one. This is probably gonna be just hey, uh,
Make sure you guys follow all the safety rules of the shooting range and then people didn't follow the safety rules of the shooting range
So that's the way it always is like this agent was the one who was going after like the big corpos
Because government and they're shaking hands. So like I mean
The irs identified the fallen agent space seven year old special agent patrick bauer. What did he do?
You know, what's funny is that I would have believed that a few like like several years ago
But after being in retail so long and realizing just how fucking stupid people are
It's definitely just incompetence of a person that caused this. Yep
Nothing about him anyway, yeah, you watch you go back and just like he was actually investigating big corporations. They took him out
If it turns out that he was he was investigating george soros
The u.s postal service has its own law enforcement branch too. I didn't I guess I just didn't think about that
Okay
Seven texas men filmed themselves gang raping two toddlers. Why?
Why do we have to read these?
Why can't you just find not so fucking sad articles, holy fucking shit today is the sad day guys
Seven texas men filmed themselves gang raping two toddlers in the bathroom of a houston's galleria mall where the ringleader worked
This is the this is these are the art. These are the sad articles today guy. Holy shit
D then thanks for the three dollars man us education bar also has a raid team. Yep. Yep, they do. Um
Horrifying videos have surfaced of a gang of at least seven men sexually abusing toddlers inside the restroom of a texas mall
Arthur hector fernandez 29 years old a kiosk worker at the galleria mall in houston
Is charged with assaulting the toddlers and posting the videos on time
or online
Oh my god, they were two years old. Oh my god
Two friends of fernandez sometimes left their children to two year olds in his care
While they worked in the mall
Yeah, it was like broken right now guys
The fbi says they launched a probe last month after the abuse videos posted on a private online forum were shared by the australian
center to counter child exploitation
wait
Oh, so this was discovered because even though it happened in texas
It was first discovered by the australian center to counter child exploitation. So the australians found it. You okay?
This is why I don't fucking read the news
Yeah, the australians discovered it on the internet and then got the americans at volks that happen in america, okay, it'll be okay
Each of the four videos shared with authorities reportedly showed a different assault and they take place in different rooms and locations including bathrooms
at the mall
Fernandez is the only suspect charged in the case so far
It's unclear if the other is said to appear in the video has been identified by officials
Police closed in on him using an open source image repository to search for the face of one of the children
And then it matched it with social media images shared by one of the women
When police showed the child's mom a sanitized image from the abuse materials the woman reportedly noticed a pair of bracelets owned by fernandez
Police then saw those bracelets on the suspect's social media. So he worked at this mall here
In houston
Okay
titanium says
Hold on dev. How can you be so nonchalant about this? What the fuck? How can you laugh?
Okay, i'm not laughing at this. All right, i'm i'm noticing that naomi is getting very upset because of all the crazy articles today
All right, I don't find this funny. Okay
Also, uh from the other side of the spectrum here, uh titanium asks naomi. I legit don't understand how you're this sensitive
You work in fucking customer service
Okay
Do they get worse
Is this the worst one or do they get worse? I don't know
I just I knew when I was looking over today's articles
There's a lot of fucking like downers like murders and shit like today's this is a fucked up set of articles today
Okay
Are you okay? No, are you okay? Naomi?
It's okay. Naomi
The u.s. Army has a government branch. Well
Well, yeah
Aren't they part of the government? No, thanks to dollars, but no, thank you. Okay, stop abusing me
Hey you're fine sure. Yeah, totally. Okay. Anyway, I think this is this the indie article is not much to it. Okay
Okay
Okay, let's let's continue
Japanese apex legends players are being banned for hateful conduct after saying run
Run bait run. Oh, no. Oh, no, it's bad. Do you want to know why you want to know what the word run is in japanese?
No
The word run isn't anything else
Uh five dollars from tricky myra, thank you
Give these people the wood chipper now also glad to help you yank stop these monsters remember the chipper as we speak. Thanks, man
Okay
so
See a reddit user recently shared a screenshot of the message one apex legends player received from ea back in october
Informing them of the reason behind their ban
I want to notify you that you found your ea account to be in violation of rules of conduct while reviewing your account
You never had the fall the following violation apex legends hate conduct
Reddit user claimed the japanese player spoke their native language while playing the game and said nigero
Which translates to run or get out of here?
That's a stupid reason to ban people. Yeah, but they Jesus
If it's their native language you can't ban them for that racist, yes you can no you can't
Well in chinese nega means um
Um
And in spanish negro just means black. Yeah like the black color. Yeah, like the actual color of
The color black not a person's skin black
Yeah, niguru, which has been around longer than the hard r n word. Yeah. Yep
That's stupid
Hashiru is run the one you said is for escape. Yeah
Okay, that's not the pronunciation what nigero
Jesus
You're gonna get you're not gonna i'm saying japanese you baka gaijin
Wow
Okay
So, yeah
He was he a japanese player faced the same ban back in february 2021 for using the same word while playing apex legends
Yep, they were banned for a week
That's bullshit man. That actually is it's actually racist indonesian spanish have been banned while playing
An indonesian player was banned in july for saying nigac which means no in english
It's fucking ridiculous. That's actually racist. Spanish word for black is negro. Yeah
also
an ironic twist
Octane a spanish-speaking hero in the game uses negro in his voice lines
But if you say it as a spanish speaker yourself you get banned
Jesus, yep, university of southern california professor was suspended for using is it? Yeah. Is this nigga?
Change for the word
Um, i've heard many Chinese people say it and they just go nigga. Yeah. Yeah, it goes. Yeah, that's good
So that's how you pronounce it
Yeah
I mean I can just say the direct inward. No, you cannot
Okay, how much money would it take for you to just drop a hard r and bomb how much money in private no on the stream
Oh like a thousand dollars
Maybe more
You said a thousand I said maybe more okay guys
We are at what's our current super chats no, no in one super chat, oh you can't
Yeah, youtube doesn't let you I know the highest chat. You can actually super test 500. I know
So if we get a thousand a thousand dollars with super chats today, you will say it no
Yes, it has to be a thousand and one. No, you can't
I know
You can't I know
No, it has to be something you can actually get no. Yes. It does you asked my price and that's what it was
Don't do it. Artemis. Don't do it
Oh, yeah ningen ningen means human in japanese, yeah
Do it
Nope, I I have decreed it will be a thousand but it will have to be in multiple super chats. No. Yes
No, you've already been you're roped into it. Okay. Well, i'm just not gonna do it. We'll just have the money so
Well, then I will have i'm running a ponzi ski i'm gonna punish you then i'm gonna punish you i'll leak your nudes then
Why would you do that punish you?
Haha, okay. Well if you do that i'll slit your throat while you're sleeping. Wait a second. Naomi. Yeah
So
You took that very seriously. Yes
Even though as far as I understand there are no nudes of you
So just because you deleted them all did I? Yes. Okay. You actually got really mad at me one day
Because you you forgot that you had them in your messages and you're just like delete them. Naomi. Oh my god
I can't believe they're there
Wait, why I don't know
You you bought actually legitimately. How long ago was that? I don't remember this at all. It was like a year or two
No fucking way
No, no, no. Nope. Actually. No, I wasn't here too. It was I think it was more than that. No, I was it was before covid
Yeah, so, okay. Yeah
Listen, I forget that covid happened like in my brain
I know it did but so last year was 2019. Yeah
Yeah
You did you got legitimate you don't fucking remember because the edhd rotted your brain what the nudes from him was 15
Anyway, listen listen you you
Everything was all fun and games until you said i'm gonna slit your throat. What the fuck Naomi
You deserve to be in some of these fucking articles slit
Can we see?
Uh, the Naomi nudes are actually priced at a million
Unless Naomi fails to fulfill her her inward contract then they will go out
This is why i'm gonna slit your throat while you're sleeping
Okay, so stop is that one stretching yes, nope, should we continue on
Wolverhampton grandmother's abusers have been caught by a hidden camera. Hey grandma
Wait what two sisters caught four care workers abusing their 89 year old grandmother after hiding a camera in her bedroom
Jesus oh they mean
Yeah, yeah, danielle hensey and her sister rebecca became suspicious after barrel wall's behavior changed
And she began to get bruises on her face and wrists
Like a scene from the hugely popular netflix drama fool me once they put a photo frame with a hidden camera in her room
at a care home
Four days of footage was enough to convict her attackers. Yep
They caught the workers shouting and dementia
Shouting and dementia suffer miss wall's face making fun of her
Holding her legs in the air and hitting her in the face of the pillow. Yeah, jesus fucking christ
Holy shit guys. This is a thing that happens a lot. I was gonna become the right about it
oh
Jesus holy shit, man. Yeah, like it's
Yeah
Old age homes make me upset. I'm a tonkara
moral and dante a diffala danny ohan and bridget a
Adian were jailed at the end of 2023 good
fucking hell
Sister saw their grandmother's regularly. So they quickly spotted her decline visited nan every day as this happened before lockdown
Yep
They're just doing like fucking assholes, man. Yeah a lot of like
Like caretakers of people who suffer dementia are actually like
Terrible people which is unfortunate. We totally live in a high trust society, right? This is happening in the uk
All right
No, seriously
the uk has serious problems with immigrants like bringing in low trust immigrants like the uk has problems that um
The uk and like continental europe has problems that america and canada do not have right now
And to simply transplant american or canadian politics to europe is stupid because they're facing different issues than we are
um
It's the same type of camera millions of viewers have seen actress. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah
When danielle viewed the footage several days later
She said it broke my heart the capture of the people who should have been carried for her most
For her most mocking miss wall and pinching her face
Much of the footage their grandmother was naked and confused
So took the evidence to the care home managers the care quality commission and west midlands police
Three of the four workers were from an agency and one was a permanent member of the staff
Yep
Damn, dude
Fucking hell
Dev reacts to this and not the children directly to all of it you fuck
Okay
I I want to point out that I think that dev has this habit of when i'm reacting really poorly to something that he acts
More positive than he's necessarily feeling at the time. Yeah, and that happens a lot. Yeah
Because you're having a rough time of it. So yeah, you know, you can just react poorly too. It's okay
Eight care workers are charged for it with abusing miss wall, but only four of them are found guilty. All right
What
So these two were sentenced to four months in prison because the ill treatment and willful neglect
These two were found there since six months and four months
They should be charged for longer the fuck. It's the uk and they're saying oh, they're just they're black and innocent
Fucking ridiculous, dude
Okay
The last of us knockoff game has been removed from the switch e shop. So look at this
This is the last hope it's very clearly a last of us
All right
The game appeared on the storefront last week where it was quickly highlighted on social media being a knockoff of sony's the last of us
And the game has been removed from the e-shop and trailers are being taken down by youtube and sony
Uh, neither nintendo or sony commented on the matter
So this is apparently the worst game ever. Okay. Can we see this video digital foundry?
Okay
Okay, let's see the video wow
The last hope on nintendo switch is the worst game ever reviewed
Does look pretty shit
Doesn't the switch have like an didn't you get all that like malware or whatever? Yeah
The switch is a really bad like moderating system for like what games constitute as actual games on their shop
So, let's see, yep
This is the game guys, would you rather play this or the last of us the last of us
I'd rather watch bakar again than play this game deal
Oh, can we just can we just not
Like here's a comparison and it's like well they look the same don't they?
Jesus christ
Yeah
If I can find it we should try it no
No
Yep, I mostly ignore shovelware infested digital storefronts and assume many of them are innocuous
But you see something like this. It really pulls back the curtain the depravity festering within certain corners of the industry. Yeah. Yep. So
Uh
The game is developed by west connection limited and uh, the last hope dead zone survival is the most is their most blatant copy
Another game so players who have purchased the last hope dead zone survival can still play the game on switch and still redownload it
But if you try to find it, you can't buy it anymore
Good. I kind of wish I had a copy of it god. Shut up. I'll try it. It looks shut up. Shut
Up, really? It's a piece of lost media now
What what what are you getting mad about you and your stupidity
I'm not stop playing super bad fucking shovelware games or wanting to that is not a good trait for any
Sane person to have listen, it's still better than last was too. No, it's not
I would rather play last of us too again 100
This is the the thumbnail guys women will suffer diarrhea forever
After osm pick caused a horror bowel injury
And a weight loss drug made her made another vomit until her teeth fell out
Okay, well that that makes sense but diarrhea forever. Yep
Would you just have to wear like a diaper all the time? And here she is
Wow, she's how old is she she looks now she has built-in lube for anal
Ew
You
Okay, okay
So a woman who will suffer diarrhea for the rest of her life after using osm pick is among dozens of patients
Who are suing the maker of the blockbuster weight loss drug over claims that left them with crippling stomach paralysis?
Novo, nordisk the maker of osm pick and wago v is facing lawsuits from patients across america
Who say they experienced extreme side effects, which they were allegedly not worn about
Thousands more patients have also come forward to claim
They suffered adverse reactions to the drugs and attorneys say many more could join the glowing legal campaign
Is this going to be one of those things where some people will randomly get a check in the mail being like?
Yeah, we got sued. Here's money
Why do you like this dev?
Most of the parents most of the patients claim they suffer from gastroparesis, which is the massive name for paralysis of the stomach
The condition which can be life-threatening can cause a buildup of food in the gut and symptoms of nausea vomiting severe pain
A daily mail reviewed more than a dozen lawsuits filed since november by patients who are diagnosed with gastroparesis
After using osm pick and wago v including some who suffered life-threatening bowel injuries and faced lifelong consequences
In all the lawsuits novo nordisk is accused of failing to properly warn about the risk of gastroparesis in the drugs packaging
Why would you take something that might like do that to your stomach?
It's fucked up
She was hospitalized for four weeks had a gallbladder removed. Oh fuck dude. Well, that's not bad
You don't really need a five dollars from tara shivenko people do anything they can think of instead of eating less
ever enough
At least 10 lawsuits have also been filed against eli lily the maker of monjaro
A diabetes drug which works in a similar way to osm pick and wago v and is also prescribed off label for weight loss
Eli lily is also accused of failing to include proper warnings about monjaro's risks. Wait, how did that happen?
You have it stuck on top chat again. I don't know
Shouldn't have
I changed already. I know
In one case a woman who used the drugs claims she was diagnosed with gastroparesis
Which caused her to vomit so much her some of her teeth fell out. Jesus. That's a lot of vomiting
Well that actually happens to people who have bulimia
Yep, right. They just they vomit so much so they don't have teeth no more. It just acid acids them down. Yeah
Another one was was diagnosed with a life-threatening bowel injury after using osm pick and underwent surgery which lasted nearly nine hours
Doctor said she will be in pain for the rest of her life. He'll never have a solid bowel movement again
That's actually really sad. Wow
A third case brought by a woman she was diagnosed with severe gastroparesis
Was hospitalized with symptoms including going a week without a bowel movement
More than 40 cases have been filed in federal courts across america fucking wild dude
So never inject the shit don't take diet drugs boys and girls don't take diarrhea drugs
I mean if you need help with your diary, I should probably take you know diarrhea drugs, but you know
Argyle two dollars seven naked cowboys at ram ranch houston texas. Oh my god, dude. Holy fuck
You guys continue on sad
Saint louis police crash into an lgbtq bar then arrest its owner
Why what you were coming after?
We're coming after drag queen story. I would just drive right into the bar. Fuck you arrest him
jesus
Giga chat
wow
Oh my god, dude, okay
Around 12 30 a.m. A saint louis police cruiser smashed into the front window of an lgbtq bar
and karen delay
But it was the bar's co-owner
base base base giga chat giga chat giga chat base giga chat
It was the bar's co-owner who wound up getting arrested and he's currently being held in central booking
There were several there were several police officers that jumped him says james pence related to mike pence
Obviously who co-owns bar pm with chad wick who is chad wick is the guy
Chad wick got these fucking names, dude
Chad wick got his police custody
Okay
Police pence says the police
Stop, okay. I can't okay
Pence says the police officer who ran into the bar told him that he swerved to miss a dog in the middle of south broadway
Pence says he does have security camera footage of the crash though. He's not making it public at this time
The police department did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment this morning. Okay. Well, hold on
wait
Pence who lives above the bar said he was getting ready to head to bed as two people down
Two people close up for the night suddenly felt the whole building shake and ran downstairs
He came to find the police suv in his building and an officer demanding to see his id
Why pence said he replied no, you don't that's a police cruiser in my building
You don't need to see my ideas and how this works
Pence says he was spun around in place in handcuffs. Jesus
You think the officer was drunk or something?
That's what it sounds like
Tara shavank or two hours. So I crashed into your dear god
Pence's co-owner wick was taking videos and photos the police vehicle when according to pence
Three of the officers went for him. He raised his arm and they said he hit him
Pence was eventually taken out of cuffs. Wick was taken by police
In addition to cleaning up the damage pence some other morning trying to locate wick
He later found that wick had been taken to the south patrol police station then the slu hospital for medical attention
He was taken to the north patrol and finally an unnamed was a central booking
Wick whose legal name is chad morris. Was that a term of felony assault?
Oh, okay. So maybe he like tried to fight the cops after the cops crashed into his building
So they're getting him with assault but the cops crashed into his building
Yeah, but the proper the proper recourse that is to go to court, right? I mean, listen, like look at this shit like okay
Something was up with that cop who crashed. Yeah
He was probably drunk and he probably like
Like all those cop other cop buddies to be like look fuck i'm drunk. I did something stupid. Help me out guys
Yeah, so they're right. Yeah, that's probably that fuck
Jesus. Yeah, that's the game and the officers are based
Yeah
Dude next article. I just love the idea of we're taking out the gays drive into a gay bar get out sort of arresting people
Yeah, it seems like the police are probably like fuck here yeah, no, no the problem is they're probably not fucked they just are bad
All right
Please file felony charge against okay. It's the same article
No, it's not
Yep, he's facing a fella. He's facing felony assault against an offer. Mr. You're resisting arrest. Yeah, see
yeah, so
So so chad wick began to scream obscenities in the wake of the collision
The officer writes that he then struck me hard in the chest with an open hand causing me to lose my balance
So basically lose your balance because you were drunk
he he so he attacked the cop who drove into his his his
This is the uk, right? No, it's it's in america. Okay. Well either way, dude, you fucking drove into my business
The fuck is wrong with you?
Yeah, so so you attack you attack the cop who drove into your business and now you will and now you have
You're getting charged but like this is stupid. I agree. Some of those things are like
The correct way to deal with police is like you can't just fight them
I know but you have to like document and you have to be cool and like if if they're wrong it will come out later
Like you can't do this or else you'll just lose. I know
I know but this is still stupid. Oh, it's stupid like they they're very clearly like in the wrong hand
Wait, hold on. Yep. The attorney for bar pm says that bystander video contradicts the police account good. So let's see good
Videos taken at bar pm contradict the police story. You know, what is actually probably good that he kept it private until you know, yeah
This is embarrassing for the police department. Let's see
Yeah
Multiple videos of the collision and this aftermath tell a different story than when police are alleging
And showed that morse's arrest was unwarranted. Yep. Yep
See it's one of these things where like yeah. Yeah, you have to like document and record and keep cool
Because you make things work for yourself. Yeah
Okay, let's see here what is the
20-minute bystander video tells his own story
They unlawfully handcuffed him the falsely claiming speaking loud. He's against the law. These are pretty good domestic warrants. Yeah
Yeah, man
So at no point in the 20-minute video shows more striking an officer in the chest. Yep. Yep
Yep
Lord cameron says the best way to deal with the corrupt system is through the system dude. There are so many instances
of people
like
Entire fucking cop channels like audit the audit shit like that like they're they're based on this where you show people who?
um act properly
And encounter with the police and it goes to court and they win
We have so many examples of this you're being biased towards those few examples that go viral when it doesn't work
But it overwhelmingly works. So yes
It's actually good to know indirect soter. Thank you
Yep, they lost control of the vehicle and immediately the video shows the police officers being aggressive with everybody in the area to cover
What they did. Yep. Yep
Yep, it's it was the cop's fault and they're they're reacting but still though giga chat driving to the gay bar
Hey, shut up. Oh my god. You're so stupid all the time
Okay
New driver charged with having a beer while driving to celebrate passing road test 20 minutes earlier
Why can't all of these be this funny one?
Oh, it's from brampton dude. It's ontario. Okay. God
God
A 25 year old canadian man had his driver's license a measly 20 minutes before being pulled over by police
Who caught him drinking a beer in celebration of passing his driver's test?
The brampton man had just gotten his g2 license the second level permit drivers. Actually, when do you get your full g?
Whenever I go and book the test and do it. Okay, because you had your g2 for a while, huh?
Yeah, it's been like a year or two year. Yeah. Yeah
This is probably how long does it take it's probably time now you have to wait a bit after you get it
And then you can book the test. Let's see. We're actually gonna look up and i'm curious. Okay?
How long until you get your g
Uh, no
Test you can get your g as little as two years. Yeah
Okay
If you don't get your g license within five years to restart the process so
Yeah, you gotta go get it right you have you have many years you're fine i'm aware
How many years after g2? Can you get your g?
12 months or eight months with driver's training and pass the g2 road test. Yeah
Okay, there you go. Yep. I'm well aware of all of this. Okay. Yep didn't need to look it up
Okay, well I wasn't aware I wanted to see okay
Okay
So
The brampton manager's gotten his g2 license with interior provincial police caught him weaving it out of traffic and speeding down the highway
In celebration the driver cracked a beer and decided to drive back to brampton on highway 10
the driver
Flew past an unmarked police vehicle drinking and driving
The officer was offering what 30 miles per hour over the speed limit. Holy shit
Driver was moving out of traffic in a careless manner before he was pulled over
Can't even begin to understand why someone would think that drinking a beer in their vehicle while driving a smart id
A little a novice driver who should be well versed in the rules of the road. Who knows?
Yep, he had his open beer in the vehicle
Yep
He had a concentration level above zero. Well, let's say his new drivers must have an alcohol in the system
drivers
for 30 days
stunt driving careless driving
Novice driver with bac above zero driving with open liquor and several other offenses
These are not simple errors of judgment
They are choices being made to fit the lives of other drivers and pedestrians at risk
Simply put drivers like let's kill people no belong on our roads. Yeah, I fucking hate people who drink and drive honestly, yep
Fucking wild dude fucking canada
Yeah
A virginia democratic house candidate performed sex online with husband for tips
So money tips what yeah for money yeah, so basically this is a veterinarian okay who's running for
a democratic house candidate
And she also apparently fucked online back in the day when she was younger. So well now it's a news story. Why?
A democrat running for a crucial seat in virginia's house of delegates performed sex acts with her husband for a live audience
And encouraged viewers to pay to pay them with tips for specific requests
Oh my god, she did them with her husband susanna
Gibson a nurse practitioner and mother of two young children running in a highly competitive suburban richmond district streamed sex acts on chatterbait
Yeah
Yeah, yep. Yep. Okay
Oh, hold on
Oh, she was doing it while she was still running for the race, okay. Oh, that's yeah
So she hadn't given up the career before she decided to get into politics that might be kind of dumb
Listen I don't think politicians should be judged about their past for sex work
But if you're still doing it while running for office, that's like what are you doing?
Yeah, poor kids. Oh my god. Did you guys see like
Okay, riley reed, you know riley reed is no, I don't really care very prolific porn actress. I don't probably been like thousands
I don't need to know a lot of information
I'm assuming she just had a child. Yeah, okay. Yeah, and I think she's out of porn now in fact, okay
and
Well, imagine being that fucking kid
Yeah, that's gonna suck like
Your mom has a shit ton of porn. She is one of the most famous porn actresses of all time
You're not going to avoid being able to go online to just see your mom like naked from like 15 years ago getting fucking railed
Well, to be honest, there's so much free porn online that's new yeah, but like she's so popular
She's in like banner ads and stuff. Like she's
She's one of the most popular porn stars. Yeah, that that part that part's unfortunate
So like imagine this kid like 15 or 16 or 17 open up the browser late at night. No one's at home
I'm gonna i'm gonna check some porn out. Yep. Go online. Here's like an older video looks good
It's your mom getting a fucking gang bang with like 18 giant black dicks. You're like
Oh
It's not gonna be in the banner
Or like imagine i'm well, no, it's just like girl gets destroyed you click on that one and just her it's like oh
Imagine being that kid though like getting teased at school. Holy fuck. What an awful. Yep
Oh now Naomi isn't sensitive play to others. Yeah, I know. Nope. Yep. No
That kid's gonna have some issues like holy shit dude. Yeah. See you later mark. See you later, dude
Okay
So i'm always surprised that people who are like like really into sex work for a really long time actually want to have kids after
That like I like I understand that like many people have the desire to but like I don't understand
Why you would knowing it's like people who have like a lot of genetic diseases still decide to have children
It's like why are you doing this to your children?
Yeah, you're just giving them your terrible genetic disease. Oh my god blonde two dollars the black guys were measurehead and his brothers
Jesus
Oh, i'll ghoul
Listen you're obsessed you guys got you guys gotta watch our disco elysium play through to like deal
You see us react to the black nationalist fascist. He's so fucking amazing. Yeah
Just like the jews have degenerated the white race and now the black man will take over it's like holy shit, dude
Holy fuck
Okay
so
Videos are no longer available for viewing as of saturday after a republican operative alert to the washington post about them
but the videos remained live on another non-pastor protected site, which is probably uh
Like re-uploads to pornhub or something. Yeah
Yep, or x videos. Yeah to other publicly available sites displayed explicit still photos in the videos. Yeah
Yeah, you can see in the videos soliciting tips or performing specific acts of current violation of each terms and conditions
Requesting or demanding specific acts for tips may result in a ban from the platform. Oh, wait, really? Yeah
Why is that banned? I don't know what?
I don't fucking know you should have done it on only fans
Jesus yeah, the only thing's a thing in 2022. It was right. Yeah
Speaking directly to the screen
She encourages viewers to provide tips which are paid through tokens purchased through the site in at least two videos
She agrees to perform certain acts only in a private room an arrangement that requires a viewer to pay more
I need like more tokens where I let him do that
What?
Wait, she's raising money for a good cause. Is it her fucking self? Is it was her political career? Yes
So dumb almost immediately the tips arrive she says thank you five times and tells her husband she will agree to the act
I don't know what it was
Blow job
Anyway something very tame
so she's uh
She's of course saying this is I can't believe you're going at me because oh my god. It's like
I don't know how I feel about this
Listen porn is one of those things where it's like once you do it
You have to understand like it's out there now and it's not going away and you gotta you gotta fucking be ready for that like
She has a husband and children. I hope at least I hope she's happily married to her husband
Because she was doing porn with him. Yeah, so
Yeah, you can't fix her guys you can't fix her
Gunmen, hold on five dollars entire strike. Oh, thank you
These are way to be screwed by a porn star is like in the public office. Haha
Gunman storm tv station in ecuador live on air after state of emergency has declared. Holy shit. Yeah, so this went viral. We're like
We'll do it without audio obviously, but like yeah
Yeah, so what ends up happening is they're doing like a news story right live on air and then suddenly gunman just burst in
Holy and it's like we're taking over now that must be really scary actually, yep
They're ready to porn star an of creator consequences. Thanks to two dollars lady. Columbia
So, yeah like yep welcome to ecuador guys
An armed militia stormed a television studio during a live broadcast in ecuador carrying shotguns pistols and homemade bombs
after the country's president issued a decree
declaring 22 gangs as terrorist organizations
yeah, so
The government's now fighting the terrorist gangs the terrorist gangs. They could just fucking attack this tv station
Jesus police arrested 13 gunmen who took over the television station. Tc in the city of guaya quill
during a live broadcast on tuesday
Forcing staff onto the floor and footage beamed to thousands of homes
The channel which was back on air for its evening news broadcast said the two employees were injured in the incident
Terrified host was seen praying to a camera as the shotgun was held to his head
While other attackers showed off grenades and six of a dynamite to the audience
The group shouted they had bombs, but sounded like gunshots were heard in the background
Holy fuck, dude. That's wild
It's terrifying. Yeah
I mean you definitely want uh, the government to crack down man, like it's time for martial law time to fuck them up
And be like, oh you're violating our rights. Fuck you
It's time for you to go
Um
Newspaper el universo said reporters in the interrupted el noticero news program messaged groups begging for help
One said they want to kill the lot of us help us
The channel broadcast live was live for at least 15 minutes
But the thing was cut off during the transmission someone was heard yelling don't shoot
El salvador versus ecuador would be a good video dev. I don't know enough about it terrace, but thank you
um
Alina manrique
The manrique the head of news for tc television said she was in the control room across from the studio
When the group of masked men entered the building one of the men pointed a gun her head and told her get on the floor
I'm still
I'm still in shock. She said
Everything has collapsed. All I know is the time to leave this country and go very far away
Yep
Half an hour after the gang stormed under the set police entered the building and later announced no arrests have been made
Yeah, so they they arrested him
God, I thought it sucks. But at least they got arrested and the people only got injured and didn't die. At least there's that
Yep
Oh, yeah, the president declared a 60 60 day state of emergency on monday after a convicted gang leader disappeared from his prison cell
Giving authorities the ability to suspend rights and mobilize the military in places like prisons
It's kicking off man. It's kicking off
I guess it's fucking wild
Damn
The leg is asleep. What's next?
Oh, yeah, robert de niro says that the speech blasting trump was cut at the gotham awards. How dare they cut it?
Let me insult the orange man
Robert de niro appeared flustered monday night after realizing his speech at the gotham awards had been edited to cut blistering remarks
He wrote about former president donald trump
I just want to say one thing
The beginning of my speech was edited cut out and I didn't know about it. I want to read it
History isn't history anymore. Truth is not truth. Even facts are being replaced by alternate facts and driven by conspiracy theories and ugliness
Yeah, so
Basically, he gave the speech at the gotham awards. What is the gotham awards?
I actually don't know what those are. I don't even know what they are either guys. What is the gotham awards?
American film awards presented annually to the makers of independent films at a ceremony in new york city
Okay
Oh, okay, just a film award. Okay small a small award show
so
He gave a speech about donald trump and when when it was aired on tv, they cut it out
Wow, and he's mad about it. I mean to be honest I probably would be too
I understand
It's really funny. Like this is hilarious, but I would also be very angry if I was robert
He attacks the weak destroys the gifts of nature and shows disrespect for example by using pocahontas as a slur wait what based
Wait, what?
he
Called elizabeth warren pocahontas
Because lizabeth warren claimed to be native american on her university enrollment to get like special privileges, okay, but she had um
Like almost no native american budget less than me. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, so we called it pocahontas. Yeah
Just make fun of her. Yeah
Well, here's the thing pocahontas it has in like in the past five or six years
become
Known on the left as a slur because trump used it as a joke and now it's considered a slur
so
Okay, yeah because well the idea is like
The idea of a native woman who who ends up in like liking a white man and adopting white customs and blending into white society
They call them
Pocahontas's well wasn't actually like the actual story of pocahontas like fairly sad. Yeah, but they're going off the disney bullshit. Yeah, okay
Yeah, so he was cut out
Oh
Dude trump's looking old now like I mean he's almost 80 so like he's looking old damn
They did his bronzer like real shiny. Look at that dude. His cheek is glowing. Yeah
Like how it doesn't match his ear at all his ear
He looks like
Okay
Potato and his ear looks like an uncooked chicken wing. This is like a recent trump picture
Even even trump 10 years ago looked better like trump's showing his age. Well, yeah, he's old. How old does he know?
He's like 77. Well, yeah, 77 77 look old. Yeah, like
Like here's trump from 10 years ago
Definitely looks better. Definitely. Yeah, you get old man. This is how it is
And of course if you see trump from the 1990s like he's
This is this is like tv trump, you know, this is the trump that everyone thinks of when they think of trump
Is this guy?
This is when everyone loved him, you know
Yeah
How dare they do that how dare they cut it out, okay, dude, whatever
No, listen, like if you're making like a whole speech like they shouldn't be editing it right like that's actually like pretty bad
Like it's hilarious that they have done this but it is actually quite bad
And robert denier does have every way to be as every right to be as pissed as he is
Yeah, but they have their data so fuck you fuck you right now why
Because you don't just get to have unlimited screen time on their fucking award show talk whatever you want
Yes, but look at the fucking game awards last year. That sucked, too
It was hilarious and they should keep it in
I want to see the whole fucking thing
Okay, finally the final article for today guys
Twitch is cutting one third of its staff
Yep
Twitch is laying off more than 500 employees that ceo announced this morning reportedly accounting for around 35 of its staff
Bloomberg first reported that the video game streaming platform was playing layoffs on tuesday and the company confirmed that the cuts were happening
We're gonna have to share that we're taking the painful step to reduce our head count by about 500 people
This will be a very hard day
Yo twitch has way too many fucking people working for it. Anyway
Twitch cut 400 rolls back in march of 2023 as as part of larger layoffs at parent company amazon. Yep
Additionally several twitch executives including chief product officer tom verrilli
Chief customer officer doug scott and chief content officer. Laura lee all announced leaving the company
Last month the company also announced it would cease operations in south korea setting payably of expensive network fees
Wait
Well, I I zoned out for like a second. What did you say about people?
Uh, the twitch pulled out of south korea. They no longer have like a south korean server. Okay. Yeah
So, yep twitch the twitch business remains strong it paid over one billion dollars in in uh revenue to its to its streamers
Sometime now the organization has been c has has been size based upon what we're optimistic
We're going to be in three or five more years not to where we are today. Wow
Base, I understand what's going on. Basically twitch is not growing and they gotta cut the fat
Yeah, it's happened to a lot of social media right now. Yeah, that makes sense. That's how it's going man. This is how it's going
This is how it's going
Tara shavankov five dollars speaking of politicians
We're actually the old federman seems to have doubled down in many of his controversial positions since your video on him
based
Always double down
Yes
That's the end of the articles guys, yeah, what do you think of today's articles fellas
They were all incredibly sad except for the ones at the end
There was a lot of well actually except for that shooting one there was like three funny ones at the end
What the fuck dev well, sometimes you gotta talk about the news no
Sometimes the news is fucked. It's just how it is. How about no
That's just how it is dude. It's just how it is
I dmed you on discord. So fucks
Read the read the articles about layoffs in the economy. Uh, we'll do someday blonde but not today
I've worked at the few places that were doing fine and the doors were chained up one day. Yeah, I know what you mean. Yeah
Every thought on twitch is not hot. I haven't seen a hot one
That's not true. The thoughts are hot
It's just the fact that you know, they're a thought that's making me not sparkles. You haven't turned into it
You haven't turned into uh by a lesbian yet
Tunic tonight, uh 30 chance of tunic tonight 30 chance less than 50. It'll be it'll be a
Not half bad but no more femoid on the street what if I told you I have a penis
Uh, don't play into it
You fuck up
And then I can also say that I am not a transoid because I don't actually have a penis so I can be both
at the same time
Oh, did you butters that must have been a surrealistic experience
I have low standards. I know I just told uh, I don't know what your price is for the n-word. No
No
What the fuck dev
Hey, you're gonna say no to that much money. Yes, you need it right now
I don't need it that bad. We need money right now. I don't need it that bad
Okay, guys listen
Oh five dollars made in columbia, thank you
Companies are questioning green tech dei and bloat as peter ziham predicted when the boomers retiring capital cost was in 3x and growing
Here's the thing. Um
Green tech has its place
dei and bloat really doesn't but there is definitely a place for um for green tech as thing like
If you can have green tech that doesn't have the other downsides of green tech because there's some pretty bad downsides
To some of it then you probably should adopt it
Make an ai dev and have it say dude. Yeah, I just like make an ai voice have it say all the slurs
I want to say it's like it wasn't me
What's wrong with that if you make the ai say it it's still you
No, yeah, okay. What if I make an ai new anyways and have that say the n-word then I will still murder you in your sleep
It'll still happen
Okay, listen, we're gonna get out of here. It's 3 p.m. I have a list of things got to get done today
I'm gonna go work on them
Um, considering it took us almost three hours to do this. Yeah, I might
I might do
a late night
Gaming stream, but the chance of that happening is about 30 percent. But again real dev fans watch the gaming streams
Let's go raid kibbs
Okay, you can't say that and then probably not stream tonight. You know that right a second. Let's go raid kibbs
You should do a sip every day
That is like a long-term goal. If I once I have the studio set up I want to do like a daily broadcast
Yeah, but that wouldn't work out for our daily lives right now. Not right now. Not right now
Not right now, but I do want to do like a daily broadcast at some point. I like the idea of it, you know
far
anyway
Um, oh wait, are you even fucking open like i'm not even open right now
Hold on. Let me check the raid. I raid I set the rate to kibbs. Nobody else is on
And kids are my default. Yeah, not even on
Yeah, we're gonna go raid kibbs, all right listen
Everyone pile in with the breed kibbzes and the coffee cups get them ready
Everyone get ready
Make arguments chat a full time, please. Dear fuck no
Okay
I can't read lonerbox. He doesn't have uh, open raids I think
But anyway
Let's bye everyone we're leaving we'll see you later. Okay. Good night. Night. All right. Good afternoon
You
