You know what's kind of strange to me? The insistence that everything is
simultaneously political and not political. You've heard the phrase
everything is political before, surely, and you've probably heard some
progressive justification as to why that's the case.
But then you've probably also heard this too. When the official Star Wars
Twitter account posted a cover for their Pride Month comic
centered on two proud strong queer women, someone replied with
don't make Star Wars political. The response from the official account was
queer characters existing isn't political. But wait, isn't everything
political? Of course, the resulting backlash to the
official Star Wars Twitter account shining a spotlight on this guy is
pretty much exactly as expected. You know, for a political faction that
talks about responsible platforming, use of social media, punching down,
a faction that I'm sure the Disney intern running a Star Wars account is a
part of, you'd think they'd know not to sic their
huge following on a smaller private account.
Though, I'm sure they actually knew exactly what would happen. Look at the
fucking rage of all these replies. Here's another one calling all members
of the Resistance, Billy Lourd and Kelly Marie Trainor, taking the stage now.
Respectfully, nobody likes either of them. Respectfully, L plus ratio.
Jeez, maybe the Disney intern is actually Kefls. And the exact same thing happened
to this poor bastard too. Get his ass, get his ass, get their ass. I
guess this one's inclusive. Get his ass, get his ass, yeah let's go, get their ass.
It's often said by leftoids screeching about rightoid YouTubers or even
apolitical YouTubers that people in positions of influence online have a
moral obligation to tilt their audiences towards good behavior
and that the harassment that pours out of right-wing communities reflects on
both the politics and the individuals within those communities.
If we accept this logic, what does it say about progressive communities that
individuals within them have no problem being grotesquely racist towards
black people who aren't progressive? The most important type of reply out of
this officially sanctioned Star Wars dog pile though were the people who were
claiming that Star Wars is actually political. And yes, the leftoid answer is
the everything is political position. Stemming out of Antonio Gramsci's theory
of cultural hegemony describing how before the working class can revolt
against the bourgeoisie first they must be indoctrinated within an alternate
culture that is pro-revolution. The crafting of that culture requires the
subversion of mass media to deconstruct morality and heroism for the masses and
within that resulting cultural vacuum push pro-socialist propaganda. If you
want to know why so many new properties are garbage that promote communism and
progressivism while so many reinventions of old properties are simply lessons in
how to subvert them, this is why. Star Wars is political because when
George Lucas chose to base his stories on the specific hero myths and morals
that he did to a reader of Gramsci that choice was not a neutral one. It did
not exist within a political or cultural vacuum. Rather it led new generations of
people to idolize specific types of heroes and as those children became
politically active adults the particular cultural morality they grew up with
informed their politics. One of the themes of the movie is high technology
and romance they're the romantic human one of the human qualities is that
romantic quality that quality of honor and justice and everything that we
equate as human in the way we focus and conduct our lives. In this particular
case I was looking for a symbol of sort of a a more humane honorable way of
being a warrior as opposed to you know the mechanical heartless machine-like
approach to killing in battle and war. One of the main influences here was the
samurai ethic and King Arthur and the King Arthur ethic where you have a very
strong set of ethical rules that you live by. The lightsaber became the symbol
of that humane way of conducting your life. In this way Star Wars is political
because the progs view it as a vehicle to influence political change in the next
generation. It's not valued by them for the artistry of the thing but only for
its real world impact. Probably the greatest ball work against the
gramtiate cultural subversives is literally voting with your wallet. A
piece of media that lacks a soul and only exists to enact political or
cultural change is generally not of high quality. This is the source of the get
woke go broke phenomenon but it was identified by George Lucas as an issue
long before that phrase became popular. When Star Wars came out everybody said
oh it's a silly movie it's just a bunch of space battles and stuff it's not real
there's nothing behind it and I said well there is stuff behind it it's not
just a space battle there's more to it than that it's much much more
complicated than that. So the spaceships and the that part of the science
fantasy whatever got terribly abused and of course everybody went out and made
spaceship movies and they were all horrible and they all lost tons of money
and you say well you know there's more to it than that you can't just go out
and do spaceships. Notice just how many properties have gone through the process
of becoming subversive vehicles for socialist politics. The stripping of
initial meaning, co-opting of the aesthetic, and replacing the soul of the
thing with a new political message. But their politics are so broken that even
in their new offerings the truth still shines through. Here's an example one of
the best moments in the Obi-Wan show arguably was Frack. It's pretty clear
that Frack's a good guy. He likes the stability that the empire's institutions
bring to his life. His banter with the stormtroopers serves to humanize them
both. Despite the empire being that totalitarian nightmare state your average
person is just doing their job in a system they can't control and they're
just trying to get on with their lives and do what they think is the right
thing. To them the empire represents security, order, law, trade, jobs, and a
bulwark against the religious zealotry of the Jedi. This dude on twitter almost
gets it. This moment was the most real and scary Star Wars has been in a long
time. Yeah that's the point. Obi-Wan is a wanted man undercover. The symbol of
the empire should serve to frighten him. But the next part of the scene where
Frack and the stormtroopers are humanized shows us the point. In a
different world these guys would be friends but then they blow it. That's
like having a let's go Brandon or a don't tread on me bumper sticker on a
pickup. I mean just surface level here despite some of the problems with
libertarianism the libertarian creed of don't tread on me is still the exact
opposite of the empire's ethics. But there's a bigger issue here. These people
are explicitly ignoring the point of the scene which is humanizing Obi-Wan's
enemies before he has to kill them because they don't accept the idea that
their own political opponents should ever be humanized. I know we're digging
back into history now but remember when Ben Shapiro hosted mean review on
Pewdiepie's channel or Donald Trump went on Jimmy Kimmel's show? Progressives were
screaming bloody murder that these right-leaning people were being
humanized as if they were not already humans. The Prague's rejection of the
humanizing moment of this scene shows that they don't actually understand the
larger Star Wars conflict. In their evaluation there's no moral content here
only the symbols of good and evil. If Frack was flying a Pride Month variant
of the empire flag off the truck and the narrator called the rebellion
transphobes or something while Darth Vader was going around choking out
right-wingers these idiots would do a complete 180 on this shit. They don't
want a society free of totalitarianism they want their ideology to be the one
enforced by the totalitarian government. In fact okay Star Wars is political I'm
on board. What kind of political is Star Wars? That question is best answered by
going back to the source. This line in A New Hope always bothered me.
It just isn't fair. Oh Biggs is right I'm never gonna get out of here.
So most people know that the Biggs that Luke is referencing is this guy who gets
blown up during the attack on the Death Star. In the original release of the
movie he appears to be just another robo-pilot but in the 1997 special
edition George Lucas added back in a deleted scene showing Luke and Biggs
reuniting before the battle where they appear to be old friends who haven't
seen each other in a while. Hey Luke! Biggs! I don't believe it! How are you? How'd you get here?
Hey you coming up? I'll be right up there with you and have I got stories to tell you?
You sure you can handle this shit? Sir Luke is the best pushed pilot in the
outer rim territories. You'll do all right. Thank you sir I'll try. I gotta get aboard.
We'll hear all your stories when we get back all right? Hey Biggs I told you I'd make it someday.
It'll be like old times Luke. They'll never stop us. Now the 1997 release was the one that I saw
when I was a kid but even back then it felt like there was some missing setup for Biggs.
And there was. There's a long deleted scene that takes place at Tosche station where Luke and his
group of friends including Biggs use binoculars to watch the fight between the star destroyer and the
counselor ship at the beginning of the movie. Afterward Luke has a pretty interesting conversation
with Biggs about the trajectory of both of their lives. I may never come back and I just want
someone to know. What are you talking about? I made some friends at the academy when our
figure leaves for one of the central systems we're going to jump ship and join the alliance.
The rebellion? Quiet down. You got a month bigger than a meteor. I'm quiet I'm quiet.
My friend has a friend on Bestine who might help us make contact. You're crazy you could wander
around forever trying to find them. I know it's a long shot but if I don't find them I'll do what
I can on my own. It's what we always talked about Luke. I'm not going to wait around for the empire
to draft me into service. The rebellion is spreading and I want to be on the side I believe in.
Yeah meanwhile I'm stuck here. You'll get your chance to get off this rock.
You're going to the academy next term aren't you? Not likely I had to cancel my application.
What for? My uncle needs me. Oh no I'm serious the sand people have been getting really crazy
they've even raided the outskirts of Anchorhead. Come on Luke your uncle could hold off a whole
colony of sand people with one blaster. I know but we've got almost enough
evaporators to make the place pay off. I have to stay one more season I can't leave him now.
What good's all your uncle's work if the empire takes it over? You know they've already started
to nationalize commerce in the central systems. It won't be long before your uncle's just a tenant
slaving for the greater glory of the empire. No that's not going to happen here you said
yourself the empire won't even mess with this old rock. Things can change.
There's two notable things about this scene. First is that to understand Biggs's role in
Luke's life you kind of need this scene. Luke's later frustration at Biggs's words now makes a
lot more sense. Luke's reunion with him at the end of the movie actually carries some weight and
Biggs's death actually means something. I'm guessing these scenes were left out because
George Lucas wanted to tightly follow R2D2 and C-3PO until they joined up with Luke and Obi-Wan.
The first cut of the film had the inner cuts of Luke on the planet with what was going on in space
but it just wasn't the movie I wanted to make. I mean I wanted to make it about this kind of odd
couple and tell the story from their point of view. But man working them in somehow would have
improved the movie quite a bit. But secondly there's also the political component of Biggs's
speech. Biggs states that the empire has been nationalizing businesses and that the former
owners of those businesses become tenants of the empire. His dialogue crafts a link between the
idea of nationalization and the idea of landlordship where being a renter is the
same as being a government employee and the thing that links them is the lack of personal ownership.
Biggs also makes it sound like it's at least somewhat common for young people to join the
imperial academy to get training and then defect the rebellion when they get a chance. Now the
empire is obviously supposed to be a stand-in for Nazi Germany. The historical stormtroopers from
which the imperial stormtroopers get their name were the Brownshirts, the Nazi party's
paramilitary wing in its early years. Demographically the Brownshirts were overwhelmingly
young working-class communist-aligned men who believed that national socialism could be an
alternate path forward for the socialist movement instead of the communist international. Nowadays
the idea that fascism is capitalism in decay is one that the left clings to despite it being
resoundingly false. In a more general sense there was a broad understanding by people of this era
that socialism and fascism were feuding brothers and that each of their reactions to the other
made society worse. While it was liberal democracy standing apart from the two from a totally
different political school of thought that truly had an alternative more constructive path forward.
And this can also be seen in the political science writing of this era as well. Before the soviets
had begun infiltrating western universities with their active measures program you had papers like
for example a premature fascist Sorel and Mussolini by James Meisel which documents the
clear ideological progression from the socialism of French syndicalist George Sorel to the neo-socialism
and later fascism of Benito Mussolini. In fact this false idea of Lenin's that fascism is
capitalism in decay is disproven on the very first page of the book Hitler's beneficiaries by German
historian Goetz-Ali. Ali describes the efforts of Stuart Elliot Eisenstadt an American who has spent
much of his life negotiating reparations for victims of the Holocaust. Part of Eisenstadt's
work involved securing compensation from private German businesses that profited off of Nazi slave
labor. Eisenstadt's highly public negotiations with these companies widely publicized in the
media in the 1990s and early 2000s led to a distorted view of just how complicit German
captains of industry were in the horrors of the Nazi regime. The Nazis had no problem pointing
their guns and making demands of private owners of business if it meant getting what they want.
A fact that first came out during the Nuremberg trials. And while German industry is responsible
for what it did it's also important to recognize how little of a choice the individuals involved
had. But that nuance doesn't work very well as a headline and even back then headlines are all
that people read. So the idea that fascism is capitalism in decay was ultimately spread by
neo-marxist academics following the cultural theory of Antonio Gramsci who successfully
dismantled our previous cultural understanding of the links between socialism and fascism as a part
of a multi-decade project of Soviet subversion. They then replaced that previous knowledge with
a new theory that corporations are themselves fascist relying on the modern definition of the
word corporation and ignoring the very different definition from the 1920s when Mussolini was
actually writing about the corporative state as part of fascist political theory and then backed
up their new construction by misinterpreting Eisenstadt's good work. With this knowledge
let's return to the cut scenes from Star Wars A New Hope. Biggs's assertion that nationalization
leads to everyone becoming tenants where nobody truly owns their own means of production in an
exclusive individualistic manner and the collective dictates to the individual what is the greater
good for the people. That principle is the handshake between socialism and fascism. Meanwhile
in the wild west environment that is Tatooine with all of its many problems there's still ultimately
more freedom there than within the empire. The small landowners and businessmen who exclusively
own property they're less well off materially than the citizens of the core worlds but they're
free at least for now and they want to keep it that way. The rebellion is a liberal individualistic
uprising against a socialist system in decay and George Lucas wrote that story within the context
of a larger cultural backdrop that still understood the natural progression between a socialist
revolution and a fascist state. Now maybe you might say that deleted scenes don't count they
don't really represent what Star Wars is all about because they were you know deleted and so
not only their plot points but their underlying morals should be disregarded. The problem is
Biggs's speech slots in quite well to what we know about the empire's economy as told on screen in
The Empire Strikes Back. So you see since we're a small operation we don't fall into the jurisdiction
of the empire. So you're part of the mining guild then? No not actually. Our operation is small
enough not to be noticed. Fascist political theory describes what they called a corporative
economy where guild-like bodies called corporations would bring together the managers
of government-led business and representatives from nationalized unions to determine how best to
implement state policy. In this scene Lando is expressing gratitude that his business is small
enough not to be nationalized in the way that Biggs described under the jurisdiction of the
mining guild and later in the movie the empire does actually roll in and take over the business
because Han and Leia's presence shines a spotlight on them just like how in reality
fascists would march into businesses point guns at them and tell them that they work for the state
now. Now then because Star Wars is political we can go back to the original movies where the broad
cultural understanding of the true nature of socialism is still intact and see that understanding
shine through in the narrative. Afterward we can go to the newest movies witness the end result of
progressive subversion and notice how all the ethics all the morals all the heroism has been
entirely flipped on its head and how that roughly corresponds with the loss of broader political
knowledge regarding socialism's true nature. But if a progressive were to hear that analysis about
how Star Wars is political I would be labeled a racist bigoted boot-licking chud who is too
stupid to understand politics and I'm taking Star Wars too seriously and don't ask questions
just consume product and then get excited for next products yeah that
