Hey guys, y'all know your address is online right?
Huh?
I just looked it up.
And why did you do that?
Haha yeah, so if you're in the US there are these sites where you can literally just find
people's information.
We aren't even in the US.
Haha yeah, we are now.
So you popped up to tell us our address is out there and that there is nothing we can
do about it.
You can do something about it.
It just comes at a price.
A fairly reasonable one actually.
It's called Incognite, the sponsor of today's video.
Has this ever happened to you?
It's Friday night, you're sitting at home alone as always.
It's been three weeks since you've had contact with another human being.
A miracle happens.
Your phone is ringing.
It's a random number.
This is the most excitement you've had in months.
You pick it up.
Hello?
John speaking, you say.
A voice answers back.
Hello, we've been trying to reach you about your car's extended warranty.
It's a remote call again.
How do they keep getting my number I hear you ask?
Companies known as data brokers collect your information and sell it onto whoever will
pay.
There are hundreds of data brokers making it difficult to fight them on your own.
Incognite will automatically contact them on your behalf to issue takedown requests
for your data so you don't have to.
If we subscribe to Incognite, will you leave?
Yeah.
Okay, great.
Um, Harley, can you go get my wallet?
The first 100 people to use Code Opinion or click the link in the description box below
will get 60% off Incognite and they have a 30 day money back guarantee as well.
So be sure to check it out.
Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time.
And last video I covered the bombastic yet short lived YouTube collective of Team 10.
If you want more on that video, you can go and watch it.
But ultimately their undoing was the lack of permanence they could find within their
members, which was exacerbated by an immature leader who drove people away, sacrificed his
business credibility, and served as a magnet for all sorts of drama.
Team 10 is an example of something that seemed bound to fall apart at any moment, he managed
to leave an imprint on the YouTube landscape all the same, a pair of handprints in the
cement before it set.
However, Jake Paul's Omnium Gather'em isn't the only YouTube ensemble over the
years to disband, as a matter of fact many more successful and long-running groups have
found themselves at the end of their lifespan for a plethora of reasons.
I'd say one of the most common reasons being that in many circumstances, the average age
of many creators on YouTube skews towards a much younger mean, and if you're under
the age of 25 or even 30, you're going to go through significant changes as an individual
who wants to find their purpose in life.
As a creator, you can evolve on your own terms, but when you have a designated role in a group,
the expectations imposed on you can be suffocating, and may well test your commitment to people
who do not necessarily share the same dreams that you do.
Being part of a group can often really limit your development as an individual, and may
also not give you the sort of compensation that you feel is appropriate for someone of
your ability, you want to go out into the world and fulfil your potential before you
settle down.
When people grow, they can often grow apart, however not every group feels an expectation
for eternal development, especially outside of YouTube.
This is Buzzfeed, an internet media website founded in 2016 with the goal of arbitrating
and disseminating online news through the use of algorithms.
Over the years, they expanded their project and began to hire personnel to actually publish
stories and add a face to their public image.
Buzzfeed has received a lot of criticism in its time, and it's become a bit of a sacrificial
lamb for the lampooning of millennial-based news, and it's purported vapidity.
Nonetheless, it also became extremely successful, and blossomed as social media platforms took
a grasp on internet climate, particularly on YouTube where algorithmic-based marketing
was king, and multiple channels were set up under the Buzzfeed name to reach as many
target demographics as possible.
In spite of Buzzfeed's success, YouTube also brought many new challenges regarding
creator-audience relationships, many of which felt like they had to be rooted in some form
of personality, and although Buzzfeed's topics drew viewers and platformed individuals,
their attention likely struggled while they tried to find a way to bridge the gap between
themselves and the average YouTube viewer.
Amongst this quandary, four unlikely heroes appeared, by the names of Eugene Lee Yang,
Ned Fulmer, Keith Habersberger, and Zach Kornfeld.
They were all Buzzfeed employees at the time who, as the only male employees prepared to,
decided to create a video where they tried ladies' underwear.
The result was somewhat unsurprising, but nonetheless interesting for people who wished
to observe such a scenario, and men trying it.
Buzzfeed had previously been experimenting with content that featured individuals trying
a new experience, but this one was the first one to really stick the landing.
There's no way for me to wear these without something popping out.
Maybe if I tuck it up.
This is why girls are always picking it out of things.
As individuals, the Try Guys weren't your typical YouTube assemblage.
They didn't start a channel together, nor were they previously overwhelmingly successful
online.
In fact, they didn't even intend to create content as a dedicated group when they started,
with their only other prominent credits being other content on their employer's channel.
But their video was well received, and in the spirit of Buzzfeed, they decided to get
to work to creating more content in that vein.
It wasn't until a few videos in which they actually adopted the Try Guys branding that
they are known for today, alongside a mantra that they were prepared to try anything and
everything.
I think with everything that we do, we try to show that there is no one right way to
be a man, to be a person, and yeah, you can still be tiny and delicate and cute and still
be awesome.
Given the unlikely story behind their formation, it seemed even more unlikely that this quartet
would be able to survive each other, let alone the ever-changing environment around them.
And yet over the years, they not only survived, but moved from strength to strength, growing
a significant fanbase, winning multiple awards, publishing a best-selling book, acquiring
their own YouTube Red series, and launching countless spin-offs.
With the audience established, and their image untarnished, the only significant breakup
occurred being their collective departure from Buzzfeed to launch their own independent
production company, Second Try LLC, in which they have hosted their main, and a variety
of other series out of.
The decision to go solo together also lended a lot more creative freedom for each of the
members to express themselves, the most notable example of this being Eugene's coming out
video that is amongst one of their channel's most viewed.
The Try Guys' apparent success as creators was rooted in that simple idea that they had
founded themselves on, it didn't seem particularly revolutionary, but is often underscored by
the timeless social message of finding out what it was like to walk in someone else's
shoes.
Their successes, colleagues, and friends, though, came down to something different.
As people who didn't expect at every attempt, as people who just wanted to try something,
there was this common bond that drew them together, using their YouTube channel to strengthen
their own friendships.
Although certain members may possess different levels of influence outside the group, when
the cameras rolled, you never received the impression that one member's ego outshone
the others.
However, come 2022, something would happen that would place the message promoted in their
interviews and their channel under question, and ultimately cause irreversible change to
one of the most seemingly consistent and omnipresent YouTube collectives in recent memory.
Maybe there were some things that shouldn't be tried.
Ned Fomer is no longer working with the Try Guys.
So friends, Romans, and countrymen, lend me your ears as we delve into the trial of the
Try Guys.
As I informed you in my introduction, the Try Guys were comprised of four members upon
its founding, and although none of them stood out from each other, the differences in their
personalities were essential to the sore play that occurred on camera.
You add Zack, who is the energetic, slightly mischievous one, Keith who has a warmer, more
traditional child about him, and also enjoys some good fried chicken, and then you have
Eugene, who is more biting and sardonic but still possesses a unique amount of depth,
and then you have Ned, the straight shooting family man.
A chemistry graduate from Yale, Ned Fomer wouldn't strike you as your stereotypical
media savvy individual, but his extracurricular activity would soon give you an impression
of what he was capable of.
A decorated comedy writer and performer in his circuit, Fomer already had his fair share
of experience under his belt when he was picked up by Buzzfeed as an intern, and he quickly
used that expertise to ascend the ranks to managing producer in the space of a year,
alongside founding Buzzfeed's video department with his future fellow Try Guys co-hosts.
However, there was more to Ned than just his career in comedy, it seems that his degree
was not the only thing that he had chemistry with. Yes, even in early videos, there appeared
to be a ring on his finger, signifying that Ned Fomer was a married man.
His wife was a person by the birth name Aria Wundervord, she had met him at a mutual friend's
birthday partly shortly after they had moved to Chicago, and they soon fell head over heels
for each other. In 2012, at the age of 25, Ned officially tied the knot with Ariel, and
settled down to the married couple's life. Unlike a lot of online personalities, Ned
made no secret of his marriage, and would readily talk about his relationship on the
Try Guys channel, garnering the reputation of the family man, who would readily bend
over backwards for his lifelong companion.
At first, the Try Guys content really only involved the four of them, with the establish
of their own production company and the progression of their personal lives of other members,
Aria and her partners found themselves more entangled in the crew's capers, especially
with the launch of the Tri-Wife series, which features herself, Zach's girlfriend Maggie,
and Keith's wife Becky.
However, the Tri-Wife wasn't the only person in Ned's life, and since being where
they had welcomed two children into the world. Once again, Ned was extremely proud to proclaim
this, with multiple posts on social media and uploads onto YouTube, even launching a
podcast with Ariel called Baby Steps, which discussed their experience with pregnancy
and parenting. Ned often presented himself as a voice of authority on successful relationships
and how to navigate them, hence the podcast. This was particularly important in the Try
Guys post Buzzfeed era, which sought to find a sense of depth with each of the members.
That was Ned's depth, but he always put his family first, and possessed very few reservations
about it. His relationship with the Try Guys was also defined by this, and references to
his family and content was frequently and seemingly central to the tasks at hand. I
think what made Ned unique in a way was the sense of completion with his personal life,
it provided a metaphorical anchor to what the Try Guys were orchestrating. Every Try
Guy had something to try, but Ned had something to keep, and he appeared committed to doing
so.
In 2022, the Try Guys series had been in operation for nearly 8 years, and everything seemed
pretty settled. Sure, they weren't pulling the significant viewing numbers they did at
the peak of their popularity, but they seemed to understand that and already sought to diversify
their revenue streams, with everything from a clothing line to a chicken sauce. The Try
Guys appeared to have navigated the challenge of outgrowing each other by unshackling themselves
from any constraints, and having an equal power share with their new company. That was
a gesture of trust that could not be ignored. Outside of the new relationship they sought
to craft their audience, there was also a new business side to their operations, and
this incurred a new sense of responsibility on each of the members, who all hailed the
title of Executive Producer at Second Try LLC. They all own shared and recruited a full
team of employees, something that is never a straightforward process. Nevertheless, in
interviews, what claimed matter most of them was that they were in control of their careers
and their images, something that they were never able to completely fulfil while working
under Buzzfeed. They were the masters of their own destiny.
The thrill of being able to operate your own company and not having to answer to anyone
is pretty unmatched. It allowed each Try Guy to pursue their own personal and group interests
without the constraints of a parent company, or even a reliance on a singular platform.
At the same time, there are a lot of external pressures that being your own boss may impose
on you. The Try Guys had to navigate them, and required the input of all members to do
so, but for years running their own business and everything appeared to be going swimmingly,
until some keen observers began to spot the absence of one of their members.
Hands up, bakers! Nailed it! I'm f***ing crushed here, guys.
Where could our resident family man be?
The Try Guys have a pretty consistent upload schedule and motif in general, so devoted
fans were normally quite quick to pick up if something was different or something has
changed, particularly if a member is absent from the videos. When Eugene took a break
in 2021 from the Try Guys, people were fast to pick up on it, and explained it to other
confused viewers. So in September 2022, when a video was published onto the Try Guys channel
without founding member Ned Former, although nobody raised an alarm, people definitely
took notice, particularly with what some knew already.
It all started on the first of the month, when a fan ran into Ned at New York City,
while he was with a producer at a concert. They posted a pitch with Ned, but not the
producer, and noted that they seemed annoyed that they were recognised. It was soon revealed
there were other people from the production team at the concert, and therefore nothing
seemed particularly out of the ordinary. However, less than a couple days after, other posts
appeared to indicate that something untoward was occurring, with images shared that showed
a person appearing to be Ned making out with this aforementioned producer. The account
sharing many of these details later claimed in the messages that they were the producers
then fiance. Certainly a curious piece of information to share, and it seemed a bit
bizarre that they would take to Reddit over it, but fans compared and included that physical
profiles matched up with the individuals suggested. With that noted, there was probably more concern
than usual when Ned ceased to appear on the Try Guys videos in their podcast. This was
clearly something unforeseen at least, although a variety of explanations were still on the
table, and it was possible that the Try Guys were merely taking precautionary measures
while investigating the claims more thoroughly. Although no public statements were released
in this time, the Try Guys schedule was visibly disrupted, with apologies being posted onto
their Patreon, with Zant letting slip that he wasn't doing so great in a podcast episode.
Zant- When I tell you that, I've had a rough week, and this has been such a salve.
This was all circumstantial and hearsay though, with a plethora of potential explanations
for why this was the case. Over time though, further information began to indicate that
this was something being taken a little more permanently. On the Try Guys channel, Ned
was being edited out of the intro featuring new merch, and some eagle eyed viewers began
to pick up on slight discrepancies in videos, including points where it appeared to have
been edited out of recorded footage. This didn't seem like the sort of decisions where
a person was merely on an optional hiatus, this appeared to be a preparation for something
much, much worse. And on September the 26th, the rumours that Ned Fulmer had boldly tried
an affair with a co-worker while in a committed marriage began to make the rounds outside
of dedicated fan circles, with more people weighing in online and analysing the content
available. In addition, a former Second Try employee who had recently left posted a TikTok
that appeared to confirm the rumours.
Zant- You ruined everything, you stupid bitch.
At this stage, nothing had been certified by the party, but everything appeared to be
adding up regarding his sudden airbrushing from the Try Guys content, and apprehending
that the news was about to break, on the 27th of September, the Try Guys released a short
statement on social media informing all that an internal review had been conducted and
that Ned had been removed from the Try Guys roster, as they did not see a way forward
with him. The same day, Ned released a statement onto Twitter and Instagram which confirmed
the rumours regarding the reason behind this. He states that family should have been his
priority but he ultimately lost focus and partook in a consensual, I'd hope so, workplace
relationship. He apologises for any pain that he has caused to everyone affected, especially
Ariel who he pledges commitment following the scandal. This statement in particular
was not well received, and many people proceeded to dunk on him, even starting a meme trend
where Ned's selectively used letters from his statement to create a new comment or message,
so at least something creative came out of it. It is a bit of a strange statement, every
word seems rather contrived, and although I'm sure people are pleased that it was
a consensual relationship, I don't think they were assuming otherwise, so Ned's phrasing
seems strangely defensive in light of that.
Ariel also released a statement onto Instagram thanking those who had reached out to her
but requesting privacy for the sake of her children, emphasizing that nothing was more
important to the couple. In the space of a day, all directly involved parties with a
public presence had released their own statements, amplifying the story significantly, and on
hand to further share the story was the ever reliable media.
If you're on any form of social media, then by now you must have heard of the huge scandal
involving Ned from the Try Guys.
Over the following week, a series of articles were published which reflected on the sudden
revelations and people's responses to it, including ironically from Buzzfeed themselves.
Some former co-workers appeared to react with indifference, implying that this news was
not exactly surprising to them. As expected, analysis of past content began as well, including
an interview where Ned states that if he was ever cheated on he'd probably moved to Canada,
and that it was the ultimate deal breaker in a relationship, alongside other claims
he had made advances elsewhere. Questions were asked about how long this had gone on
for, whether there were more people, with the sorts of reactions coming from any sources,
this sort of hypothesis was rife amongst internet communities. It was clearly blowing
up faster than anticipated, and questions were beginning to circulate regarding the
Try Guys' own knowledge of the matter, and their potential complicity in a cover-up
of this workplace affair. Such behaviour would be counter-intuitive to what their brand exemplified
and could seriously affect their operations. By this point, the Try Guys had to disclose
too much information outside of their statements, and people didn't necessarily have a right
to speculate, but that's what people on the internet do, and without further information
such theories were going to continue to churn away.
Ned Fomer is no longer working with the Try Guys. By now, we're assuming you've seen
the Reddit threads, and TikToks, and tweets, and news articles.
They needed to clear the air.
On October 3rd, the Try Guys released a video entitled What Happened? As one can likely
predict, this is a video which attempts to clarify information that have been speculated
about on a variety of media platforms by providing a linear chronological timeline of their handling
of the suspension of their former colleague. The video has them sitting on a couch, directly
facing the camera, and the information is delivered in a uniform manner, with each of
the Try Guys taking turns to explain parts of the process, likely to emphasise that this
was a collective decision.
Throughout this video, there will be things that we want to say or go into further, but
as I'm sure you're aware, there are some legal issues we have to consider as we go
through everything.
They state that they had been alerted to this information on Labor Day by fans who had seen
Ned Forman engaging romantically with an employee of the company, and had confirmed
these allegations and conceded that it had been going on for a while, which the Try Guys
found rather surprising, affirming that they had no idea about this effect.
All of that information was just as shocking to us as all of this has been for you this
week.
After this, they conducted a thorough three week internal review which would seek to ascertain
all the facts of the situation, once again with Eugene stressing how serious the situation
was to the rest of his team, and rebusting rumours that they may have turned a blind
eye at any point.
This is something we took very seriously.
We refused to sweep things under the rug.
That is not who we are, and it's not what we stand for.
They state their process was not just internal, as they reassessed the media they released
in that time, confirming rumours that they had been digitally removing Ned from their
content, and omitting sections which involved him altogether, as well as stating there were
certain videos that were too tainted for release.
There are several videos that we've deemed as fully unreleasable, you will never see
them, and that is due to his involvement, and that's a decision that has cost us lots
of money.
We will not be able to recoup that money, but it's a decision we stand by proudly.
The review drew to a close with the conclusion that the only reasonable solution in this
case was to ultimately remove Ned from the company as a manager and employee, something
which the three remaining members did on September 16th, just over ten days before the story
broke publicly.
They arrived reasoning for not releasing a public statement immediately, wishing to protect
the privacy of people involved, and avoiding causing additional stress onto affected parties.
So on Friday, September 16th, the three of us signed written consent of the members of
Second Try LLC approving the removal of Ned as a manager and employee, and while we consider
this a company matter, there's just also a family at the centre of this.
They then talk about the actual personal toll it's taken on them, and those around them,
requesting respect and space for any people caught up in the blast radius of such a spectacle.
Look, I get that when stuff like this happens, there's going to be speculation and gossip,
and we ask that you respect the privacy of the family members and employees who may be
caught up in this.
There are a few more notes that I might save for later, but the general message is that
they had no knowledge of this happening prior to fans communicating this with them, and
that once they were informed, they acted as swiftly and efficiently as they could, and
took an action that was obviously difficult for them, but they felt was necessary.
They stand by their response, and intend to move forward after they have provided a more
comprehensive statement.
This finishes the video, which appears to be at least a response to end certain roots
of speculation.
All the Try Guys appear rather worn down in the release, with many noting Eugene's apparent
anger, Keith's disgust, and Zack's upset, but all share this tone of clear annoyance
that the situation had reached this stage.
The response to this video was generally supportive from many viewers, particularly those who
were fans of the Try Guys, felt that this was a respectful and in-depth response that
dispelled the rumours.
Although they don't necessarily provide any evidence for this video, the timeline
made sense given the information available at that time.
Anyone involved who did speak on the matter appeared to corroborate what the Try Guys
said.
Nonetheless, there were a couple interesting pieces of information that cropped up shortly
after the video went live.
When you knew Ned was cheating in May...
The first was a TikTok posted on October 5th which allegedly showed Ned in a Burbank restaurant
with his producer in May, confirming what the Try Guys said about this relationship
occurring for a while.
This also substantiates earlier images that had been taken around May time which featured
the two together.
The person who posted this claimed to have messaged Ariel about this interaction back
then, but hadn't received a response.
The producer's fiancé responds to this TikTok stating that he wished he'd been
told, but given that TikTok unlikely didn't know the identity of the person Ned was seated
with, it wouldn't have been possible.
Not to soon after, a former Buzzfeed employee stated that they had personally had a large
falling out with Ned a few years prior, and stated that people at the workplace would
have a running joke that there were different Neds for different days, and he was notoriously
duplicitous, though he was apparently shocked by the brazenness of his actions of recent,
and implies that he expected more discretion from a hyper-competitive Yale graduate.
Although none of this information appeared to contradict what the Try Guys had shared
in their video, it did provide new angles to Ned and the history he held with his past
companies.
What we hope is that within this, there's also the opportunity for positive growth and
better videos ahead, but it's going to be hard.
This whole thing is going to be really fucking hard.
Although their video did set the record straight and away, their rather serious tone, whether
caused by fatigue or desire to show solidarity with affected parties, stressed gravitas and
naturally drew the media back into the fray.
In the next few days, many articles were published retelling the story of the Try Guys, and their
present drama.
Most of these stories didn't bring many new details to the table, but more served
as an accessibility ramp for those not versed in the drama as it transpired.
Emotions and tensions still remained somewhat high, stories were still coming from many
high profile news websites, more publicity than many far more controversial individuals
have received.
There had to be some way to control the fever that appeared to grasp people, and their interest
in a situation that the Try Guys would never have wanted in the first place.
Well, they did mention in their video that they had a longer statement to release, and
a few days after, they released it.
The Try Guys were at a bit of a crossroads, there was clearly a lot of information they
wanted to share their side on, but they also wanted to move past this torrent of media
attention as soon as possible.
They could wait for a bit for the coverage to die down, but then they'd potentially
be prolonging the drama, and who was to know that it wouldn't just re-emerge as soon
as they opened their mouths?
They needed something conclusive that also didn't provide more questions than it answers.
How are they going to do that?
Well.
We're four best friends who try stuff, we have a YouTube channel together, we happen
to live particularly insane lives, especially right now, and so this podcast is a chance
for us to hang out every week, talk, catch up, and just let you know what we're thinking
about.
One of the main adventures the Try Guys had embarked on upon leaving Buzzfeed was a podcast
called The Tripod.
At first, it involved all four members sitting down and talking about whatever was on their
mind in a less contrived environment.
Over time, though, Eugene appeared less, and three others appeared to take the reins, alongside
podcast producer Miles.
With Ned's unilateral withdrawal from the Try Guys and all affiliated media, there was
going to be a readjustment required for the podcast format, which originally had him sitting
next to Keith.
However, the Try Guys also saw an opportunity to use this up people as a way to make a more
official statement.
I use official in quotation marks here, because it's probably one of the most unofficial
official statements in recent corporate history, but it did kinda make sense.
Ned- Shall we?
Eugene- Go for it, man.
Ned- Okay.
Eugene- Well, here we are, everyone.
Ned- Welcome to the Try Pod to all of our normal listeners and no new people whatsoever.
When you first look at the video length of over an hour, you wouldn't be amiss for
perhaps being a bit concerned that this may feel like overkill, however the runtime is
aesthetically justified by a more relaxed environment that doesn't necessarily possess
the tension their previous video statement did.
As fans Eugene, Keith and Zack are provided emotional support from Mars, as they recount
the incident to the process and go into more depth on their own feelings regarding it all.
Keith- We knew that this would be big to our fans and people who had watched us in the
past, but I had no idea it would be this.
Zach- The New York Times, NPR, Rolling Stone, I mean these are publications that are huge
and we never thought would be concerned with us, and now certainly some of them are, who
are these guys and why does everyone care articles, but it showed that we had a really
big effect on a lot of people.
Keith- As we're talking, my family just sent me another Rolling Stone article that came
out an hour ago.
While the recurring themes from this video is that they really did not anticipate it
blowing up in the way that it did, and although they always intended to sack him, if they'd
had the choice, they would have done it a lot more quietly to avoid the sort of volatile
public reaction that a lot of parties involved have received, something that has taken a
toll on them all.
Zach- Have you ever thought that stress does not manifest physically?
Let me tell you, my back hurts, my BM's have been wild, the stress poops have been out
of control, have not been sleeping, and part of that is because there's just been so much
to do.
They remained steadfast in the narrative regarding how much they knew, stating that being contacted
by fans was the first time they had heard about it, and they moved as quickly as possible
to form an internal review.
A majority of the credit to handling this situation is given to Zach, who is the person
said to have overseen the operation that led to the removal of Ned from Second Tryer LLC,
given that Keith was on tour.
They say the secrecy wasn't exclusive to the public, and they couldn't even disclose
details of Ned's suspension to fellow employees, although they were pretty fast to deduce exactly
what had occurred.
With mind to the fact that this information had been uncovered by fans first, they intended
to wait until speculation had passed before releasing a statement, which explains why
they hadn't released one immediately upon Ned's dismissal.
So to be clear, however this went down, we would have taken the same action.
But the fact that it was something that was caught by fans, that it was a transgression
that was enacted publicly, added a level of complication to this, where we knew there
was this stick of dynamite with an uncertain fuse.
You have to really have things in line to legally be able to say some things.
And even then, also, you're not just doing things out of fear of legal action, you're
doing things out of fear of public backlash to other parties involved.
So you're really trying, like, I don't want people who are hurt to become more hurt,
I don't want to do something wrong and get sued and further jeopardise the company and
people's jobs.
In the original video statement, they're afraid to make any character judgements towards
their former colleague.
In the podcast, they still play their cards relative close to their chest, but there are
the occasional moments where they let some emotion surface, especially when clearing
up speculation, there seems to be an air of disdain for Ned and his handling of the situation.
No, we shared what our statement was going to be, we did not have insight into what his
statement was.
I also want to say that we did not coordinate fonts, I believe that he saw ours and copied
it.
That is our opinion.
And it is an opinion that I'm not happy about.
When I saw that, I'm like, you got to choose the same font that made it look like we wrote
your...
It's my opinion that that was on purpose.
That was too optimised result for him.
That's my opinion.
Additionally, there's an interesting clip towards the end where Keith begins to talk
about the sentiment of betrayal, before Zach cuts it back to a more detached perspective
of the matter.
Keith, final one here is if this hadn't gone public, was there a world where Ned came back
and was a cast member?
No.
No.
Yeah.
And maybe speak to why.
No.
Look, what happened, it betrayed our trust.
And it was a workplace violation.
It was a workplace violation.
It would mean to all the people in our office who knew what they knew, they would know that
we were in the face of everything like not being true to who we say we are in our values.
So like, very simply, he would have been removed.
There's a sense that even if they were to speak openly about their emotions, they're
aware of the possible implications of riling up fans and viewers, some that they also speak
about, emphasizing that people mess up and don't necessarily deserve death threats,
although they do exclude Ned from this narrative.
It's just like really, really scary.
Like to get, you know, I'm sure that their DMs are full of crazy messages and just feel
it's, it can make you feel really like no one in the world likes you anymore.
And that can be hard.
I know for a fact that people have received death threats because of this.
I know that people, you know, their past has been dredged up and they, look, a bad thing
happened and we reacted accordingly and did what we had to do.
Actions have repercussions, but...
It would be a lot for the strongest person to handle.
As an episode of the podcast that seeks to find the balance between explaining the situation
without provoking it, they seem to do a fair job, and they clear up some misconceptions,
but there was one more matter they needed to discuss, which wasn't covered in their
original response video.
That being, what now?
I don't know.
I think if this didn't happen, there is a world in which the Try Guys cast, you know,
like how do I want to say this?
For the last two years, frankly, I've kind of personally gone through this mental process
of acceptance, of realising that where I want to grow and what the Try Guys is are different.
There have been a lot of speculations as to whether there would be a new Try Guy, including
from the roster of people they currently collaborated with.
Keith and Zack confirmed that this is not happening, and that the Try Guys that people
had come to know would no longer exist, and although the situation had been exhausting
and distressing, they did see an opportunity within the tragedy to move forward.
Zack in particular expresses this idea that the Try Guys had become rather rigid, and
incapable of the sort of growth that he desired from life.
These circumstances, albeit unfortunate, allowed them to reassess how they wanted to develop
as a collective and individuals.
And sometimes like a good laugh is a relief and a piece of content that you need, but
more and more we are going to allow the Try Guys to grow with us, to adapt as we adapt,
and to bring in new creative people like Kwesi, like a myriad of people you know on
this channel, and allow them that opportunity to make stuff that's deeply important to
them.
And that's that.
It seems that the controversy in the subsequent coverage had tainted the Try Guys' name
in their mind, and that was not easy for people who had built their brand around that, but
maybe it had also been holding them back, and this was something, finally, that could
propel them forward.
The Try Guys' second statement appeared to satisfy most of social media and the mainstream
media in explaining what transpired and their plans to move forward from it.
It was good to have a response that grasped the scope of the situation while not necessarily
dramatising or downplaying it.
This seemed to be a good point for all to draw the line under the situation, but little
did they know, the narrative was soon going to shift.
It would not have been this public spectacle, we probably would have tried to avoid that
for the sake of the other people involved, but it happened how it happened.
At multiple points in the podcast, Keith and Zach's threats they did not expect, nor
did they want the situation to blow up like it has, and they were very upset about the
speculation and involvement from external parties.
There was this sense that people needed to step back and remember that although this
was obviously emotionally effective for some people, there also needed to be a sense of
perspective.
Who was going to provide that perspective though?
Alright, well, let's take a look at our final Jeopardy category, Lives That Matter.
Well, it was good while it lasted though.
This is Saturday Night Live, a comedy sketch show that has become a mainstay of late night
TV.
It has gradually evolved with the media and political landscape, and has persisted to
stay relevant with an array of guest stars and performing acts.
Despite pulling sizeable view counts, younger generations haven't exactly taken to its
brand of heavy-handed and often cringe-inducing humour, especially given that their sketches
often focus on topics that older audiences buy more affinity with.
So it may have come as a surprise to viewers, when out of all the internet dramas one could
potentially satirise, SNL decided to produce a sketch about the Try Guys, featuring high-profile
Oscar-nominated actor Brendan Gleeson, who I'm sure is chuffed to be a part of this
slice of internet history.
The sketch follows a news anchor who is attempting to report on the latest current affairs, but
is continuously interrupted by their field correspondent who wishes to report on the
Try Guys drama.
The
sketch also references the Try Guys original response video, which features caricatures
of the cast members, who also avidly interrupt the news to try and make the situation about
them, which derails the news bulletin entirely with the anchor's voice of reason being
drowned out.
In spite of the laugh tracks, many viewers did not see the funny side of this, especially
when they felt SNL had missed the point of the situation, with many referring to SNL's
past on-set controversies as consistent with the message of this sketch.
The sketch's message appears at first to be lampooning the media's response, but
quickly sets their sights on the Try Guys themselves, and what they perceive to be their
over-dramatic handling of the video, whilst still ignoring the follow-up response from
Zach and Keith.
Amongst dedicated fans, theories spread that Ned's background in comedy was allowing
him to pull some strings to hit back without attaching his name to it, and many refer to
clips where Ned had spoken about having ties to SNL.
Interestingly enough, on the same podcast episode, the producer that he had cheated
on his wife with also spoke about their connections on the show.
This was obviously completely conjectural, but was also a potential explanation for why
SNL decided to dip their toes in YouTube drama at this specific time.
Many collaborates with the Try Guys mostly made the case for them on social media, while
the Try Guys themselves moreover attempted to say as little as possible, or at least
see the funny side of it.
Nevertheless, this trust was appearing to get the better of some members, as Zach in
particular ended up in a spat with Dream, something that he felt was the result of the
past few weeks, and the inability to talk about details that he felt had been misrepresented
in the media.
It also appeared to be causing tension between audience members and people who were associated
with any critical content.
It was also reported that, in a short Instagram Live section, Bowen Yang, who played Eugene
in the SNL sketch, spoke briefly about the subsequent backlash, stating that they may
have misunderstood how it all played out, but also felt that people who were not involved
with the piece were being implicated, and that this was simply not the case.
He also felt the Try Guys had incited audience members to attack them as their podcast account
had received rather significant levels of harassment.
There is no evidence of any direct incitement, but it seems like emotion still ran high within
the Try Guys and their audience, particularly in how they are responding to a decision that
would be emotional for a lot of people.
Nonetheless, poorly received by many as it was, the SNL sketch did represent a sect of
the online populace that didn't really understand why what the Try Guys did had to be such a
monumental decision, and that although acknowledging what Ned did was wrong, didn't feel that
he should be spoken about and treated in such a way, a way that to them provoked the worst
of the internet to launch a very emotionally charged response to anybody involved.
We have prided ourselves for the last eight years on being undramatic boys, and I cannot
wait to go back there.
Although the Try Guys seem to have quashed concerns regarding their knowledge of Ned
Fulmer's infidelity, or the concern that they did not act quickly or take it seriously
enough, a new narrative was being raised by the media, as to whether they had overcorrected
and caused people to feel too invested in a situation that was ultimately not their
business.
It really looked like the Try Guys couldn't win, no matter how hard they tried.
The truth was that the Try Guys were placed in a very awkward position, because on one
hand they wanted to clear up these misconceptions, but on the other they were deeply aware of
the possible legal ramifications of doing so, which allowed people who weren't necessarily
confined by those chains to speculate, and if the Try Guys attempted to respond, there
were concerns of harassment given how deeply invested many people were in this drama.
Most of the time they were bound to silence, but some felt that this was their own doing.
Towards the end of October, once again the media decided to take advantage of this silence,
this time in the form of a more academic think piece from the New York Times, a paper
that had previously published and updated an article following the Try Guys drama, something
they covered from the jump.
Their article this time, The Try Guys and the Prison of Online Fame, approaches the
matter from a more philosophical standpoint, and seeks to explain the Try Guys' response
from the perspective of fan appeasement, describing their first response as resembling a hostage
video and their supposed outrage as a performance, attempting to calm the nerds of distrustful
and anxious fans.
The author acknowledges the power dynamics, but still questions why the Try Guys spoke
about Ned like he was John Wayne Gacy, ultimately concluding that there likely was this understanding
from the Try Guys that it wasn't that big a deal, but that they acted more out of threat
of losing audience than anything else.
Beer's response to this was similarly hostile, with many audiences stating that this sought
to downplay a serious situation, but the author of the article would probably state that these
are the people that the Try Guys were seeking to appease, so there would be little movement
in that discourse.
Keith's wife responded to this article expressing annoyance at its existence, but otherwise
there wasn't a matter response, and the article did accrue a fair amount of twitter
likes, so that's some metric I suppose.
The media continued to loiter around the situation for a bit, playing with narratives that often
surrounded business, but all in all there was silence for a while.
The Try Guys did not want to be caught defending their decisions forever, and they likely knew
that they had to move on.
In the coming weeks they appeared to do this, the producer appeared to remove any credits
of her involvement with the Try Guys, and the Try Guys stopped crediting her in video
descriptions, implying a mutual agreement for her departure had also been reached.
Ned was also gradually edited and written out, where possible, the title card for their
new season of their show Without A Recipe was subtitled Everything Is Fine, a totally
normal season, and Ned who appeared in episodes that were recorded before his suspension was
now replaced with an animated elephant.
They also edited old thumbnails of Without A Recipe to exclude Ned, likely anticipating
the release of the show, and would intend to disassociate him from the series as a whole,
especially given that it was one of the series they were promoting through a more commercial
platform, Kizwii.
However, with this in mind, they had to move back towards promotional work eventually,
part of their channel required them to exist in the public sphere, and although it felt
like people's interest in the subject had waned in the weeks prior, it also didn't
feel like they'd fully moved on from it.
What steps were they going to take to ensure that?
Well the first was an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, where Habersberger, Yang, and Kornfeld
talk about their plans to move forward from the scandal of the past few months.
They talk about their upcoming projects, in particular Without A Recipe, state that they
intend to remain as the Try Guys, but also that they intend to move away from the viral
content that made them popular, and towards broadcast TV, as they feel they can work on
more ambitious projects and invest more resources, something they've probably felt constrained
by in the past.
YG- Can I plant an idea in your head, guys?
YG- Please, just consider it, I think it's a real good option.
The first few questions go by pretty likely, but then Eugene chimes in to discuss the media
coverage of the issue, talking about how they had presented the Try Guys as a happy-go-lucky
troupe to contrast that image against the drama, and pointing out that they had readily
tackled many more serious and sobering topics, ones that people who didn't merely take a
cursory glance would have known.
He aligns their handling of these subjects with their response, and states that other
workplaces with more traditional values simply aren't as upfront, and he's proud of the team's
reaction to what transpired.
They talk about upcoming projects such as Kees' Off-Broadway show with a general tone
of optimism, and that reiterates what he said in the podcast episode, this was the best
outcome for them, calling it an evolution point, and not too soon after they decide
to start that evolution.
Well, what a year it's been!
F*** yeah.
On the 17th of December, the Try Guys uploaded a video titled What Happens Next, sat down
on the couch once more, reminiscent of their first video.
This time, they appear to be in much higher spirits, though they do have some pretty significant
announcements to make.
Look, that era of the Try Guys is officially over.
It was an incredible, once in a lifetime ride, and we really, truly, honestly cannot thank
you enough for being a part of it.
But, with happy endings comes the opportunity for happier beginnings, and as the Try Guys,
we're just getting started.
Although they state that this era of the Try Guys will be coming to an end, they also set
forth their plans for the coming year, including multiple projects that will be more ambitious
and high production, also using this upload as a preview for their interactive live finale
of Without A Recipe.
We're working on sorts, all sorts of crazy stuff.
It's going to mean taking some risks, doing things that maybe aren't as algorithm-optimized,
but honestly, f*** it, f*** it.
We only give them a life.
We have the Without A Recipe live finale, we got five incredible main season episodes
this year, and tonight, we're doing something we've never done before, our little something
extra special, six cameras, live cooking, live voting, live judging, live Keith yelling,
perhaps?
Perhaps.
All in all, despite the video including aesthetic callbacks to their What Happened upload, it
doesn't feel like they're trying to necessarily emulate it, more rewrite it, and associate
it with the evolution that Zack had previously alluded to in the Hollywood Reporter interview.
Although accruing a few million views, the news cycle didn't really pick up from it,
and it appears that the storm had mostly passed finally, Ned had remained silent on all social
media platforms since his parting statement, which almost seemed like a silent seal of
validation for the crew and their plans to take the group forward into greener pastures.
What would they find there though?
The newer era of the Try Guys may not appear particularly striking on the surface, they
haven't exactly changed too much about their YouTube content, it's still built off a
similar premise, and outside of that, other than the rather subtle rebranding, there's
nothing that will particularly jump out at the average viewer.
With that said, they have been experimenting with certain concepts, such as the interactive
experience they tried on Kizwii the year before, recently announcing that they would
be performing Romeo and Juliet, but with the audience deciding and voting on how certain
scenes and plotlines are resolved, however it was also about what was going on beyond
the Try Guys, and how their lives were developing as individuals.
There was this sense that the Try Guys label was somewhat constraining on its own, and
that they should be engaging in their own ventures.
Keith turned up to VidCon with his comedy band, Lou Burger, and performed a few tunes
of their own, went on a small tour, and even performed a sold out off-Broadway musical,
The Wizard of Friendship.
Keith arguably has the most consistently successful series on the Try Guys YouTube channel with
his Eats Everything uploads, which is what it sounds like.
Zack Gia was seemingly busy, but probably the most significant development in his life
was the news that he had officially tied the knot with his partner Maggie, which was pretty
notable given that many doubted that it would ever happen.
Eugene probably had the most eventful year of them all though, securing two voice acting
roles in major productions, Nimona and Star Wars Visions, he was also cast in an upcoming
live-action romance film, but the details of that aren't too well known, other than
it sounds pretty gay.
He also announced that he would be writing a two-part young adult fantasy book called
The Unders, to be released in 2024.
Not too much is known about that either, other than it sounds pretty gay.
He's probably the least featured in YouTube videos due to the pursuit of these ventures,
but he still clearly considers himself part of the posse, and continues to involve himself
where needed.
It's clear that over time he much prefers the more performative side of media, and doesn't
necessarily want to bear too much of his private life, often leaving Keith and Zack to represent
the group in podcasts and media interviews.
With this in mind, the dynamic of the Try Guys appears to have changed a little, and
whereas in the past, Zack had been portrayed as the baby of the group, now he seemed to
have taken up a more vocal position.
This side was definitely on show in the podcast episode addressing the situation, but many
were still pleasantly surprised to see him this outspoken, it allowed him to convey a
degree of confidence in his narratives, which was important when Ned was still a common
subject of discourse for many, and yet a highly sensitive one where any verbal blunder could
result in a lawsuit.
Now, we are finding our company in a much healthier place.
I think that it brought us all together, it allowed us to reevaluate what we want to focus
our energies on, and to shape the company and our image to be less driven maybe by short
term goals, and to really recommit to our audience what we care about.
Yeah, in spite of all that pressure, they seem to be handling it well, they don't
seem too fussed about the notion of variety anymore, more interested in consolidating
their audience and creating a strong relationship with them.
They mostly refrain from talking about Ned himself, though it's clear that they do
feel betrayed by his actions, and even seem suspicious of subsequent events that occurred
such as the SNL sketch.
With that said though, they seemed to be content with the outcome, although they had seen success
akin to a sort of fever dream in the past, being woken by the scandal had allowed them
to reevaluate their priorities and mature as a group.
There is this renewed sense of unity rooted in that tough situation, and how they subsequently
navigated it.
Their concern was maintaining those principles that they felt were built on, and in retrospect
they felt they had succeeded in doing that.
Maybe the Try Guys would never be as ubiquitous as they once were, but they didn't seem
too fazed by that, more focusing on content and strategies that matured as they felt they
had, and experiencing a degree of shared stability through it.
After all, they'd never expected this success in 2014 when it all began, anything was just
a bonus.
Audiences who were still around expressed that they found the new Dynamite quite enjoyable,
and didn't find themselves missing Ned one bit.
Some found themselves reflecting on old clips and wondering if he ever really fit in, though
some still expressed sadness that the child had lost Ariel and wished her well.
But what about the pair?
Were they still even a pair?
While since pledging to put family first, there have been mostly radio silence from
Ned and his relative social media platforms for the majority of 2023, with some speculating
on the status of his marriage with Ariel.
Well, just shy of 11 months after he had been dismissed from the Try Guys, Ned appeared
on his sister Grace's Instagram story, looking like he had prematurely entered his mid-life
crisis, attending Taylor Swift's era's tour with no one other than his wife, Ariel.
They appeared to be in good spirits, and left the concert together as well.
Although this was not shared by Ariel or Ned, it quickly made its way online, as outlets
reported that even after the Try Guys had officially cut ties with Ned, his marriage
remained sturdy, and many viewers and fans expressed shock towards Ned and Ariel for
making amends.
I'll discuss that more in a bit though.
Nonetheless, although Ned seems to have refrained from speaking about the situation, and there
are still questions hanging over his head regarding it, he seems to have retained what
was always most important in his life, his family.
In the end, although it was a rather painful process, maybe everyone got what they wanted.
Allow me to elaborate.
At the start of the video, I spoke about the notion of growth, and how, with many collectives,
it's very difficult to keep them together when individual goals are constantly changing
and evolving.
When you have a team of people like Team 10 where everyone is vying for their own taste
of stardom, the creative constraints that can be placed on one can feel extremely suffocating.
The Try Guys would never like Team 10 though, for them, the success was always a bonus.
There was a strong level of trust between each individual, and members were allowed
to go off and pursue ventures on their own terms.
Why I left Buzzfeed is really this.
The whole time we felt like there was more that we could be doing and giving to you,
and now's that time.
At the same time, when you create something, there's still the desire to move forward
with it, and that was illustrated with their departure from Buzzfeed, that was the freedom
that they had yearned for, and they appeared to make the most of it.
This sort of trust between the members allowed them to grow the Try Guys as a brand while
also exploring their own interests.
With that said, there's always the threat that maybe a creative avenue has been exhausted.
Even with complete control, your brand is still regulated by the premises that you set
it up on.
With people associating your names with a certain idea of content, it can be very difficult
to escape the shadow that viral content can create.
By Covid lockdown era, the Try Guys had been going for 7 years, and although they clearly
enjoyed what they were doing, they were trying to break out of the cage that they had often
been assigned to by the media, as the happy-go-lucky Buzzfeed chaps who just wanted to do things
for a laugh.
Any behaviour outside of the pre-conditioned ideas would surely shatter the brand that
they had so carefully assembled over the years.
Unfortunately, that's what restlessness begets within an individual.
Restlessness can be externalised through a variety of expressions, for some it's exploring
new creative avenues, for others it's about perfecting their craft in a current one.
Restlessness is something that can often beget growth and forward movement in a person's
life, the desire to do something more, and nevertheless, it can also be something quite
negative, it can yield reckless, thrill-seeking behaviour that may not necessarily be within
the bounds of what's expected of them.
Restlessness is not something that can only manifest itself within a career, it can evince
itself over any part of a person's life that may seem stagnant to them.
Every single one of the Try Guys probably experienced that restlessness in some sense,
I'm sure they'd all gone through a phase of considering leaving the trip, creating
their own path, pursuing what they cared about, they were probably wondering how to address
that lull.
And then along came Ned, I can't look into Ned's mind and tell everyone exactly why
he did what he did, I don't think he's some evil big who wanted to wreck years of
hard work.
Although many people haven't exactly heaped praise onto his character, most have refrained
from representing him as this cruel or malevolent figure, more of portraying him as someone
who was not entirely up front with the person he truly was at work.
Instead of possibly seeking to address the issues that were challenging him within his
personal and work life, he likely chose to address his frustrations by pursuing a life
outside of the Try Guys, yet as his family became more aligned with his work he turned
away from that as well, finding a workplace affair as the slice of life that he desired.
There was no ambiguity given how long it persisted for, he wanted it, and although some people
may not have been shocked by it, they did seem to be shocked about how public he ended
up being with it.
Boldly sacrificing an image he had spent years constructing, and placing the public
image of the Try Guys into jeopardy, Ned was someone with a degree of intelligence, and
although some wouldn't be wrong to assign arrogance to his behaviour, there was a sense
that he just didn't really care about what he created, or the repercussions his actions
could have, until they revealed themselves.
Ned Fomer is no longer working with the Try Guys.
Whereas Zach, Keith, and Eugene may have possessed different ideas for how they wanted the Try
Guys to be represented, their unanimity in response to Ned's infidelity, regardless
of whether one believes it's proportionate, brought them back onto the same page mentally.
There appeared to be no second thoughts to how this should be dealt with, and they seemed
to act as swiftly as they conceivably could, in spite of the many legal hurdles that may
present themselves in removing a member as established as Ned.
Nevertheless, although this may have united them in the sense of how they felt about this
issue, there was still the threat of tearing down everything they ever constructed, but
in time it seemed like that's what they needed.
The Try Guys possessed a desire to move forward, but when you've been established for years
with your own company, with everything you require to succeed, it can be hard to see
where you can even move forward from that.
Sometimes you have to go back first.
Ned's actions did that indubitably, it snapped the Try Guys out of the cycle they've been
living for so long, and forced them to step outside their frequency brand image to address
a man who had broken his.
No longer were the Try Guys perceived as the friction-free kings that so many audiences
found comfort in, they had their own struggle, but in that struggle they seemed to find their
own liberation.
The Try Guys had spent their post-buzzfeed time trying to establish more distinct relationships
between their individual members and their fans, and the characters they created, but
for the first time in a while it felt like the Try Guys had something new together, even
if it was with one less member.
No longer was that struggle provoking sentiments of separation that might pull them apart,
it was that struggle that brought them together.
There was a sense that maybe all the Try Guys were looking for more, and that the more they
could be looking for could be achieved in that world without Ned.
It was the best outcome, but was it the just outcome?
I think the SNL sketch got it 50% correct.
We talk about a lot of internet drama as creators, a lot of it remains within the confines of
YouTube though, and occasionally makes the rounds of peripheral social media-oriented
outlets.
At a glance it's confusing to look at this situation, one can't help but wonder, out
of all the stories that we cover online, that this one was the one that picked up the
most traction on mainstream outlets, when there are so many more pressing issues in
the world they could be turning their attention to, but nothing happens without a reason,
and in reality there were a few conditions that likely made this subject more media friendly.
First being that the Try Guys were, as creators go, inherently industry friendly themselves,
they were YouTube based but possessed name recognition outside of it, second this wasn't
a common occurrence, they were rather white bread, and any white bread character caught
up in debauchery is always good clickbait.
Third cheating isn't a crime, when a YouTuber finds themselves caught up in something more
legally tender, news outlets can find themselves rather hesitant in case they accidentally
publicise something that could be construed as libel.
Although they probably would be able to argue good faith in court, most of the time they
simply don't want to, the Try Guys scandal simply was the perfect combination of news
that was surprising enough to grab the attention of media outlets, yet PG enough to report
on with some degree of confidence.
It was too much for the actual story, and it inevitably caused a lot of undue coverage
and harassment of all individuals involved, but the SNL sketch didn't stop there, it
implied that the Try Guys contributed to that with their video on the matter.
Look at me, this is the face of grief.
This angle represented a more sceptical side of the internet that felt that this hadn't
been handled with respect to the family at the centre of it, and was merely published
as a way for them to rescue their reputation that had been brought into contention by the
scandal.
This was echoed by the NYT think piece, which didn't necessarily appear hostile to the
Try Guys, more presented them as a victim of internet culture, being forced to throw
their friend under the bus to save their own skins.
After all, Ned former was not our generation's Ted Bundy, was he?
In new photos captured Wednesday, Ned walks ahead of Ariel, looking unfazed by the scandal,
and in this snap, her expression says it all.
It's somewhat strange to see part of the source of mass attention pointing fingers
at the Try Guys responding to a situation that the media blew up.
The Try Guys didn't want to have to defend themselves in that way, but the theories were
manifesting every single day, and their response, although somewhat terse, was the best way
they could muster up under considerable pressure.
Their language sought to relay a timeline of events, but also exonerate themselves from
any knowledge.
They wanted to halt the speculation in the clearest way possible, but their personal
sentiments still reached the surface.
The truth is though, that there was always going to be a personal element to it, and
it's very hard to navigate that while also being sensitive to the legality of Ned's
removal.
In a way, by stating what were perceived as facts, rather than actually delving into their
feelings, but still not necessarily being able to completely subdue their emotions,
they turn what they viewed as a simple workplace violation into a very loaded discourse.
There was a lot they probably would have said behind the scenes, they did not say here.
Probably one of the most telling moments was Keith being cut off before he could speak
properly about that sentiment of betrayal.
What happened, it betrayed our trust, and it was a workplace violation, it would mean
to all the people in our office who knew what they knew, they would know that we were in
the face of everything, like not being true to who we say we are in our value.
I think betrayal is what underlined a lot of the emotional response by the Try Guys.
So some critics, Ned's actions wouldn't or shouldn't have resulted in a dismissal, which
is why they may not necessarily see why it bothered them so much.
On the other hand, if it was such a cut and dry decision, then why do they need these
videos to justify themselves?
There are loads of questions that one might ask to put into contention the often complicated
reasons issued in that time, and these seemingly often austere measures, such as fully erasing
Ned's presence from pre-recorded videos, but the reality is that what isn't spoken about
is probably what they felt more.
For the Try Guys, firing Ned was exactly why it mattered so much, regardless of what motive
Ned had behind his actions, outside the fact that he had put up this family man facade
to all of them while maintaining an at least months long workplace relationship to the
others rather than just being upfront with them and admitting he was struggling with
his faithfulness, he must've known what he was putting at stake by doing this, not just
the entire brand image but also their friendship which was largely tied up in that business.
These are the guys who had built an empire together for 8 years, who had crafted such
a deep relationship, not just with their viewers but with each other, and where some would
argue that the Try Guys sold Ned down the river and discarded those memories, putting
their interests above those of a friend, it was Ned who really put his own personal interests
above those of his friends first, doing it so brazenly to the point where even fans took
notice, either he thought his friends wouldn't take action against him despite him lying
to them and his audience, or he didn't care enough about what repercussions they would
have to sanction and the stress it may invoke, both scenarios that show a disregard for that
friendship he proclaimed so loudly.
Even if you don't believe the Try Guys claims that they would've dismissed Ned regardless
of who informed them, the exhaustion and frustration of having someone you think fondly of putting
the onus on you to punish them when you would rather be helping them sort their shit out
is an incredibly draining experience, Keith, Zach, and Eugene took no pleasure in what
they did, and I think that's what people see when watching that video, the sadness
of losing a colleague, a friend, and questioning why it had to happen, and sure you could say
that it didn't have to happen that way, that all the reactions airbrushing his existence
were not necessary, and I get that, but for the Try Guys at least it made sense in that
moment, because to them he'd already separated himself through his actions, so they separated
him.
Even if it made sense that the media were predisposed to cover this subject, it was
still surprising for all, even the Try Guys, but their decision was already made, and for
the media to present their public explanation of actions they'd already carried out in private
as performative felt more like a way to account for their own excitement surrounding a situation
which they probably would have all rather handled in private anyway, and yet it became
greater than most internet dramas will ever be.
For a brief spell, Ned Forman was one of the most maligned people online, and that just
didn't make sense to some, and to be honest, I understand it, although I would say that
the Try Guys response was pretty proportional to the amount they were probably put through
when overseeing this situation and its aftermath, there definitely was something outside of
his actions and the media response that made people on social media take more personal
umbrage with him than they should have.
How come?
Ned Forman- If some cheating is happening, it's probably indicative of some deeper problems,
so if you say keep it in, I say tell the person.
On a cursory look, Ned was the Try Guy with it all, he had a stable and successful career,
a well connected network in multiple industries, a degree from a prolific university, he could
practically walk into any job and assume whatever role he wished.
At his core though, what completed him for many of his viewers, and the Try Guys fanbase
as a whole, was that family.
Ned chose to make his family part of the online world, to present himself as that devoted
husband and family man, he made that part of his brand, however, he also came across
as extremely competitive, very driven, and intense to a significant fault.
I think there are very few personalities that are more prone to becoming restless, yet as
the person with likely the most consistent and stable life of the members of the Try
Guys, there did seem to be a contradiction of existence.
In spite of this, you never received the impression that this was a problem, even during the times
when fans found the cheating was occurring, he continued to talk about these matters like
he was on top of them.
Ned- Happy date night.
Jen- This is gonna be great, I think we did a really good job, and whatever happens.
Ned- Whatever happens.
Jen- I love you.
Ned- We're in it together.
I love you too.
The fans Ned weaved an intricate web of deceit, he continued to profit off an image that simply
was not the case, and all while his wife maintained this on the Try Guys channels as well, there
was something so shameless about his actions, and ultimately what they culminated in, that
caused a lot of anger amongst people who thought they knew him better, the Try Guys
included.
I think that perceived privilege combined with his actions likely made his behaviour,
although not heinous on a standalone basis, rather insulting to all affected.
Further to this, there was a very stark contrast between Ned and the rest of the Try Guys reaction,
whereas they wanted to be as thorough as possible with their audience, Ned provided very little
information, merely stating that he would be taking time off to focus on his family.
It appeared to many to be a somewhat callous statement that didn't necessarily recognise
the damage it had done to those involved, even though it was probably the best thing
he could commit to doing, for many it felt like he was saving face.
From this moment on, it was very easy for people to characterise Ned as that villain
with the information they had available, and to reflect on his actions as always actually
demonstrating something negative, perceiving him as this malevolent character.
Add to which is the mix, and he became a cartoonish caricature of the person he probably was,
remembered for this singular incident and treated as such.
All limp attempts to defend him through the media were theorised to be a result of his
doing, his attempts to get back at the Try Guys, despite the fact that there was no real
evidence that he was involved, and that these would be very futile responses anyway.
A lot of people have almost used the Try Guys thorough dissociation from Ned Forman to justify
that he must have been the worst of the worst, but I just think they were upset at Ned for
being placed in that position, rather than thinking that he was actually scum of the
earth.
The downside of there being business involvement in their separation is that it did lose that
human aspect, something that neither parties appear to want to talk about, in one of their
2023 interviews, a journalist asks Keith and Zack whether they still have any contact with Ned,
and the publicist interrupts to inform them that they cannot speak on that matter, and although it is
not my place to hypothesise whether they do or they don't, I wouldn't be offended if they did,
but I'm sure other people would be, which is why they'd rather leave it as an unknown quantity.
After all, the one Try Guys associate who has publicly remained in his life has received flak for that decision.
As noted earlier, when the news broke that she hadn't girl bossed him out of his life, there was a significant
cohort of internet marriage counsellors who wanted to put the blame on her, who implied that she was
enabling his behaviour by not divorcing him, people who want to tell you that actually co-parenting
isn't so bad, and she might as well take the plunge, that she was sending a bad message to the children
by not holding him accountable. These arguments range from hilarious to rather insulting to a mother
who has probably been put through a fair share of personal turmoil trying to navigate a crisis within marriage.
Ariel former knows Ned better than any of us, and if she made the decision to stick with him and pursue
happiness together, then I wish her the best with it. Just because you can't empathise with how she
approaches it, doesn't mean she is objectively wrong. Accountability can come from a variety of avenues,
it doesn't equate to ruining someone's life, and all the people trying to use the Try Guys to shame her
for not doing that should maybe reflect on what the Try Guys said themselves.
Ned- We also want to remind you that the internet has a tendency to be a lot harsher towards women than men,
so please, we ask that you exercise kindness.
There is this Dunning-Kruger effect online where people just seem to assume that everything that happens
publicly is exactly how it happened privately as well, that there's been no personal discussions about
responsibility, no remorse, no understanding or resolution between any party, which is strange given how much
confidentiality was emphasised by the Try Guys. Sure, Ned could have made a half hour video about how sorry
he was, but would it have alleviated the situation? With all the intersections of public and private figures
who were caught up in this web, the intense media interest, and the desire to actually not blow it out of proportion,
I'm somewhat doubtful. If anything, the one thing Ned did right was walking away as quietly as possible
and seemingly rebuilding that marriage out of the public spotlight, something that I would say family
relationships shouldn't be subjected to in the first place. What Ned did was wrong, and there was inevitably
upset and anger from those who actually cared about him and the person he presented himself as, those close
to him, as well as those who could only watch over a screen. But for those talking about divorce, it already
happened in a five minute video a year ago, and it looks like both sides received the settlement they were
looking for, and if you have a problem with that, then you have more of a problem than anyone actually involved.
So let's wrap this up.
I mean, they're like brothers, they drive me nuts sometimes, but I think we make amazing things.
That's greater than the sum of its parts.
And we've only been able to affect people in a positive way, because we are actually best friends.
If we start fucking hating each other, then we should stop.
I'd like to start this conclusion by once more pointing him towards the cosmopolitan interview that Ned did
where he said he would move to Canada if he was ever cheated on. The other person who provided an answer
in that interview was Try Guy Zack, who appeared to take a more nuanced view. If someone cheats on you early
in a relationship, that's typically a deal breaker, because it could be a sign of more strife to come,
but it's good to hear someone else, what was the circumstance, did they get caught or admit it with remorse,
and do you believe it's an isolated incident? If you haven't had the exclusive talk yet, it could be a good way
to open a necessary conversation to make sure both of you are on the same page, it's all about communication
and making sure you're on the same page. Or I think it is, I'm single, so what do I know?
Well, Zack appeared to know more than Ned, and ultimately Ned should be very grateful that his wife
appeared to align more with Mr. Kornfeld's point of view, that there was something worth saving,
but maybe there was something worth saving for everyone, they all just needed reminding of it.
And then I started to see that the Try Guys was becoming something else, that the Try Guys was
rigid and incapable of change, and that any attempt that I had to push against that
wasn't going to work.
When four men in an office decided to put on women's underwear, it would have been difficult to predict
what it would lead to, yet over the span of eight years, the Try Guys had built their reputation as
one of the most stable and consistent YouTube collectives with a clear and unwavering mission.
Whilst other groups came and went with overwhelming transients often pulled apart by individual interests,
Keith, Zack, Eugene, and Ned perfected a maturing chemistry that allowed them to grow as the quartet
that many people perceived them as, acquiring more independence while maintaining a forward momentum.
However, even the strongest partnerships can be subject to their own tribulations,
and behind the scenes restlessness appeared to be brewing amongst the members,
yet few could have foreseen what it would culminate in.
You and your wife seem like you have such a great relationship, and it's kind of like an internet joke
how much you talk about your wife, you always bring her up in conversations and things like that,
so tell us, like, what's your number one secret to a great relationship?
Oh gosh.
Ned, the man who was perceived as the Try Guy who put his family and those close to him above all else,
designed that a months long workplace affair was the answer to whatever difficulties he was encountering.
In that decision, he not only acted counter to what the Try Guys felt they represented,
but also what he represented himself as.
In a way, although there were many worse things one could do in a workplace,
there weren't many that felt more contradictory to what they had crafted.
He fell short of what they expected of him, not just as a Try Guy, but as a husband.
With that in mind, the Try Guys felt they had to act.
There was no easy decision, if they were to operate by the book of how to handle these situations,
then they had to let him go.
At the same time, he was a close friend to all,
and the Try Guys would be irreparably changed in enacting that protocol.
In the end, it was a decision they took, but at what cost?
After a month and a half, I cracked, and I texted this to Keith and Eugene,
it's like, there's so much that we can't talk about, and can't say,
and I can't tell, like, you know, people are like, oh, even fucking SNL is like,
oh, his bro had a little smooch.
And I'm like, that's not what fucking, okay, fine, I'm just gonna keep it clamped down,
I'm just gonna not say anything, I'm gonna do it right, I'm just gonna do things right.
Well, in the following weeks, they were subject to a list of speculation about their own knowledge,
the proportionality of their punishment, and opinions from people who do not,
and will never know them.
Purposely distancing yourself from a long term friend can be an extremely challenging
mental process for one to go through.
With all this attention on them for something they would have rather kept under wraps,
it must have been easy to question whether they were making the right decision,
yet in time, it became apparent to them that maybe this was what they needed to move forward.
When a controversy affects a group with weak relationships and weak trust like Team 10,
then it can often erode the faith and confidence remaining members may possess,
but in the Try Guys case, it strengthened those bonds and those relationships because they all
trusted that new route.
If there was any sign that their decision was the right one, it's that Ned and Ariel are still
together, but also the fact that the remaining Try Guys are still one unit is relevant as well.
Judging by certain comments, it's a fact that may not have been the case if they
hadn't been given a sharp wake up call from the unquestioned success of the past decade.
And I think within that we're also taking it as an opportunity to wake up from this
crazy wild ride that's been the Try Guys up to this point,
to re-evaluate who we are and who we want to be going forward.
The Try Guys may not be renowned for making heavy duty content,
they may not be perceived as reaching the same artistic heights of other more ambitious creators,
but there is a timelessness about the uploads that has survived numerous shifts in the YouTube
ecosystem and retained a loyal fanbase who haven't disappeared as their content lost its virality.
For all the provocative content one can find on YouTube, for all the shorts one can scroll
through and lose hours to, there's an appeal to watching some dudes just fuck around with
something they've never done before. That experience of approaching something unknown
for the first time is transcendent, coming out wiser and stronger, knowing better for
the next time and appreciating the experience. To the Try Guys, it seemed dealing with the
Ned former scandal was just an extension of that, an abrupt if slightly challenging
learning experience which cost them a member, but gained them a lot of perspective.
What could have been the climax of their existence was just another chapter.
A lot of interpretations of Keith, Eugene and Zach's handling of Ned seemed to create
a much greater antagonist than the one that was actually present. The emotions that the Try Guys
felt were weaponised to fulfil some twisted sense of justice and shard on Friday for the internet
masses, however, I don't think they feel bitter about it or wish any further suffering from it.
If anything, I think they cherish and value that 4 member era, Ned and many of the memories
they created with him, and that saying goodbye to their former colleague, hard as it was,
doesn't have to undermine those memories.
Ned himself had something else to say, whether he truly appreciated that at the time or not,
the former family needed to come first. For ages they'd been part of that Try Guy network
and become taken for granted like a brand. His facade becomes so comfortable that he wore it
in front of the ones he loved, and with the tearing away of their masquerade, he may have
needed to confront some uncomfortable truths. If they can emerge together from that, I'm happy for them.
Ned former and the Try Guys made YouTube history together, they reached milestones and created
memories that will never be erased, and although their belated honeymoon era came to a very sudden
end, their story didn't, and that was a testament to something greater.
A statement that maybe the Try Guys weren't quite finished trying yet.
And that means that we can fight and get over it. So hopefully we're brothers.
Thank you for watching.
So that was the video, I hope you enjoyed. I want to give a big thanks to my editors,
as always, they've done a great job. My post editor, Kojak, thank you very much for your
unwavering commitment to this role. The music done by John Redhunter, thank you again,
it's sincerely appreciated, and the thumbnail produced by Starfo, another stellar piece,
I am sure. I also want to credit the artists who've, as always, very generously lent their
pieces towards being used in this content, it means a lot to me, and their credits will be
in the description below, and as said in my previous video, I'm working on a new system where
hopefully they'll be able to have the little sprites up as well, so you can all see their
distinctive style. I also want to give a big thanks to my Patrons, $10 Patrons on screen right
now, and my $50 Patrons, Hypercube, Esther Bedoya, and Seritish, thank you very much.
At some point I need to sort out these YouTube member benefits as well, but that's not quite
the top of the priority list right now. I'd also like to thank Incogny for sponsoring this video,
thank you again, it's been a pleasure to work with you as always, and definitely check their
application out, I dig it for sure. I don't know if I have too much else to say,
it's getting cold up here, it's getting cold towards the winter, and I don't want to record
too much beyond my capacity before I get chilly, so I'll leave you here for now,
all I'll say is that I'm The Right Opinion, and I will see you in the next one.
