Oh, yeah, guys, I got some new audio equipment, specifically, I picked up a preamp because
you know that microphone, that one microphone that every single YouTuber uses and how it
always sounds really shit because either they'll move their mouth away and they'll basically
disappear or alternatively, they'll get too close to the microphone, they'll just peek
like crazy.
Yeah, nobody seems to know this, but that mic really only works if you install a preamp
and I did install a preamp.
So hopefully things sound a little bit better.
Yes, I know it took me two years to do it, shut up.
But today we are talking about rentals.
You know, you got to rent a house, maybe you got to rent an apartment, everyone needs a
place to live, right?
Well, this post went viral on Christmas Day.
In fact, check out the absolute state of the rental market in New York City.
Must be queer, NB or trans, person of color preferred, considerate about the space and
other people in the building, especially regarding COVID safety, willing to build space and keep
the apartment clean together, communicative, vaccinated and 24 plus preferred.
This is an anti capitalism household.
If you identify as a liberal, we won't be a good fit.
Rent is $925 plus utilities for BIPOC.
That means black indigenous person of color under why you said BIPOC here, but you said
only person of color at the start $975 plus utilities for all others.
All others meaning white people, obviously, unless they're counting Asians and Jews in
there now, which hey, given the state of the left, who knows?
Feel free to email me if you have any question, hashtag support BDS, what's BDS?
Hashtag free Palestine, hashtag abolish Israel.
Yeah, they're not expecting any Jews living here.
Hashtag land back, hashtag resist colonialism, hashtag global solidarity.
Now when I first saw this, I was wondering, how are they getting away with this?
Like, isn't this illegal?
Isn't it illegal to open the advertise that you won't bring in cis people or white people
into into your rental space, but it turns out these people are subletting.
They've already rented the apartment, they just want somebody else to move in with them.
And when you're subletting, that's legal because you're not a business the way that the apartment
owner is a business.
So okay, fair enough.
They will hunt their anti capitalist roommate for their little hellhole in New York.
Okay.
I understand.
I gotta ask here.
What is willing to build space mean like the sentence here?
Willing to build space and keep the apartment clean together.
We'll keep the apartment clean.
Okay, that's normal.
But willing to build space.
What do you what are you fucking doing?
Are you knocking down a wall and like colonizing somebody else's apartment?
That doesn't that doesn't sound very progressive of you.
Or maybe you're like opening the windows up and building a new room out off the side of
the building.
If you're building space that what the fuck do you mean build space?
This just honestly sounds like some hippie dippie bullshit.
It sounds like the stuff that I would hear when I was taking like intro to critical theory
during my second year of university.
And see, they say you must be queer and be your trans and POC preferred.
So they will take a white person if they have to, but they're not gonna take a cis person.
So imagine being a white trans woman.
You know, you're down on your luck, you're looking for a place, you come across this,
this listing, and they're like, you know what that white privilege, you got to pay $50 more
Geez, it just it sounds so ridiculous.
These people are legitimately bigoted.
And you know what, I'm not even dogging on people who want some kind of rental with people
who are like them, whether that be racial, whether that be sexual, whether that be gender
specific, like, fine, you like what you like, like here, check this out.
This seems to be a reasonable way to put this looking to rent or lease with a queer friendly
roommate.
Hey, I'm looking around for roommates who are queer friendly and cat friendly.
I would have one cat who is very shy and would be paying rent through my substituting job.
My phone number is available.
My service is bad.
Okay.
But still, like, look at this.
It's just it's just a normal thing.
It's like, listen, I'm queer.
I don't know if that means that if they're gay or if they're bi or if they're trans or
there's something there and they're like, I need somebody who will accommodate me.
Fair enough.
There's none of this crazy fucking nonsense.
It's just hey, this is what I need.
Okay.
And you know what?
You find somebody who will fit you.
Great.
But yeah.
Well, then you guys keep looking.
That's okay.
That is.
This is the beauty of the free market.
Letting people state their preferences and then try to find those who match with them
willingly.
Here's the hellish version of this very same thing.
Nine hundred dollars and a three bedroom queer creative house with a backyard.
Cutie BIPOC prioritize and encourage.
What does this mean?
OK.
BIPOC.
We got that before.
Do you mean like cutie as you find them attractive?
Like maybe it's maybe it's queer trans.
You need like a fucking decryption key to figure this stuff out.
Hey, folks, we've got one bedroom available in our sunny Oakland community care centered
house.
It's off High Street, East Lake, huge grassy backyard.
As you read this, you realize it just sounds like a regular house, you know, and then you
get down to about us.
See they them queer and be white, 28 community minded and lover of honest, compassionate
communication.
In other words, that sounds like somebody who will just shit on you and say, oh, I'm
just being honest.
I'm just brutally honest.
That's how I am.
Darling works from home.
Making digital content for labor organizing and working on alternatives to the police.
OK, so if they're getting paid, they run an account like Rose City Antifa.
They're social, sensitive and passionate and come alive when skating, letting their freak
flag fly on the dance floor, floating in the water, making magic and community and in deep
convos about liberation.
Can you imagine like you come home from work?
You just want to fucking go to your room.
Maybe, you know, play some video games, eat some food, watch whatever the fuck.
And you got this person knock on your door.
Excuse me.
It's time for our Marxist talk and liberation.
Can you please come out into the kitchen?
It's like fuck off.
I want to sleep.
E is they them queer plus non-binary and trans, white 31 spends most of their time organizing
to break up corporate power and help create new food systems.
I guarantee you the only food system this person cares about is the one that starts
at their mouth and ends at their asshole.
Break up corporate.
You guys don't know how to fucking farm.
You live in a big city.
It's gonna be like Chaz all over again.
Remember those sad little plants they had going?
They can't feed the city block on that shit.
They like drawing, practicing magic with friends or are they Wiccan, I guess?
They're vegan.
They're learning to tattoo.
They work from home and they like to skate.
They like to socialize, especially through art and dance, but also likes quiet time alone
to recharge.
Oh God, both of these people work from home.
This sounds almost intolerable.
And then finally there's B, a sweet magical kitten whose eyes hold secrets to the universe.
Assuming that's actually a cat like a pet and not just, you know, a woman who calls
herself kitten.
That might be the most acceptable person there.
It's important to all of us that we are actively working to decolonize our minds and create
a world where liberation is possible for all people.
Black trans lives matter.
If you don't agree, we aren't a good fit.
Listen, you want to be liberated?
Don't live in a house like this.
One room is available in an LGBT POC friendly shared home.
There's already three roommates there.
One is S in her forties.
She and they, she's an award-winning performer and yoga instructor.
Jesus, what, what performance are you given that you're also a yoga instructor on the
bed?
Do you teach the best yoga class in town or something B forties?
He him works in education with limited exposure to the public, enjoys cooking, tabletop gaming,
theater and music.
Oh God.
Imagine joining this guy's tabletop game.
You have to sign one of those tabletop consent forms.
Maybe you got to hear about how orcs are black coded and therefore racist.
D forties.
He him works in tech with limited exposure to coworkers and these guys are all in their
forties.
Like, fuck, imagine having a roommate even, even then, and like not living with your girl
or something.
That doesn't sound kind of critical because currently in my house, we've got me, we've
got Naomi, my girlfriend, and we've got Dave, my friends.
So he, he is the third wheel.
He's the roommate.
But the difference is I've known Dave since I was four years old.
I would, at my age, I would not be tolerating just having randoms move into my place.
Fuck.
No, I'm not 19 anymore.
We are looking for someone who is serious about practicing COVID safety, LGBT queer
and POC encouraged to apply.
We are friendly hermits who love our cats and chickens in the back yard.
You guys, you guys are raising chickens back there.
Fucking imagine after like a hard week at work, you come home, you just want to hang
out, maybe sit out in the back porch with a coffee on Saturday morning, try to have
just like a little bit of peace.
And then suddenly a whole bunch of chickens come up and start pecking your fucking feet.
Check out this rental.
This one's from Portland.
We are anti-cop, anti-authoritarian and lean towards a collective structure.
The house is currently half BIPOC.
An understanding of structural white supremacy is necessary.
House is somethings and mostly queer and trans like to craft, cook and bake, maintain relationships
with one another.
Read, do political projects, have bonfires in the back yard and garden, witchy, kink
and sex worker positive.
Add green in the subject heading to ensure the entire ad was read.
You got to give these guys a secret code for they'll let you in.
We are looking for housemates that are able to communicate directly, listen and respect
to those boundaries and needs.
We have monthly meetings and have discussions about COVID risk.
Okay.
I was joking about the Marxist meetings earlier.
That was a gag on my part, but all these people were like, it's time for you to come to the
monthly meeting, dear.
Knock, knock, knock, knock.
God damn it.
Karen.
I just pulled, came off a night shift with me.
If I can see no monthly COVID meeting, they have their meetings about COVID consent and
harm reduction.
Oh God.
A monthly meetings about consent.
Um, excuse me.
So I saw that you brought a girl to the house last week or did you make sure that you obtained
her consent?
We were listening in through the door and we didn't hear her explicitly.
Give consent.
Did she sign a consent form?
This sounds like it would be fucking hell to live in.
You know what lean towards a collective structure means.
That means that your room isn't actually your room.
You want some private space where it's you in exclusivity who owns the location.
No, man.
It's all collectively owned.
This ad reads like you're paying for the privilege of having a fucking commissar run your life.
The most famous version of this sort of thing happening was back in May of 2021 when this
ad rental for a Portland Antifa whorehouse went viral on Twitter.
Rent is three Oh two per month and eight by eight, that's a very big eight by eight.
Okay with noise.
You're located off of the living room and by the front door, so you will hear a lot
of traffic.
The walls don't extend all the way to the ceiling, so you'll hear a lot of stuff.
Jesus.
You have to be okay with sex workers.
We have three in our house and frequently have loud sex.
You couldn't pay me three Oh two to take this fucking room.
Holy shit.
Here's a picture of the room and oh my God, look at this.
They literally took a section of their living room.
They put up folding doors.
You know the doors that kind of accordion themselves closed and open on some on some
closets.
They just stuck those up and then they put a curtain and there's your fucking room for
three hundred and two dollars a month.
You can live in a literal hole in the wall.
Here's what the rest of the rental ad read.
You have to be a cab.
All cops are bastards.
Don't be ableist.
Don't be racist or homophobic, transphobic or a misogynist and then it talks about the
sex worker stuff and then whoever moves in must also have little to no belongings and
be okay with the home being used to host homeless people on the couch.
So let me get this straight for you to pay for your tiny slice of this house literally
carved out for you.
You got to pay three hundred and two dollars for that.
But the bum down the street who's shooting up heroin, he can come in and sleep on the
couch.
No problem.
Scott free.
I can't fucking believe this dude.
The location is called the Creatures Co-op and Creatures Co-op is run by Brandy Jo Taylor
Fish.
She seems to spend her time fundraising for Antifa specifically to get enough money to
bail out people who were charged during riots.
Fish's partner, Ribbity Raggedy, yes, that's her name, is one of the sex workers living
at the house.
By golly, wouldn't you want to spend your evenings with nothing but a curtain between
you and the outside listening to these people have sex all night long?
Well fuck, just sign me up there.
Just fuck my entire life up, dude.
This video here went viral around the same time of a 20 year old full blown narcissism
project getting kicked out of her place by her parents who just don't understand what
it's like to be a young person nowadays.
You legally have to give me a month.
No, I don't because you haven't paid one brown penny.
I'm not obligated to and I can't afford to.
Guess what?
It doesn't matter.
You can't just tell me I have two weeks to find somewhere.
You've had over a month and- No, I haven't!
Look, you have done nothing but dig your heels in and try and make me feel bad about you-
No, I haven't!
I've been trying to educate you.
No, your education is brainwashing.
No, it's not!
You just won't listen to me!
No, I'm not going to listen to this crap.
Now you talk- I have schizophrenia!
I don't care what you have.
I don't.
It doesn't mean we live in squalor.
And it doesn't mean you're a bully.
You- I'm not even a bully!
You literally detonate me, misgender me, and tell me that like-
I know your mom's a boomer, sweetie.
She just doesn't understand that being literally neurodivergent and a minor, at least in your
own head, you're 20, but I mean, you're minor coded, let's say that.
That means you don't gotta pay rent, it's just too hard for you.
Capitalism's too tough, isn't it?
But it's okay.
I'm sure the creatures co-op living room hovel is just right for you.
You've got the look down, Pat, you've got the politics, you've got the fucking brain
rot.
Don't worry, they'll turn you into a sex worker soon enough.
Listen guys, I know maybe you live in a city and you see the city decaying before your
very eyes because you live downtown or something, you wanna get the fuck out, fair enough.
Or maybe you live in a small town, and maybe your small town is the one that I came from,
where, honestly, I hate going back there nowadays, because it's full of heroin addicts
and boarded up businesses.
There is nothing left back there.
You've got people on the left who are saying, get out of your small town and away from your
conservative parents and move into the big city and bloom and flourish and become your
own special snowflake.
And you've got people on the right who are saying, the cities are decaying, destroyed
by decades of leftist policies.
Get the fuck out of the cities and return to monkey.
The truth seems to be that both of them are bad in their own way, and what you like actually
depends on your own temperament.
There are absolute people who can go to a city and live a non-dysfunctional life.
There are absolute people who can go live in the country and not feel oppressed or too
far away from everything.
It really does depend on your temperament.
But right now, this worship of the idea of moving out to the city, this has got to stop
man.
Like, this is where it's creating all of this fucking insane nonsense.
People are literally willing to buy closets in whorehouses if it means that they can get
a taste of that big city living.
And you know what?
It ain't worth it, man.
Take it from me.
It ain't worth it.
Like, I get it.
You want to live close to the action.
Okay.
Understood.
Maybe your plan is to move to the city, grind hard, save up the money, get yourself your
own place.
Cool.
Great goal.
Owning property's good.
But it seems like these people forgot about the work part of that.
They make it to the city, and then they just sit around and subsist.
They rent shit holes or they turn perfectly good places into shit holes, and they completely
forget that this is supposed to be a transitional part of their life.
This is your foot in the door, not the place where you sit down.
And every time I hear about somebody saying, like, landlords are oppressive, we need to
abolish rent, whatever, then I see the people who are saying that, they're overwhelmingly
people like this.
The worst fucking tenants you could ever have.
Like, when these people move out, that building's going to have to be condemned, dude.
You know what, guys?
I got to go.
I'm going to take off.
I'm going to go thank my landlord for providing a decent fucking house, because this is actually
a pretty nice place for the price, and I'm going to be so goddamn happy that me and the
people who are here haven't fucking ruined it with their own filth and degeneracy.
