So I think it's quite important that this video of Tommy Robinson's be mirrored and spread as far
and as wide as possible. I did think it was strange that Tommy's been silent for the past
month or two, and it is good to see him back, but what he's doing now seems to be very important,
so let's take a look. I'm pretty sure there'll be a few executive producers
and journalists from a certain TV programme who are watching this live.
Oh look at the smile on my face! Look at the smile on my face man!
So in the last few months, I found out that panorama, as anyone who's watched my live streams
has seen me say, I know something's coming. A hatchet job of all time is coming. And I say that
in the sense that prison didn't work. In fact, it had the opposite effect. In the last matter of
months, my PayPal, my website, my monthly subscriptions, all of these things have come
under attack. They've all been deleted. One final attempt by the establishment, which would be to
destroy me in the nation's eyes. Now, I've become aware that panorama, working alongside
a government-supported agency, were planning what was the working title,
Tommy Takedown. This documentary's working title, by the people involved, was called
the Tommy Robinson Takedown. What you're going to witness is the most sensational
expose of the BBC this country's ever seen.
How do I release this? Basically,
we went undercover on panorama.
And what did we find? What video evidence have we got?
What video evidence could we possibly have? Could we possibly prove corruption? Could we prove the
doctrine of videos? Could we prove that we're not going to be able to prove that we're not going to
prove the doctrine of videos? Could we prove fake news, the creation of fake news, in order to
destroy who I am and my name? Have we got that on video? Are you sitting there now because you know
what we've got? Because you know you are going, when I put this documentary together, do I just
release this documentary? Do I just put it on YouTube? The BBC, it's a stealth tax against us.
They make us pay them, whilst they use propaganda to destroy us, to slander us.
The panorama, I'd say, expect in the coming days to see resignations.
We are going to expose them to the world. You're all going to see just how corrupt our media is.
All the things you thought, all the accusations against the BBC by Donald Trump as BBC fake news.
I'm going to prove it. Do you know how worried I've been? Do you know the nights I've had
as soon as I found out what they're doing and the lengths they're going to, to ruin my name?
And all of it has spectacularly
three-sixtied on them and you're all going to witness it.
Now my only question, which I'm still thinking about right now,
is where do we premiere this documentary?
Outside the BBC's head office on a 30-foot screen on Saturday the 23rd of February?
In London or in Manchester? Outside BBC's offices in Manchester?
That's the only decision, that's the only decision I've got to make right now,
is where I'm going to expose BBC hope not hate
all of you. There is an emergency meeting going on right now.
Panorama's executives are sitting around the table panicking because I just showed them in
a spectacular fashion. Wait until you see the footage. I just showed them evidence
of their lead investigative journalist.
All the things they say about me, we gathered in evidence against them.
So the decision I've got to make, 20,000 people watching this live, give it a share.
I am going to prove with undercover surveillance, undercover footage,
undercover recordings of the creation of fake news against me. I'm going to prove it.
I'm going to prove the bigotry, the classism and the elitism of those working in the BBC.
The view, they have a view, the working class. I'm proving it. I've got it in multiple locations,
in multiple countries. There's nothing anyone can do. Now I suspect in the coming days I'm
going to face a huge, I don't really know if they can try and defend this, if they can try and stop
it. They might throw lawyers at it to try and get an injunction to prevent me airing it. It's already
in other countries. It's going to be aired. Now what I'd ask all of you is where should we air it?
Where should we bring down panorama? Where should we expose hope and not hate?
Where do you want to do it? Outside their offices in London or outside their offices in Manchester?
I personally, my opinion is swaying, I know London is the capital, it's always biggest news
in the capital, but my opinion is swaying towards Manchester simply as a thank you to all the
northerners and the people in Scotland who travel from far for the demonstrations to free me
three or four times. The Brexit rally, London, the day for freedom, London. I'm swaying towards
trying to bring this to the north of England on Saturday the 23rd of February.
And I want you all to join me. So follow, keep following, you're going to see developments.
I'm sure in the coming days I can actually relax because I haven't relaxed for the last,
everyone would have noticed how quiet I've been. I haven't been able to do anything. I've had my
own problems at home. I haven't been able to, I've had my own problems with everything but I haven't
been able to concentrate because I've had this going on in the background and I've been planning
this and I put the final nail in the coffin this afternoon and I'll share it all with you.
But I just think it's a waste to just release it. I think why don't we have a day out where we
absolutely show up and let everyone know that we have evidence of what the BBC do.
But make sure you're available, Saturday the 23rd. I'm now going to start looking at
the costs to get a massive screen, a massive PA system. Journalists and friends from afar,
from Australia, Avi, Yemeni, get your flight booked son, to America, to Canada, Ezra, please
make plans. We need the world to watch and see and I'm happy. I don't want to seem like I'm gloating
but I've been terrified. I've been absolutely terrified of what they're trying to do to me
and the effect it would have on my family and my life and I hope today, today when I put the
final nail in the coffin when I met with Panorama, a courier was en route to their offices to deliver
legal documents to prevent them lying to the country, fabricating stories to the country,
blackmailing people to give negative and false information on me to the country.
Anyway, I'm gonna go and enjoy my favourite meal in my favourite restaurant and
and
to those in, to those in Panorama, the worry you have right now
is the worry I've had for six to eight weeks, you wankers. You absolute, you,
you're a disgrace to journalism and you're getting exposed.
That's it.
19,500 people watching this live, share it, share it fast, share it wide, start making your plans
on February 23rd. I'm actually, it's half term on Monday, I'm away with the kids, so
gonna need some help organizing this demo guys. Well there you have it. Make sure that this video,
not necessarily my copy, just any copy of it goes far and wide. I don't know what you're going to
any copy of it goes far and wide. I do think something big is going to be going down soon
and I am more than happy to use my relatively tiny platform to mirror this and try to get it
out there. I was going to put out a video on the whole KickVic thing in the anime localization
industry but I figured I'll just, I'll wait on that one. I'll give it another few weeks,
collect some more info because all the information doesn't seem to be out yet so I'm gonna hold off.
So this mirroring isn't a complete cop-out for my channel. I have been working on some things,
it's only a partial cop-out. Alright my friends, remember to support Tommy Robinson.
Let's keep our fingers crossed. Two weeks time, February 23rd and whatever it is,
I hope it's fucking incredible. Alright, I love you.
