Good morning my friends! As you can tell by the title, it's my birthday today!
I've already received a bunch of birthday wishes on the SFO discord,
and I appreciate them all. You guys are pretty awesome.
I've got one request, buddies.
E3 is happening right now, same day as my birthday,
and I'm going to be streaming all of the conferences live.
Please consider checking my E3 streams out.
I'm going to be going live at twitch.tv slash game boomers,
and probably also my dlive channels, dlive.tv slash game boomers,
and dlive.tv slash short taotaku throughout the course of E3.
Still can't stream to youtube until July unfortunately,
otherwise I'd be doing it here too.
Here's my stream schedule for the event.
June 8th, that's today.
The Electronic Arts Conference starts at noon EST,
and later tonight at 7pm EST, I'm going to stream some birthday festivities.
Sunday, June 9th.
The Microsoft Conference is at 4pm EST.
The Bethesda Conference is at 830pm EST,
and the Devolver Digital Conference at 10pm EST.
During that gap between Microsoft's Conference and Bethesda's Conference,
I'll probably stream some video games, chat with you guys,
maybe even take requests on what to play.
Monday, June 10th.
The PC Conference is at 1pm EST,
the Ubisoft Conference is at 4pm EST,
and the Square Enix Conference is at 9pm EST.
Like on Sunday, I'll stream some video games between the gaps and shows.
Tuesday, June 11th at noon is the Nintendo E3 Direct, and the end of E3.
After E3, I'm probably going to take a break from my gaming streams
until my Thursday morning Sonic show, because that's a lot of streams to do.
But on Wednesday, Arch, Sargon, V, and I
should be starting a campaign of Vampire the Masquerade.
That's still a secret though, don't tell anybody.
Thank you for all of your support, guys.
Even if you can't make it to the E3 streams,
or you have no interest in my gaming or non-political content,
I still appreciate your clicks, views, and donations.
You're the reason I can squeak by doing all this stuff full time.
And hopefully I'll see you in my chatroom in about an hour.
I love you.
