Jonah Hill
When I saw the search term Jonah Hill go viral on Twitter last week, for a minute there I
thought this was going to be like the whole Seth Rogen thing from a couple years ago.
Yeah, do you remember that?
In the wake of the 2020 election, Seth Rogen was running around DMing people on Twitter,
asking them if they were Jewish, including Count Dankula.
Now I gotta admit, I used to be big fans of both Seth Rogen and Jonah Hill.
I love those 2000s and 2010s comedies they both made.
In my mind, and I'm sure in many others, they're kind of cut from the same cloth,
a part of the same era, which is probably why I made the knee-jerk connection.
The last time Seth Rogen went viral, it was over his public meltdown when his god-awful
show Santa Inc. was a failure.
So when I saw Jonah Hill go viral, I was thinking that something similar had happened.
He had abandoned what made him famous, made some garbage woke show or movie, and was now
having a public hissy fit about it.
But nope, it was something else entirely.
Jonah Hill's ex-girlfriend posts his alleged texts, blasts him as a misogynist, oh boy,
here we go.
Jonah Hill's alleged dirty laundry is getting aired out by an ex, who's posting what she
claims are a ton of old texts from him, and painting him as a toxic partner.
Surf instructor Sarah Brady, his former flame of about a year from back in 2021, is dragging
the actor publicly on her Instagram account, and she's not holding anything back in her
repudiation of him as an alleged misogynist narcissist.
Though for those of you who don't know, I certainly didn't because I tend not to follow
celeb shit, Sarah Brady is a professional surfer.
Presumably they met through some LA contacts or something when she was there at the time.
She posted all of the proof of these claims as an Instagram story, which is very interesting,
because Instagram stories automatically delete themselves after 24 hours.
Thankfully everything was screencapped and uploaded elsewhere online.
Here's the one that kicked everything off.
In this text, Jonah is saying to Sarah, plain and simple, if you need surfing with men,
boundary-less, inappropriate friendships with men, to model, to post pictures of yourself
in a bathing suit, to post sexual pictures, friendships with women who are in unstable
places, and from your wild recent past, beyond getting a lunch or a coffee or something respectful,
I am not the right partner for you.
If these things bring you to a place of happiness, I support it, and there will be no hard feelings.
These are my boundaries for a romantic partnership.
Sarah added the caption, see the misuse of the term, boundaries.
Now here's the thing about boundaries in a relationship.
They are necessarily arbitrary and restrictive.
That makes them sound abusive, and they can be, but that's not a given.
A boundary is arbitrary because it's based entirely on what the people in the relationship
want, and it's going to be different for everybody.
What cheating looks like in a monogamous relationship is going to look a lot different than what
cheating looks like in an open relationship.
One couple might be fine with casual drinking, but another couple might have somebody who's
a recovering alcoholic or something, and maintains a strict rule that there's no drinking in
the house, or you can't hang out with old drinking friends or something like that.
Boundaries have to be arbitrary because people aren't all the same.
A boundary is restrictive because, well, that's literally the point of it.
It's drawing lines around behaviors that you don't want your partner to engage in.
In a monogamous relationship, you don't want your partner fucking people behind your back.
You are necessarily restricting them from that behavior.
Now, just because violating a boundary that you've agreed to in a relationship isn't a
moral act, this doesn't mean that your boundaries are moral in and of themselves.
Here's an example.
Let's say that you're deathly afraid of clowns, and you've set a hard boundary with your partner.
No clown stuff ever.
No jokes.
No pranks.
Or else you're done.
If your partner pulls a clown prank on you, the immorality doesn't stem from the clown.
The clown itself isn't immoral.
It's the fact that your partner violated your boundary.
That's immoral.
In essence, your boundaries are the conditions of your consent.
The relationship is intact only with the consent of both parties.
If a boundary is crossed, then the consent is violated.
This is because consent is fundamentally a deontological moral concept, based on rules,
not outcomes.
Something that I've talked about before.
So going back to Jonah Hill's boundaries, even if I personally think some of them are
a bit weird.
For example, I wouldn't demand of my partners not to post pics to social media of them in
bathing suits.
What matters is that he made them clear.
Sarah knew what they were, and as we'll see in a bit, she violated them anyway.
That's a two-way street.
She can also have boundaries that he must agree to in order for him to date her too.
But that's not how she reacted.
Her narrative about this whole thing is that the boundaries themselves are abusive.
Well, let's see her evidence.
This is a warning plan to all girls.
If your partner is talking to you like this, make an exit plan.
Love y'all.
It's a bit hard to see, but Jonah is basically asking her to take down pictures of her surfing
in a bathing suit.
He's saying he's done with explaining himself.
She's asking what he wants pulled down.
He's saying the one with her ass out, and that there's tons of them going back months.
Again, it's not something that I would do, but this is pretty common for more conservative-oriented
people to want.
And he did communicate that it was a deal-breaker for him.
This is obviously not a case of abuse, but rather of them simply being mismatched partners.
If he doesn't like his girl being in public in a swimsuit and her thing is being a pro
surfer and posting it to Instagram, nobody's wrong here.
They're just incompatible.
You can make the argument that he should have known what he was getting into, but you can
also make the argument that she should have known what she was getting into as well.
Sarah then posts this message from her to her friend.
It's kind of unbelievable that a man who sent me shit like this, it's Jonah sending her
heart emojis over a pic of her in a swimsuit, would then be upset that I didn't read his
mind and take down pics of that once I was in a relationship with him.
You can read this sentence in two ways.
The first way is that Sarah simply wasn't told to take down the pics, hence why she
says that she didn't read his mind and take them down.
This makes Jonah sound unreasonable that he didn't communicate his boundaries to her
and that she would have had she known.
The second way to read it is that I didn't read his mind and I didn't take down the pics
are two separate actions.
That the mind-reading comment is used to deflect away from her not doing what he wants.
Reading it this way, it sounds like even if she knew that's what he wanted specifically,
she still wouldn't have done it.
Because it's not just the mind-reading that's objectionable, it's the taking down of the
pics itself.
There's not enough context here to truly know what she means, but of course, she paints
Jonah in the worst possible light.
And then there's this exchange.
Jonah sent her this long text.
You're right.
We can't do surf social things or develop trust until you consider me and make decisions
that give regard to our relationship.
I've been as vulnerable as possible and I'm telling you I'm needing you to step up to
the plate, which you can, I'm sure of it.
But these losers don't get your time if you want me.
Straight up, it's consideration.
I respect your love of surfing, but I respect myself as well, and your love of surfing and
being in those situations and lack of awareness are not mutually exclusive.
This isn't me.
I have my own issues that I own.
If you want marriage and family, you can't use the 25 card.
Step up and cut shit.
These people don't get your time or your kindness at the sacrifice of minds.
She's actually cut off Jonah's messages in every single screencap, which is kind of fishy
in and of itself, but she adds another of her own captions here.
By these people, he meant any friends of mine that he hadn't personally approved of.
Jonah's clearly trying to paint him as this abuser who's keeping her away from her friends.
But read it again.
He's not saying don't you dare talk to them anymore.
He's saying these losers don't get your time if you want me.
The option to walk away and keep her friends is right there on the table.
We again don't have the full context, but it's entirely possible that Jonah has a good
reason for not wanting these people in his life and it's his right to walk away from
them.
In this case, this is him extending a hand to her and seeing if she wants to walk with
him.
That 25 card comment also sounds a bit odd in a context.
At this point, I think she was 25 years old and he was 37.
The age gap and the experience gap and the wealth gap are all power imbalances in their
relationship and my intuition tells me that it's possible in previous arguments she leaned
on her age to explain some part of her behavior or her lifestyle or something, which might
be what he's calling the 25 card.
We just don't know.
This is why I try not to prejudge a relationship based on a viral story or a clip, like for
example that Steven Crowder thing from a few months ago.
You can't get the full deep knowledge of a romantic partnership watching a couple of
curated clips.
And of course there's a bunch of weird me too women on the internet who are blindly
coming to our defense and talking about how scary it is that men don't see a problem with
putting boundaries up in relationships.
Like check this chick out.
If you would have told me yesterday I would wake up today upset with Jonah Hill, I would
have called you a liar.
How are you going to tell a surfer to stop surfing when she was already surfing when
you met her?
That's what kills me.
It's like you knew who you were, right?
Like you knew who?
I don't know why people want a bad bitch and then they get one and they want her to be
Amish.
No disrespect to the Amish, but perhaps me and Sarah, I'm putting myself in there.
Bad bitchery.
Me and Sarah are not partial to the Victorian bonnet.
You know what I'm talking about?
The weaponizing of therapy talk is crazy because you're learning terminology you use in therapy
to get someone to stop doing what they love.
That's crazy.
That's crazy.
Also, those are not boundaries, those are not boundaries.
Like I'm so glad you're in therapy.
Man, it's actually entirely reasonable to expect that a person's behaviors change in
between being in a relationship and being single.
If you're sleeping around when you're single, do you think you should just continue to sleep
around once you're taken?
Like, nah, I'm not going to change for no man, I'm a strong independent woman.
Yeah, you can be fucking independent all right.
After this story went viral, Jonah messaged Sarah to basically say, not cool, dude.
But even here, he's actually not saying anything wrong.
He's not blowing up, he's not throwing anything in her face.
He's saying he's hurt, he's disappointed.
He's sorry that it hurts her that he's moving on, but he's actually innocent of any wrongdoing.
In fact, this entire time, everything that I've seen from him has been reasonable.
He set his boundaries, he's enforced his boundaries, and he's moved on when she wasn't the right
one for him.
And she's coming out of the woodwork two years later, seemingly because she's just bitter
about it all.
And I do think it's just bitterness, by the way.
Even though Sarah Brady's social media presence has increased tenfold due to this event, Jonah
Hill hasn't been canceled or metooed or anything.
Once the story failed to gain the traction that she wanted, Sarah began to make social
media posts like Boycott Stutz, Stutz is a new Netflix documentary that Jonah's a part
of, or vague posts like this, where she says, when I choose both revenge and healing.
A couple of days ago, she even posted this update, proclaiming that she got Jonah banned
from Hawaiian beaches.
Since the breakup, she had moved to Hawaii to further her surfing career.
Oh, here's a fun bit of trivia.
Also a couple of days ago, Sarah Brady dropped another set of embarrassing DMs, but this
time about a different ex-boyfriend.
Jackson Hinkle.
Yes, the pro-Russia mega-communist dipshit.
That Jackson Hinkle.
Apparently he was a full-on socialist on the left back in 2020, but the relationship between
Hinkle and Sarah apparently left her with PTSD, which she confirmed in long reams of
texts, making fun of him to her friends.
It's so weird that we live in a world where Jackson Hinkle and Jonah Hill are Eskimo brothers.
It's pretty clear at this point that Sarah is just a clout-chaser who's dropping DMs
and tearing others down in order to pull herself up.
But because this is how canceling works, once somebody's on the ropes, you pile on.
A few days after this story went viral, Zoey 101 star Alexa Nicholas accused Jonah Hill
of forcing himself on her when she was 16 and he was 24.
That's 15 years ago, guys.
Back in 2008.
Why the fuck did you wait this long to talk about it if it actually happened?
Are you maximizing clout?
Or maybe you're just making it up?
All right, let's read her story.
After reading Sarah Brady's admirable post about Jonah Hill, I just got a say.
When I was 16, I got invited to a house party at Justin Long's house where he was living
with some lame predator actor from CSI Miami.
Jonah seemed to have his eyes on me because at one point I wanted a cigarette and he said
he had one in his car right outside.
Didn't seem like too much of an effort, so I trusted him.
I went outside and he grabbed the cigs from his front seat.
Jonah Hill, notice how she's hashtagging each post, didn't hand me the cig, which
I thought was weird.
And then as we walked back to the door, I asked him for it and he said nothing, but
slammed me to the door and shoved his tongue down my throat.
I was so appalled.
I pushed him off and ran inside.
Dude, this is the most that happened story I've ever heard in my entire life.
This chick, Alexa Nicholas, she's also got a history of just accusing people of shit
like this.
Listen to her appearance on this podcast.
You're 16 years old.
You message Mike because you don't see he has like any tour dates and you're like, I
would like to see this guy.
He's got great music.
I get a response like quickly back and like, what's his response?
It's friendly and everything.
As for my phone number right away, right away.
And at this point you're like 16.
How do you know how old he was like?
He was 33.
Oh my God.
He's three years older than I am now.
I'm still not even the age that he was then.
Never.
Oh wow.
That is so.
Let me tell you at 30 right now, there is no way in hell that I would ever talk to a
16 year old unless it ends up being my daughter's friend and they're over for a play and like
there was no power.
There was no education around power dynamics yet.
Grooming.
I didn't even know what the fuck that was, which is horrible that I grew up in an era
where I didn't even know what grooming was.
So I didn't know.
I just thought, Oh, this is a guy.
He makes music that I like and super friendly, totally.
So I gave him my phone number.
He called me like five minutes later.
Dude.
All right.
This chick's apparently been stalked or groomed or whatever twice by the time she's 16.
She's apparently heading out to parties with booze and cigarettes.
Yeah.
She's legally still a kid at 16, but come the fuck on.
What were you doing there?
She was literally the bad kid that everyone tells you not to be and not to hang around.
Also, all of this stuff is coming out around the same time that she's announcing a new
show called Eat Predators, which is all about sexual predators.
The very topic she's going around talking about and trying to get attention on her for.
A show that nobody gives a shit about.
3000 subs, less than a thousand views each episode.
Okay.
Yeah.
She's literally just grifting and trying to get a spotlight on her shitty failed show.
I see no reason to pretend any of her stories are real.
I don't usually talk about celebrity nonsense on this channel because I generally don't
care.
But as always, as a deeper conversation here in the text, it's clear, in my opinion, anyway,
that Jonah is putting boundaries on Sarah's behavior that he deems appropriate.
Remember, she can do the same to him, but instead she's calling that abusive and dragging
him online for it.
Claiming he's a misogynist and a narcissist and worst of all, a conservative.
But also what's really noteworthy is that she accuses him of weaponizing therapy against
her.
And he was bringing up conversations and concepts from those sessions.
Now it's entirely possible to weaponize therapy, especially couples therapy, and it's insidious
because it has an air of authority around it.
The therapist said that you do X makes it sound like a therapist is on your side and
the other person is just the problem.
And any disagreement can be washed away in the flood of having an educated official back
up your claim.
One of the most effective ways to gaslight people is to do so with the apparent backing
of professional expertise.
But this also describes how Sarah's supporters came out and weaponized the therapeutic process
in the same way.
Like, listen to this soy boy.
Jonah Hill was using therapy speak to control his girlfriend Sarah, his now ex-girlfriend,
and it's important that we go over this misuse of therapy language, which is kind of a thing
these days, and how it can be super problematic as it masks controlling behavior under a commonly
accepted positive concept, in this case boundaries, making it harder for the person on the receiving
end, Sarah, to challenge it.
Okay, so Jonah is basically telling his professional surfer girlfriend, I am not going to be with
you if you surf with men, have boundaryless friendships with men, model, post pictures
in a bathing suit or post suggestive pictures and are friends with women who are in unstable
places.
He goes on to say that these are my boundaries for a romantic relationship.
He's straight up saying that Jonah is doing what Sarah did and what Sarah supporters are
doing, including him.
This is the Spiderman meme.
Jonah's use of the term boundaries in this message is a misuse of the concept.
A boundary is a healthy limit a person sets for themselves to protect their well-being
and integrity.
It is a rule or guideline that one creates to identify reasonable, safe, and permissible
ways for others to behave towards them and how they'll respond when someone passes those
limits.
However, in the message Jonah sent to Sarah, he is not setting boundaries that protect
his emotional well-being.
Instead, he is dictating what behaviors and friendships Sarah is permitted to have.
He's essentially instructing Sarah on who she can be friends with, what she can do professionally,
and how she can show up online.
This is not an example of healthy boundary setting.
Instead, it reflects an attempt at control.
It demonstrates a lack of respect for Sarah's autonomy and individuality.
Jonah's message is more about restricting Sarah's behavior to suit his comfort levels
and insecurities rather than expressing his feelings or needs in a healthy manner.
Those are the same thing.
He's describing the exact same thing, he's just using more positive and more negative
language in the two examples because he's clearly biased.
Jonah has established reasonable, safe, and permissible ways for others to behave towards
him and how he'll respond when they pass those limits.
But that necessarily means restricting her behavior to suit his comfort level.
Like I said back at the start of the video, that's what a boundary is.
That is its purpose.
You don't get to unilaterally be in a relationship with somebody while violating all of their
boundaries and then cry foul when they break it off with you.
I have a lot to say about weaponizing expertise, specifically weaponizing therapy.
I'm still getting through Dr. Thomas Saz's book on the topic, but this is like straight
out of the Modern Abusers Handbook.
To say that because you know more about a specialized field, like psychology for example,
your expertise should be deferred to, all the while misusing that trust.
The truth is, in my view, therapeutic terms and the weight that they carry should probably
not be taken out of the therapeutic setting, at least not commonly.
It's very easy to weaponize psych knowledge to attack somebody.
Like my psych textbook describes narcissism and you display these traits, so it's not
enough that I don't like you or that you are a bad boyfriend, but you're a narcissist.
You might be, who knows, but you're not making that declaration in good faith.
You're doing it because you're weaponizing your knowledge to fuck with somebody you're
mad at for moving on and leaving you behind.
It's common practice to just disbelieve me too stories at this point because, despite
the Weinstein's and the Epstein's of the world, a lot of them did turn out to be bullshit.
When you look at the Jonah Hill story, it is simply just a messy celeb breakup where
the girl is mad about it years later.
Even if Jonah did something wrong, it's only minor and certainly not worth trying
to blow up online.
But in my opinion, the greatest sign that one of these stories is actually just a bunch
of trumped-up garbage is that they weaponize therapeutic language.
That's the kicker here.
Somebody who weaponizes therapeutic language doesn't simply want a guy canceled.
They don't just want him slandered as an abuser.
They want to invoke the weight of an armchair diagnosis, like there's something deeply
wrong with him at his core.
He's not just a shitty ex, he's a narcissist or he's a sociopath, bringing in the added
condemnation of mental health stigma.
Which is wild to me, considering that lefties often try to destigmatize mental health problems.
At least in other scenarios where it benefits them to do so.
In any case, Jonah Hill didn't do anything wrong, and if he somehow loses jobs or money
for this shit show, he should probably sue her for defamation.
Just like how the leftoids have been taking other cultural L's recently, this shit is
unacceptable and we really gotta start slapping it down harder.
Alright guys, that about does it for me, thanks for watching the whole video if you're
here at the end.
I'm playing more Zelda again on stream tonight, so if you're watching this on release, come
by and say hi.
My girlfriend would be there too.
So I'll see you there.
Have a good one guys, I love you.
