I've been too busy with E3 the past couple of days to notice that the hashtag I stand
with Scott has been trending on Twitter, and I'll just say, boy is it nice being off
Twitter.
Every time I step away from that place I realize exactly just how much of a shithole it is.
Maybe one day I'll make my departure permanent.
But this trending hashtag refers to indie game developer Scott Cawthon.
Cawthon has a long history of making games that nobody ever played or knows about, before
finally coming to prominence in 2014 for creating the cult hit Five Nights at Freddy's.
For those of you who don't know what Five Nights at Freddy's is, maybe you're a boomer
or you don't play video games or something, it's a horror game where you play as a night
shift security guard at a Chuck E. Cheese style pizzeria with playgrounds, party rooms
and animatronics used to entertain the kids.
But between midnight and 6am the animatronics come alive and slowly begin to make their
way towards the security booth.
You can't leave the office but you do have access to a tablet that displays various security
camera feeds, and you also have control of the lighting and locking mechanisms of the
office's two doors.
Using any of these tools, the camera, the lights, or keeping the door locked, will drain
your power.
And if you run out you're as good as dead, so you have to use the camera to see when
the animatronics are approaching.
Use the lights if you can't find one on the cameras and you think it might be down one
of the two visible hallways, and then lock the doors if they're close.
Once you strip away the horror and meme aspects of the game, it's ultimately a quasi-tower
defense resource manager, where you're unable to leave one location and only have a limited
amount of juice to fend off attacks, meaning the point of the game is learning how the
animatronics attack you and how to efficiently defend yourself.
Watching the clips I've included in the video, it's not hard to see how this game
garnered a cult following and basically made Cawthon's career, right?
The characters are simultaneously a little bit cute and extremely unnerving.
The premise is unique, or at least it was in 2014.
The horror is well done, and the amount of deep lore and hidden easter eggs buried in
the game helped spur interest long after the game's release.
And on the technical side of things, because the majority of the game's files are still
images, the game is tiny, cheap, and easy to run on even old computers.
It's no surprise that a full franchise came out of it, as fans fell in love with the game
and streamers and YouTubers made careers out of autistically dissecting everything Cawthon
released.
So, what's Scott Cawthon getting cancelled for?
Oh yeah, I didn't even mention this as a cancelling event.
Yeah, it's a cancelling event.
That's what the hashtag is all about.
His supporters are using it and the progs are trying to co-opt it.
But here, here it is.
Here is the gravest sin of Scott Cawthon.
He is a Republican.
Dun dun dun.
More specifically, he voted for Trump and donated to various other Republican politicians,
as well as Democrat Tulsi Gabbard, all of whom the left consider to be anti-LGBTQ.
I don't know why this information is coming out right now, because political donations
are a public record.
Maybe it's just that nobody'd thought to look up his name before?
In any case, the tweet is trending and people are outraged.
Including the usual bread tube suspects.
Listen guys, don't go feeding people that bullshit line that wokeness isn't leftism,
it's actually radical liberalism.
Here you are and you're not libs, you're a big reason why leftism is fucking cancer
right now.
And of course, there are a ton of brain dead twitter takes from people with rose emojis
or hammer and sickles in their bio that we could go over, but we're not doing that
this time.
I'm sure you can just imagine them in your head at this point and you'd probably be
largely accurate.
You know what these NPCs are saying before we even look at the hashtags, let's not even
bother.
This time, I'm going to take a slightly different approach.
Instead of looking at twitter cancer, let's look at tiktok cancer.
Please do not buy the BTS meal if you don't stand them, you're preventing actual BTS
fans who have waited for months for having the BTS meal experience.
Eating the sauces without understanding their significance is literally cultural appropriation
and it's not okay.
If you don't know what the fuck she's talking about, BTS or Bangtan Sun Young Den or Bangtan
Boys is a Korean boy band and McDonald's is currently having a promotion related to
their band.
I find the Korean boy band thing to be pure cancer.
But the important point here is that she called the consumption of the promotional material
cultural appropriation and by the widest definition of the Prague's own rules, she's technically
not wrong.
BTS stands are a subculture and if cultural appropriation is consuming a part of a culture
without fully understanding it, then eating the meal without liking BTS is definitely
cultural appropriation.
This is an idea I covered more fully in my consumption as identity video where the main
thesis was that there's been a subtle shift in how people approach collective identity.
Before if you identified as having an immutable characteristic, like if you were publicly
gay or something, the immutable characteristic was something that you could be discriminated
against for and shouldn't be because, well, it's an immutable characteristic.
It's not your fault you were born this way.
But nowadays, if you identify as having an immutable characteristic, it's the identification
not the immutable characteristic that is considered the linchpin for discrimination.
Eventually this became a demand for any identity at all, whether or not it had an associated
immutable characteristic, to become a protected class as long as that class contained a collective
of people with the proper political opinions.
Which is how you get ridiculous hypersensitive individuals demanding that you play choice
based video games according to their specific headcanon or only ship specific characters
in a fandom or else it's bigotry.
And of course, by this standard, eating the BTS McDonald's meal without being a fan
of BTS is oppression.
I'm bringing this up in the context of a video about Scott Cawthon to make a specific
point.
There are a handful of other games that are kind of like Five Nights at Freddy's, not
in that they're horror games but animatronics, but rather because they're all games that
heavily resonated with gamers, inspiring works of art or remixes of music, creating entire
communities generally centered around Twitter or Tumblr, and launching the careers of streamers
and YouTubers who obsessively play the game.
The other games with fandoms like this include, most recently, Among Us, but also Minecraft,
Undertale, Doki Doki Literature Club, and to a lesser extent, Hollow Knight and Stardew Valley.
These are all indie titles that didn't have the backing of any major publisher but ultimately
massively blew up, raking in millions of dollars, launching careers, and influencing the whole
of gaming.
These are all also games that have generated a specific type of toxic fandom, filled with
extremely left-leaning people who near universally support a wide range of both progressive and
socialist ideas, who are simultaneously also extremely sensitive, irritable, and entirely
insufferable to be around.
And these fandoms are filled with these types of people, specifically for the reason that
I described in that consumption as identity video.
They accept intersectionality wholesale, and they've brought it to its logical end.
They've fractionated all of the intersecting identities down to the most minute possible
things, including stuff like, if you make Alphys kill herself in Undertale, you're homophobic
and ableist, and considering that to be on par with, like, lynching black people or something.
I've even seen this attitude creep into more mainstream games, with idiot journos saying
that you're a bigot if you don't play as femshep, and allow Garrus and Tally to romance
each other by staying away from both of them.
This is obviously a fucking stupid position to hold.
What do you think happens if you take one of these games, with these toxic fanbases
full of wokescolds, who have decided that their love of the game should be a protected
political class, and then reveal to them that the game's creator is a Republican?
Well, you get the meltdown that we're seeing right now.
Some people are even calling for Markiplier to be considered the true creator of Five
Nights at Freddy's, since he streamed it back in the day and helped it blow up, and
he's still stuck in that progressive stage that you should have grown out of by your
mid-twenties.
It's one thing to actively hate gay people.
Seek them out, and harm them in some way.
It is another thing entirely to be a Christian and disagree with gay people acting on their
sexuality, but still be kind to the gay individuals that you happen to meet.
From all accounts of Cawthon's conduct, from fans who have met him to statements he's
made, he's the latter, not the former.
He seems to accept LGBT people, but not what a Christian would call the LGBT lifestyle,
which is exactly what Christ calls him to do, with the whole hate the sinner not the
sin thing.
There is a huge gap between this guy and the Westboro Baptist Church, but I would not expect
a Prague to understand that.
There is a lesson here, a lesson that the screeching Five Nights at Freddy's fans will
probably never learn, but I will present it here anyway.
Not everything about you needs to be accepted by every person you come across.
If you're gay and you meet a Christian, and that Christian doesn't violate your rights
in any way at all, he doesn't mistreat you or act rudely, he simply thinks you shouldn't
fuck other men, and he will tell you that opinion straightforwardly if you happen to
ask him for it, then you have zero reason to complain.
He's not doing anything to you, but he's also under no obligation to accept all of you,
and neither is anybody else.
This is even more true with trans people.
A lot of the most radical rhetoric regarding trans activism right now revolves around requiring
everybody, every single human being, to accept all trans people as they want to be accepted.
Or else you're literally killing them.
It's a ridiculous notion.
And even though I would do it, I still ultimately retain the right not to, and you can think
whatever you want of me regarding that, but you won't force me to say something, no matter
what it is, period.
Most telling of all, if your transness is truly about your identification, it's truly
about how you feel and not anything else, then you don't need anybody else's acceptance,
right?
I have met a lot of people in my time who haven't accepted one aspect of me, whether
that's a part of my personality, or my history, or my profession, or my tone of voice, or
my political beliefs, or my race, or gender, or sex, or sexuality, or whatever else.
We all have some quality that somebody else is not going to accept about us, and that's
okay.
It's not a violation of your rights if somebody doesn't accept you for who you are, and does
nothing else to you.
And of course, you are also under no obligation to continue to talk to somebody who doesn't
accept you too.
But that's the whole point of voluntary association, isn't it?
Cawthon made a post on Reddit about the controversy.
He did not issue any kind of apology in this post, which made everyone even angrier.
He also said he didn't care if he was cancelled, as he makes games for the love of the craft,
not for money.
He said that he supported Trump because he believed Trump would be the best for America's
economy and confronting her overseas enemies.
And he also believes that candidates with strong LGBT rhetoric, but who were weak on
the economy and on defense, would ultimately cause more harm to LGBT people, and straight
people as well, through the mismanagement of those other issues.
In the end, this is a lot like Notch, the creator of Minecraft.
From all outward appearances, Notch is not a progressive, he's a liberal.
Due to his sale of Minecraft to Microsoft, he has what is known as fuck you money, meaning
that he doesn't have to worry about being cancelled because they can't do anything to
him.
What are they going to do, fire him?
He's sitting on a giant stack of like a hundred million dollars, it doesn't matter anymore.
And so, when it comes to his interactions online, he says what he likes.
Back in 2019, when Minecraft was hitting its 10 year anniversary, Microsoft removed all
mentions of Notch from the game, and then said that he would not be a part of the 10th
anniversary.
At the time, progressives branded this as Microsoft rescuing Minecraft from Notch, in
much the same way that people want Markiplier to rescue Fiance at Freddy's from Scott
Cawthon.
These are large, important properties to the subculture of gaming.
They are absolutely surrounded by, used extensively by, and loved by progressives.
These progressives expel people who are ideologically impure all the time.
And if it turns out that the creator is ideologically impure, well, he needs to be memory-holed.
Even if it's by a corpo, in the name of that all-encompassing ever-March leftward.
And this is absolutely something people are really tired about.
I think that's why this tweet of mine went viral, where I posted Dr. Manhattan evaporating
the guy that says, as a content creator with a large audience, you have responsibility
to use your platform.
No.
People loved this, because frankly, everybody's tired of it.
Just because you made Minecraft, just because you made Fiance at Freddy's, just because
you have some big YouTube channel, some big Twitch channel, whatever, none of that means
that you have to push progressive politics.
I've even been given that, and my channel is, I mean, it's not nothing anymore, but
it's small compared to these guys.
I've been told at least a few times now by local progressives that, don't I have a responsibility
to act in a certain way and talk about certain topics and push certain causes?
Because my channel has, at the time, 90,000 subs?
No.
I do what I want.
If you have politics, if you have ideas you want to push, push them on your own platforms.
And you know what?
I did actually get replies from some progressives, and they basically restated the content of
the image.
But like, don't you really have a responsibility to do that?
No.
No.
Cawthon ends his reply post, which again, wasn't an apology, by saying, if people
think I'm doing more harm than good now, then maybe it's better that I get canceled
and retire.
I would accept that.
I've had a fulfilling career.
Besides, most things that people can take from you are things that never had much value
to begin with.
I have always loved, and will continue to love, this community and this fanbase, even
if someday it doesn't include me anymore.
And to be honest, this is the best possible way that one should handle a canceling attempt.
In fact, it's what I described as the best possible way in my Encyclopedia Problematica
video.
Maybe Scott Cawthon watches my channel.
Hey Scott, if you're here, leave a comment.
Also, Five Nights at Freddy's kinda got bland after the second one, eh?
But the point is, here's what you should do.
You plant yourself firmly beside what you believe.
You refuse to budge, and you flip the bird to everybody who wants your blood.
They can only take from you if you let them.
So don't.
I like each of my videos to have a thesis beyond the initial event that gets the ball
rolling.
So that it's not just about the current news cycle, but something that you can watch
a year later and still pull something out of it.
And this time, here is that thesis.
There's this drive nowadays for the ultimate tolerance and acceptance and inclusivity.
Everybody must be made to feel like they're part of the collective at all times, or else
it's oppressive, it's othering.
But the truth is, you can't make everybody like you.
And sometimes there's even value to being the outsider.
But no matter what, there will always be people who don't like you for some reason or another.
That's not necessarily an excuse to piss people off for no reason, although trolling
can be pretty fun sometimes.
But most of the time, there's always going to be some quality about yourself that somebody
else will not accept you for, whether it's fair for them to do so or not.
You can't change that.
So the best thing you can do is stand by what you believe.
If you have to be hated by somebody for something, then be hated for what you truly are.
And to be honest, as long as the people are just hating you from a distance and staying
out of your life, who cares?
Alright guys, that's it for me for today.
Rather than posting E3 stream announcement videos every day and not actually give people
who watch SFO but don't care about Game Boomers nothing, I wanted to do an actual video today.
So here it is, I know it's small but I hope you enjoyed.
And if you do care about E3 or you do care about Game Boomers, you'll be seeing my next
E3 stream today at 1pm EST.
We're watching the Xbox and Bethesda E3 conference over at twitch.tv slash Game Boomers.
Make sure you join me, it'll be a lot of fun.
At least if you're watching this video on release.
Otherwise, if you're watching it in the future sometime, well drop by anyway, I'll probably
be streaming something else.
Alright guys, I'll see you there.
Thanks for watching.
I love you.
