I have to warn you before we begin.
The annoyance level of this video is high, even by my standards.
Let me take you back about six months.
The outcome of the 2020 election isn't known yet, but it seems like Trump might actually
win a second term, and the anti-liberty types, well, they're getting a bit unhinged about
it.
Remember this lady?
Here, just in case you don't.
I'll jog your memory.
Listen, kiddo, I get it.
I don't like the two-party system.
I think our country's corrupt, and quite frankly, I don't want to vote for Biden.
It feels like voting for a Republican, but I'm going to do it.
You want to know why?
Because the alternative is a fucking fascist.
A fascist is a fascist.
Maybe we can have the conversation about dismantling the two-party system when a fascist isn't
running.
Maybe we can do that later, kiddo!
Champ!
Chief!
Maybe we can talk about it later!
You're welcome for that, by the way.
I still find it funny that leftists online call this woman a liberal.
I am in fact referring once again to that video that I made, where what leftists call
rad-libs are actually just part of the left they don't like.
But listen to her rhetoric.
She doesn't want to vote for Biden because Biden seems like a Republican.
She wants somebody further left.
How is this a liberal?
And of course, people like this are now coming back and saying, oh, Biden's actually in power?
Well, the 2022 elections are just around the corner.
It's too early to talk about reforming the Democratic Party now.
It's too early to talk about the two-party system this time.
These people are living hypocrites.
That's not the topic of the video.
What I'm actually talking about here is why the hell do these people keep like raging
out in their cars?
You notice that, right?
You know there's a trend, right, of these people who, you know, they seem to be pretty
well-to-do.
They're sitting in their vehicles and they're just raging at their phones and then uploading
that rage as if it's somehow a normal thing to their TikTok accounts.
Around the same time when Ruth Bader Ginsburg died, this woman put out a very similar video.
Holy ******* **** you guys!
I'm driving your car but I just got a notification that Ruth Bader Ginsburg died!
Holy ****!
Could this year get any ****ing worse?
Ruth!
You just had to make it to 2021!
Holy ****, at least the first one, like, was not driving while recording the video.
Christ!
Get off the ******* road, lady.
You're gonna crash.
Oh wait, that's already been done.
Are you ready to keep going?
Or have you already clicked off the video?
I don't know. I'm gonna enjoy looking at the the analytics of this one to see like within the first minute. Everyone just stops watching
Imagine being such an actual snowflake
That simply seeing a pro-life sign as you drive by
Causes you to go into a breakdown like this. What kind of a mindset does this person have to have?
I mean, I'm not even pro-life. I'm definitely on the pro-choice side of that argument, but Christ
I've like I've walked by like like anti-abortion
Protests before I'm just like, oh, this is stupid and I keep going
I don't lose my shit while still driving the car and then post it online for everybody to see. Oh my god
There's another please stop, please. I'm just been yelling in my car for 30 minutes because
Fucking parenting is hard
It's hard
Because they're little mirrors
If if I want my son to be a better person or to grow up
I
Have to be a good person
He mimics everything I do
He mirrors everything so if I have a fucking bad attitude, he's gonna have a god damn bad attitude
If I say fuck of course he's gonna say fuck
And
Your name your name's cat might be funny, I don't know I don't really find this funny, dude
I don't know what kind of a mindset you have to be in to be angry at the fact that you have to
Be a good person
It's it almost sounds ridiculous to say it but like yes
You have to be a good person not just because you have a kid though
That definitely is a good reason but for yourself, too
it sounds like this this woman has never once ever taken responsibility for anything in her entire life and
Now has a child and now has to learn the skill of being a responsible human
From zero the whole point of waiting to have kids is that you can build up your ability to be responsible
To the point that being responsible for a child is not nearly as hard as this and it really does seem like this this
Extended adolescence that all of us find ourselves living through right now
It's not conducive to learning how to be a responsible human being this one just dropped and my pal Nikoko on Twitter
Posted it which is how I learned about it. Alright, let's see what you got
This fucking iron lung with me anywhere I goddamn go just in case if these don't work and you have the nerve to tell me
That I you have a doctor's note not to wear this
If any doctor gave you that it's because you're that fucking weak. You can't wear a piece of cloth
You're a fucking selfish bitch. And if your husband does that too in public, I hope you both catch COVID
I hope you both understand how serious this is
My 40 year old needs me
My disabled husband who broke his spine in 2016 fucking needs me
I'm the only one doing anything at my house because they need me
And your selfish trying to take me away from them
So
My girlfriend does in fact have a mask exemption because she faints while trying to wear one
So instead she wears a face shield and you know that that should be good enough for most people who aren't fucking insane
And I'm certainly not one of those anti-mask types if you want to wear a mask go ahead they they do work
But the whole COVID thing seems to have really hit a strange hysteria peak at this point
I think most people are fed up and done with following lockdown orders
And yet you have a separate group of people that are just screeching incoherently that you refuse to give up your freedom
And that is how I ultimately view it
Not because I don't think COVID doesn't exist or masks don't work but it's simply that I won't let the state regulate what I do
Especially when it comes to just normal behaviour
I know this one isn't in a car but it's in much the same vein
Pre-pandemic nobody except the most insane would lose their shit at somebody else's regular everyday behaviour as they pass each other in the street or in an elevator or something
You are a delivery person incorrectly wearing the mask inside of a big building
Is this incorrectly worn guys? Is this incorrectly worn?
It wasn't like that the whole fucking time
My god yeah I know you didn't see it because I cut it out in the editing but I actually watched that four times because I was stunned
I think it's highly irresponsible to work people up like this
COVID's bad don't get me wrong but it's not this bad alright?
This is not the post-apocalyptic zombie virus
We're gonna be fine
Outdoors is a dangerous place that's just kinda how it is
And no amount of government management will ever change that fact
And all things considered, especially since we've already had it
I'd rather just go outside without a mask and take my chances you know? Breathe in the fresh air
This is another one that's not in a car
This one's from Charza Kitsune, a friend of mine
But still, it's the same kind of spirit you know?
I need to go out to where the lost people are, to where the people are
Well people can hear my words, they can be convicted by the Holy Spirit
I didn't expect him to edit I thought this was gonna be the original clip
Yes, she just screamed in the original, don't worry about it
And as soon as we actually exit the car, you'll notice that there are tons of videos
Of left-leaning women who are just screaming their fucking heads off
And for what? I'm including this final one because I think this is a woman
Is that semen?
Get him out of fucking office!
I hate Trump! Just fucking vote for Biden, please!
What the fuck did I just watch dude?
Up until now, this video has been about people who clearly have some kind of problem
And I don't mean the outward problem that they're yelling about
And how they choose to cope, which is by being somewhere
Usually in the private place but not always
And just screaming about it
And I understand, you know, sometimes a situation is in fact so dire that you just have to yell
I get it
However, usually when that's authentic, you do it in private
Or you do it with your friends or your, you know, whatever, right?
It's during an argument maybe, like there's a bunch of different things it could be
But if there's one thing that makes me think that it's fake
Or maybe not fake, maybe just staged I guess
Is when they set it up and do it for a camera
And then take it and post it online
Like okay, let's say something terrible has happened to you
And then you end up ranting for a couple minutes
And then afterwards you've vented and you kind of feel okay
Alright, I understand
But if it really was some kind of emotional pressure release valve
Why would you set up a camera?
And then afterwards, why would you take that video and then edit it
Maybe you add text, maybe you add music
And then put it online
An emotional outburst that happens in that very second I completely understand
But there are multiple instances in the timeline here
Where if it were truly just an outburst
Rational thought should have taken hold
And here's why I'm saying this
This video went viral yesterday
I am not saying this to be heartless
Losing a pet is definitely like losing a member of your family
But notice what we're looking at, okay?
The snake is not in its container
You can see the door to the container with the key still off to the side by her head
The snake is instead on the floor
She has set the camera up so that you can very clearly see the snake and her holding it
She set it to record
She gets herself into frame
She cradles the body of her beloved pet while crying
And then adds text and music to it
And then uploads it
What kind of person films themselves holding their dead pet
And then puts it online for clout
I've known people who have lost pets
In fact somebody I know just lost a cat
And they don't post videos and pictures of the fucking corpse
They'll post pictures of them when they were alive
Are we gonna be seeing shit like this with grandmas on TikTok soon?
With some 12 year old trying desperately to go viral
Cradles the body of their dead grandma while like angling the selfie
Oh wait
Yeah
We've um
We've already seen that haven't we
It was a big deal
When
Was it Jake Paul or Logan Paul?
I can't even remember
They're both fucking terrible people
But when one of them found the hanging body in the suicide forest in Japan
And made a video about it
And it's like
Oh my god guys
We found a body
Isn't this crazy
Clickbait thumbnails
Ad revenue
And it's just like
Fuck off dude
Is there even a scrap of humanity left in you
That is what a lot of this feels like you know
Now I get it
Like it can be funny okay
I understand that at some point there's dark humor
Like the uh
The guy who uses those face swap filters
To swap faces with a dead body at a wake
Okay
On some level you just
Must laugh at the absurd
But that's for people uninvolved to laugh at right
Like we can look at this
At this photo
And think it's darkly hilarious
But what kind of person do you have to be to actually snap this photo
In fact maybe that's part of the humor
It feels kind of like social media is turning people into sociopaths
If that makes sense
That's a phrase I used in a previous video
I can't really remember which one it is
So I guess I can't link to it in a YouTube card
Oops
But yeah
Social media is turning people into sociopaths
And I definitely think a symptom of it
Is that people massively overshare
On what ultimately is
Public social media
I know it's like privately owned
But by public I mean like
You can access it right
YouTube is a privately owned company
But anyone can find your YouTube videos
So it is public on that level
And when someone has some private
Intimate
Emotional freak out
And then posts it online
There's um
There's a shallowness to it
There's a fakeness to it
A manufacturedness to it
It seems like these people are
Ridiculously self absorbed
To the point that
One they cannot conceive of anybody
Ever disagreeing with them on anything
So when it happens they freak out
And two they're ultimately posting it
For validation of their ridiculous state
Knowing that most people in their real life
Probably wouldn't validate them
In the pre-internet days
If you were somebody who was a bit out to lunch
At the very least the people around you
Would tell you that you were out to lunch
But now
Now you can retreat into an echo chamber
You can find like minded people
Who will tell you that it's okay
And that happens with politics yeah
And it happens with fetishes of course
But it also happens with strange things like
The pro-anorexia community
Where they talk about how being anorexic
Is good actually
And how they encourage each other
To be anorexic
Because it's something that non-anorexic people
Can never understand
It's like I said in my
Consumption is identity video
If you take a quality of yourself
Into yourself
To such an extent that you identify as it
If it turns out that quality is toxic
It's going to be significantly harder
For you to get rid of it
I think these people do have the emotions
That they're portraying in these videos
But one the emotions are absolutely being riled up
On largely false pretenses
And two they are completely incentivized
To portray them in this way
To indulge in the loss of self-control
And you know I get it
It's hard to stay grounded
Like I've gained 3,000 subs in the past month
And I'm really appreciative of all you guys
Who are subbing and watching the videos and everything
Like numbers for me are way up right now
And it's great
But I feel it in the back of my head
That whisper that popularity means
That you are greater than what you actually are
And it's not true
But that is what social media does to people
I don't think that we're like
Evolutionarily equipped
To deal with seeing 100,000 likes
Come in on something from 100,000 people
Or alternatively
To be canceled by 100,000 people
For something relatively innocuous
Even if it's bad
But it's not like that bad
Social media has ramped that shit up to the extreme
And I'm not surprised
People are just like collapsing
Because of it
Either they're collapsing from being canceled
And spiraling into a depression
Or alternatively
They start getting way too high off their own farts
Because so many people like them
We live in an era where keeping yourself grounded
Having some self control
Stuff like truthfulness
And modesty
And humility
These are all virtues that are needed
More than ever right now
And yet they are absolutely the last virtues
Being cultivated by people who are
Going through I guess this is
The millennials version of the midlife crisis
Is the social media crisis
I don't think this is just an old man yells at cloud thing
Though it definitely could be
That's a running theme in my channel recently
Is that I'm an old man
But I think there's actually a problem here
I think social media is creating
A group of, not a generation, but a group of people
That are just straight up sociopaths
Triggered by the extreme ups and downs
That you get from excessive social media use
And while it sucks
And I recommend to everyone
Spend some time outside
Don't stay on social media that much
Still it's uh
It's still a lot of fun for us
You know regular people who still have their heads screwed on straight
Watching these nut cases
Absolutely froth at the mouth
Over literally nothing
Thank you for watching my friends
If you enjoyed this video
Please feel free to share it around
And do all the other algorithm positive stuff
That the youtube engagement metrics like
I don't know
Sub for more or hit up my patreon or subscribe star
If you want to keep it coming
And be sure to stick around
Because I'm putting up a new video every single day
So I'll see you tomorrow
I love you
