To anyone who's made Let's Plays or commentary or any other kind of YouTube video, you've
probably seen Audacity before. It's a lightweight, feature-filled, easy-to-use audio recording
program. Pretty much everybody uses it. Even a lot of the big players in the YouTube scene
use it. Because it's just as good, and sometimes even better, than professional options like
Adobe Audition. And the recent controversy surrounding it is that it's now a possible
spyware. The famous open-source audio manipulation program was acquired by a company named Muse
Group two months ago. The same company owns other projects in its portfolio, such as Ultimate
Guitar and MuseScore. Ever since then, Audacity has been a heated topic. The parent company
is a multinational company, and it has been trying to start a data collection mechanism
in the software. While Audacity is nothing more than a desktop program, its developers
want to make it phone home with various data taken from users' machines.
And here's a look at their new terms of service. What personal data does Audacity
collect and why? They'll collect your operating system version, your country based on your
IP, details about your computer, non-fatal error codes and messages, and crash reports.
The IP is a bit sketchy, but this is pretty normal for most programs. However, they also
collect for legal enforcement, data necessary for law enforcement, litigation and authorities
requests, if any. What does that mean? Well, nobody knows. They're not telling us. But
it is entirely possible that they could be just collecting copies of anything that you
record with the program. Who does Audacity share your personal data with? Our staff members,
any competent law enforcement body, regulatory, government agency, court or other third party,
our auditors, advisors, legal representatives and similar agents, and to a potential buyer.
At the same time, they also added this clause. The app we provide is not intended for individuals
below the age of 13. If you are under 13 years old, please do not use the app. In many parts
of the internet using world, there's pretty strict laws regarding data collection from
people who are under the age of 13. So it really sounds like Audacity plans to collect
all of your data, like every other app out there, and sell it in order to make some kind
of a profit. In essence, Audacity has become spyware. Audacity uses the GPL3 license. It's
a license for open source software, mainly because people who make free software don't
want it being stolen by big corpos. How it works is GPL code is considered to be free
and open source, meaning anyone can use it and no one can charge money for it. And how
the license works is that if you use any GPL code from somebody else's project, then all
of the code in your project also has to be GPL. GPL software legally has to be free and
not have any restrictions on who can use it. Audacity's new owners are trying to circumvent
this by having their coders sign new agreements to change Audacity's license over to a different
one, which would allow it to be sold as regular software. But to do so, they have to rewrite
code that was made by GPL contributors, especially those who are refusing to sign. And yes, this
is a violation of the GPL license because derivative works are also legally covered
by GPL, meaning that if you look at, say, a GPL program and say, you know what, I don't
want to deal with this license bullshit. I'll just remake it looking at this. Well, that's
still covered by the license because if you're just rewriting the code to do the exact same
thing for the explicit purpose of replacing existing code, you are absolutely in for a
legal battle. And if Audacity's new owners successfully managed to actually do this,
there will likely be a new license because the current license is GPL3. They're likely
going to make GPL4, which closes all of these loopholes. In other words, people are fucking
pissed and I don't blame them, man. This is a reliable piece of software that's been used
for over a decade. And now that it's in the hands of new owners, they're suddenly harvesting
everybody's data. This affects Audacity 3.0.0 or later. So if you still want to use the
program, get a previous version. Additionally, get it from a site that's not the Audacity
official site, just in case. But as always, there's a wider story here. And the story
is that of privacy. Every website seems to be going in the shitter nowadays, and they're
all requiring like a phone number or a picture of your photo ID or something. They want you
to basically plant a beacon at your house and let everybody know where you are. And
it's rather ridiculous, isn't it? At least to my sensibilities, it is. I'm old enough
that I come from an era of the internet where like your parents and PSAs and stuff on TV
would say, hey, don't give out your private information online. That's dangerous. Who
knows who might be out there? And you know what? That's still true. And everybody's forgotten
it. At one point being anonymous used to be prudent until Facebook made being publicly
identifiable trendy. It's not just Twitter and Facebook. It's even more niche things
like GitHub, or those Snapchat and Instagram personality quizzes. The most recent push
against anonymity is happening due to the the soccer situation over in Europe right
now. I will have a video with Lilith and I talking about that situation more in depth,
but we can do a surface level right now for this conversation. Piers Morgan went viral
a couple days ago for this stunningly stupid take. Racist abuse targeted at England football
stars exposes social media's biggest failing. It's time tech firms ban all anonymous accounts
and insist on ID so we can see how brave these bigoted scumbags feel when they're made accountable.
In the name of progressive values, get rid of anonymity. Of course it's not just soccer
players, it's actors and comedians and verified people of all stripes. None of them like the
fact that they can actually be talked back to. That a commoner actually has a method
by which they can point at them and say, no, you're ridiculous. Fuck off. They simply want
to be able to rule unchallenged. Here's old man Devo story number 9000 on this channel.
Two in one video in fact. But when I was younger and the left was the dissident voice
and not the main culture, anonymity was highly valued among progressives because they feared
retaliation from the religious conservative monoculture. But now that these people are
in charge, now that they're the ones wielding power, the protection of being anonymous has
to go. And yeah, they all feel this way. Boris and parliament should stop online racism in
its tracks by passing legislation forcing Twitter and Facebook in the UK to have only
named accounts, checking people's details and banning anonymous ones. It happens in
bedding, so why not social media? Come on Zuckerberg, literally in online papers, please.
Social media companies need to step up and take accountability and action to ban abusers
from their platforms. Gather evidence that can lead to prosecution and support making
their platforms free from this type of abuse. Stop anonymity and require ID. Everyone's
saying this has a checkmark beside their names, obviously. None of them are anonymous, so
they want none of us to be anonymous too. As a social media professional, you look like
one, dude. I want everybody to understand this and the real issue. I've had to ban
so many people on Facebook for the terrible things they've said. Anonymity definitely
makes abuse easier because social media sites do a bad job of policing their spaces. These
people never stopped being children. They simply substituted their parents for a larger
authority whether that be corporations or the state. Make verified ID a requirement
for opening a social media account. Nearly 400,000 fucking idiots signed this petition.
It's ridiculous that I now have almost 12,000 accounts blocked. Nearly all of them are anonymous.
Requiring official ID would wipe out most trolling overnight. You have them blocked,
man. What's the problem? Like you've already solved the problem. Not all anonymous accounts
are used for bile or trolling. Some people have them to protect their identity or their
lives from others. And of course, the verified replies with, sorry, trolling is the top priority,
I'm afraid. It's literally killing people. If you're worried about being identified,
don't go on Twitter or Facebook. Trolling is literally killing people, guys. Some people
have never been punched in the face and it shows. Trolling is an issue. You need to get a grip like
you sound like a naive child who knows nothing. You're trash and your YouTube channel is trash.
You have been reported repair for a ban. These have to be the softest people that our species
has ever created. Like this is shit that kids would say back in the day. Now you have like
35 year olds saying this shit. The truth is though, a lot of these progressives want to
ban anonymity. Not because they're getting trolled. Well, maybe it's kind of because
they're getting trolled. They don't have a spine, but more importantly, because every day,
their propaganda attempts are effortlessly destroyed and replaced by much more coherent
analysis by idiots on Twitter named fart butt with daily dose, Vegeta Piccolo avatars,
who also post a big titty anime porn on their accounts. And the verifieds are so fucking angry
about it that every time they're showed to be the idiots that they are, they want that guy's
bank account information, his address and his place of employment so that they can use all
of their clout to ruin him for daring to talk back. This is old hat, by the way, I'm going to
CNN docs, the guy for making fun of them. That was like four years ago. I did a video on it back
in the day. The absolute worst site for abuse right now is Facebook, not even Twitter, Facebook,
and Facebook actually has a real name policy. So on some level, this isn't about being anonymous.
It's about stopping dissent. And of course, we all know this, right? It doesn't matter that
losing the right to be anonymous will hurt investigative journalists or whistleblowers
or free expression and privacy rights people or people who are gay or trans and still in the
closet or ex Muslims hiding from an oppressive family or people who are running away from
oppressive regimes of all types. These people will continue to screech that being anonymous
is inherently harassment and white supremacy and also their nonsense because they are simply
puppets for tyrants. And of course, we know the next step, right? As soon as you can easily
identify somebody for even the slightest of grievances, well, why not strip everything
from them? They're already guilty. And I've got a plan. The time has come to not only find these
people, not only to prosecute them for their lawless behavior, but also basically to ex
communicate them from our society. So forget about locking them up, forget about throwing away the
key. Forget about banning them from football stadiums, right? I've got a better idea. Instead,
let's make it impossible for them to actually have a life. No bank account, no ability to travel,
no passport, no benefits, nothing. Forget kicking out. Let's kick them out. We don't need them.
Britain doesn't need them. Adios amigos. And you don't like it because I've said that in Spanish,
no bank account, no ability to travel, no passport, no benefits, nothing. Of course,
these people never call for this regarding say pedophiles or rapists, maybe because they'd hit
too many of their own. This ties into cancel culture. And like I said before, it's already
been happening for years. This happened a little while ago, academic agent, a far right YouTuber,
allegedly a former Surrey lecturer was let go by his university. Now, I don't agree with AA's
politics that much, but should he be fired for them? No, of course, his GoFundMe meant to support
him and his family during that time was taken down. Because for people who have been canceled,
people who have had their anonymity stripped away from them, there is no more private life,
which is again, why this stuff isn't liberal shit, but leftist shit. It's not liberals who
say everything's political. We believe that it's important to have a non political space,
a private life. That being said, there are absolutely instances where leftists have been
very pro anonymous. Last year, somebody on GitHub programmed a face depixelizer. It does what it
says. It'll take a pixelized face and reveal it using algorithms. And here are some of the
leftist objections to it. Following the killing of George Floyd by police on May 25,
people of color across the US have been risking their lives in protests against police brutality
and a deeply racist system. Police have been known to threaten, assault and even kill protesters,
identifying them using information gathered from social media, as well as facial recognition
algorithms. The highly questionable ethics of releasing a tool that could be used to
subvert anonymization under any circumstance aside, releasing this right now is not only
incredibly dangerous, but can and will get people killed. Any use of this technology is an aid to
the illegitimate American police state and police states all over the world. What you're doing is
unethical and will lead to more and more deaths from the savage police system of the United
States. Of course, the problem is you can't really close a Pandora's box. Somebody will invent this
eventually, though I do think it's hilarious that they're calling it narc code. During the
Brianna Taylor protests, the protesters not only removed all white people, but also removed the
press. They, too, didn't want to be filmed.
A protest in DC saw protesters wearing masks, yes, because of COVID, but this wasn't allowed before,
and shining lights into the cameras of media to prevent them from documenting who was actually
there. Andy Ngo pointed out this is what Antifa were first doing to me back in 2018. Local
journalists stayed silent or said conservative media didn't deserve support. It emboldened Antifa
eventually to beat me and steal my equipment. Well, this is what happens. It starts with
conservative media, and now it is all media. Also from Andy Ngo, law enforcement in Portland
are expressing concern over Antifa's announced BLM direct action tonight in downtown. This was
back in November of 2020. Video recording was banned, which is a predictor of planned violence.
No streamers, no megaphones, no masters. The left absolutely understands the value of being
anonymous. No one is ever going to get anything done if you're filming them and giving them years
in prison or getting them killed and for what? So you can get money and a stupid action shot?
They absolutely want to go unseen. They want the media to report how stunning and brave they are,
but not actually film them as they commit crimes. To the point that the anarchist library has an
essay called In Defense of Smashing Cameras. This is where the left differs from the liberals in
their defensive anonymity. Our concern is not concerning the so-called right to take pictures
in a public place. We could care less about this boring defense that photographers resort to when
critiqued. Our question is not what are your rights in public? Rather, where do you stand
when it comes to social struggle? How do you act to further the revolt? Simply put, journalists do
not have any political right to a spectacle. They have the ability to participate in a moment of
revolt and they forgo that capacity by consigning the event to a digital memory rather than a future
possibility. While photographic evidence has been useful in the past, we maintain that by
prioritizing documentation in ignorance or indifference to its effect on an action,
journalists are not comrades. This is not a liberal defense of being anonymous. This in fact
strips away people's right to be a bystander. This is George Bush level you're with us or against us
shit. And of course they have 10 rules. One, contrary to what many protest photography tips
tell you, don't get up close. Two, if there are faces in your shot, blur them. A simple
swirl in photoshop won't do. We're talking scrambling such that the police cannot reverse
the process. Three, if there's distinctive or identifying clothing in your shot, blur them.
Four, if certain identities stick out, the few black bodies in a white protest for example,
delete the photo. Five, if you choose to participate as a spectator, keep in mind that
even spectators participate here, then realize that your participation is secondary to those
actively engaged in the moment of revolt. This means that you should step aside even if that
means losing the winning shot. Six, if possible, and it usually is,
ask for consent or indicate that you are taking a photo so that we have an option to turn away
or decline. Yes, we get it. We're in a public place you don't have to ask. But realize that failure to
ask makes us suspicious of your motivations and provides us with added reason to assert
our capacity for opacity. Seven, your camera is a weapon. Friendly fire is unacceptable.
Eight, you are a partisan in a social war. Become involved in the struggles you choose
to document. Should they be documented? If so, how should they be documented to
spread their capacities? Become a comrade and earn the trust of those around you.
Accepting professional activists. For the vast majority of us, this is not a career.
Nine, photograph the police. So again, all of these rules apply only to them and not to their
opponents. And ten, infer more guidelines from the analysis above. The left does not defend being
anonymous. It defends being anonymous for them. It's not just activists. It's not just activists
that progressives want anonymity to protect. This conversation also links very well with the
trans deadnaming thing. There is this push by progressives recently to basically remove every
possible barrier to changing your name and your gender. Even the fact that it might cost a little
bit of money down at the DMV, that's too much. Most notably in the destiny versus the serfs
debate, where Lance thought it was incredibly fucked up that Google required people to have
their dead names on their official ID for security reasons. But if you can change your name at a whim
with no cost, just easily snip all the cords to your past and then go off burden-free. I mean,
it sounds nice, but what does that let you get away with? There have absolutely been instances
of people changing their names to avoid connection to a prior crime. If you make this easier,
even under the guise of trans rights, there will always be people who exploit it.
Mastercard even created something called True Name, which allows transgender and non-binary
people to display their chosen name on their credit card. Regardless of legal status,
this is 100% going to open the way to fraud, and also trolling. Thanks, Twitter.
And we can actually see the progressive hypocrisy on being anonymous, because even as they screech
for protecting anonymity for their activists, they are absolutely overwhelmingly the faction
of cancel culture right now. And yes, I've done videos on cancel culture before, so we're not
going to dig into it too deeply. But it is important to look at some examples specifically
in terms of being anonymous. Let's start here. A Deliveroo writer in Berlin made the mistake
of saying he thought Brexit was good to some remainder British customers. He accused him
of being a Nazi and he lost his job. As of early Sunday morning, four offensive tweets using an
anti-gay slur remained active on Kyler Murray's Twitter account.
I apologize for the tweets that have come to light tonight from when I was 14 and 15.
I used a poor choice of word that doesn't reflect who I am or what I believe.
Is this not fucking ridiculous? Shit posting as a kid and it comes back to haunt you when
you're an adult. I am so happy I did not grow up in the age of social media. Holy shit,
dude. How Kevin Hart tweeted himself out of a job hosting the Oscars.
Step one, be really mean to gay people for no reason. In 2011, he tweeted,
yo, if my son comes home and tries to play with my daughter's dollhouse,
I'm going to break it over his head and say in my voice, stop, that's gay. Yes, humor was edgier
back in the day. Yes, that's not a problem. You know what? It was better. The American Humanist
Association has withdrawn an honor from Richard Dawkins. And I don't know if you're an atheist
and you're critiquing religion. I don't think it's racist to critique Islam. This is a Canadian
sports program. And this went down last year. We apologize to Hal Johnson for the racism he
experienced at TSN beginning in 1988. I mean, I'm sure it sucked, but it's 1988, dude. A 1971
Playboy interview featuring John Wayne's comments on race and sexuality have stirred a fresh debate.
Holy fuck. How long has John Wayne been dead for? Who cares? The past was problematic. Fucking live
with it. If I haven't yet made it clear to you, the point is progressives view anonymity as they
view many other things as a privilege. One set of rules for thee and another for me. And when some
dumb fuck online says, oh, you're an anonymous account, no one's trying to dox you. Just present
yourself, Mr. Anime Avatar. It sounds a whole lot like Goebbels saying, if you have nothing to fear,
you have nothing to hide. A lot of these people, the progressives, the check marks,
even the socialist activists who want this stuff, they're all pawns. None of them have any real
power, but they are being used because the actual powers that be are moving on the anonymous
question. And they're using the left's brain dead defense of removing anonymity to justify doing so.
As of April of this year, anonymous social media accounts in Australia might be gone. They may need
100 points of identification to use social media. A judge has granted the first known warrant for
law enforcement to conduct a dragnet search through the DNA of 1.3 million people in the
GED matched genetic genealogy database. 86% of those users did not explicitly consent to
law enforcement searches. The US wants smartphone location data to fight the coronavirus. The
Pentagon is surveilling Americans without a warrant revealed by a senator back in May.
And as another reminder, this isn't new. Back in 2018, Jess Phillips was calling for the banning
of anonymous social media accounts, and the Guardian was happy to support her on this.
In the present day, Diane Abbott has said that social media companies should collect names and
addresses of all social media users, stating that absolute anonymity on social media has had its
day. Last week, there was a huge controversy, as it was discovered that the NSA was actually spying
on Tucker Carlson. There's definitely been a slow boiling the frog on the anonymity issue.
Back in 2001, when we had the Patriot Act passed, they were saying they were only going to spy on
foreign enemies. By 2013, we had learned that the NSA had spied on Americans, but nobody cared.
By 2014, we had learned that the CIA had spied on the US Senate, but they were really sorry about
it. By 2017, we had learned that the FBI had spied on Donald Trump while he was president,
but I mean, he's Hitler, so who cares, right? By 2021, we had realized the NSA had spied on
US journalists, but it's just Tucker Carlson, so who gives a shit, right? It has been both
governments and corporations getting people used to the idea that it's okay if they're spied on,
that it's okay if they don't have a private life, and it seems that people generally don't object
to this until it's their job that's lost, or their friends that shun them, or their speech that's
been silenced. Even Anonymous themselves, like the activist group Anonymous, has turned into a
fucking joke. As my pal Brick once said before he got banned off Twitter, Anonymous in 2008,
we DDoS the Church of Scientology and track down pedophiles. Anonymous in 2020,
Twitter, please help us, they're ruining my poll. People for like thousands of years at this point,
people have understood the value of being anonymous, of being able to actually say what's
on your mind. Literally speaking truth to power, that is what being anonymous allows for, to have a
place that is private, to have a location where you don't have to be always on, to be able to
regroup and then come back to those things that you find politically important in life,
with a renewed energy, or with renewed arguments, or new ideas. In this video I have done what in my
opinion is a completely justified overlap between the concept of anonymity and the concept of
privacy, because when you take away one you must necessarily take away the other, and that is
absolutely what they're gunning for. They are gunning for not only your ability to be anonymous,
to say things anonymously online, to not get fired over an old take from when you were a child,
or a controversial political opinion that you really shouldn't be fired for,
but what goes with that is also the ability to live privately, to not live in a glass house.
At the same time, as a content creator who has been doxxed, I do kind of understand the objection to
it, right? Let's be honest here, let's give the devil his due. If you're a streamer, especially
if you're a lot bigger than me, I understand larger streamers have this to the nth degree,
but if you're a streamer or you're a video creator, where everything you do is hate-watched
and catalogued, and then put into an archive for like three years, only to be pulled out later by
somebody who absolutely fucking wants to destroy you, and that person is completely anonymous,
does kind of seem unfair, doesn't it? Yes, it's part of the job, but in the moment when it happens
it does feel unfair. But, because it's generally progressives doing this sort of thing,
and they want anonymity for them and not for you, they see no problems with this. They should be
anonymous, and the creators they harass should absolutely not be. There's no principles here,
there's simply power. So I understand it when a content creator says, hey, you're out here
shitting on me and like hate-watching me and cataloging everything that I do,
but you're not going to step to the plate? Like, I understand their position. But at the same time,
this is why progressives scream bloody murder when there is a popular, well-known content creator who
manages to remain anonymous. And there are some of them. Like, I don't think anyone's doxxed It's
a Gundam yet, and people fucking hate him. But forcing everybody to be named is not the answer.
In fact, it seems to me like a better answer is forcing everybody to be anonymous.
That's why I still like places like 4chan, and to a lesser extent Newgrounds,
they still hold that principle. Now, there are some solutions floating around out there.
One of them is the EU's right to be forgotten. The idea behind the right to be forgotten is
that its proponents believe that there should be a right to have private information about
a person removed from the internet. The problem with the right to be forgotten is that it
directly clashes with the right to access of information, the right to education, and yes,
the right to speech and the right to freedom of expression, as well as criticism over the
possibility of using it to rewrite history or maintain censorship. Of course, there are good
reasons to consider such a thing too. Not simply cancel culture or the right to be anonymous,
but also stuff like revenge porn or having absolute falsehoods appear whenever you get
your name searched on Google or something. However, the right to be forgotten, especially
how the EU implements it, seems to be a sledgehammer of a tool when the situation
probably requires something more like a scalpel. Lilith had this idea that doxing should be a
federal crime, it's not free speech to post people's information for malicious purposes.
Dankula replied with, I would argue that private administration information about an individual
is their private property that can only be shared with their permission. Tech companies that use
data as currency would also be seething. That seems to target most of the bad parts of the
equation here without actually infringing on people's right to free speech. I do disagree
with Lilith here though. She says, none of that lol I found your information through extensive digging,
so it's basically public. I get what she's saying, but the problem with this point of view is that
it completely disregards the fact that phone books used to be a thing. Now for those of you zoomers
don't know what a phone book is, back in the day everybody's name, address, and phone number,
in your area anyway, your local area, was listed in a phone book. And so if you wanted to look up
somebody's number and call them, all you had to do was fill out your phone book. Everyone had one,
they were given away by the city once a year for free with updates and every yearly revision,
and the concept of the phone book has since fallen out of style. Nobody knows what they are anymore,
nobody cares about them, but they are new enough that back during gamergate, back in 2014 when
gamergate was happening, and Zoe Quinn was screaming bloody murder about being doxxed by
people, it turns out that her doxxing came from the phone book. Because in 2014 they were on the
way out, but they weren't gone yet. And anyone who lived in her area or her family's area could
simply look her up in the phone book. The argument against doxxing back then was that if you could
find it in a phone book, it wasn't doxxing because that was absolutely publicly available information.
And that seems like a good argument even now. There's a difference though. There's no more
phone books. And not only is there no more phone books, people are way crazier nowadays than they
were in 2014. Cancel culture was minuscule back then compared to now. But still, Dankula seems
to have a good solution here. If we can consider data to be property, and therefore it can only
legally be shared with the person's express permission, then I think that would solve a
lot of the problems. But not all of them. There are absolutely some people out there who just
don't give a shit. They'll say, you know what, I like Facebook too much, I like Instagram too
much, I like TikTok too much, fuck it. You can have all the data, I don't care. Here it is.
I'll gladly sign whatever piece of paper you put in front of me so I can use these fun services.
And then when they go out and get fucking cancelled because all their data's out there,
it'll be too late. That being said, it's a far better solution than the government forcing
all social media to collect everyone's data and remove anonymity in the process. That sounds
absolutely fucking terrible. I wouldn't mind a world where there's like a set of social media
platforms that are old, archaic, and completely data collection heavy, and then a set of newer
social media platforms that are more anonymized. I'm okay with that. But like I said at the
beginning of the video, this is only partially about being anonymous. It is more importantly
about the destruction of the concept of privacy, and what it does to those people who have been
affected by it. I mentioned Academic Agent earlier, but there have been many YouTubers
and content creators who have had their lives destroyed by hate viewers. And those people,
in order to survive because they're now completely unemployable, they have to rely on basically the
charity of their viewers, whether that be through watching ads on YouTube or Twitch or wherever
they happen to be putting their stuff, through donations, through subs on Twitch, through super
chats, through Patreon or Subscribestar donations, whatever it is. As more people express wrong
opinions and are cancelled for it, more and more of them turn towards crowdfunding to stay alive.
And then those people who hold the same opinions, but still manage to have an income,
and let's assume that they actually care about supporting the YouTubers and content creators
that they like, well now they have to support another one, and another one, and another one.
It almost feels like a long war of attrition to slowly destroy those people who are ideologically
opposed to wokeness. If your opposition cannot even provide for themselves and their family,
then one, they're less able to move against you, and two, that is an extra burden on their
community for those people who still can support themselves. This is the reality of the culture
war. It's not going to be a bloody conflict or a riot in the streets. Those do happen,
but those are primarily a distraction. The real war is a slow, steady march to destroy all dissent.
This is the main reason why alt tech has to survive. Because if it doesn't, there will be
no anonymity. It will be a dystopia where you have no privacy and everything you do is watched.
And every single dumbfuck progressive out there will cheer it on until the day it finally comes
for them. You use the wrong pronoun, you tell the wrong joke, you make the wrong hand gesture,
say the wrong word, wear the wrong clothes, order the wrong food, sing the wrong song.
Nobody can keep track of all of their rules, so eventually everyone slips up. And as soon as you
do, you're far right, you're a bigot, you're islamophobic, you're a knuckle dragger, you're
hateful, you're white trash, you're a patriarch. All of your previous virtue signaling counts for
nothing. You can never be forgiven. You will always be that person who did that problematic
thing. You'll be unemployable, unlovable, unwanted. You will be exactly like those people that you
currently torment. This is the brave new world you've created. Welcome to the purity spiral.
It's a long way down. Hey guys, that's the end of the video, so thanks for watching. What I
described here has also unfortunately happened to my roommate. Simply, through his association
with me, he actually lost his job. And until he can get back up on his feet, he's helping me out
with my projects and this channel supporting him too. So, if you're interested in keeping us going,
please consider dropping by our gaming channel. Tomorrow night we're playing the Skyward Sword
HD release. We actually have a pretty big event planned for it, so it'll be I think a pretty
fun stream. Thanks very much for your support, and I'll see you there. I love you.
