Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and although I don't really take requests, I still measure the
amount that I receive, and do put it into account when deciding which topic to cover.
After all, what is interesting to me needs to be interesting to you as well, and today
we have a topic that I received a disproportionately high amount of requests to cover while it
was all transpiring, but little to these people's knowledge, I was already following the situation
quite closely. Detective Tro is always one step ahead, anticipating each and every move
like a bloodhound, though let me clarify I'm not a furry, I promise guys. This is the sort
of drama that blows hot and cold very quickly, and I warn people who ask me to cover it that
this would be a while, but I still think in spite of the very momentary drama, there
were a lot of messages that can be taken away from it regardless of how trending it is.
So without further ado, I suggest I provide a quick rundown of the situation, as when
I posted about this in my community tab, many people were not aware.
This is Kurskazat, they are an educational YouTube channel ran by Philip Detmer. Educational
YouTube channels are pretty much as they sound, basically content that's used to educate
or inform the viewers. Kurskazat is definitely a significant player in this community with
over 8 million subscribers, they've been making videos since 2013, and their videos
typically present themselves to deliver information with a unique animation finesse. According
to them, they want to make science look beautiful, because it is. Very respectable intentions
indeed.
Arguably however, channels like his own have some of the greatest responsibility on the
platform to deliver accurate representation of the topics they cover, because they are
not merely opinionated, but they are supposedly factual. Many people who may be slightly uninformed
go into a video with the expectation that the information presented will be truthful
and honest. A high majority of people do not pause documentaries every 5 seconds to fact
check them, because a high majority of people are not me.
However, on the other side of the spectrum, you will face vehement inspection from ruthless
academics and upcoming YouTubers alike, and if you fail to deliver your content concisely
and honestly, you risk having your reputation completely decimated, and that's important
when you're a channel like Kurskazat, and that leads us to the crux of the discussion
today.
In October 2015, they released a video that was titled Everything We Think We Know About
Addiction Is Wrong, a pretty strong title, and one that they did change in the end to
addiction. In the video, they rebut the notion that chemicals are the main root cause of
an individual becoming addicted, and actually the circumstances that many of these individuals
find themselves in are much more influential, and we should begin to ask questions about
society. This was conducted in collaboration with the works of a psychologist known as
Johann Hari. This video grew to be one of their most successful, accumulating over 15
million views, pretty incredible. However, it has also been heavily criticised as being
overly one-sided in the favour of the circumstantial narrative, and arguing about it from an excessively
objective point of view, when there is a significant amount of dissenting evidence
that challenges this.
This is where we introduce another player into this tale, a YouTuber by the name of
Coffee Break, or Steven. He's a video essayist who makes content covering various topics
related to media. He's been going for a little over two years, and has racked up some
pretty impressive video performances in that time, on fairly unique, interesting topics,
nothing to be discredited whatsoever. However, he was one of the people who wasn't entirely
happy with Kurzgesagt's video covering addiction, so he planned to make a video in which part
of it incorporated his problems with that video, and the further questions around the
credibility and responsibility of those channels. While doing this, he reached out to Philip
Detmer and Johann Hari in around February of this year, to try and ascertain their opinions
from the glorious position of hindsight. After an exchange with Detmer, Steven noticed
that Kurzgesagt had dropped a video which directly responded to some of the criticisms
that he raised in his initial emails. This video was titled Can You Trust Kurzgesagt,
in which they admit their shortcomings of their videos on refugees and of course addiction,
before stating that they would be removing these videos from their catalogue. So in response
to this, Coffee Break uploaded a video alleging that Detmer basically hoodwinked him, taking
the criticisms that Steven had presented, and making a video to get ahead of him, while
keeping him from this knowledge, thus stalling his video. I'll be breaking down the details
of all that in a bit. This video very quickly caught fire on Reddit, and led to a huge influx
of views, and subsequently rather passionate users sharply criticising Detmer for his conduct.
Kurzgesagt then decided to take on criticism by responding directly, by hosting their own
Reddit Q&A in the moment to try and quell the outrage that was growing against them.
This led to them consenting the release of the initial emails, which Coffee Break subsequently
did. However, what these revealed was that Steven's presentation in his initial video
wasn't completely accurate, and left out context that could alter the interpretation
of the exchange. This then led Steven to receiving a heavy amount of criticism, alongside the
counter-arguments that it would've been very difficult for Kurzgesagt to produce a
whole video in the space of a month, just to deflect some criticism from an incoming
video. Philip DeFranco then uploaded a video where he spent the first 10 minutes dedicated
to this one story, predominantly responding to Coffee Break's video, and claiming that
it was a bitter hit piece which misrepresented the email exchange as well as Kurzgesagt's
response video. In addition to this, Steven posted a thread on his Twitter page in which
he placed out all his arguments and the criticisms, and then declared that he would be taking
a break, a Coffee Break, from social media, likely due to the spiralling situation, but
maybe also to focus on his upcoming video.
That's just a summary of the situation, and looking at it I can understand why people
have asked me to cover it, because there are a lot of details and nuances. However, it's
important to load this analysis with the fact that Coffee Break has since released
a video apologising, and it seems like a genuine video. I'd definitely recommend checking
it out, because a lot of people haven't seen it since the controversy. I'd also
take this knowledge into the forthcoming video. I'm still doing this because I think there
are some good messages to take away, and I started working on it over a month ago and
didn't have the knowledge at the time he was going to apologise, and some of the lads
put a lot of work into it, but then unfortunately one of my editors got his stuff confiscated
for spending 100 quid of his parents' money on wine, which is so ridiculous that it has
to be true, but we're here now. With that all in mind, this will be one of the more
inconsequential videos I make, but I still hope we can have a good old discussion over it.
When I first decided that I was going to cover this video, my immediate decision was to actually
watch Kurzgesagt's original video, and although it might not seem like the most relevant thing
to do, I think it's important to see if Detmer or Coffee Break's perspective seemed
more rational or justifiable, because Detmer was at least under the perception at some
point that this content was justified in its educational tone, Steven clearly felt differently.
I went into this video with the expectation that this video was going to say something
like chemical elements don't play a part, and in fact it's all completely circumstantial.
That was the impression I not just received from Coffee Break's video, but from Kurzgesagt's
own video, but when I watched the video I did not receive that impression at all, don't
get me wrong, I understand why people may have interpreted it that way, and maybe it's
just my mental process that takes all information in moderation, but I just felt that the greater
message was that actually we tend to pin addiction too much to the chemical causes, and not enough
to the actual circumstances, understanding that there are many other environmental factors
that increase people's susceptibility to drug addiction.
I mean there's the intro.
What causes, say, heroin addiction?
This is a really stupid question, right?
It's obvious, we all know it.
Heroin causes heroin addiction, here's how it works.
If you use heroin for 20 days, by day 21, your body would physically crave the drug
ferociously because there are chemical hooks in the drug.
That's what addiction means, but there's a catch.
Just everything we think we know about addiction is wrong.
But that's as close as it gets to actual denial of causation, and even then it sounds
like they're challenging the assumption that a person is not susceptible to addiction
until they try the drug.
Is it a biased piece?
For sure.
Could they have included more caveats?
Yes, without a doubt, but when I heard the discussion surrounding it, I was expecting
something much more one-sided, when all I received was an opinion backed up with evidence.
When we are happy and healthy, we will bond with the people around us, but when we can't,
because we're traumatized, isolated, or beaten down by life, we will bond with something
that gives us some sense of relief.
Maybe that's what makes the video so harmful in its narratives.
I'm not particularly well-versed in the science of addiction, and the fact is that although
the video does present its information in a fairly systematic, objective way, it is
also claimed to omit many criticisms and counter-narratives against not just the content, but the studies,
and thus push an unchallenged point of view when actually the truth isn't as clear, which
I can understand would be a problem.
Maybe the video has just done a good job at deceiving me, and I'm sure that if you were
to challenge the research in Johan Hari's book, you'd probably find the issues that
Stephen appears to find as well, and that I can understand could cause problems.
I also think very few people are going to challenge the idea that societal conditions
don't play a role in someone's increase in vulnerability to addiction, and I can understand
how a video like this may help people, and therefore, it does make sense that Detmer
may be protective of it, in spite of the possible flaws that Coffee Break was investigating.
As a perspective, it is certainly contributory, just not as universal as it implies.
So I guess with that in mind, we can move on to the email exchange, and ask, with context,
how fair were the questions that Stephen put forward.
This is important to understand, because the opening two emails dictate a very clear tone
that might imply who's being unreasonable, which can then justify later statements.
We can't prove any intentions, but we can definitely assemble some sort of case.
So here we have Coffee Break's first email, which is in my opinion fairly reasonable,
and straightforward in the case that it is making.
It outlines many of the arguments that have been made against Hari's book, which does
throw the original video into a contentious light, especially given its framing, and given
the fact that you may have misrepresented content to approximately 18 million people,
I mean, that's a pretty big deal.
So at this point, I don't believe there's any malicious intent.
At the end of the email, he emphasises that he doesn't want to make a gotcha piece,
given the influence of the video, I doubt many people would say it shouldn't be challenged,
whether they've moved on from that stage or not, and although these happenings shouldn't
be mirrored on the character of a person years later, their narrative should be reflected
on to make sure that other channels don't make the same mistake.
However, Philip wasn't really buying it, and stated the light that I saw when I watched
the video, that as a quote take, it can stay to exist as a helpful one, and yes, as a take
it works, as a philosophical point of view, a high majority of the video definitely works
as that, however, if the actual research that the conclusions were based on was inherently
faulty, then that is a problem, and it should be discussed.
At the end of the day, Philip does come across as someone in a bit of denial, particularly
when he responds and alleges that it does seem like a gotcha piece, therefore, I can
understand why Steven responds fairly in depth to explaining his intentions and the evidence,
it does seem like a pretty honest email, and goes into persuasive depth explaining that
he does not have malice.
Now, it's possible that Detmer didn't look at his channel and assume that he could have
been a journalist looking for a spicy headline, I mean, he does use the word journalist, or
he could have been well aware of Coffee Break's videos, and had a negative perception of them,
maybe he knows a school of life, and he saw his video where Coffee Break criticises them
pretty harshly.
Educational channels may already have a negative perception of Steven's work, so I think
at this point you have a bit of a stalemate, maybe Detmer's being a bit harsh given the
very plausible criticisms of his content, but on the other hand, when you've made
a mistake, you don't want it being exploited to have conclusions drawn about your character
that aren't necessarily true to this day.
There has been a lot of conversation about intentions, both sides have alleged that they
were acting in ill intent at some point, and I don't get the impression that either
of them are displaying any sort of malice, Steven's going into great depth to explain
a heavily researched idea that clearly matters to him, and there's no necessity for malice
if Coffee Break obtains what he envisions, Detmer probably suggests an interview because
it will offer him the most unfiltered way to convey his present sentiments to ironically
avoid journalistic paraphrasing.
It seems at this point that with the subsequent emails, an interview is on the cards.
So what went wrong?
Well.
When you interact with someone new, you're typically dealing with a very fragile formation
of trust.
You're sharing information with a stranger which makes you vulnerable to exploitation,
and no one really wants that.
Although I believe the conversation has been conducted fairly reasonably at this point
with justified views on each side, it's also quite easy to note that the exchange
is still rather tense.
These guys are both very sceptical, as a smaller YouTuber you're always concerned that you
could be taken advantage of with a lesser platform to retaliate, and you probably have
the perception that many large creators are just corporate machines who solve their soul
to get there.
On the other hand, large creators are very aware of the scope on them, and a channel
like Kurzgesagt's reputation rests on viewer trust, so having their content discredited
is a real concern.
These people don't know each other, therefore you receive the impression that all it takes
is one failed communication to screw this all up, and in the end it happens.
Steven writes another rather in-depth email explaining his series and content, as well
as explaining his journey of research with Johan Hari, and provides the time frame of
the video plan.
Phillip then sends an email saying that the earliest they conduct the interview is the
end of next week, and that he'll need the questions in advance.
This was the last email before Kurzgesagt released his video, and Kurzgesagt's video
addressed a few of the narratives that Steven wrote in his initial video, as documented
in the Coffee Break upload.
Steven wrote,
Unfortunately, we did not reach out to scientists or do extra research on the papers that were
the basis for the video's thesis.
We simplified an idea so much that it made a great story, but became distorting.
We often look at creators on the internet for reliable information.
We rely on the fact that they're careful and rigorous.
The world is too complex for simple answers, and we don't want to be the ones giving them.
This led to an implied narrative that Kurzgesagt had basically used the criticisms that Coffee
Break had brought up and made a response to them, while also removing the video in question,
a surprising backpedal from his earlier email.
Out of our work, and these two videos don't make us proud, so today we deleted them.
In his emails with me, he seemed happy with the addiction video and didn't want to take
it down.
However, with that said, looking at the emails, it's not as cut and dry as it first appears.
I think it's important to get the first detail out of the way, that Coffee Break never
sent Detmer any questions.
Does that mean that Coffee Break wasn't actually interested in the interview?
No, not at all.
In fact, I can understand that given Detmer's rather slow responses, he was under the impression
that he didn't have to rush sending out the questions, but equally it did affect Coffee
Break's video, because in his clips, Stephen presented it as if the conversation had closed
on this agreement, and a commitment that one side had not honoured.
I share with him my idea, and some of the questions and criticisms I had, and he replied
to me that he would be interested in doing an interview, provided I wait.
He was busy travelling, and told me to wait till early March before we could do the interview.
And March 3rd was the day I found out what Philip had been really busy doing, too busy
to answer my questions.
But in reality, Stephen had left it very open ended, and by not providing further correspondence,
he did not give Detmer an impetus to respond further.
Now, does that mean on principle that he can't be angry of the video if his instinct was correct?
No, but what would have been more advisable is an email to perhaps confront Detmer on
the release of this video, I assume they both still had contact, and then at least he would
have had the chance to explain himself, he would have been able to ascertain Detmer's
position on the interview, as Detmer claimed in a statement to DeFranco that he still would
have done it.
We are.
Naturally of note here, Philip sent me a statement saying,
I didn't stall him with malice in mind, but I also didn't motivate him to work faster.
Of course I wanted to have the first word on my own failings.
I have been working on and off on the video since early 2017, which made it extra frustrating.
So I decided to finish the video and release, it felt like the right thing to do.
I never would have thought that he'd go this far and purposefully misrepresented our email
conversation.
It is sad this whole thing happened, I really would have done the interview with him.
This was a mighty L for Steven, as now Detmer has the reasonable high ground of saying that
he would have done the interview, but he won't, because of this conflict.
The problem is, in this instance, what Steven did changes the perception, it makes it look
like Steven did not seek resolution, more so instigation, and we don't tend to side
with the instigator.
Do I believe he just wanted a spicy hit piece?
No, in fact, in my opinion, he probably felt like he spent so much time sharing copious
amounts of information with this person about what he was investigating, divulged so much
of it to Phillip, and been so transparent, he likely then thought that Detmer's behaviour
was in bad faith when Kurzgesagt released that video.
But I still feel that even if you're doubtful about a person you're confronting, you should
confront them one more time, because the worst result of a confrontation is that they provide
alternative information that prevents you from making a video, and if you made a video,
they would have presented the information afterwards and made you look like an idiot.
Another huge problem people had with the Coffee Break video was the paraphrasing.
I've always found the concept of paraphrasing in these instances to be rather weird, if
you're explaining what someone was saying, wouldn't it just be easier to just show
what they're saying?
I mean, I digress, I get the respect for privacy, but I find it strangely pedantic and impractical,
relating to situations like this.
For me, confidentiality is something relating to specific topics, and if you can't explain
it without leaving out details, then it makes me question whether you should be explaining
it at all.
He basically says, hey, the addiction video wasn't perfect, but I feel it was good enough.
On one hand, I don't find this clip a huge deal, the wording would have worked if he'd
phrased it as Detmer saying it was good enough to remain up on YouTube, which he does actually
show at a later time on the video.
But also, saying something is good enough on the quality barometer, and good enough
to remain up on YouTube due to its positive cultural impact, are two very different perspectives,
it wouldn't have hurt Stephen to include those extra details.
On the other hand, I feel that although Coffee Break wasn't entitled to that knowledge,
Detmer definitely could have saved a lot of hassle by informing Stephen that he had a
video in the works that did respond to these questions, and Detmer did seem to imply that
It seems like a real issue of transparency, and neither party had the assumption of trust,
and when Stephen interpreted Detmer as breaking that trust, he took every single worst reservation
he had of the sort of channels like Curse Gazettes and projected it.
It's clear in the emails, he had done a lot of research, and I can understand why
that would have annoyed him, it does derail the basis for an interview, and if Detmer
stalked him and didn't disclose the information he was pushing a video through, I can understand
why he'd feel a bit pissed off.
And Stephen's not innocent here either, and he could have at least sought more understanding
before releasing this video, but what can be understood, well, let's talk about practical
details.
So this all blew up on Reddit in the true fashion, with a rallying battle cry of attention
brought to it, and in the classic David vs Goliath scenario, people went at Curse for
what they had been presented by one side.
But in this scenario, Curse Gazette was actually there to host their own Q&A, and this changed
the tide rather quickly, and brought up some legitimate points.
For one, unless he reused assets for which there was no real evidence of, it would have
been very difficult to create a video in the space of a month, and it must have been the
work for some length of time, some say it was almost two years, therefore making the
whole idea that he'd just hijacked the narrative kind of unlikely, but okay, it was still kind
of ambiguous at the time, because Kofi Break's points relating to the video didn't necessarily
cover the entirety of Curse Gazette's video length, and at this point, both sides kind
of thought it played into their hands.
What we know is that from the Reddit follow-up Q&A, that Kofi Break at least provided some
push for the video to come out, and the demo would have to have altered some content.
Then there was this discussion about the second video included in the video as proof that
Kofi Break's research couldn't have influenced it.
"...dressed two of his bad videos instead of just the one, but this would make sense
whether he stole my video idea or already had a video in the works.
If you know two past videos are wrong, and you decide that based on someone asking too
many questions, you're going to delete one of them and spin the story, it only makes
sense to delete the other.
So this is just evidence that Curse Gazette is smart."
And honestly, here is where we see a problem forming with a lot of Stephen's arguments,
is that they don't prove anything beyond reasonable doubts.
I interpret this argument as implying that Detmer was smart enough to avoid the argument
that he plagiarised a single video by including this extra video in his self-analysis, and
no doubt Detmer's a smart man.
I mean, you have to be to an extent with his work, but the problem is that it's equally
explainable from a perspective that this was part of a greater video, that he had been
working on before.
We know that Kofi Break's criticism isn't that unique, and although Detmer may be clever,
may be very clever, you don't have the evidence to prove that this was his train of thought,
and that's important when you make a dark video with overdramatic music preaching about
transparency.
This video wasn't inspired by self-reflection on responsible research, it was inspired to
cover their ass.
And what's disgusting is how well this has worked out for them.
Look at how celebrated they are for coming out so transparently.
And I think what I find the most distasteful is not them trying to get ahead of a story,
but the way they act so self-righteous and like they're such good ethical researchers.
You need to have a tone that justifies the information and the level of conviction you
have, and one of the biggest problems with the Kofi Break video is that it oversteps
in its tone without having the conviction in its knowledge.
Detmer can be criticised for sure, I don't like the fact that he stools Stephen and didn't
inform him about the video, but the criticism that Kofi Break raised wasn't the first
time that someone had brought it up, and therefore the claim of actually plagiarising the supposed
interview seems a bit far-fetched.
Criticisms aren't exclusive.
When the dark tone was revealed not to be fully justified, and with the information
that was omitted shown in the publication of the emails, people felt deceived, and many
of these people were people who participated in a rather harsh mobbing of cursed gazettes
on Reddit when the initial situation transpired, so they were embarrassed too, and a lot of
people turned this back onto Kofi Break.
In his tweets, Stephen sums up the main points of criticism against him, but that's the
problem, although these are the roots of the misinformation, what they lead to is much
more harmful when you combine it with the rhetoric in the video.
If I gave some wrongful information about a group of people, and then went on a five
minute rant about how this implies that the group of people are just terrible and cannot
be trusted ever again, it would be much worse than if I just gave the misinformation, because
the former situation requires a level of confidence that in this situation has not been well founded.
This led to a lot of people implying that Kofi Break's video was created opportunistically,
out of this spite that he just wanted to catch debt morale to expose him.
I don't know if it's that. As said, he wore his heart on his sleeve in a lot of the
emails, and I think given his other content, he didn't really have too much of a motivation
to snap like that and cash in on an easy expose. He's relatively successful for his size,
and his videos all typically outperform his subscriber count. His circumstances didn't
really precede such an action being driven out of the motivation for clout.
As Detmer said himself, it doesn't seem like malice, more just a moment of someone
who's lost their temper with someone they feel has screwed them over. But what were
the motivations, and what conclusions can really be drawn from this very weird and wild situation?
I think as a smaller YouTuber, you tend to be cynical towards the large groups of craters,
and that can be seen in Kofi Break's later tweets about that theory. Is it possible they
have a little gang going on? Sure, I have my group chats in which I share intel and
opinions with people, and discuss the content we're making, and the people who've made
content about us. These guys do tend to engage in some agreement, but at the end of it all,
if you have enough solid evidence, then you will be able to topple these people, and Steven
just didn't. If there's reasonable doubt, these guys are gonna stick up for each other
because they think they know that person's character better than you, and they want to
support their friends. Kofi Break had the chance to gain some more elaborative information
and didn't, in my opinion because he didn't trust Detmer's words, because he felt he'd
been screwed over. Detmer, on the other hand, wasn't perfect in his conduct either, and
I think he kind of acknowledges that. The problem was that he was clearly worried about
being cancelled if his videos were shown to be poorly researched, he feels his 2015 videos
don't represent him now, and they probably don't. I watched some of his more recent
content, and it's well written and well referenced, but at the same time, just because
we shouldn't cancel someone doesn't mean we shouldn't have a discussion about the
influence they had at the time. Those videos still received millions of views, and they
may not have considered the consequences at the time, but they did have consequences nonetheless.
You may be able to counter criticism of your current mentality, but you can't escape
what was conducted. But with that in mind, with the fact that the discussion should be
about the consequences of the video, I want to ask you people one final question, does
Kurzgesagt's video reflecting on his mistakes change much of Coffee Break's video? I mean,
it screws up the interview, which I can understand may annoy Stephen a little, but at the end
of the day, Stephen wanted to know the information from Kurzgesagt, and now he has it. If you're
making a video on the actual implications of misinformation on the internet, then this
doesn't affect the narrative. They still made the video, it still had major consequences,
and I can't read the mind of Stephen, but I assume that's what he was making the video
on. And I watched Coffee Break's uploaded video about it called Pop Science, and it
covers these ideas in a lot more depth. It's a great video, he doesn't actually reference
Kurzgesagt's video for obvious reasons, but it was still a really compelling video
that covers the topic of simplification in Pop Science well. I mean, Kurzgesagt's video
covered the criticism surface level at best. Compare these two clips.
It sounds like Coffee Break's video has a lot more to reveal, and a lot more to discuss.
The main point of Kurzgesagt's video is relating to how they feel about the video
in hindsight, and although they reflect on some of Stephen's criticisms, they don't
really nullify them, nor would I say they have stolen them from the specific context
that they were going to be used from in the upcoming Coffee Break video. If everything
Coffee Break had said in his initial email is true, then he shouldn't have worried
about his research being undone. I get that he feels a bit monked off, but if his intention
was to question the influence of creators and consequences to that effect, then he should
have been fine, and he was fine. It looks like Kurzgesagt has moved on from his old
mistakes and although we should always question these things as standards for all channels,
I wouldn't hold it against him, and that kinda leads me back to where I started. This
is not a big deal, could Phillip have been more honest? Sure, but we don't know the
extent to this, and we certainly can't draw any clear conclusions on his character, and
although I don't think Coffee Break made the video for Clout, it did seem rather personal
on the basis that he felt like he'd been misled, and although I can empathise with
the annoyance after he was so open and in depth, I think it's moments like that that
if you don't care, you carry on, and just finish the video that you started on, and
if you do care, you confront them, and see what they have to say for themselves. It will
give you more of an outlook, and probably more to actually respond to, and now because
of that, Steven has taken a fat L, but in all fairness, he owned it, and he had the
humility to admit it. I'd also like to point out that this is the second incident that
has been blown up by Reddit on the passionate whim of individuals without further investigation,
obviously the previous one being the Matt Watson scenario, the difference being with
that one, that there was no person to really provide a counter narrative because YouTube
never tells us anything. This one we had Detmer responding, and changing the perspective
of a lot of people, he knows exactly how to respond to these sorts of comments, and knows
exactly how to blunt a lot of the criticism that was coming at him, he knows how to set
points against him, and then it will lead people to build off that and then turn that
onto Coffee Break. He was very very good in his Reddit Q&A, and if you want a lesson in
how to respond, I know I talk about bad responses a lot, but Curskazat's Reddit Q&A was a
masterstroke in how to respond. Let me make this clear, the Reddit Q&A didn't change
the validity of the arguments per se, but what you saw was a load of people mobbing
Curskazat without the full picture, when Curskazat was there to offer his perspective. At that
point, maybe it's time to take a moment of self reflection before jumping on something
we don't entirely understand, and because the whole situation was so polarised the pendulum
completely swung one way or the other, one point attacking this person, and then that
person, and maybe everyone was just a bit bored so they needed some drama to spice their
life up, but I'd really be careful with the power of the mob, it will backfire in
worse ways than this. Can we really trust Curskazat? I mean not entirely, but that's
the case for all these channels, I had a friend who helped me out with some of the research
for this video, who was an expert in biology, and they watched one of their videos relating
to the subject, and they took issue with some of the stuff that was said, I'll leave their
Twitter link in the pinned comment. However, I don't think this situation is wholly relevant
to that question, because this situation is much more related to a personal dispute that
was at most given the outlet in that extra Curskazat video, which will probably not be
repeated. If you feel that some content is inaccurate then you have every right to express
it and call them out for it, and question the influence of that content. The problem
is that both Phillip and Steven themselves as people, not as channels, clearly distrust
each other, and when that semblance of transparency wasn't displayed, one made the worst assumption
about the other, it went off the rails, and you've ended up with this very messy situation.
On the other hand, this is an easy lesson in exposed videos, if you're going to try
it and prove someone isn't trustworthy and put it over in a strong tone, then you better
nab the receipts baby, or you're gonna get charged, especially when the other party
is more than prepared to respond. But that's the tea, or the coffee in this instance.
I'd also like to add that this video is sponsored by ExpressVPN, given the recent
laws that might be restricting internet usage in the future, especially the glorious incoming
porn ban in the UK, such a progressive country, I thought I'd give them a complimentary
plug and say their service has been doing me really well, and if anyone's considering
it, you can get 3 months out of 12 months free, so basically 25% off by clicking the
link in the description below.
So yes, there is the video, I hope you guys enjoyed it, this one was a bit easier, a bit
more easy going, which was nice, wasn't as emotionally draining, but it was a bit more
contentious in many ways, because it's very easy to condemn someone who's already
hated.
I want to give a big shout out to my editors who have done a fantastic job, love you guys
very much, you are legends, please, I'm gonna leave their links in the pinned comment, go
check them out, go send them some love, appreciate them.
Also big shout out to my Patrons, list up on screen right now, and I have to give an
individual thanks to my $50 patreons, which are some hullabaloo, and $100 patreons, Evening
Steel and Brandon are quite sensational gents, I'm very very impressed, very impressed
indeed.
If you want to reach me on Twitter, at The Right Opinion, Facebook, I have links there,
and Discord too, I try and link that, I should probably make sure the link hasn't expired
this time, I get some complaints in that behalf, but yes, join them if you need to,
they'll be in the pinned comment, otherwise, I don't have too much else to say, love you
guys a lot, thank you for the support of recent, and hopefully by the time this is out, we'll
have reached 300-
Thank you for that, have a great day guys, have a great day.
