Hello my friends, it's the end of the year and I've got a spare 30 minutes or so, so
I'm going to record this video off the cuff for you.
Inspired by my friend Anna's Twitter post here.
What was your favorite low IQ Twitter discourse this year?
This is the low IQ Twitter awards, guys.
And there are a lot of good ones in here, like for example, Abolish Kitchens.
I remember that stuff.
I think he even replied.
Mommy's wanting the communal kitchens of the Soviet Union back because owning your
own kitchen is a waste of resources and space and a sign of bourgeois decadence.
Yeah, that was a thing.
I recall someone saying, no one needs a kitchen.
In fact, no one needs an ex seems to be a common logic with the communists online.
They did the same thing when the Stadia shut down and I was talking about that back in
that video.
There was that one idiot who was like, no one needs a console.
It's more sustainable if we all just run things from Google servers.
It's like, shut the fuck up.
This person, of course, says the same as every year, can't get pride.
That is an especially cancerous discourse.
That's for sure.
EBT fast food.
I don't remember that one.
I'm considering the name of it.
Maybe I'm happy that it didn't happen.
NFTs are transphrenology in sports.
Oh God.
Oh yeah.
The whole restaurants are exploitative thing.
Like the idea of restaurants and after the revolution, everyone will cook their own food.
You can do that now.
And actually I've seen the inverse too.
I've seen the inverse where people were saying like, after the revolution, you will simply
order food from a centralized source.
Oh yeah.
The anarchist supply chains.
This was like when doe and demon mama were fighting over because they're both like, and
comms, you know, anarcho communists.
They wanted to like destroy supply chains and prevent goods from being moved around.
And it's like, how, how do you, how, how do you expect to redistribute if you have no
supply chains, you fucking morons, those kids don't look those people up, by the way, they're
literally the dumbest people on the internet.
It's not fucking worth it.
Here's one that I remember.
This is from grumpy shrubbery and my God, this makes my brain leak out of my ears.
Unfriendly reminder.
If you claim to advocate on behalf of the mentally ill and or neurodivergent, but exclude
people with personality disorders, particularly narcissistic personality disorder from your
activism, you're an activist.
You're an ableist.
You don't get to pick and choose with which disabilities are worth your time.
You don't have to understand someone's brain to know that ableism is bad.
That's the whole fucking point.
So let me get this straight, if you don't let that narcissist steal everything from
you and then rape your fucking beheaded corpse, you're a, you're being an ableist.
Well sign me up for bigot school, baby.
This person, by the way, grumpy shrubbery, this person's insane.
They regularly have the most terminally online brain rotted takes I've ever seen.
For example, this is their most viral tweet of the year.
It really doesn't sit right with me when people make fun of people who can't cook.
It's not their fault that no one taught them.
And learning any skill as an adult can be really daunting, especially when cookery is
such an overwhelmingly broad concept, ha ha.
They can't even boil an egg.
That's not funny.
It's shit.
They never had an opportunity to learn.
Instead of just providing that opportunity, you're just going to laugh at them.
OMG, get a life.
Having opportunities to learn to cook as a kid is a massive privilege.
Yes, this is the infamous boiling an egg is classist discourse.
The recipe starts by telling you to boil an egg.
You Google how to boil an egg.
It tells you to boil a pot of water.
How much water?
Which pot?
What temperature?
You give up and order a pizza.
Hey, I feel personally called out here.
Everyone's missing the point.
What you see as obvious is not obvious.
I've never taught them.
This is an example.
I know how to boil water, but also set the stove down to the highest temperature isn't
some intuitive thing a person knows.
It's not an instinct.
These people, they seem like they seem like they're like actually retarded.
Like they're actually remedial.
They have to go to the special classroom in school because they can't do the most basic
fucking things.
Okay.
Here's the thing about boiling an egg.
All right.
Assume that you had to boil an egg and assume that all you could do is trial and error.
You have your dozen eggs, you have your water, you have your pot.
Maybe you put the egg, the egg into the pot and then you don't add the water and then
it burns the egg and then your smoke alarm goes off.
Okay.
There's attempt one.
Don't do that.
Maybe you put water and maybe you boil it too much and the egg gets way too hot and
explodes.
That happens sometimes, especially when you take it out of the water.
Okay.
You boil it too much.
And you're learning, you know, the third one, you cook it up.
Maybe you, uh, you cook it too little and then it's kind of raw on the inside.
All right.
You know, people learn it's trial and error.
You don't need to be taught by someone.
You should have the mental faculty to just give something a go and see what sticks, which
is what makes a lot of these conversations.
So like absolutely fucking ridiculous.
You know, just the idea that you should have to have the minimum amount of standards and
just, Hey, maybe, you know, you're an adult now.
You're not this, you know, 15 year old, quirky neurodivergent activist teen.
You're in your twenties.
Now you gotta be taking care of yourself.
You gotta do your own laundry.
You gotta make your own food.
Welcome to being a person.
How about you try a few things and figure it the fuck out.
All right.
At some point it stops being classist.
It stops being ableist and it just becomes regular fucking human living that apparently
you can't do.
It's kind of feels like that.
They them household meme video that I did like six months ago.
I would not want a fucking room with any of these people.
These are the same individuals who blame capitalism or the bourgeois or their landlords
or their parents that they can't hold down jobs or afford mortgages.
If you can't boil an egg, you can't own a fucking house.
And Anna's not the only person doing this sort of thing.
You've got, what was the most chronically online discourse you saw this year?
Mine's gotta be chopping tomatoes as elitist.
Oh my God.
Do I really want to dive down more than one of these threads?
Sometimes every once in a blue moon, I think you guys ask too much of me.
I unironically hate this like infantilization of adults, but like it's not even infantilization
by some kind of overarching authority.
They infantilize themselves.
They, they make themselves look as like as weak and impotent as they possibly can.
Like, look at this, look at this guy.
Hello Seattle.
I haven't left my apartment in over two years due to crippling anxiety and my work from
home job.
Today I finally went out and got an adult happy meal.
Dude.
God, I don't know how, how mean I want to be because there's like the, on the one hand
okay, crippling anxiety.
Good job for actually like taking a step outside and you're doing it, but how in the fuck did
you let it get this bad?
And the worst part is that when older people like Gen X or whatever, they noticed that
this is like the hip new thing with the kids.
And so they purposely do the infantilizing thing as a way to relate.
And it's like, Oh, here, watch this and cringe with me.
It's Monday night and here's what's happened.
V, what are you, what are you doing under my desk?
Well under the desk is kind of my thing.
I mean, but here's the thing.
You can stay for now, but when it comes time to voting, you're going to have to get up
because you've got climate change legislation on the ballot.
You've got gun safety and if we can elect more pro-choice members of Congress, we can
re-institute Roe versus Wade as the law of the land.
So you can't stay here.
You're going to have to take a little bit of time to vote now about time to say that
I voted for McCain in 2008, as long as you voted, this is how the Democrats will keep
winning elections.
Guys.
There's a lot of talkers hiding under tables from the world and Obama coming and sitting
down and being like, it's all right, buddy.
This seems like mentally handicapped advertising for a mentally handicapped generation.
This entire infantilizing sentiment culminated with this video that went viral while I was
off busy being a corpse.
I'm sure you've seen literally everyone else's take on this, so I won't spend too long on
it, but let's at least take a quick view.
People wonder why we need a union at Starbucks and oh my, oh my God, I have to stop right
now.
We're five seconds into the video and I'm already stopping.
Unions have their place, right?
But man, every single one of my experiences with a union has been negative.
And no, you don't need a union at a fast food place.
Like this is not supposed to be a career.
This is a revolving door job.
Use it as a stepping stone, make some quick cash, get the fuck out.
If you're sitting here thinking this is where you're going to be in 10, 20 years, dude,
you got to be shooting higher than this.
I am literally about to quit.
Like I, I don't know if I'm going to do it, but like, I really want to, I almost walked
out today and I'm...
Do it pussy.
Do it.
I'm crying in the bathroom right now and I almost cried on the floor.
It's just, I like, it gets, I'm like a full-time student.
Oh my God, dude, you're, you're a full-time student and you're doing this part-time job
when you got to go into the break room and like cuddle up and cry.
Really?
Welcome to a job, dude.
Like what the...
I'm scheduled part-time, 25 hours a week.
Yeah, it's part-time dude.
On the weekends they got me opening clothes.
They got me doing an eight hour shift.
Yeah, that's an being an adult.
Welcome to regular work.
Regular works, 40 hours a week, nine to five, baby.
Both Saturday and Sunday, I'm like three and a half hours into my shift.
There's so many customers and we have four people on the floor all day.
Oh, oh, you poor, you poor child.
There's work to do at work and I can't handle it.
Only five people were put on the schedule and somebody had to call out and there were
four people running the whole store and there's so many customers and there's possibly scheduled
five people.
Yeah.
Welcome, welcome to the lunch rush at Starbucks.
People are coming in, they want their coffees, they want, I mean, I think it makes sense.
They want their sandwiches or donuts or whatever the fucking Starbucks, you know, most, most
coffee places do that.
You know, people want their food.
This is what you're paid for.
You're paid, I can't believe I have to explain this, you're paid to get the coffee and get
the sandwich and get the donut and then give it to the people who have paid you money for
it.
All right.
Like this is your job.
You're not describing anything that is out of the ordinary.
This is something you should be used to by now that, oh my God, there's people and they
want, they want their food.
Oh, this is terrible.
Karl Marx, save us.
We only have 13 people employed at this store and there's so many customers.
The customers, they're coming like zombies, donuts, coffee, we don't have fair scheduling.
Managers don't care about us.
Our manager was supposed to come in this weekend and he took himself off the schedule so he
wouldn't be able to be held accountable for calling out.
He just literally tore down the schedule that he was scheduled on and put up a new schedule
where he wasn't on the schedule.
Also, he couldn't have even seen that he was scheduled in the first place because he didn't
want to be held accountable for not wanting to come in.
Okay.
Good shot.
Okay.
Listen, listen.
All right.
Here, here's the deal with part time.
Your managers don't like you.
You don't like your managers.
You're not friends.
You're not comrades in the struggle.
And this whole like, oh my God, the manager, the manager didn't come in on the weekend.
We had to do it.
You know what managers, you know, sometimes you get like shit bosses, right?
But a lot of the time managers are actually doing other jobs that are just as important.
You're just not seeing them.
It's like, oh, my manager is sitting in the office on the computer.
I can't fucking believe.
You know what he's doing on that computer?
He's ordering stock for the store.
Okay.
And so he spends a little while ordering stocks that you actually have, you know, donuts that
you can bake and coffee that you can pour.
A lot of these complaints about terrible managers, like 99 percent of them are just complete
in total ignorance about what other people in the workplace do.
They don't want to help us.
We need a union because this can't happen.
This can't happen.
We need fair scheduling.
What do you what do you fucking mean fair scheduling?
You're getting twenty five hours a week.
You're there.
They seem to be working around your classes.
You know, you're saying I'm a full time student.
They only schedule me on weekends.
Oh, when you don't have classes.
Okay.
You know what?
I was working part time.
I've worked many part time jobs.
I've been like, listen, I got other shit going on.
You can only schedule me on these days for these times.
If you can't fit me in.
All right.
I guess I get less hours than I should.
But no, I was firm with it because that's what you do when you're a fucking adult.
All right.
You remain firm.
Here's when I can work.
It's a part time job.
You're not my primary concern.
Either they let you go and you got to find another job, which is no big deal.
Part time jobs are, you know, easy come easy go.
Or they schedule you on your availability.
Welcome to being an adult.
We need managers to hold themselves accountable for helping their workers.
They refuse to turn mobile orders on.
We need the liberty to be able to do that because there's so many mobile orders and
I need to get through all of them.
And then people are yelling at me because I don't have their orders ready and they don't
know what to do.
I can't do it.
Oh, God.
There have been so many times where like retarded fucking customers have yelled and I've just
been like, all right, dude, whatever.
Like you, you got to get used to this.
All right.
Yeah, it sucks.
You probably shouldn't treat wages poorly.
You probably shouldn't treat wages poorly.
But welcome.
Welcome.
Welcome to how it is.
Listen, sometimes, sometimes an amateur filmmaker from Las Vegas in 1997 needs to go through
your drive through and abuse the wages there for his film.
Only SFO discord watchers will get it.
The customer was misgendering me today, like really badly.
I didn't have their order ready.
And so they were just like talking to each other and they're like, she's clearly incompetent.
I have a full mustache and beard.
Wait, you're trans?
Huh?
I mean, I guess that explains a lot of the instability, but no, I couldn't tell.
So well done on that.
You just seem like a soy boy.
I don't get accommodations for being neurodivergent.
I don't.
What?
What you fucking?
What fucking accommodations for neurodivergency like whatever the fuck are you autistic?
Like what is it?
Like, is there going to be like a special corner of the break room up there where it's
like it's all like padded walls or something like what the fuck do you want?
Do you want like a kitten petting area?
Like maybe you should go work at LinkedIn.
They seem to be really cushy over there.
I only got my wits out with this job.
I really am.
Here's what you do.
All right.
You're a man now.
So you got to act like a man.
All right.
You got to set boundaries and you got to stick to them.
And if it turns out that your workplace actually is really shit, well, then it means you got
to move on.
If it's not, then it means you have to quite literally grow a pair.
Now I'm not going to harp on this guy too much after this because because he really
did get raked over the fucking coals when this video went viral, like a ton of YouTubers
are reacting to this guy and making fun of him.
It was the perfect storm for rightoids on the Internet.
You know, trans Starbucks barista cries about really simplistic part time work.
I loved this shit when it happened and it definitely went too far.
That's for sure.
Like there's no reason for this to be featured on Fox News.
Fox News is not a rightoid YouTube channel that does react content and it seems like
the culture war has just rotted everyone's brain out.
And this is why the trans Starbucks barista is my personal pick for the lowest IQ Twitter
discourse of the year solely because it was a perfect storm of ridiculousness that went
way, way too fucking far.
You can tell a low IQ Twitter discourse specifically by noticing that if you actually analyze it
for more than, you know, five seconds and with more than five brain cells, you recognize
that they're all products of immense privilege, generally made by young leftist people who
are probably leftist, let's be real, because they're pretty young, who haven't really experienced
the world, who haven't really experienced any sort of oppression, haven't really worked
a day in their lives.
And the minute that their soft bodies, soft minds and soft lives experience even the slightest
little bit of resistance to anything that they want to do, it's oppression.
And so it turns into classism or ableism or whatever the fuck ism.
And if they're totally online, they make it into a low IQ Twitter discourse.
It is the best part of Twitter.
How stupid some of these fucking people can be.
I have tried many times to quit Twitter.
I probably never will simply because the laugh value is too great.
I can't wait for next year's low IQ Twitter discourses.
It's going to be incredible.
And I hope you guys are here for it.
I will see you then.
I love you.
