Okay, somebody explain this to me, why the hell does everyone hate Elon Musk?
Like where does Elon Musk derangement syndrome come from?
I know there's a recent kerfuffle about Elon Musk being chosen as Times Person of the Year
for 2021, we'll get into that a little bit later, but this has been going on for quite
a while.
Back in 2018, Aaron Bieber wrote a hit piece on the Daily Beast targeted towards Elon Musk.
What it's like when Elon Musk's Twitter mob comes after you.
When female journalists like me dare to question the SpaceX and Tesla founder as a predictable
result, we get called bitches, idiots, and worse.
Oh no.
Hey, uh, is this you Aaron Bieber saying to Elon Musk that he's pretty much the worst?
Or even earlier saying, you sent a thing to space, it cost a bazillion dollars, you sent
an advertisement, you're gross, why not throw some science instruments up there?
Why not put kid science experiments on it?
Why not use this moment to do some good or further education or anything else?
Not an advertisement.
This is in reference to Elon launching the Tesla car into space.
Now I think that there actually were some instruments on there, wasn't there?
The point being, where do you think those bazillion dollars went?
I mean, they went into the pockets of the engineers and the people who worked on the
project.
And now they're using that money to buy houses or buy cars or buy groceries or investing
or whatever they're doing.
The bazillion dollars hasn't vanished.
It's still in the economy.
But most importantly of all, Aaron, Aaron Bieber, do you think it's this stuff that
might've gotten you some blowback and not just asking Elon Musk questions for your article?
Do you think it might've been because you're an asshole?
Vox also wrote a similar hit piece titled, why is Elon Musk raging at big media?
The article is basically about how, in some people's opinion, Tesla's stock is overvalued
and Tesla cannot possibly hope to produce its products at the rate that they advertise.
And apparently how Elon Musk is raging about it, except there was that huge meme two years
later where Elon said on Twitter, Tesla's stock is too high IMO, the stock subsequently
crashed and these exact same groups of people began screaming because I guess their portfolios
are being wrecked.
I don't fucking know.
It honestly just seems like this inborn hatred of somebody who is simultaneously successful
and charismatic.
You got shit like Elon saying, take the red pill and Ivanka Trump replying with taken
and then Lily Wachowski, one of the creators of the matrix saying, fuck both of you because
we all know where the red pill came from and what it now means.
Also this is a year and a half old, but Lily, it turns out your new movie fucking sucked.
Don't worry, review coming soon.
Around this same time, Elon Musk was fighting with California state government.
This was around the start of the pandemic when the lockdowns for the first time really
hit full swing and California said, you're closing your plant down Elon Musk and he said,
no, I'm not.
On Monday, Elon Musk tweeted that the production had restarted and he would be on the line
with everyone else.
He'd be down there working to putting himself also at risk of arrest and Elon previously
vowed to move the firm's headquarters out of California if the plant was not allowed
to reopen.
He has been vocal about lockdown orders in recent weeks.
This was a year and a half ago.
People saw the writing on the wall a year and a half ago for how bad the lockdowns are
going to get.
A few weeks ago, that has finally come to fruition.
Tesla's move to Texas from California is officially complete.
The gross mismanagement of California as an entity, as a state has been so bad that not
only the leftists who voted all that shit in are running to Texas, so are the entrepreneurs
who build and own companies.
The new business in Texas will create 10,000 jobs, jobs that could have been in California.
But considering the attitude of California state officials towards Elon Musk, I guess
they just didn't want those opportunities.
It does seem that every few months, though, Elon Musk is in the news for some kind of
outrageous statement, which honestly to me just seems like trolling.
Elon Musk tells the SEC to, well, you can work it out.
He tweeted, SEC, three letter acronym, middle word is Elon's.
What do you think it means, guys?
Do you think we need Ted Cruz to come in here and crack the code?
In February of 2021, Elon Musk had a very public feud with Joe Biden, where Biden's
administration demanded that any future colonies that were created by SpaceX employees or technology
would be the property of the United States government, while Elon disagreed.
Back when Elon was on the Joe Rogan podcast, all of these same people, the terminally verified
accounts on Twitter, were again, shrieking bloody murder.
That is part of a larger story about how much they hate Joe Rogan for exposing his audience
to alternative ideas.
But get this, Musk is by most appearances, a dangerously erratic man, dangerously erratic
for being different.
I mean, if you listen to Elon Musk talk for any length of time, you can tell he probably
has something going on mentally.
Maybe he's like a high functioning autist or something, who knows, but he's clearly
neuro atypical.
But I guess instead of inclusivity, we can call him dangerously erratic.
He floats conspiracy theories on Twitter.
He smokes weed on right wing podcasts.
I thought you guys were cool with the drugs in order to slander Elon Musk.
People on the left have had to go against all of their positions.
He also works for the government.
SpaceX makes money by launching satellites into space on behalf of institutional clients,
including NASA and the US Air Force.
Are you suddenly going anti-government in this in this article?
I mean, you just derisively claim that he smokes weed on right wing podcasts, and the
only people who think that smoking weed is still bad is the government.
Elon's a noted anti-communist, which does make it funny just how long his relationship
with Grimes lasted, considering how pro-communist she is.
You can go on Twitter and just find tons of Elon Musk hate, but everything's been ramping
up more recently.
Joe Biden's White House did a big event on electric cars and renewable energy and
all that sort of stuff.
And they didn't invite Tesla, even though Tesla makes up three quarters of all American
electric car sales.
It also seems like Elon's come around to a quasi-Ancap position on the government.
When he said government is the biggest corporation with a monopoly on violence where you have
no recourse.
And though it is not necessarily the case that all governments behave that way, I wouldn't
blame him for thinking this when he looks at the behaviors of the Biden administration.
Here is the most recent kerfuffle.
Elizabeth, I am more native than she is Warren, said, let's change the rigged tax codes
the person of the year will actually pay taxes and stop freeloading off everybody else.
This went viral because Elon Musk directly replied.
If you opened your eyes for two seconds, you will realize I pay more taxes than any
American in history this year.
Elon claims to be paying over $11 billion in taxes this year.
And Forbes has confirmed that that bill is at least $8 billion.
And because he's a troll, he also said, you remind me of when I was a kid and my friend's
angry mom would just randomly yell at everyone for no reason.
Please don't call the manager on me, Senator Karen.
There is a very common idea that Elon Musk, as well as other millionaires and billionaires,
oh, wait, Bernie Sanders is a millionaire now, it's just billionaires, don't pay
their fair share in taxes.
And at least in terms of income taxes, that doesn't seem to be the case.
Of course, most of Elon Musk's income isn't from any kind of salary, but from capital
gains.
Capital gains, by the way, is when you own stock in a company and then that stock value
goes up.
That is technically a gain.
However, the government doesn't tax you on it until you sell the stock because the gains
haven't been realized yet.
The value might have gone up, but it's not liquid cash yet.
It's not actual capital.
So until you sell the stock, you don't get taxed on it.
Now it's becoming a more popular idea on the left to tax people on unrealized capital gains,
which seems to be ridiculous.
And Elon Musk himself explains why.
My so-called wealth is not some deep mystery.
It's simply what is my ownership percentage of SpaceX and Tesla, multiply that by the
valuation, that's my worth.
That's super simple and my taxes are super simple.
I have no offshore accounts, no sort of clever tax evasion or anything like that.
I don't draw a salary or any cash salary or bonus from the companies at all.
So again, I thought that was like morally good to not do that.
And so there was one year, I think 2018, where I didn't pay any tax, but that's because I
didn't have any income.
Unless you sell stock, there are no realized gains.
So then I was like, well, what am I supposed to do?
Why send shares to the government somehow?
I don't know if you can even do that.
So then I was like, well, unless I sell shares, there's no actual mechanism to pay tax.
It just seems to be a dumb idea.
Should you get refunds if your stock value goes down?
I mean, if you have to give the government money because stuff that you own went up in
value in an abstract way without you even selling it to get the value, then surely if
stuff that you own goes down in value that you've already been taxed on, why wouldn't
you get that money back?
See, it's just a completely unworkable situation put forward by people who don't understand
how money works.
The fundamental source of Elon Musk derangement syndrome probably stems from his rejection
of mainstream narratives.
Like work basically wants to make comedy illegal, which is not cool.
We've experienced a little bit of that.
I mean, so Chappelle, like what the-
Flower bed.
I mean, try to shut down Chappelle.
Come on, man.
That's crazy.
So do we want a humorless society that is simply rife with condemnation and hate, basically?
And no forgiveness, right?
Yeah.
At its heart, wokeness is divisive, exclusionary, and hateful.
It basically gives mean people a shield to be mean and cruel, armored in false poetry.
I don't intend for this to come across as just purely Elon Musk simping.
I understand, for example, that he is actually a person of privilege.
I know he likes to portray himself as somebody who has pulled himself up by his bootstraps,
but the truth is his parents were people of means.
They were rich.
They had money.
They could afford him opportunities that other people who may be as gifted as him didn't
have.
So no, he's not a completely self-made man.
Fair enough.
But you know what?
It doesn't have to be.
It doesn't invalidate his success that he had help along the way.
He's highly successful, part of the billionaire class, so the socialists already hate him.
He's a troll.
He doesn't take things too seriously.
He fucks around on the internet.
That makes all the progressives hate him.
Most of them don't like to see a very public example of an eccentric genius who is working
and doing shit.
And I think it's because most of them watched shows like Death Note or Sherlock and viewed
themselves as those eccentric geniuses.
And so they just don't like getting shown up.
Elon's not perfect.
He's a man like everyone else.
He has made mistakes.
He has flaws.
And there are things you can criticize him for.
But the overwhelming hatred coming out of leftoids for this guy at this point just seems
to be sour grapes.
I feel so unqualified to be interviewing you right now.
I think we all do.
Why are we here?
Like what?
I don't know.
You asked for it.
I'm not the one who asked for it.
You said yes.
I'm not the one who asked for the podcast.
Just to be clear, I'm not pushing the podcast on you.
You guys came here.
I'm not like, you know, I'm exactly called a gun to your head for this podcast.
You can be on CNN right now.
You know, the real news organization.
I'm just throwing it out there.
I don't know.
I'm not promoted enough.
Yes.
I don't know.
