I received an Amazon package today, as you sometimes do, and I noticed that the packing
tape was Lord of the Rings, Rings of Power packing tape wrapped around the box.
That's not a good sign, Des.
And I'm just like, oh Jesus, so hold on.
Every package Amazon's sending out.
Because Naomi and I went for a walk today and we saw like packages and like other porches
and stuff.
And I'm not a porch pirate, but I kind of went up because like during the day everyone's
out to work and I'm a lazy YouTuber sitting at home.
So you know, the suburbs are emptied of people.
So I walk up onto this porch of somebody else's house and I just look and it's like here's
Amazon package and it has Rings of Power tape and then here's another one with Rings of
Power tape.
And I'm just like...
Imagine being an OHE making $15.50 and just like your upper up just comes up, okay, now
you gotta use this packing tape and just endless Lord of the Rings, Lord of the Rings, Lord
of the Rings.
I can't think of any other Prime Video show that's done this, where they've just converted
all the Amazon boxes to advertise for it.
I think they did one time before, but I can't remember what it was for.
I remember seeing some advertisement stickers for something on the like the little duct
tape they use.
Normally they advertise...
This is also, this is their big thing.
This is the big thing.
If this fails, they've basically said that Amazon Studios fails, which is why they've
also basically said that they'll do anything to make it succeed.
I don't know if you saw, but there's been two claims I've seen.
One suggested that it had like 1.8 million actual views, but not tracking all devices.
And then Amazon claims that they got 28 million views.
That's one hell of a discrepancy and if you look at the reviews themselves, last time
I checked, I think there was like 10, 12, 13,000?
Hold on, Kibbs, you have it up.
What does it say on yours?
It was like 3.3 or something like that.
Here, hold on.
The Amazon rating is currently at 3.3 out of 5.
Yeah.
And that's out of 13,000 global ratings.
So 25 million views, 13,000 people bothered to give it a rating.
I don't know.
There should probably be more reviews than that, but it kind of feels like, this is just
me being a conspiracy brain here, but it kind of feels like they're only letting through
enough reviews, like approving certain reviews, just to keep the number like above three.
Probably.
I will say on IMDb, the reverse review bombing campaign has, well, it has been gaining ground
over the negative reviews, which is why I keep saying people need to review it.
It's at 6.9 now and this is a genuine cultural battleground.
And here's the reason why we know that.
I don't know if you three have seen this article published by somebody named Stephen Colbert.
It's just a coincidence.
It's not Stephen Colbert, just a coincidence.
This article is, the rings of power viewership numbers proves audience ratings are useless.
I did see that one.
I try to avoid the screen round whenever I can, but I didn't see that title.
Yeah.
Already bracing it.
Yep.
This article, it's promoting, first of all, it's promoting She-Hulk and it's promoting
House of the Dragon and it's promoting the 25 million viewers watching rings of power.
And it's saying basically that all of the places where, where viewers can put in their
own reviews, Rotten Tomatoes, IMDb, Amazon itself, it's all just being review bombed
and the reviews don't matter.
Obviously from their perspective, this is the first step in trying to get rid of reviews
because this is an obvious signal to people.
That's why I keep saying we do need to review it because the norm is just look at the rating.
If there wasn't a rating, the only narrative around rings of power was that anyone who
hates it is a racist and that Amazon had 25 million viewers.
There's also, I've seen varying usage of language.
Like I've seen, for example, they say 25 million or 28 million viewers, not views, which makes
me think like, okay, were there just 25 million people logged into prime at that time?
Or maybe they're, they're like estimating like, oh, well on average, one person's watching
it with someone else.
So that's two viewers.
If there's one click, I guess the last thing to talk about too, before we get into the
video real quick is what they're using to defend what exactly what's happening, a statement
issued by prime video and the cast of the show just straight up said middle earth is
not all white and they refuse to ignore or tolerate harassment and abuse from fans directed
at performers of color.
They're correct.
Middle earth is not all white, but they chose to place their story in the place where there
are nothing but white people.
So they came out and said that Tolkien created a world which by definition is multicultural,
a world in which free peoples from different races and cultures joined together in a fellowship
to defeat the forces of evil.
Our world has never been all white, fantasy has never been all white and middle earth
is not all white.
So I'm just like, that's interesting because that's not canon because the fellowship fails.
That's true.
The fellowship does fail.
So, so they're multiracial, multiethnic, you know, Alliance falls apart.
That's true.
At the same time though, you know, the fact that you had Aragorn and Gimli and Legolas
altogether, that was kind of a unique situation in the lore.
So I get, I get, I get their point.
Fair enough.
That's my point for that, but the overall, you know, story and lore and setting of Lord
of the Rings is that, yeah, it is a multicultural world, but all of these cultures, they kind
of have this desire to remain separate and not be brought under, let's say one, one banner,
one empire, one multiethnic empire, like Sauron's for example.
The thing is too, the focus was never on the cultures or the race.
Like that is a, it is an irrelevancy because it is good versus evil, which is why the men
of the East are portrayed as evil because in the story, that's all they need.
Honestly, Lord of the Rings is kind of like a world full of ethnostates.
Uh, unironically, yes, and after the war ends, it kind of remains that way.
When they reformed the kingdom of Arnor and Gondor, when they combine, uh, King Aragorn
basically grants the Shire as a, a, uh, sovereign state within his new kingdom and also forbids
men from entering it.
It is actually unironically an ethnostate.
So wait, does that mean that we can't go down there and get any, any hubbitusi?
Basically, yeah.
And the problem is always remains also though.
Okay.
All right.
Sure.
Absolutely.
And it was never all one.
All right.
Fine as well.
Uh, why didn't you place your story there then like, why aren't you telling the tale
of the Haradrin?
Uh, some of them might've been resisting Sauron.
You can make this shit up.
You own the rights to it now or in, um, Cund or in Uruun.
Why isn't there any of the story placed there?
Oh, that's right.
Because nobody fucking cares.
That's the hard truth.
And making us care is as the rings of power has demonstrated well beyond the capabilities
of the current show it on us.
Okay.
I think it's time for us to Jesus Christ.
Look at the episodes are getting longer.
One hour, five, one hour, seven, one hour, an hour, 11 minutes.
Holy shit guys finale will be two hours at some point.
Sorry arch, you know, why don't you just let's procrastinate, arch, why don't you just sleep
and get up at like five or something?
Here's me while I lean into my microphone here just for a second.
Oh God, let me just take my headphones out.
Because that'll really fuck up my sleep schedule, Dev.
It was still loud even with the mom.
Wait, what's your normal sleep schedule?
Not good.
And this looked like it was.
Meanwhile, Lilith, you sleep for about 18 hours a day.
Oh my God.
That's not true.
I sleep 20 hours a day.
Lord of the Rings, the Rings of Power, episode four.
What's the title, Gibbs?
The Great Wave.
The Great Wave.
Okay.
That's the plan.
Maybe someone will drown.
That'd be funny.
Maybe it'll be me.
Oh God, a gun.
I wish I had one.
Marshalls.
Wham.
I tried to watch that show there, by the way.
She was like, oh, action show.
That's cool.
It's just porn for women.
And I was sitting there like, I realized that this is what this is.
Oh my God.
They're just undressed men all the time.
Yes.
How come we don't get that for men?
Well, that's because we're misogynists.
But unfortunately I showed my mother the first episode and she said, this is a very good
TV show.
I was like, mm-hmm.
I guess.
God, I hate that fucking plot twist so much, by the way.
Should I get your map?
Just a map of Mordor.
Where?
A fucking orc can figure it out, but a Galadriel's like, huh.
The cliche with like, uh, people don't know what's going on with the math board until
some random woman scribbles it.
Yeah.
It's upside down.
Oh, shoot.
Oh.
Whoops the board upside down.
All right.
We can skip this this time.
Fuck it.
Let's get through it.
Watch it.
Like the fucking button.
Are you positive?
Like the fucking devs needs to be tortured with the interim.
Oh, they don't need to skip parts of it.
Yeah, we still got it.
We had to see the big name.
That way it's burned into a redness.
Hey, look, it's Minas Tiras.
Wait, are they doing that?
Yeah.
Didn't you see the, the house outstretched?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Are they, are they saying this is like, no, it's not the same place, but like the same
architecture, I guess.
This is literally for the foreigner.
It's too bad.
There wasn't an R in that name.
She could have rolled it.
I think my nose broke from the symbolism again.
Oh no, the island's going to sink.
Yeah.
And in case you were wondering, this is going to be a dream sequence, isn't it?
It's going to be like a premonition to the future.
She's going to wake up and like, Oh my God, my island's collapsing.
This fall of Númenor, this will be a sudden escalation if it wasn't.
Now that tower wasn't actually touched by anything.
So that just, that was just, you know, shoddy building.
That is a massive ass bed.
For one person to sleep on.
Yeah.
She wasn't even sleeping on it.
She's on a chair and she's fully dressed.
I had a comment on one of my videos basically saying, wouldn't it be amazing if Númenor
was just filled with chads and stacies, et cetera.
And yes, it would like like a chance in Amazon's, I think just lots of beautiful, massive, muscular
people.
Cause these are supposed to be a superior race to humans.
Like it should literally be filled with just massive ass Hercules dudes.
They're long lived, very, you know, healthy.
Aren't they like humans though, but like better humans?
They were.
Yeah.
These people are what we would call Arians.
Which is a bit cruel, dear, but yes, that is theoretically correct.
Hey, listen, nothing wrong with loving elves.
The only thing they're good for.
You tell them, Karl Marx.
Oh no, I think I got a little book for you.
I think he's the bad guy.
Bad guy always says, trust me.
Wait, from where?
Oh, they're just going to bring them out from somewhere?
Magic.
Here's the thing, whenever I, at this point, whenever I see a character like this in a
modern show, I always wonder like, are they going to do a Trump?
Are they going to make him like a Trump style guy?
He's at a podium and like rallying up a crowd.
Make Númenor great again.
And they got away, both of them.
I like that.
Okay.
You're not going to comment on the fact that everyone believes Sauron died like a couple
hundred years ago?
No?
Okay.
Nope.
They're going to skip over the, I don't believe Sauron's back, part of the story.
Now you jumped off a boat and almost got eaten by a big fish.
Well, that didn't work out.
You're in jail.
You know what?
I don't mind that.
Like this is, this is okay.
Okay.
There's a few good things.
I think it's mildly funny, but at the same time, this is supposed to be Galadriel.
Like she isn't just an angry wench.
She has to show how empowered she is, Starch.
Are you a sexist?
Yes.
If I let go of this rope, the ASMR voice will whisper to me again.
Oops.
Yeah.
Haven't we seen this scene already?
I think he thought about it last time and he didn't do it.
That was deliberate.
Correct.
Beat him.
What?
All three of you.
What?
What?
What?
It's a bit cruel.
Bit extreme.
Oh, he's Batman.
Oh no.
I don't care about this guy.
God dammit.
Ah.
The white power auras again.
Was that supposed to be intimidating?
I thought that was funny.
He's like, I'm a elf orc, an orfk.
Some chubby ears there, my boy.
You should get that looked at.
Is it going to be force healing?
He's going to stab his neck.
Doubt it.
Mm-hmm.
Stabs deeper.
I remember how much the Orcs cared about their own.
Yeah, they ate him.
Remember when they got up the head and were like, Meatwag on the menu.
I like this guy.
He's a better actor than the main characters so far.
Oh, Jesus.
Oh, well, well, again.
Thank God, Vargapug lived.
See, this actually kind of makes it worse because his performance is actually pretty
damn good here.
And then you've got portion of you can do it just half interestingly.
Where are you?
Like a monster or something?
The watchtower is perfectly intact.
By the humans.
So, I guess when the elves disengaged and left, they were just caught on the road.
Yes, they just decided to leave without Black Elf.
Well, he wasn't worth much to them, was he?
Ah, five potatoes.
You didn't pack food?
Why did you not pack food?
You can kind of see his ears poking through the hair.
And they look kind of elven.
Yeah, that's a hidden thing.
I don't know how he would have been able to hide that for so long.
Just Justin Bieber hair for like ten years.
Well, they don't seem to be doing any efforts of sneaking or hiding or any subterfuge whatsoever,
so why wasn't this a good idea?
They show no fear whatsoever.
They just wandered in here.
Hey, one of them's showing fear.
The other guy's careless.
He feels like he has protagonist immunity.
He's got a magic sword, so he's going to use magic bullshit to be okay.
It feels like he's sneaking to the cookie jar.
I just hate the fact that they didn't bring the food.
Like, why?
What possible reason?
They just left it there.
They were in a rush, okay?
He's going to die.
Other guy's going to run back with a cart full of food.
Rowan might be in deep shit.
The orcs aren't fucking movie monsters, Jesus Christ.
They're not stealthy.
Are there anything but subtle?
Hey, I can see his arm.
That wasn't even scary.
He was just standing there.
He was waiting for the dramatic reveal.
You recognize that, don't you?
Excuse me.
Whoa!
Hey, when did you learn to do that?
He just stabbed himself with it.
Just let it drop blood, I guess.
Yeah, that was a bad idea, wasn't it?
If that's able to activate like a lightsaber just every time you stab yourself.
It's like a bad place to hide.
This is a pretty bad place to hide.
It's like Saddam Hussein's hidey hole.
His gamer cave.
Yeah.
Oh, that was grunted.
That's rare.
Were you expecting to stab to the bottom of the well or something?
No, that's loud, by the way.
Yeah, that.
Splash!
That goes up the fucking thing.
Is that the tower battle on their building there?
Oh, we skipped over the negotiation and the dwarves are just helping now.
They've been constructing for a few years now.
Well, it only takes them five minutes to get there, so it's not a big deal.
Dwarves are fast builders.
They try too hard to sound poetic, don't they?
They do.
And they fail horribly.
You know, on my end, that kind of sounded like you saying, Arch, they try so hard to sound robotic.
You're back.
It really is a five minute walk.
Yep.
I feel like that's the edge of the set they built.
It is.
No fun allowed.
We're getting a bit of that House of Dragons problem here, where there are scenes that just appear and we're supposed to know things that have happened.
They're rushed to tell a story yet again.
Yeah.
Did the dwarves forget the elves have great hearing, by the way?
Yes.
I was going to say, like, the elves have fantastic hearing.
Their face was...
Okay, that was very stupid, but funny.
How does that even work?
Why the hell?
So are they alluding to them digging up the balrog?
Yes.
That's probably what they're heading for.
Now, we're going to do it in Spain is a while off in the story, but never fucking mind that.
They're just going to do it anyway.
I mean, the show has already broken the lore, so...
You know what they'll do?
You know what they'll do?
Okay.
What?
They're going to do a thing where Gandalf, someone's going to, either the stranger or whoever is going to be Gandalf,
and he's going to duel the balrog early.
We're going to Kenobi this shit, are we?
Yep.
They're going to just...
They're going to do what they did with Darth Maul and just start making shit up.
Like, oh yeah, he's alive and, like, they've had this long history for, like, ever.
It's like, okay, so you just want to milk it.
Like, yes, basically.
For no reason other than fan service.
Yeah.
That was easy.
That was easy.
His, uh, his children have access to the secret password, as you would expect.
You don't recognize it.
I guess the elves don't know about it.
The elves most, uh, definitely do.
It won't even go to my brain.
He just, like, dunes them out as he tells them.
Uranium.
No.
It does feel like more times past than we know.
This feels like months, maybe even years since the last scene we saw with them.
At the same time...
It does.
At the same time, the black elf, he has been in that orc camp for years.
No way.
He's been there for five whole minutes.
What?
Four dwarves down there.
They haven't been on this island for years either.
Something weird is going on with the timeline.
I'm pretty sure this is different timelines spread apart by quite a bit.
That's why there's going to be lots of sardons.
Or, it's terrible writing.
Alternatively.
Well, I guess I've been smooth-talked.
Okay.
No offense to that actor, but he's not good looking enough to make that line work.
Damn.
Dev's like, step aside, I got you.
She's gotta pee, but there's no pot.
Durr, glad we aren't stupid.
You'll be deported.
They really are keeping immigrants in cages.
Well, that was easy.
I'm convinced.
Yeah, that's three armed men.
Yeah.
Not much of a problem, really.
Jesus.
Okay.
What the fuck?
We've got a girl boss scene.
One down.
You know, many more to go.
Actually, two.
Hey, it was still a better fight scene than the one in Kenobi where the traitor woman
slapped the stormtrooper on the helmet.
He just fell over?
Yep.
It was a powerful slap.
I wonder how she'll get out of the heavily guarded tower, though.
Actually, I don't think about it.
I know exactly how.
Yes, by not thinking about it.
Yeah, they'll just scene cut and she'll be somewhere else.
You climbed the entire fucking...
Of course you did.
She was gonna swim across the ocean.
Oh no, Santa.
Not enough kids believe in Christmas anymore.
One last time, I'd like to test elf.
I would like some elf lucy.
This one was passed to my father.
And with it, a secret.
The secret's called the song of ice and fire.
Debbie made me cringe.
Aw, she didn't get the budget this time.
Only the water.
CG's expensive, okay?
Girlboss moment.
Literally, the only people who know the plot are the women.
Girlboss to girlboss.
Listen, Muriel, we're passing the backyard test right now,
so please stand with me.
Alongside the elves?
Bitch, the elves don't like you.
They told you to go away.
This puts you on a boat.
Ah yes, Theo, come out during the night.
The orcs are less active during the night, you see.
The orcs are more active at night, yeah.
And have greater strength at night. Oh no!
You can see better, but you can see worse.
Perfect timing.
Don't worry, it'll only be applicable one way.
Oh, still grabbing food.
Alright, bit of a chat.
Are they fucking one another?
Oh no, they're randomly killing one another.
I like that they established they couldn't smell him earlier,
but now none of them could.
See, the water is masking his scent.
This is literally a stealth scene from The Last of Us,
where you're just in a bit of grass.
Don't remind me of that goddamn king.
Thought we were gonna get a spooky scene.
I like how he doesn't even try to go into the shadows.
Don't worry, we're safe.
Don't worry.
It's not black, is it?
Oh god damn it, it is! How?
I can tell you why.
Because they need the character arcs to merge.
He escaped off camera.
What's his name? Adar? Adel?
Yeah, Adar let him go.
Fully armed, of course, not Irish.
I mean, he might have let him go,
but the other orcs might not know.
Okay, I'll take it they don't know.
No they're not.
They look so stupid, why are they white?
Why are you slowing down for him?
Did you just kick him?
He's like, my slide's broken!
You kicked him so that you could catch an arrow that would otherwise have missed it.
He's kind of a dick, actually.
Yes, yes he is.
I got a sickle!
How did you know they were there?
Should I run into, like, orcs shooting arrows on an off chance he's here?
360 no, Sko.
And then the sun breaks through because night's really short in Middle-earth.
Oh, my kangol!
They're not black enough, I shall defeat them with my tights.
The sun!
My god!
I know the orcs were chasing me in the sun earlier today when I was escaping from the quarry,
but I'm pretty sure it'll repel them this time.
What do you know?
Arch, is the sun rising outside right now?
It's been rising for a while, actually, yeah.
Oh, god.
Don't go outside, you'll stink, you'll melt.
Also, you've got a...
Is that a crossbow? How the hell did you get a crossbow? Never mind.
You could fire it at the elf.
You could shoot.
Yeah, they'd have arrows.
His dad actually got a new wife.
And this is just, like, the most convoluted possible story.
I turned into a star, son.
Is that the way elves go out for cigarettes?
Yes.
They are still the best part of this show.
Yeah, but not by much.
I do like their dynamic a lot.
Nice castle, bro.
Wait, this was the elves' garrison, this is their tower.
Shouldn't it look nicer than this?
Nope.
No, listen, they didn't have time to maintain it,
as they were so busy, uh,
staring off into the middle distance and seducing village women.
Man, I wish you elves had taken better care of this fucking fortress.
What kind of shit?
That would have been handy right about now.
It's not gonna really defend us, actually.
I think it's gonna fall over.
Oh, Jesus.
The sword is the ring.
Yay.
It is Sauron.
Mauler is wrong.
What did Mauler say?
Mauler said that that was Gandalf, not Sauron, the stranger.
It's pretty obvious from the way that he killed the fireflies that he was, like...
Mm-hmm.
Oh, wait a minute.
Was he like...
Was Adar controlling that human?
But I think he would be like, after that, be like,
What happened? My head hurts.
We do know that sorcerers have the ability to do that.
Like with Theoden.
To at least influence people.
Wait, this is the whole ship, is it?
We're gonna battle in the middle of this.
No, I assume it's gonna take her to a bigger boat.
Wanna just row back to the mainland?
It's what you deserve, elf.
They're just like, No, swim.
Just keep swimming. You can make it, right?
Like all elves, she prefers to stand in the fucking mountains.
Decemberism.
They gotta get punished for their racism.
I made the wrong decision.
We can just order them to stop still.
Yeah.
Rade, just come back!
She calls her back, and then the tree just immediately stops shedding.
It's like, okay, good.
Wait a minute.
So, they just change their mind after seeing that, I guess?
Actually?
Yep.
Well, I guess that's the most reasonable thing to do, actually.
Yeah?
Yeah.
I didn't see that coming.
And they're travelling to the Southlands.
Whom they apparently know is under threat.
I will serve.
I know that because of the map thing.
Are they seagulling, March?
Oh my god!
Hard up!
Cancelled. Cancelled.
Aces.
I was in a sudden turn for the darkness.
Hold on, his rings of power are based?
Well, there we go.
Yeah.
The plot suddenly sped up massively.
A lot of skipping.
I mean, at least interesting things are happening, but a lot of skipping.
It's become a show, and not just a train wreck.
I feel like it's probably too little too late, but...
The biggest problem is, it feels like I'm reading the script right now.
And it obviously has nothing to do with the actual Lord of the Rings.
So the trees start shedding, and she goes like,
Ah, this is what my daddy told me about! Jesus!
Yeah, so I was like...
Galadriel too has completely changed the tune.
It's no longer looking for Sauron.
He's not a potential threat.
No, no, no.
He's attacking the Southlands.
Alright.
Because, why?
Because you looked at the map and went like,
Huh, scribbles kind of look like that.
Basically...
There's a seagull that's...
And she has no reason to believe that there's an army there.
She thinks that maybe the orcs are moving there.
That Sauron might have a base there.
As far as she knows, it's simply a waypoint.
But no, it's like,
Ah, they're under siege.
They're under siege?
I'm the king of the Southlands, by the way.
I found him on the sea.
They do know that because of the character they found on the sea.
Because he tells her that they're under siege, and they're under attack.
And that they're being killed.
So it's all just based on his say-so, I guess?
Because he was there.
No, he wasn't.
Yeah, he was.
He said that he was driven from the lands.
No, he was talking about enemies and courses.
Like, the orcs haven't started attacking until recently.
Like, Black Elf literally was saying,
Like, oh gosh, I haven't seen shit for 70 years.
I could have sworn the dude at the sea, whatever his name is,
Said that they were under attack, and people were being pushed out of their land.
What if this is all part of his ploy?
What they'll do is they'll move all of the forces off of the island,
And then something bad will happen on the island.
See...
Judging by the story, as I know...
Arch?
Arch?
Arch has been judged.
Oh no.
Basil's down.
Oh, you know what I will say then, while we wait for Arch to return?
I'll say this.
No Harfoots this time.
You know what? I'm happy for that.
You're okay with that?
Instead of, like, awful Harfoot scenes, we got less awful dwarf scenes.
Just means we're gonna see lots of Harfoots next episode, probably.
Oh god. Yeah, we are.
Oh no, Arch dropped out!
Kibs, usually you record your thing after we've done this, right?
Mm-hmm.
Arch is gonna be gone.
Yeah.
Oh shit, what are you guys gonna do?
Well, we'll have to wait and see if he wakes up,
And if he doesn't, then I have to go to bed.
Then we do it tomorrow.
Oh no!
He might be back, because what he has to do is he goes out and resets his internet thingy.
Wait, he goes out? He goes outside?
It's in a separate building, apparently.
Oh Jesus, okay.
Well, in terms of the dwarven stuff, it was actually pretty good.
That story is a story that's very character-driven, right?
It's about the relationship between the dwarf prince and his wife, and Elrond, and...
There's a fun little thing going on there, and I'm enjoying it.
And now they added the king into the mix?
There's a bunch of character moments in there that are pretty satisfying.
Yes.
It's sort of like a touchback to Legolas and Gimli.
Welcome back.
Hi, welcome back.
I'm gonna call it right now.
Theo is Halbrand.
What makes you think that?
Because of the weird disjointed nature of all of this.
Okay, as you mentioned, right?
Halbrand has been driven from his home.
Now, I'm pretty sure he mentions corsairs, but he might have just mentioned enemies,
which I remember commenting on because it didn't make sense because, like, the world's at peace.
What fucking enemies?
But at the same time, Black Elf has been specifically placed in the Southlands to look for signs of the enemy.
They haven't seen shit for 70 years, and only now are there vague hints with the cows going mad.
So, there's no indication or reason to suggest that the Orcs were widespread or obvious,
so they couldn't have been attacking them.
So what drove them from their lands?
Well, maybe that was a different timeline.
Like, I'm really starting to lean towards the different timeline interpretation.
Yeah, so it's like what the Witcher did, basically, with everything happening at different times.
So, you think that the young kid, who has, like, the hilt of Sauron or whatever,
he's going to end up being Halbrand as an adult?
Perhaps. I don't have much basis for that, mind you. It's just a wild theory.
I mean, it could have...
He should have darker skin, if so.
It kind of feels...
Because I remember what shows it is. It's true.
You know what? That actually kind of feels right because the Black Elf story,
he's kind of, like, disjointed from everything else, you know?
Because we know that Galadriel's story is happening at the same time as Elrond's because they met up.
So, that's happening at the same time.
However, we also know that the Harfoot story is happening at the same time as the Black Elf story
because the guy just mentioned three weeks ago there was that meteor.
So, maybe this story is happening at two different time frames.
And, interestingly, nobody else is mentioning the meteor.
Like, Galadriel hasn't seen it. The new Noryns haven't seen it.
Now, maybe you could argue geography, but...
Yeah.
No, this makes sense.
Especially, yeah, because the kid gets corrupted with the Sauron Blade
and then he ends up somehow being the king.
Or maybe, who knows?
And then is found on the sea as an adult.
And he's already pretty Sauron-like as an adult.
It depends on whether he goes with the elves or stays.
Because what's going to happen now is that in the absence of the progressive woman queen,
whoever stays behind, be it Farazhon or Halibrand,
they're going to start properly corrupting people and Numenor is going to fall while she's away.
Because, obviously, she can't make a mistake. That'd be silly.
It's because of her absence that they're corrupted into believing that the elves are holding out in Valar.
They're prevented from having immortality.
Yes, then they'll return briefly. They'll get a few survivors, maybe, and then escape.
Or maybe this is the escape and then the island will just sink off-screen somewhere.
Everybody died and the people that made it come back are like,
Why is there just ocean everywhere?
Oh god, can you imagine? They used all the CG for the dream and they don't even show it in real life.
Oh, well, I mean, they did show it technically.
Don't worry, let's recycle the scenes even.
Oh god.
It was expensive, dammit.
The show is picking up. There's things happening and there's some enjoyable parts. It's not great.
But I still think House of the Dragons is better.
But, I mean, at least I'm not bored to fucking tears like I was to the first two hours of it, you know?
My opinion is actually this is more interesting than the previous episode of House of the Dragons.
Most of the stuff was actually happening and some of the character interactions were actually tolerable.
Specifically, Elrond and the Dwarf.
Yes, they remain the best part of the show.
They are the only part I enjoy. The show also has an enormous problem.
Now that the imagery is Adan, Adan actually does a pretty good job.
He is displaying actual emotions. He still tries too hard to be poetic.
You can see the script is still fucking struggling.
But he delivers it better than most.
And when he then acts opposite Mr. Puerto Rican who has one fucking facial expression.
Yep, it's like Galadriel ass.
It really hammers it home, isn't it?
It's like, wow, you have an actor and then you have this dude who's a model.
Yep, there's some really good talent here being wasted, which is tragic.
And it's being wasted because of the diversity hires.
Elrond is passable due to his chemistry with Durin, but Elrond himself is not very interesting.
He doesn't look like Elrond. He doesn't carry himself like Elrond.
At this point, though, I'm kind of a bit past worrying about the lore of it because you already know the lore is just...
It's already raped.
The Rufi has already run its course on the lore of the show.
It's basically irredeemable, you know?
Yeah.
But if we're going to forget about the lore and just talk about the quality of the show itself, it is at least improving.
Just give Helbren more screen time and I'll be happy.
Wait, hold on. Do you just have the hot spring or what?
I just like his character. And maybe...
Jesus.
Maybe Helbren talking some sense into Galadriel.
I assume this is a...
God damn it. That so badly should not...
She is already thousands of years old. She's already an accomplished diplomat.
And here he is like, bitch!
All he's saying is, don't fuck it up. You come into her house, you're rude as shit, and now you're surprised people are...
And now you're surprised you're in a cellar for sedition.
You're supposed to be a guest. You're supposed to be like a representative of the elves for the first time in how many years for these people?
Yeah, hang on.
And she's acting like the most insufferable, bastard-y, badgenable.
And then she's like, why are they jailing me? I don't understand.
And he goes like, why did they jail you, though?
Oh.
Hmm. Maybe I shouldn't have been on their floor.
You know, there's like a decent comedy skit here where you could have like Helbren just in jail, watching Galadriel get released and then put back in multiple times to go back again, eh?
Alright.
You know what? I do like the fact that they're focusing the story a little more and leaving the hardfoot stuff behind for this one.
Oh, god. You mention it, and suddenly I realize we didn't see those disgusting things all episode.
Which means next episode's gonna be all about them.
Don't you wanna know about their star signs and their culture and how they move and leave behind people?
Just a fucking rot?
Yeah, we talked about the hardfoots while you were gone, Arch.
We don't like you, sir. You're going all the way to the back.
Yep, back of the bus.
And that's why the episode felt better. No hardfoots.
Yeah, Arch, to be fair, we already talked about the hardfoots. You were left behind because you were offline at the moment.
Okay, so I think that might be it. At least for this video.
Welcome back next week and do some more, unfortunately.
Yep, more grinding.
We'll do it again.
We'll do it. I like how, Arch, you've been like, for like three years, you've been like, Dev, let me on your channel.
And this is what we're doing.
This was my thanks.
