What's the highest you've ever jumped?
For most of us, that number never exceeds more than a few feet, for the simple reason
that jumping off anything higher is terrifying.
Bazophobia, or the fear of falling, is a phobia inherent to humans and many species of animals.
In the visual cliff experiment, a vast majority of infants would not cross what appeared to
them as a steep drop.
The fear of falling appears to be ingrained into the very fiber of our being.
It's a sensation that's mutually understood by all, but somewhat difficult to articulate.
Statistically speaking, you're about a hundred times more likely to die in a car accident
than a plane crash, yet most of us undoubtedly find flying much more terrifying than driving.
So why is this the case?
Well for me, the answer lies in the element of control.
If you're driving and something goes wrong, you at least feel like you have some input
over your own destiny.
If something goes wrong on a plane, well, you're just along for the ride.
There's a certainty to falling that's impossible to deny.
Once you step over the edge, you become nothing more than an object in motion.
Your status, wealth, athleticism, intellect, none of it matters at that point.
You have surrendered yourself to the complete mercy of nature and the unbreakable laws that
govern it.
In works of fiction, great falls are used to represent finality.
Characters are often allowed to cheat death in all sorts of ways, but once you fall into
the bottomless pit, it's game over.
There's something so absolute about its outcome.
To question it would be to question one's own sanity.
Only a madman would intentionally step off the platform of unfathomable heights.
And yet, in the visual cliff experiment, a few infants would crawl over the cliff completely
unfazed.
Possibly because they had not yet developed depth perception, but perhaps they grew up
to be the very people who override billions of years of evolutionary programming to defy
the most fundamental fear of man.
This is the story of The World's Highest Jump.
The jump I made here was about a meter, or around three feet in height.
It's a jump I'm sure most of you would have no problem making as well, but how much higher
could you go without hurting yourself in a basic jump like this?
In Minecraft, a fall of four blocks or higher will make you take damage.
A fall of 23 and a half blocks is fatal.
In reality, the farthest you can safely fall onto a hard surface is around 10 to 12 feet.
Higher than that and you're likely to walk away with minor injuries.
When the Undertaker threw Mick Foley off the top of the cell at King of the Ring 98, Foley
plummeted at least 16 feet, dislocating his shoulder in the process.
A fall of 20 feet or higher will most likely result in serious injuries.
And beyond 100 feet, a fall is considered unsurvivable.
There's a common misconception that landing in water will break your fall, but due to
surface tension, the only thing you'll be breaking is most of your bones.
Landing in water from 100 feet is equivalent to landing on concrete.
Surviving any fall greater than that is exceedingly rare without protective equipment.
But for the vast majority of human history, all people had to brace themselves with their
arms and legs.
Naturally, this meant that any early attempts at the world's highest jump were almost certainly
done so involuntarily.
The first unsung record holders of this category may have earned their title by accident, by
force, or by a failed attempt to end their life.
But if someone in prehistoric times did want to make the jump of a lifetime, how far could
they possibly fall?
Well, in the age before aircraft, all people had to lift themselves was the terrain of
the Earth itself.
Mount Everest is the tallest point on Earth, but its slope would prematurely stop you long
before you reach the bottom.
For a continuous, uninterrupted fall, you would have to jump from the world's tallest
cliff.
For a purely vertical drop, Mount Thor in Canada has a prominence of over 4,100 feet.
While highly unlikely, it's theoretically possible that somebody could have jumped from
this height.
However, in an age before written history, no one can say for sure.
For the first recording of anyone jumping off anything, we have to venture closer to
the stone mountains of China.
As far as we know, this event may have never happened.
The only information on it was written by a guy 2,000 years before our time, about a
guy 2,000 years before his time.
As the legend goes, Emperor Shun escaped the roof of a burning barn by gliding off using
his hat to slow his descent.
By my estimate, the jump was probably done from the equivalent of a two-story building,
or about 20 feet.
It may not sound like much, but this was significant.
It's the earliest recorded instance of anyone jumping with intent rather than falling by
mistake.
All future jumps would be successors to Shun's 20-foot leap off the burning barn.
The ancient Chinese were one of the first civilizations to experiment with aeronautics.
As early as 200 BC, acrobats would use bamboo shoots to perform falling stunts at the Imperial
Palace.
By 500 AD, kites had become commonplace in Chinese society.
Some kite designs had become aerodynamic enough to support the weight of a man.
In 559, Yuan Huang-tou was one of several prisoners ordered to be executed by gliding
off the 108-foot tall Phoenix Tower.
Remarkably, Yuan survived, claiming the unofficial jump record in the process.
For his achievement, Yuan was executed anyway.
Despite his grim fate, the record would remain alive for more than a thousand years.
The next great leap in aeronautical innovation came during the Italian Renaissance.
Leonardo da Vinci is often credited with the invention of the parachute, but an even earlier
concept can be traced back to 1470 from an anonymous manuscript.
In 1615, Fausto Veranzio improved upon Leonardo's design, but so far, the parachute only existed
in concept.
It wasn't until the 18th century that the parachute was brought into reality.
Louis Sebastian Lenerman would design and manufacture the first modern parachute.
On December 26, 1783, Lenerman would record the first parachute jump in history by jumping
from the upper balcony of the Montpellier Observatory.
That very same year, just 120 miles away in Annonay, the Montgolfier brothers would develop
the first hot air balloon.
Within the span of a few months, mankind had not only broken free from Earth's terrain,
but found a way to weaken the grip of gravity itself.
And it was only a matter of time before someone would use both to make history.
On October 22, 1797, Andre Garnerin became the first person to parachute out of an aircraft.
Garnerin rose to 3,200 feet in a hot air balloon, then severed the basket, parachuting back
down unharmed.
You could argue that this wasn't a true jump, as Garnerin never actually stepped out
of the balloon's basket.
But based on the illustrations of the basket's design, I would say that it serves little
purpose in actually protecting the user, and rather functions as a necessary component
of the parachute itself.
The important thing is that Andre Garnerin flew about 500 feet higher than the top of
the Burj Khalifa, then severed his only means of flotation, placing full faith in the thin
fabric above his head to ensure that he didn't wind up becoming a human crepe.
On that day in 1797, Andre Garnerin became the first skydiver.
Just five years later, he would set a new all-time record, jumping from a height of
8,000 feet.
Garnerin's aerial heroics would inspire a new generation of daredevils who would replicate
his death-defying stunt in front of spectators around the world.
19th century parachuters would draw crowds at local carnivals and other venues by dropping
out of the sky from altitudes of 2 to 5,000 feet.
This range is comparable to the cruising altitude of the Fortnite battle bus, and while the
stunts looked death-defying, sometimes death would not be defied.
In 1837, Robert Cocking earned the grim distinction of becoming the first skydiving fatality after
his parachute failed at 5,000 feet.
Cocking was supposedly attempting to reach the 8,000-foot mark that Garnerin had set
decades prior, but the record would not be undone.
The use of Cocking's death was a sobering reminder to the dangers of falling from thousands
of feet in the air, and it extinguished the popularity of parachuting for decades afterwards.
For the rest of the 1800s, there were no jump attempts on record surpassing Garnerin's
8,000-foot mark.
This was mostly due to the limitations of parachutes, as balloons continued to soar
throughout the 19th century.
Since would-be jumpers were no longer encumbered by the earth's terrain, the highest theoretical
jump was now determined by the balloon altitude record.
Even at this time, unmanned balloons could easily rise to tens of thousands of feet,
but manned flights now had to deal with the limits of human physiology.
Above 15,000 feet, most people will begin to suffer the effects of oxygen deprivation.
Most modern-day skydiving excursions will not fly above this altitude for that very
reason.
Above 26,000 feet is the Death Zone, the limit beyond which the human body can no longer
survive without supplemental oxygen.
In 1862, James Glacier and Henry Cockswell became the first people to surpass the Death
Zone.
At around 29,000 feet, the pair lost consciousness, with Cockswell barely managing to pull the
balloon's valve cord before blacking out.
The pair survived when the balloon rapidly descended back to a safe height, but not before
setting a new altitude record estimated between 29,000 and 37,000 feet.
By 1887, oxygen tanks became commercially available, allowing ballooners to safely enter
the Death Zone.
In 1901, Arthur Burson and Reinhard Sühring set an official record of 35,000 feet in a
hydrogen balloon, this time remaining conscious to record it.
In 1927, Hawthorne Gray became the first person to pass the 40,000-foot mark, but perished
after running out of oxygen.
In 1931, August Picard and Paul Kipfer passed the 50,000-foot mark, becoming the first people
to enter the stratosphere, as well as the first people to truly witness the curvature
of the Earth.
In 1933, at the Century of Progress World Fair, Thomas Settle and Chester Fordney would
surpass 60,000 feet.
By this point, record attempts were quickly approaching the next hard limit in manned
balloon flights.
As altitude increases, air pressure decreases, as does the boiling point of fluids.
At around 60,000 feet, air pressure is low enough where the temperature of your body
will exceed the boiling point of water, causing your blood to literally boil.
This limit is otherwise known as the Armstrong Line, and future flights above it would require
a pressurized suit.
In 1934, the Soviet Union's Osevayikin-1 surpassed the Armstrong Line and reached a
peak altitude of 72,000 feet before the balloon disintegrated during its descent, killing
all three crew members.
One year later, in what would be a precursor to the Space Race, the United States took
back the record when Albert Stevens and Orville Anderson reached 72,400 feet in the Explorer
II craft.
By this point, balloon flight progression had provided the jump record with massive
potential for improvement, but before anyone could attempt a new record, the parachute
would have to rise to the occasion.
The turn of the 20th century saw two tremendous strides in aeronautics, with the invention
of the airplane and the airship.
The unprecedented boom in air travel renewed interest in the parachute.
In 1907, aerial stuntman Charles Brodwick would provide the first major parachute innovation
with a static line, which allowed the chute to automatically deploy when jumping out of
an aircraft.
In 1914, Brodwick's adopted daughter Tiny became the first person to manually deploy
a chute while in freefall, eventually leading to the invention of the ripcord.
And starting in 1919, Leslie Ervin began manufacturing and distributing the Type A parachute for
use as life preservers on airplanes.
The Ervin chute would revitalize the pastime of stunt jumping.
Just as the balloon jumpers would perform death-defying jumps a century earlier, a new
generation of aerial acrobats would wow spectators by jumping from the cockpits of their airplanes.
This new wave of daredevils became known as the Barnstormers, the most famous of which
was a man by the name of Charles Lindbergh.
Lindbergh was most known for making the first non-stop transatlantic flight, but buried
among his long list of aviation accomplishments was the new record for the world's highest
jump.
In 1926, Lindbergh used an Ervin chute to bail out of his plane at an altitude of 13,000
feet, finally breaking Garnerin's record after more than a century.
1927 saw the first tests of parachutes in military combat, leading to the rise of the
paratrooper.
In 1943, U.S. Army surgeon Randy Lovelace became the first person on record to jump
from the stratosphere.
In an Air Force experiment, Lovelace bailed out of an army bomber at over 40,000 feet.
The force of the parachute knocked him unconscious, and the minus 40 degree temperatures left
his hands frostbitten.
But Lovelace survived the jump by the skin of his teeth, claiming the record in the process.
The first ever jump from the stratosphere would be the last with a conventional parachute,
at least in the United States.
Soviet jumpers Vasily Romanuk and Nikolai Nikitin would both set higher marks, with
Nikitin surpassing 47,000 feet in 1957.
While the Russians were fixated on the record itself, the U.S. directed their focus to survival.
If pilots were to survive ejecting at very high altitudes, they would need to be equipped
with parachutes fit for the edge of space.
Randy Lovelace's near-fatal jump would usher in a new era, the dawn of the space jump.
I'm going to jump!
No!
Do a flip!
Patients of YouTube, it is I, Dr. Spiral, standing here atop this three-story structure.
Now in my medical opinion, I would say that it's unsafe to fall from this height.
I mean, a fall from this height can make your hair fall out.
Skydivers can fall faster than 120 miles per hour.
In those conditions, your hair won't last long.
That's why if you're planning to jump off anything, I recommend using Keeps Hair Loss
Prevention first.
Keeps is the most affordable FDA-approved hair loss product, and you can visit an online
doctor right now to get your medication shipped right to your door.
Now, to demonstrate Keeps' 90% effectiveness at treating and reducing the symptoms of hair
loss, I will jump off this three-story structure right now!
Oh!
Oh!
Oh my gosh!
Wow!
I really just fell from all the way up there!
Keeps kept my hair safe!
My hair...
It's game over for hair loss!
Visit keeps.com slash emplemon for 50% off your first order.
That's K-E-P-S dot com slash emplemon.
Scientifically speaking, outer space doesn't begin until the Karman line, more than 300,000
feet high.
The region between it and the Armstrong line is classified as near space, and as jet planes
flew higher, pilots would need a new kind of parachute to safely eject from this range.
Following Randy Loveless' near-fatal jump, the Air Force began testing experimental high-altitude
parachutes on dummies.
Early designs would force the dummies into an uncontrollable flat spin that would be
potentially fatal on human subjects.
By 1958, they were ready to test out a new multi-stage design that was intended to stabilize
the jumper.
Only this time, the test would be conducted on a human being, an unenviable task bestowed
upon Captain Joseph Kittinger.
Kittinger had already proven himself as the Air Force's new favorite guinea pig with
his role in Project Manhigh, a 1957 research assignment that saw Kittinger soar 96,000
feet in a balloon, setting a new altitude record in the process.
His next assignment would be Project Excelsior, where Kittinger would once again rise to the
stratosphere in a balloon, only this time he would have to jump out.
On November 16, 1959, Kittinger fastened his pressure suit and boarded Excelsior 1, rising
to an altitude of 76,400 feet.
At that point, Kittinger unstrapped himself from the gondola and stepped over the edge.
Immediately there was a problem.
Kittinger had prematurely deployed his stabilization chute.
Just like the test dummies, Kittinger entered an uncontrollable spin.
At 120 rpm, Kittinger blacked out nearly 13 miles above the Earth.
He regained consciousness just 3,000 feet from the ground.
Miraculously, the rest of the chutes functioned according to plan, allowing Joe Kittinger
to escape with his life and a new record.
Despite a near disaster on the first run, Kittinger was determined to prove that the
new parachute system could work.
Less than a month later, Kittinger would return to the skies with Excelsior 2, jumping from
74,000 feet.
This time the parachutes functioned flawlessly, and although he was just shy of adding to
the record, he would get one more chance to make history in the summer of 1960.
On the morning of August 16, Kittinger boarded the gondola for Excelsior 3.
Sudden cloud cover almost canceled the mission before it started, but Kittinger launched
just one minute before the orders to cancel the flight.
Soon after, overcast skies would be the least of his concerns.
At about 50,000 feet, Kittinger realized that his right glove had failed to pressurize,
causing his hand to swell to twice its size.
Despite the potentially catastrophic complication, Kittinger did not inform the ground crew.
He knew that if he did, the mission would be immediately aborted.
Anticipating that they would never get another chance at a jump, Kittinger bit the bullet
and continued to rise.
About one hour and forty minutes after launch, Kittinger took the highest step in the world,
and jumped from the stratosphere for the final time.
Kittinger free-filled for four and a half minutes before deploying his main chute.
He reached a top speed of 614 miles per hour.
Thirteen minutes and forty-five seconds after stepping out of the gondola, Joe Kittinger
touched down in the New Mexico desert.
The ground crew was ecstatic.
Not only was Excelsior 3 a resounding success, but Kittinger had just landed from the highest
jump in history.
So just how high did Joe go?
102,800 feet.
Not only did Joe Kittinger set the all-time jump record, he did so while setting the all-time
balloon altitude record, the second highest altitude ever reached by man at that point.
After proving that humans could survive exposure to the upper atmosphere, Project Excelsior
would open the floodgates for manned space exploration.
Soon after, both the US and Soviet Union would send the first astronauts into orbit.
But in that moment, Kittinger stood farther from the Earth's surface than all but a
single person before him, and then jumped back down.
Years later while serving in Vietnam, Kittinger would be captured as a prisoner of war after
his plane was shot down.
One has to wonder which moment was more terrifying.
Remarkably, despite accomplishing one of the most impressive feats in the history of aviation,
Kittinger never actually cared about the record.
He took far more satisfaction in completing the mission and validating the effectiveness
of the high altitude parachute.
Ironically, the record would go on to define his legacy.
Before Joe Kittinger, the jump record only existed as a formality, a sloppy and poorly
documented patchwork of events consisting mostly of people who stumbled into the record
completely unintentionally.
In many ways, Kittinger was no different, but after Excelsior, the record would never
be the same.
It was the first time that the world's highest jump was documented, broadcasted, and celebrated
in the media.
Kittinger had effectively made the record tangible, and before long, a new wave of contenders
were lining up to break it.
Naturally, the first people to challenge for the American record were the Russians.
In 1962, Pyotr Dolgov and Yevgeny Andreyev were tasked with the Soviet Union's first
attempt at a space jump.
Andreyev successfully jumped from 83,000 feet, setting a new record for the longest freefall.
Dolgov jumped from nearly 94,000 feet, but perished after his suit depressurized.
Dolgov's death would be covered up for years, but as far as the Soviets were concerned,
the mission was a success.
Even though Joe Kittinger's record was well documented and precisely measured with state-of-the-art
technology, it wasn't verified by the FAI, allowing the Soviets to claim the official
record despite falling nearly 20,000 feet short.
For all intents and purposes, Joe Kittinger still held the record, but the Soviets had
the validation of a bureaucratic sanctioning body in Switzerland, and they were content
with that.
Not content with the disputed title was a young adventurer from New Jersey, Nicholas
Piantanita.
The young skydiver had been obsessed with jumping ever since his childhood, where he
would nearly fall to his death after jumping from the roof of his apartment with a makeshift
parachute made from his bedsheets.
By the 60s, Piantanita was determined to bring the undisputed record back to America by making
the greatest jump in history.
His goal was to break both Kittinger's altitude record and Andreyev's freefall record in
what would become known as Project Stratojump.
But unlike the space jumpers before him, Piantanita didn't have government backing.
He had to essentially create his own ragtag aeronautical research program from scratch,
using sponsors, volunteers, and borrowed facilities.
While preparing for the jump, Piantanita sought out consultation from Joe Kittinger himself.
Kittinger, never a fan of chasing records, refused.
He had nearly lost his life performing the feat just a few years prior, and he didn't
appreciate Piantanita's cavalier attitude towards the daunting challenge.
However, despite his barebones resources, Piantanita and the Strat-O team managed to
assemble a working balloon, gondola, and pressure suit.
By the autumn of 1965, Nick Piantanita was ready to take to the skies.
On October 22, Stratojump 1 lifted off from a field outside of St. Paul, Minnesota.
Unfortunately, high wind shear would destroy the balloon at just 16,000 feet, forcing an
emergency landing and a second attempt.
He would try again on February 2, 1966.
This time, the balloon had no problem reaching the stratosphere where it continued rising.
Soon, it had soared past Andreyev's mark of 80,000, then past Kittinger's mark of 102,000.
Piantanita's balloon topped out at an unprecedented height of 123,500 feet.
His unyielding hubris was about to pay off.
The record was tantalizingly close.
All Nick Piantanita had to do was step out of the gondola and into the record books.
But there was a problem.
The oxygen line tethering Piantanita to the gondola wouldn't detach, and he had no way
of severing the connection.
After several agonizing minutes at the edge of glory, the ground crew decided to abort
the mission.
In a turbulent and dangerous descent, a battered Piantanita returned to Earth with the gondola.
After the heartbreaking failure, Piantanita would not be deterred.
On May 1, 1966, he stepped back into the gondola with the goal of once again reaching the 120,000
foot mark.
This time, he would pay the ultimate price.
At 57,000 feet, Nick Piantanita's suit depressurized.
The ground crew immediately aborted the mission, but at that point, very little could be done.
Piantanita was starved of oxygen for more than 20 minutes, falling into a coma from
which he never recovered.
As close as he came to proving everyone wrong, Piantanita's recklessness would ultimately
cost him everything.
He met a cruelly fitting fate, spending his final moments in the sky, the place he always
seemed to belong.
The stratojump catastrophe would mark the end of record attempts for a while.
Neither of the two world superpowers were interested in balloon jump escapades anymore.
They had moved on to new frontiers.
Later record holders would have to independently direct their own operations.
After progressing through millennia of physical barriers to the sky, the newest limitations
to the jump record were now cost and ambition.
The 60s had quickly become the age of the astronaut, and the boom in space exploration
had taken much of the luster off the once vaunted space jump.
It seemed that the only notable jumps of this era happened by complete chance.
In 1966, American pilot Bill Weaver would survive a 78,000 foot fall after ejecting
from a jet at Mach 3.
His life would be spared thanks to the same parachute design that Joe Kittinger had tested
just six years prior.
In 1971, DB Cooper became the first and only person to successfully commit airplane piracy,
parachuting an estimated 10,000 feet with $200,000 in ransom money.
In 1973, Serbian flight attendant Vensa Vulovic survived the highest fall on record without
a parachute after the plane she was servicing exploded at 33,000 feet.
And in 1982, Larry Walter survived an ascent to 16,000 feet after tying dozens of weather
balloons to a lawn chair.
The next attempt at the world's highest jump wouldn't happen until the 90s with decorated
British paratrooper Nish Bruce.
Starting in the early 90s, Bruce began training for the eventual Skydive from Space project
where he would make a planned jump from 130,000 feet.
The project was partially funded by NASA, who wanted to test the effects of radiation
at high altitudes.
Despite an encouraging start, the project would abruptly end in 1994 when Bruce suffered
an unexpected mental breakdown, stabbing his girlfriend with a pair of scissors.
The incident would mark the beginning of Bruce's eight-year-long battle with mental illness,
a battle he would eventually lose.
In 2002, Nish Bruce would end his life by intentionally jumping from a plane without
a parachute.
Much like Nick Piantanita, Nish Bruce was someone who seemed to belong to the sky, this
time going out on his own terms.
After four decades of magnificent failure since Project Excelsior, the new millennium
would bring a new wave of contenders trying to beat the record.
Starting in 2000, Cheryl Stearns would announce her plans to jump from 130,000 feet with the
formation of the StratoQuest project.
Stearns was the most accomplished female skydiver in history and was prepared to make the ultimate
jump in the spring of 2001.
Unfortunately, StratoQuest could never quite materialize.
After numerous delays and funding issues, the project had fallen defunct by the end of
the 2000s.
An Australian man, Rod Milner, announced that next March, he plans to skydive from 25 miles
above the Earth, reaching speeds over a thousand miles an hour and breaking the sound barrier.
In 2001, Australian skydiver Rod Milner would make waves in the media by announcing his
plan to jump from 130,000 feet and break the sound barrier with his fall.
The mission, titled Project Space Jump, had reportedly secured funding from the Australian
Defence Force Academy with plans to launch a year later in March 2002.
Well, a year came and went and no jump was ever attempted.
Following the initial media hype, Project Space Jump was never discussed again and eventually
forgotten, coming off much more like a publicity stunt than an actual attempt at the record.
In 2003, French adventurer Michel Fournier announced Les Grand Sau, during which he planned
to jump from 130,000 feet.
Fournier made the most progress of anyone in the decade, managing to produce a working
balloon, pressure suit, and gondola.
Unfortunately, all of Fournier's attempts would be aborted before they could even launch.
After spending two decades and nearly 20 million dollars chasing the record, Michel Fournier
couldn't even get off the ground.
2010 would mark the 50-year anniversary of Joe Kittinger's record, and after half a
century of failure, many began to wonder whether anyone could break it.
Starting in 2010, Red Bull would sponsor the Stratos project and team up with Austrian
skydiver Felix Baumgartner to finally top Kittinger's record once and for all.
Preparing Felix for the jump would be none other than Joe Kittinger himself.
Kittinger's blessings seemed to ward off the demons that had plagued all other attempts
since he set the record.
In March 2012, Baumgartner would successfully complete the project's first test jump from
71,000 feet.
In July, he would complete the second test jump, this time from 96,000 feet.
And finally, on October 14, 2012, Felix Baumgartner was ready to make history in a moment streamed
live around the world.
After finally having his record broken, Joe Kittinger never looked happier.
After 52 years of frustration, there was finally a new record holder of the world's highest
jump.
In addition to setting the altitude record, Felix Baumgartner became the first jumper
in history to break the sound barrier in his freefall, as well as setting the record
for the longest distance in freefall.
The YouTube livestream was watched by nearly 10 million viewers, a record that itself would
stand for almost six years.
The new record provided a rare moment of inspiration for a generation who had very little to celebrate
in terms of aeronautical achievement.
Truly, it was a jump for the ages.
After taking half a century to be Kittinger's mark of 102,000, who knew how long it would
take to beat Baumgartner, the record would stand for two years.
On October 24, 2014, computer scientist Alan Eustace would set a new altitude record of
135,889 feet.
Eustace worked as the senior VP of engineering at Google and had no prior history of skydiving
or extreme stunts.
One day he decided that he wanted to pursue the record, so he assembled a team of collaborators
to form Stratex.
Eustace became the first jumper in history to ascend to the stratosphere without a gondola,
relying only on a pressure suit to protect him from the vacuum of near space.
The reduction in weight allowed him to soar more than 8,000 feet higher than Baumgartner's
mark.
In just a single attempt at the record, Alan Eustace went up and got it.
That's where the record stands today, but where does it go from here?
Well, the record for the highest unmanned balloon flight is 173,900 feet.
Fighter weight missions like Stratex may approach this altitude, but sooner or later, jumpers
will reach another hard limit, the mesosphere.
Starting at around 170,000 feet, the air becomes thin enough to force any balloon to burst
from the pressure difference.
As a result, the mesosphere is the least explored part of the atmosphere, extending too high
for balloons and too low for satellites.
But what if you were to skip the mesosphere entirely and jump from a satellite?
The International Space Station orbits in the thermosphere at an average altitude of
about 1.3 million feet, nearly 10 times the height of the current record.
However, since the ISS is in orbit, it's traveling about 10 times faster than an average
bullet.
Re-entering the atmosphere at that speed will cause the human body to burn up like a meteor.
Currently, the best hope for space jumps beyond the stratosphere may be Virgin Galactic's
SpaceShipTwo, a suborbital space plane capable of surpassing the 300,000-foot mark.
Due to the parabolic shape of the flight path, it could be theoretically possible to jump
from the peak without extreme exit velocity.
Virgin Galactic plans to launch commercial flights on the space plane starting this decade,
so it's possible that the next great stride in space jumping may be just a few years away.
For now, the record stands at just under 136,000 feet.
No matter the era, death-defying jumps have never failed to amaze and inspire those who
witness them.
Space jumping is both a product and an example of our endless thirst for progress.
Sixty years ago as Joe Kittinger gazed down at the Earth prior to his record-setting jump,
he remarked at the irony of such beauty existing in such deadly conditions.
He compared floating through the stratosphere to being enveloped in an ocean of cyanide.
Despite literally being on top of the world, Kittinger was overcome with an overwhelming
sense of humility.
We defy nature by venturing higher and higher, and nature humbles us with its unconquerable
vastness.
After 4,000 years of trying, we have already managed to jump from unfathomable heights,
but we still have so much farther to go.
For the future of the world's highest jump, the sky's the limit.
Thanks for watching!
