Hey buddies, I realized that I haven't actually done one of these political compass tests before.
You'd think I would have over the years, but I don't think I did. At least not on a video.
So, because this test recently remade the rounds on Twitter for some reason that I don't know,
I literally just retook this. I'm exactly where I was in 2015. And in 2010,
my politics haven't really changed. Actually, it turns out, when I took it in 2015,
this red dot was actually one square to the left. So I guess I've shifted just slightly leftward
over time, but I've always been about this far down. I mean, these tests change every time you
take them, right? Sometimes you hover around this area if you're me. I've been a bit further down
the libertarian scale before. I've been a bit further right and further left, but I've always
been around here, so I'm not surprised. And I've always been there. I was there in 2010,
I was there in 2015, I'm there in 2020. But yeah, my politics haven't changed. What's changed is
that people didn't used to call me a fascist back in 2010 for existing down here. Now the common
belief is that if you're not getting more left over time, you might as well be in the blue
square. And that's the case. That's the case. If you exist here or you exist anywhere in here,
people who are like on this final edge here, these final two columns,
they treat you like you're up here. It's kind of ridiculous. But this test isn't the greatest.
So I figure it might be worth doing the eight axis and just kind of going over it, right? You know,
why not? Why not? We all know about this, right? Equality versus markets, nation versus world,
liberty versus authority, and tradition versus progress. Those are the four axes, economic,
diplomatic, civil, and societal. Let's do it. You will be presented with a series of statements.
For each one, click the button with your opinion on it. Okay. Oppression by corporations is
more of a concern than oppression by governments. I disagree. And the main reason that I disagree
is because of the government's monopoly on violence, on the legitimate use of force.
A corporation can't simply kill you. The government can if it's tyrannical.
That's the difference. That's not to say that I don't think corporate oppression isn't real. It
very clearly is. It is a serious problem. It needs to be dealt with. However, I think that government
oppression has more of a capability to be destructive. So I will just slightly disagree.
It is necessary for the government to intervene in the economy to protect consumers. I slightly
agree with this. Yes, only slightly. And it's because there are areas in which there are
natural monopolies. And if that's the case and competition won't actually help the service
become higher quality, then the government does have some kind of a mandate there to step in and
make sure that people have access to the service fairly. However, most monopolies are created by
the government, but in those few cases where monopolies aren't created by the government,
then the government actually has a mandate to get in there. So yeah, I agree.
The fear of the market is the fear of the people. Absolutely. Absolutely. Because you can just
choose what you want to do with your time, your money, your energy, your labor. You can just
choose, you know, choose in the market what you want to do. Yes. It is better to maintain a
balanced budget than to ensure welfare for all citizens. Now, while welfare for citizens is
obviously good, that's generally left to the individual to create for themselves. So I think
for the government, it is better to maintain a balanced budget. So I'm going to like slightly
agree. Publicly funded research is more beneficial to the people than leaving it to the market. I'm
neutral. I'm neutral on this because I think research, no matter where it comes from,
is at least a tool. There's obviously biased research. There's obviously lots of problems
with research. We've seen the scandals coming into the academic sphere recently where, you know,
studies are kind of falsified and people can't recreate them and this and that. But I think if
the research is good, it doesn't matter where it comes from. So neutral. Terrorists on international
trade are important to encourage local production. I slightly agree. Yes. Especially because we're
dealing with someone like China who has no problem just destroying their own population in a race to
outdo the United States and eventually overtake them. So yes, slightly agree. Reach according
to his ability to each according to his needs. Strongly disagree because I'm not a fucking
Marxist. It would be best if social programs were abolished in favor of private charity.
This is a hard one because social programs do a lot of good when they're properly implemented
and they're not corrupt and things are going fine. However, private charity is often more
efficient at what it's trying to do. So should we abolish social programs? No.
Are private charities better at what they do? Generally, yes. So I guess I'm neutral on that.
Taxes should be increased on the rich to provide for the poor.
Um, I mean, yes, but only to a certain extent. There's definitely an argument to be made that,
like, you should tax people who are extraordinarily wealthy and fund, you know,
a basic healthcare system. That's reasonable. Canada does it. The UK does it. It hasn't
destroyed our countries yet. And a shitty healthcare service like the one that Canada has
is better than having no healthcare service and going into debt for millions of dollars over
something, you know, that frankly you shouldn't be going into debt over. Like if, if you're born
with a pre-existing condition and you're just fucked, you know, why should you be owing millions
of dollars? Like it's, it's, it seems a bit unfair. So I, I agree. I don't strongly agree,
but I agree. Inheritance is a legitimate form of wealth. Absolutely. Strongly agree.
Because when you own property, um, it is your right to do, to do whatever you want with it,
including gift it. If you want to gift it to anybody you want, including your kids,
that is legitimate. So I strongly agree. Basic utilities like roads and electricity should be
publicly owned. Um, yeah, I pretty much agree with that too. It was one of those things that
the entire community needs. And there's probably some mandate there to ensure that every citizen
has some kind of fair access to the service. So yeah. Government intervention is a threat
to the economy. I do agree actually quite a bit. Um, again, there are a few tiny instances
where the government intervention might actually save something, but for the most part governments
tend to fuck up economy. So I agree. Those with a greater ability to pay should receive better
healthcare. Yes. Yes. I do agree for, for a minimum standard of care for those people who,
who can't afford it, but there's no reason why you shouldn't be able to pay for something better,
just like private schools. You know, quality education is a right of all people. And now I
know what they mean by this. They're thinking that if you hit disagree, then you think you don't
believe that people deserve to have a quality education. Um, it's not what I believe at all.
I actually do believe that people should have a quality education, but it's not a right.
Rights are very specific things. Rights are things that they're basically infinite in supply.
They can only be taken away from you. They can't be given to you. So quality education is a good
thing and a developed country should be spending a lot of money on its education where necessary,
but is it a right? No. So I will have to slightly disagree. The means of production should belong
to the workers who use them. No, it should belong to the people who made them or bought them. This
is more common bullshit. United nations should be abolished. This is one of the things that I
actually swung on quite a bit in the past five to 10 years. I would, I would have said strongly
disagreed before. Now I agree. Um, and it's mainly because, have you seen the amount of
corrupt shit coming out of the United nations recently? It's kind of wild. Military action
by our nation is often necessary to protect it. Yes, of course. Like any nation can say yes for
this. I support regional unions, such as the European union. Now the thing with regional
unions is that sometimes they're just like trading blocks, which are generally fine.
Sometimes they're military alliances, which are generally fine. The EU, however, is this
neo-lib nightmare proto state that's desperately trying to basically turn all of the countries
into it, into, um, like vassal States. So I disagree with their example of the, of the EU,
but I do believe that regional unions can often be okay. So I'm going to go neutral on it.
It is important to maintain our national sovereignty. Yes, of course it is.
United world government would be beneficial to mankind. No, it would not. It would not because
it's devolution of powers that make societies more free. Like if you're voting for somebody
who lives half a world away, they're not going to give a shit about you. If you're voting for
somebody where the power structure is closer to where you live and is a little bit more,
it's a little bit smaller and therefore it's a little bit more local. It is more likely that
that your needs will be represented by that structure. So strongly disagree.
It is more important to maintain peaceful relations and to further our strength. I think
those are probably equal. You know, you should be strong in case you have to fight, but if you can
opt for peace, then you should opt for peace. So I think I'm going to go neutral on that.
Wars do not need to be justified in other countries. Yeah, I agree with that.
If you have to go to war, it's nobody else's business. You know, some third party who's not
taking any side, they're like, you shouldn't do that. It's like, no, no, maybe there's a reason
you're going to war. Maybe there's a good reason. In fact, so no, I agree with this.
Military spending is a waste of money. I strongly disagree. We live in a world where, and again,
this isn't something that I've probably changed on over the past 10 years, but we live in a world
with a resurgent China. China is fucking everyone everywhere and we need a deterrent, frankly.
The West needs to basically grow a backbone and stand up to them. So strongly disagree.
International aid is a waste of money. I disagree as well. There are definitely times when like
international aid kind of goes to the wrong, goes into the wrong pockets. You know, a little bit
corrupt. People skim a bit too much off the top. Stuff doesn't go to where it's supposed to go,
but when it works, it's obviously good. You know, charity is obviously good.
My nation is great. Yeah, I agree with that. Canada is objectively one of the better nations
in the world. Like there's, there's no comparing us to, you know, some Islamic shithole that
mistreats gay people, mistreats women, you know? No. Yeah. Canada is pretty great. Research should
be conducted on an international scale. I agree with that. You know, generally like it should be
basically if it's something that's important, like space research or like coronavirus research
or something, generally you have multiple space agencies working together for multiple countries.
You have private and public businesses all working together. Like for the coronavirus vaccine,
you know, the Americans, the Canadians, the Brits, the French, and the Germans,
they're all working together on it. Like they all have their own projects, but they're sharing their
research. And I think that is kind of how you get things done if you really need to get things done.
So yeah, I agree. Governments should be accountable to the international community.
I mean, yes and no. Again, like if a government is blatantly violating the human rights of its
citizens, yes. But there are definitely instances where other other countries are just like meddling
and it's like, well, fuck off dude. Like you're not part of this. So I'm going to go neutral
because there are times when this statement is true and times when it's false. So neutral.
Even when protesting an authoritarian government, violence is not acceptable.
Yeah. No. Like if you're fighting a legitimate authoritarian government and you have to actually,
you know, engage in a civil war, then no, like there are times where you have to use violence
against authoritarians, but you have to be measured with it. You have to understand like,
okay, you're, you are now violating the social contract because you believe that your government
is just too authoritarian to, um, to tolerate anymore. And that might be the case, but when
it comes to like the Antifa fucks, they believe that that's the case. And yet it very clearly
isn't. So you have to like, one, you have to win because if you don't win, you're gonna get fucked.
But two, you also have to understand exactly what you're doing. So I disagree, but
there's like, this is a hard one. This is actually really hard. I don't know if I'm neutral or
disagree. I don't know. I'll hit disagree. My religious values should be spread as much as
possible. Um, no, I don't. I mean, I'm an atheist, right? So it doesn't, doesn't really matter. I
don't really have those values. If you want to spread atheism, like go ahead. But I actually
don't, don't really care as long as people aren't hurting anybody. I don't care what they believe.
Our nation's value is very much possible. Yes, because our values are capitalism and liberalism
and democracy. It doesn't matter whether that's parliamentary democracy or whether it's, you know,
Republican democracy, but either way, yeah, we, we live in objectively the best civilizations on
earth right now. It should be spread. It is very important to maintain law and order. Yeah,
generally. Yeah, I agree. I guess I should probably explain that one, right? Sorry. I jumped
ahead too quickly. Um, yeah, like there are definitely times when you have to, when you have
to fight, fight the power. For the most part, democracy is still getting things done. So no,
the general populace makes poor decisions. I'm neutral on this, frankly, because you have some
really dumb fucking people out there who are in positions of power and you have some really
smart people who are kind of, you know, stuck in a hole and can't really do anything because of the
circumstances of their life. Then you also have some dumb people who put themselves there and
then you have some smart people who are where they should be. So like the general populace
is an entire range of people who are very smart and very dumb. So sometimes they make
poor decisions and sometimes they don't. I'm just going to go neutral. Physician assisted suicide
should be legal. Yes. I strongly agree with that. Well, here's the thing, like I strongly agree,
but there's also potential for it to be abused. So there has to be like something there to make
sure it's not abused, but I still strongly agree. Yeah. The sacrifice of some civil liberties is
necessary to protect us from acts of terrorism. No, fuck you NSA. I strongly disagree. Government
surveillance is necessary in the modern world. No, fuck you NSA. I strongly disagree. The very
existence of the state is a threat to our liberty. No, I strongly disagree. The state
should be restrained because its power is, is incredible. And if it's turned on its own people,
that's disastrous, but you still need the state. You still need some kind of apparatus there
to make sure that your rights aren't violated and that something can happen to those people who
violate other people's rights. So, you know, if something, you know, someone steals your purse
on the street and then the cops, you know, the cop who's around the corner sees it, chases after
the robber and like tackles him and then, you know, handcuffs him and takes him away. That is
unprovoked force by the officer, but it's still necessary because that is basically the state
attempting to rectify the violation of your rights. Therefore you need a state. You need
some kind of night watchman. So I disagree. Regardless of political opinions, it is
important to side with your country. I'm neutral on this. You know, there are times in your country
does legitimately evil things and you can't side with it, but then there are times when
your differences are minor and it's time to act because there's a greater evil out there
and you have to kind of go along with it. So I'm neutral. Yeah, I'm neutral.
All authority should be questioned. Yes, of course. Of course it should be.
Okay. Hierarchical state is best. Not only is it best, it's the only type of state that can exist.
Like, no, you don't get your stateless society. You don't get your classless,
you know, governmentless society where everyone just lives in a commune. No, it doesn't exist.
It will never work. We are social creatures. Therefore, we trend toward organization.
Strongly agree. It is important that the government follows the majority opinion,
even if it's wrong. No, the government should not. The government can basically hold a vote
and then the majority can vote to exterminate a minority population. And then the government
should follow that. No, there has to be restraint on government power. We cannot simply bend to the
tyranny of the majority in a democracy. Democracy is important, but it's not the only part. And
there's a reason why it's not the only part. So, I disagree. The stronger the leadership,
the better. I'm neutral in this because, you know, you have strong men who are very clearly just
fascists taking over and then you have strong leadership that is needed but is still legitimate.
So, neutral. Democracy is more than a decision-making process.
I would generally agree with that because it's also representation, isn't it? Like,
you elect people to make decisions in parliament or whatever, but it's not just that. Yeah,
agree. Environmental regulations are essential. I agree. I actually do agree with this.
I think the free market argument falls flat when it comes to the environment because if you have,
say, a company that just dumps a bunch of radioactive waste into the river and then,
you know, downriver an entire town dies. Yeah, the free market will fix that because that company
will go out of business since everyone hates them for killing a town, but we can get to that point
with the people in the town dying, right? Like, there are some things government can do and I
think environmental regulation is one of them. So, I agree. A better world will come from automation,
science, technology. I strongly agree, actually. I think our future is pretty bright, all things
considered. Children should be educated in religious or traditional values. Neutral on this.
Neutral. Maybe even disagree. It's up to them. It's up to the kids to figure out where they
want to go in their lives, you know? So, let's just choose neutral. Traditions are of no value
on their own. Absolutely not. And I'm not even a traditionalist, but they obviously have some
value. There's obviously something that is more than the sum of its parts holding cultures
together. And even though it's important to challenge traditions, even though it's important
to discard traditions when necessary, when they've become tyrannical or they've become oppressive,
even when it's important to change traditions or introduce new ones, the tradition itself still
has some value. So, I disagree. Religion should play a role in government. No, it should not.
Strongly disagree. Churches should be taxed the same way that other institutions are taxed. Yeah,
I don't see why not, you know? If money changes hands, it should be taxed.
Climate change is currently one of the greatest threats to our way of life.
See, I don't think it is. I think climate change is real, but I think the great ecological
disaster of our time is not even climate change. It's plastic in the oceans. That's a very different
problem. Climate change is small potatoes compared to plastic in the oceans. So, I'm kind of neutral
on this. I mean, it's not. No, I guess I disagree. It is not. It is a threat, but it is not nearly
one of the greatest threats. It is important that we work as a united world to combat climate change.
Now, this I can actually agree with because even though climate change is not one of the greatest
threats, it is still somewhat of a threat and it will take everyone getting involved in order to
fix the problem. You know, Canada and the US and Europe and all these other places, they can do
their part, but if China and India just don't give a shit, the problem is not going to get fixed.
In fact, like, Canada outputs what, like one, two percent of the entire world's emissions?
We can't do shit. All of our politicians over here in Canada, they're like, we go to solve the
crisis. No, we can't do anything, dude. We're a small player in this regard. We can't do shit,
but I agree. Society was better many years ago than it is now. I strongly disagree.
There is no time other than this era, you know, the modern era, the internet era, that I would
rather have been alive. This is great, man. All things considered, things are getting better for
everyone at a pace we've never seen before. We literally live in a golden age of everything.
This is amazing. It is important that we maintain the traditions of our past. Yeah,
like a little bit, sure. Like, I don't agree with all traditions. However, it is people's
freedom to do so. And also, they're not all bad, you know, so agree. It is important that we think
in the long term beyond our lifespans. Yes, I also agree with this. There are things that need
to be done that we won't actually see the fruits of, you know, at some point, we're going to have
to go to the stars and you and I won't see that. But it doesn't mean we shouldn't at least, you
know, put a few bricks in that wall. You know, let's agree. Reason is more important than
maintaining our culture. Yeah, I'm neutral on that one. Partially because our culture is reason,
but also partially because, like, you can't simply have your culture. You can't simply
have your traditions because they're old, they're stale. Sometimes they don't understand what's
going on. But reason, you know, the world of pure reason where there's no spiritual side to life,
that can be equally destructive. So I am neutral on this because I think they're equally as
important. Drug use should be legalized or decriminalized. Strongly agree. Absolutely.
People should be able to do whatever they want. Within reason, obviously. Same sex marriage should
be legal. Yes, of course. The state has no business manning this either. Strongly agree.
It's a human rights issue. No cultures are superior to others. Strongly disagree.
Backwards ass Islamic shitholes are objectively inferior to Western culture.
Sex outside marriage is immoral. Strongly disagree. People can do whatever the fuck
they want, man. Like this is their freedom. If we accept migrants at all, it is important
that they assimilate into our culture. Strongly agree with this one. Of course. Again, if they're
coming from shitholes and they want to come here to be Canadians, they are welcome to come here to
be Canadians, but they have to become Canadians. Abortions should be prohibited in most or all
cases. Strongly disagree. Gun ownership should be prohibited for those without a valid reason.
Again, strongly disagree. This is that personal freedom thing coming through.
I support single-payer universal healthcare. Yeah. Prostitution should be illegal. Strongly
disagree as well. Do whatever you want. This is the libertarian in me coming out. Do whatever
you want as long as you're not hurting somebody else. The government should have no say. That's
not me saying that I think those things are good, but it is me saying that the government
shouldn't stop you. Maintaining family values is essential. Yeah, I actually agree. It is.
If you're raising a family, there should be some family values there. You can't just like,
you know, mistreat your kids or something. I know that the feminists like to say that
the nuclear family is oppressive, but it really isn't. And the destruction of the
nuclear family has kind of harmed the black community in multi-generational ways. So let's
go with agree here. Chase progress at all costs is dangerous. I agree as well. Because like,
most people who say that they're progressives, they like, they do some weird fucking shit and
they believe some weird things in the name of progress, man. And they think that what
they're chasing is progress, but it's not like, that's the thing. When you chase progress,
you often don't get it. You often just overshoot the mark and fucking destroy everything.
The idea is not to chase progress. The idea is to run away from destruction and through
process of elimination, you'll get there eventually. It's the difference between
doing good and not doing evil. There's a pretty big difference there. So I agree with the statement.
Genetic modification is a force for good, even on humans. Yeah. I mean, I don't mind the whole
designer babies thing. It might be weird in the future, but like, I don't mind the idea of
tinkering with genes once the process becomes reliable to make the species better. I don't
care about that at all. I'm like, I'm neutral on it in that I don't care, but I agree with it
in that if it works, it's like, yes, sure. Okay, sure. We should open our borders to immigration.
I mean, yes, but not to the levels that we're currently opening them to. So like, I agree,
but I don't strongly agree. Governments should be as concerned about foreigners as they are
about their own citizens. I mean, I fluctuate between neutral and disagree because unless it's
some kind of Holocaust happening, like China genociding the Uyghurs or something,
unless that's going on, I don't think our government has any business in anybody else's
affairs. It's their affairs. If the people elected that other government and that other government
is doing what the people want, and they're not like wholesale butchering a population,
then I don't think you have a place to say anything, you know?
So like, I mean, here, should be as concerned? No, no.
This is hard. I don't know.
I'll choose disagree just because it's that one extreme situation where I agree with this,
so I'll just choose disagree. All people, regardless of factors like culture, sexuality
should be treated equally. Yes, always. Treat people as individuals. Do not simply judge them
by their culture. It is important that we further my group's goals above all others. No, no. I mean,
it first of all, this is a very vague statement, but like,
generally no, like my group is humanity in a sense.
Here we go. Check it out. Centrist economic access. This is I'm slightly more markets than
equality. Okay. Diplomatic access to balanced. I am 60 nation, 40 world. Okay. Civil access,
moderate. I am 60 Liberty, 40 authority. All right. Societal access, progressive.
I am 40% tradition, 60% progress liberalism. Now I've done this before.
And last time I did it, I got centrism. I have fluctuated between centrism, liberalism,
and libertarianism. And they all look kind of like this. You know, it's generally a 60,
40 split with markets coming in over a quality nation coming in over world Liberty coming in
over authority and progress coming in over tradition. It's generally a 60, 40 split though
with each one, which means that it's not like I'm massively nation over world. It's only that
it's usually a 60, 40 split. So yeah, I am a liberal. Now I know that you can get like,
you can get like centrist here. You can get libertarian here.
You can even get neoliberal here, but I didn't get, I've never gotten neoliberal.
This is liberalism. So there are a lot of people out there who call me a Nazi, a fascist,
an alt-right shud, a reactionary. No, I'm just a liberal. I've always been a liberal.
This is very close to what I got five years ago. It is very close to what I got 10 years ago.
I have always only been a liberal. Thanks for coming along with me on this ride guys. It was
a lot of fun. Real videos coming back tomorrow. I know there's been a drought recently. I'm sorry.
I am working on the Kyle Rittenhouse video. It's just that it's a deep dive. All right. It's
coming, but it's going to be one of those big videos. It's going to be like Chaz. It's going
to be a big situation. So it's coming, but you will see it later. I have two dumping with scrumps
that I've recorded that haven't put out yet. Those will come out soon. But yeah,
videos are coming back. Thanks very much. Oh, and also I'm streaming pretty much right when
you see this, I'll be streaming on Twitch. So drop by and say hi there. I will see you
for tomorrow's video or for tonight's stream. Thanks for watching guys. I love you.
