Hey everybody on Reddit, this is Dev from the ShortFatOtaku channel.
We do anime reviews and let's plays, but today we've been chosen to judge this week's Unsuccy
Sundae contest.
CamryLady did most of the reviewing of this week's contestants, but because she's a socially
impaired artist she passed the buck to me.
Let's take a look at our winners, BadWeed with HappyFeet.
The film, the end of it, it's sort of like, oh yeah, don't eat our fish, oh how are we
going to purvey this to the human beings, and they're just like, we know.
Some of the best let's plays come from some of the worst games, and riffing on a shitty
game like HappyFeet is exactly as funny as I'd expect it to be.
These two have a pretty good rhythm, and they're entertaining enough to keep an audience watching.
The biggest reason this video isn't higher on the list is because the audio is extremely
echoey.
Investing in some hardware would take this show a long way.
Super Spears Brothers with Diddy Kong Racing.
The Super Spears Brothers are as close to a direct upgrade to BadWeed as you can get.
They've got a similar style of humor, and a similar rhythm between the two hosts, but
the Super Spears Brothers simply have more energy to their commentary.
They're willing to be zanier, goofier, and funnier, which puts them at number 4.
This show also suffers the same big problem that BadWeed does too.
Some high quality microphones would remove the tinny, distorted sound quality the commentary
track has.
Deadbeat Thespians with Skyrim.
So far, it seems like each group is a direct improvement over the previous group.
Deadbeat Thespians has the same feel as BadWeed and the Super Spears Brothers, but are sort
of the best of both of them.
They have the voices and the humor of the Super Spears Brothers, but they have the direction
and the commentary control of BadWeed.
Furthermore, their audio is a step up from both of them, but is still a little bit echoey.
It sounds like they've got good microphones, and if they do, it's likely a matter of mic
placement or software.
An easy fix.
Becky Meghan with Frostcraft.
I don't like Minecraft.
Nobody over here on this channel likes Minecraft, and despite that, this Minecraft video was
good enough to be chosen.
The commentator has a lot of energy, a wide variety of voices and accents, and passion
for the topic at hand.
She has the uncommon ability to keep a constant commentary rolling by herself, while still
being entertaining and informative, and that's highly impressive.
The only real critique I have to offer is that her voice track has a bit too much treble,
causing higher notes to sound slightly distorted.
Montadrical with Burial at Sea.
We're on our way to get a new plasmid, the old man winter plasmid, is what we've been
reading.
This is the best video posted this week.
It's yet another two-person commentary video, but this is the most polished of the bunch.
The co-hosts bounce off each other well, and there's almost never a gap in the commentary.
They're funny, but they aren't try-hard zany.
They're informative, but not so stuck up on one topic of conversation that the video suffers
for.
They've got the perfect balance of entertainment and structure.
One person's mic is perfect, but the other's has the opposite problem of Becky Meghan's,
having a bit too much bass, causing the lowest notes to bottom out.
Atomic Dan's How To Gmod Tower video was really funny, but not a let's play.
It's a great skit video though, and I really laughed at it.
Similarly, Gaming Wildlife's Just Cause 2 video is not really a let's play, more like
a short clip showing off a specific glitch or bug in the game, but it's also very funny.
Even though these two aren't let's plays, they're still really worth watching.
The people who didn't win this time around all had one of two problems.
Some people had both problems.
The first is audio quality.
In a let's play, the quality of your microphone recording is essential.
Even the winners had minor problems, but a lot of people had fuzzy audio, audio with
background noise, sneezes or burps left in, muffled audio, echoed audio, you name it,
somebody had it.
If you didn't win, take a good hard look at your quality and see what you can do to improve
it.
For a lot of people, that might just boil down to buying a better microphone, which
I know can suck, but there's no other way around it.
The second problem is gaps in commentary.
I know it's a game, I know during an intense part, you feel the need to stop commentating
and focus on getting through, but that doesn't make for an entertaining video.
One guy in particular, Hi I Can't PK with his Mass Effect 3 video, would have likely
won had he not paused for lengths of time during firefights.
If you've got more than a second of dead air, you're not keeping a roll in commentary
and not making a captivating video.
Of course that doesn't mean you should be making random noises either, it's really a
skill you have to learn, talking constantly while still staying on topic.
Or alternatively, you could simply edit your let's plays like we do on our channel.
These were the biggest two problems, but there were a number of others too.
If an intro is longer than 10 seconds, it's too long, and unless it's really slick, 10
seconds is pushing it.
An outro should not overlap with the tail end of a video, especially when stuff is happening
during the tail end.
If you're in a game with no voice acting, and not much in the way of dialogue, there's
no reason not to voice act the few NPCs you come across.
Just little things like that, if done would give your video polish, and if left undone,
build up over time.
Anyway, that's your Unsucky Sunday for this week.
Camera ladies asked that Becky Meghan do next week's Unsucky Sunday, but she might
also be a little bit biased in her opinion there.
Have fun everybody, if you haven't checked out our videos yet, what are you waiting for?
