The wealthiest county in America is not in Silicon Valley, it's not in New York, but
rather it's here—Loudon County, Virginia.
This DC suburb boasts the highest medium household income in the US.
What it lacks in billionaires, it makes up for with a massive upper-middle class working
six-figure desk jobs at government contractors—Northrop Grumman, Raytheon Technologies, New Star,
and more—leading to a landscape peppered with one, two, and three million dollar homes,
Ferrari, McLaren, and Rolls Royce dealerships, resorts, horse farms, and polo fields.
But perhaps the most bizarre part of Loudon County is its western border.
On one side is a place where the average household brings in $157,000 a year.
On the other is a state where that same average is less than $51,000.
In comparison to its mid-Atlantic surroundings, West Virginia sticks out remarkably.
Its GDP per capita is just $53,000—second lowest in the country.
Poverty is at 17.1%, fourth highest in the US, and far higher than the region around.
Life expectancy is just 74.7—second lowest in the US, and roughly equivalent to that
of the nation of Slovakia.
But beyond the statistics, at its core, West Virginia is, and long has been, a region in
decline.
Its population peaked the better part of a century ago, in 1950, and has been on a slow,
steady slide down ever since.
Nowadays, it's one of just three shrinking states, and it's by far on the fastest pace,
partially since year after year, unlike in every other American state, more people die
than are born.
Self-reported mental health is at an all-time low—in one study, the 13 American counties
with the worst scores were all in West Virginia.
Just as both a cause and effect of that, drug use is absolutely rampant.
Across one six-year span, pharmaceutical companies sold the equivalent of 400 opioid pills for
every person in West Virginia, and that was only the supposedly legal trade.
The state as a whole is in a bleak situation, but even within that average, there are shades
of bleakness.
Essentially every issue reaches its most acute form here—McDowell County.
This southernmost slice of the state regularly ranks as its poorest and one of the absolute
poorest in the nation.
Per capita income is just $14,000, which means the economic situation of its residents is
roughly analogous to that of those of the nation of Panama.
Life expectancy is just 70.4 years—the same as that of Iraq.
Having declined from a peak population of 100,000 to just 18,000 today, the landscape
is that of neglect.
Towns are mere shells of what was.
And few have fallen further than its county seat, Welch.
The Elkhorn Creek and Tug Fork cut right through its downtown, while the mountains rise straight
up above it.
Straddling such rough country, Welch has been forced to compromise, adopting not a traditional
grid, but a street pattern that follows the contours of the rivers below and the mountains
above.
And just as McDowell Street, Virginia Avenue, and US Route 52 follow the path cut by cascading
West Virginian waterways, so too does the railway—this single piece of infrastructure
that explains why this town, split by rivers, hemmed in by mountains in all directions,
even exists in the first place.
Before Welch, or McDowell County, or southern West Virginia was known for what it lacks,
where it falls behind, or why it's so different from the rest of the country, these rails
made this region the middle of American might.
Since before the Civil War, West Virginia's wealth in coal was well understood—it was
simply an issue of getting to the resource, then getting it out.
First, it was the east-west running Baltimore and Ohio line that connected northern coal
fields to midwest and eastern markets, then the Chesapeake and Ohio, and finally, near
centuries close, it was the Norfolk and western that collectively opened the state for business.
Now with the means to move it, the coal-rich West Virginia boomed from north to south.
From a state of 440,000 people in 1870, West Virginia nearly crested a million by 1900.
In the same span that the population more than doubled, coal production from the state
went from 600,000 tons to more than 22 million a year—almost a 40-fold increase.
Along railways, mines, and the other accompanying camps, tiny hamlets and company towns popped
up practically every other mile.
And the boom had only just begun.
According to the party, McDowell County now led the charge.
Connected to the rest of the nation by rail and home to the famed Pocahontas coal field,
the state's southernmost county became one of industrial America's most important.
US Coke and Coal, a subsidiary of the Titanic US Steel, set up the company town of Gary
to produce coke on site, and shipped to steel mills in the midwest, then it set up Gary
2, Gary 3, Gary 4, all the way through Gary 11, neighboring and competing with an array
of other privately-funded pop-up towns.
The interest in McDowell's bountiful endowments went beyond the private sector, too.
The US Navy also turned its attention to the region, as some Pocahontas coal burned so
clean that it became their first choice.
They called it smokeless coal, a relative term by today's standards, but the Navy
absolutely fired US warships with it all the way through the mid-century.
In just a matter of decades, McDowell, its county seat of Welch, and its quality Pocahontas
coal seams were the muscle behind American industry, and by filling the halls of Theodore
Roosevelt's Great White Fleet, had become the literal fuel of America's growing international
prestige.
As the 1900s progressed, some things changed.
With the onset of the labor movement, working conditions became less horrific, wages rose
and came to be paid with real currency rather than company currencies, while American naval
ships, then all ships, moved from coal to oil.
What remained consistent, though, was West Virginia's sole economic loyalty to coal
mining.
From 1910 to 1950, McDowell's population went from about 20,000 to nearly 100,000,
while statewide coal production now definitively outpaced all other contenders, under things
some 144 million tons of coal on the year—nearly 40 million more than the next highest producer,
Pennsylvania.
And leading the highest producing state was McDowell, now the nation's highest producing
county.
But then, more change.
Demand for coal in post-war America from traditional users diminished.
As American industry slowed, steel slowed, so demand for coke slowed.
Undeterred, West Virginia mines, rather than slowing production, pivoted to overseas export
and power generation.
As American environmental regulations and awareness pressured domestic coal-fired power
plants out of business, more coal went to energy-hungry markets like India.
As the world shifted, West Virginia found ways to keep shipping a product.
Not until 1997 did West Virginia finally reach peak production.
By this point, however, the connection between population, job creation, and production had
been long severed.
Since the 1950s, McDowell's population has been on the decline, in short, because
of machines.
Of the 25.5 million tons of coal produced in McDowell County in 1940, more than 23 million
tons were mined and loaded by hand.
Just ten years later, in 1950, of the county's nearly 21 million tons of produced coal, just
under 9 million were procured by hand, as cutting machines and conveyors had quickly
taken hold.
The result of such mechanization entirely decoupled McDowell's production from its
population as the county entered steady decline through the end of the century.
As margins tightened every time the industry had to pivot, it became more and more critical
to cut costs.
For those who stayed employed, the operational and managerial roles were solid middle-class
jobs, but jobs that were becoming rarer and rarer, and jobs that, as they dried up, simply
weren't being replaced within the borders of McDowell County, or for that matter, anywhere
within West Virginia.
Coal therefore cleanly explains West Virginia's fall, but it doesn't explain why it hasn't
been able to pick itself back up.
There are plenty of rural areas in the US, the majority of the country is rural, and
while there is a significant degree of economic disparity in comparison to the country's
urban areas, the rest of rural America is not nearly in such a dire state.
So why is West Virginia different?
The West Virginia Department of Economic Development strived to answer this question in their 2022
development plan.
They offered a handful of explanations for the state's poverty, but almost every cited
factor was simultaneously a cause and effect—crumbling infrastructure, lack of broadband access,
low education levels, poor health, abandoned urban areas.
Poverty is a vicious cycle—the state of poverty perpetuates poverty, but all cycles
have to have had a start.
The one cited factor that is not both a cause and effect, just merely a cause, was geography.
West Virginia is the least flat state in America.
Just 12% of its land is considered even relatively flat, and this one simple fact creates a web
of consequences.
The largest employment sector in rural America writ large, based on the census' sectoral
definitions, is the combination of educational services, healthcare, and social assistance.
This includes teachers, nurses, caregivers, and other people servicing jobs that exist
essentially everywhere.
The second largest rural economic sector is manufacturing, representing 12% of jobs outside
of urban areas.
As a proportion of overall US employment, it's still 9%, yet in West Virginia, an
almost entirely rural state, it's just 7%.
Now, the seven factories that the West Virginia Department of Economic Development touts as
top manufacturing-related businesses paint a picture as to why the sector struggles.
Everlight is in downtown Huntington, a city that developed across the naturally flat banks
of the Ohio River.
Kingsford Charcoal is in a more rural area, but along the also naturally flat banks of
the North Branch of the Potomac River.
Milan, Covestro, and Fiesta Tableware, too, are located in near-identical riverside spots.
The only of these seven not in a similar situation are American Woodmark and Procter & Gamble,
but they're both in the atypically flat eastern portion of the state.
More universally, manufacturers are not building factories on hillsides, and most of the elusive
flat spots are already developed.
The appeal of locating manufacturing in rural areas is the ability to achieve lower costs
through cheap labor and cheap land, but West Virginia lacks the second part of that equation.
Rather than spending to develop a site where it's tough or paying the premium for already
prepared spots, manufacturers can just go quite literally anywhere else.
Now, the weakness of the second largest rural economic sector is a problem in and of itself,
but its effects are disproportionate.
That's because average wages from the first and third largest rural economic sectors are
dramatically lower than those of manufacturing.
This sector, at least on average, is a key source of higher-pay, middle-class jobs in
rural America.
West Virginia, meanwhile, has to deal more with the lower-income sectors.
Of course, another major rural economic sector is agriculture, and agriculture has long been
a key part of West Virginia's economy, but the landscape that's been there for millennia
is presenting new challenges for the sector.
The state's geography is convoluted, but remarkably predictable.
Whereas, out west one tends to see massive mountains with proportionally larger valleys
in between, enough space for larger towns and productive agriculture, in West Virginia
the scale is shrunk down on both fronts.
That means that, consistently, towns pop up on flat sections of riverbank, then most valleys
are centered by a single road flanked by houses—areas known as hollows.
Sitting in between are the hills, which, by and large, are either destroyed by now-dead
coal mines or our untouched wilderness.
This has consequences.
First, there's little crop farming in West Virginia, the type that relies most on large
swaths of flat land.
The little that exists is primarily in the flatter eastern and northern sections.
The state focuses more on cattle and poultry, as this agricultural sector requires far less
land and produces far more value per unit of land.
But the farms that do exist are also small.
Whereas, across the US, approximately 11% of agricultural sales come from farms selling
less than $250,000 a year, 29% of West Virginia's do.
With hills sitting in the way, farms can only get so big.
In the past this was hardly a barrier, as most farms nationwide reached no larger than
what one family could manage, but that's no longer the case.
Much of the nation's cattle, for example, now comes from large, factory-style farms
like this, the Kismet, Kansas branch of cobalt cattle.
If one were to try to place this feedlot in West Virginia, it simply wouldn't fit.
But the reason why agribusiness is now the norm is because of the economies of scale
it unlocks.
Cobalt cattle is simply able to produce at a lower cost, which puts downward price pressure
on the industry as a whole.
That means these small family farms in West Virginia are having to sell their cattle for
less while still maintaining high operating prices, shrinking already narrow profit margins,
and putting this key economic sector on the path of decline.
It's therefore no wonder why the state's cattle inventory is at almost half of its
all-time high.
Of course, there are other places with land that is incompatible with agriculture or industry.
The vast majority of Nevada, for example, is simply too dry to make farming worthwhile.
Alaska, as another example, is simply too far for manufacturing to make sense.
Even neighboring Kentucky has near-identical geography inhibiting development in a near-identical
way, but crucially, it also has this—its urbanized west.
These days, cities are the centers of wealth creation, but West Virginia barely has any—its
largest is Charleston with a population of 47,000.
Only Vermont has a smaller, largest city, even though West Virginia is far from the
least populous state.
Now, one of the effects of this is that the state lacks the wealthier urban areas that,
in most states, pull the averages up on indicators like income, poverty, lifespan, and more,
but there's also a far more real effect of a lack of spillover from urban to rural
wealth through taxes, industry creation, and consumer spending.
But there are cities in the broader region around—in fact, there are some of the wealthiest
cities in the world.
Therefore, the very factor that is holding the state's manufacturing and agriculture
industries back can be a key asset for another sector—tourism.
West Virginia has long recognized this.
Its promise is demonstrated by places like Snowshoe, home to the mid-Atlantic's largest
ski resort.
With relatively high elevation and relatively large slopes, the resort offers arguably the
best skiing experience one can get within a four-hour drive from DC.
This and other outdoor experiences in the surrounding area not only attract tourists
for a weekend, but tens of thousands have bought vacation homes in the area, which brings
yet more spending to the state.
And yet, Hocontis County, which encompasses the resort, sits at just about the state average
for income and poverty.
Its tourism industry has not fixed much.
After all, while tourism can be big business, the employment that it creates is primarily
in the service sector, whose wages are hardly better than other rural economic sectors.
There's little path for someone working as a waiter or lift operator or housekeeper
to work their way towards making a middle-class income.
And other tourism-dependent economies have demonstrated that in cases where the industry
grows successful enough to truly transform an area and push wages upwards, cost of living
tends to rise in step, which dilutes any gains.
The state is certainly trying other things—it's trying to attract remote workers to relocate,
it's developing industrial parks, it's searching for funding for mine clean-up efforts—but
the state has been trying to transition out of its coal dependency for decades upon decades
upon decades and failing.
There are plenty of economically inhospitable landscapes across America—across the world,
even.
But humans don't live in these areas because human migration tends to follow economic incentive.
That was no different in West Virginia—people moved in as coal moved in.
The reason why West Virginia seems to have such an acute issue is because there was that
economic incentive, but now there isn't.
There just aren't many other industries that pay living wages that this landscape
can support, and therefore its population is left in a state of mere survival.
Places like Appalachia are harbingers for the future that awaits if policymakers ignore
the downstream effects of the transition to a greener grid.
Coal as an industry is dying regardless, increasingly bested in price by renewable sources like
solar, but as the mix of policy and economics spurs a similar result with other fossil fuels,
more and more places risk sliding into a similar state of decay.
In democratic political systems, the perpetual lack of solutions in places like West Virginia
has and will continue to be a political barrier to the further decarbonization of the grid.
Economic transition is therefore not just a matter of what's right or what's fair,
but a practical necessity for achieving the most ambitious climate goals.
If policymakers can intervene and successfully develop a viable rural economy in West Virginia,
then perhaps Texas and Wyoming and North Dakota will have optimism for their futures
beyond fossil fuels.
But right now, the brutal truth is that history has given those living and working in fossil
fuel-dependent places every reason to fight for the continuation of their industries.
As much as it might feel regressive or selfish or backwards, it's also a pragmatic matter
of self-survival.
The impetus of the decline in Appalachian coal production is quite complex, but perhaps
the largest factor is that the industry itself changed its operations in a way that made
production out West, in places like Wyoming, far more cost-competitive than in West Virginia.
As much as we wanted to cover that in this video, there just wasn't time, so rather
we decided to make an entire episode of our series Logistics of X on how coal mining works,
and why it moved out West.
It's all far more complex and advanced than I ever could have imagined, and I think the
bit that surprised me most is how few coalmines there really are these days—they're just
operating at such a tremendous scale that the entire nation is largely supplied by just
a few dozen mines.
If you want to watch this, it's on Nebula, which I'm sure most of you have already
heard about, but clearly you weren't convinced enough to sign up because you're watching
this video on here and having to sit through an ad.
On Nebula, myself and a curated group of around 200 creators upload every single one of our
videos ad-free, but that's far from the only thing to make the platform worthwhile.
I think the best part of Nebula is its originals, like the Logistics of X.
There are plenty more by super-talented creators like Real Time History, both a series about
the Soviet nuclear program and how it led to the Chernobyl disaster, and Real Life Lore,
who makes the fantastic series Modern Conflicts diving deep into the day-to-day of the world's
most consequential battles and wars in a way that's not even allowed on YouTube due to
their content guidelines.
Nebula was founded by creators, is owned by creators, and is run by creators to be the
best home to the stuff we make, and we focus on building a business ecosystem that makes
the job sustainable, which is part of the reason why, when you sign up at our link,
nebula.tv slash wendover, we'll get a portion of your subscription fee for as long as you
stay subscribed, which gives us stable, predictable monthly income that we can use to reinvest
in the videos.
But really, Nebula is just a good deal—you'll get access to tons of videos that you probably
already watch ad-free, plus a huge catalog of top-quality original content from creators
that you also probably already watch, and by using our link, it'll cost you just thirty
dollars a year, which works out to only two dollars and fifty cents a month.
So head to nebula.tv slash wendover to sign up and watch Logistics of X, and thanks in
advance for your support.
