So, how was everyone's Christmas?
What did you all get?
Was your stocking full of coal?
Did you actually get what you put on your list for Santa?
I'm at that point in my life where I can buy a lot of the more mundane things that I want.
Like video games, or tools, or computer parts, or whatever.
And what I really value is time spent with people closest to me.
That makes me quite hard to shop for.
But I think this is actually pretty normal as an adult.
When I was a kid I wanted nothing more than a Nintendo 64.
And so back then my parents knew exactly what to buy me.
Now I have everything that I want.
To the point that I actually look forward to getting new socks and underwear whenever
I go back to visit my mom for the holidays.
Geez, never thought I'd be saying that.
But I guess it's just part of growing up.
However, how many of you got, as a fine, and I mean the finest Christmas gift, a Trump
NFT?
Oh yeah.
I haven't really spoken about NFTs before on this channel, have I?
Okay, here's a very quick TLDR.
My layman's understanding of a blockchain is that it's a digital ledger.
Each section is a block, and each future block contains data about the previous block that,
due to the algorithmic nature of the data, can't be edited.
If any block were to be secretly edited after publishing, the referential chain of algorithmic
data back through the ledger would change the data of all the previous blocks.
What this means is, any data stored on a blockchain can never be deleted without destroying every
single copy of the entire blockchain in existence.
A Bitcoin is a fungible token.
Fungible meaning replaceable or identical.
Each Bitcoin is worth the same amount as any other Bitcoin.
Nothing differentiates individual Bitcoins except their individual location on a blockchain
and who currently owns them.
NFT stands for non-fungible token.
What this means is individual NFTs might hold individual locations on a blockchain and might
have unique owners, just like a Bitcoin.
But each individual NFT is not interchangeable like Bitcoins are.
Each one is unique.
The most famous NFTs are from the Bored Ape Yacht Club collection.
The owner of all this nonsense, Yuga Labs, came to prominence in 2021, when they revealed
algorithmically generated artwork of the Bored Apes, cartoon monkey characters who all stand
in the same identical pose and frame, and for whom basic art AI generates different
faces, accessories, and assets.
Each ape image was added to the Ethereum blockchain, and then Yuga Labs sold them in the same way
you'd buy a Bitcoin.
An owner of a Bored Ape owns a specific spot in a blockchain, as proven by a digital ledger.
But unlike with a crypto blockchain where you just own a token, this time it comes with
an image, and all the intellectual property rights to that image, including the right
to use your Bored Ape in TV shows or movies or whatever else you might want to do with
it.
If all this sounds retarded, that's because it is.
Ever since Yuga Labs dropped the Bored Apes in April of 2021, NFTs have blown up.
Lots of rich people have spent lots of money on this as the next big thing.
And lots of not-so-rich people have lost lots of money on this, hoping to strike it rich
and resell the NFTs as the speculation bubble inflated.
But instead, they ended up destroying their lives.
Because people immediately saw through all this bullshit, and the entire NFT market had
collapsed and burned by June of 2021, just three months later.
But that hasn't stopped people from still trying to grift off the whole concept, with
artists getting commissioned to draw NFTs for new shady startups, and influencers promoting
new NFT projects that are clearly just designed to be a rug pull.
By the way, a rug pull in the crypto world is exactly what it sounds like.
An influencer backs a new shitcoin, or in this case a new NFT, hypes it to their audience
as the next big thing, sells the product to their audience to make money, and then pulls
out of the project, letting the product's value collapse.
So they pocket the cash, and you are left with an asset you thought would appreciate
in value with the influencer's backing, but instead is just worthless.
Lots of people have lost lots of money in the past year and a half over this sort of
thing, which is just amazing to me.
Anyone who's financially savvy, or hell, just internet savvy, should be able to see
exactly what's happening here.
At least when Count Dankula sold NFTs, he said outright, listen guys, this is not an
asset that is going to inflate.
This is just a way for you to support my channel, and hey, fair enough, at least he's being
honest.
Thank you.
My god.
I think the reason he calls them trading cards is to reel in the boomers who don't know
what an NFT is, but who would totally buy a Trump baseball card.
He even sounds like a 3am infomercial scammer.
Look at these pictures.
Trump is Superman.
Trump is a cowboy.
Trump is an astronaut.
It looks like Trump saw the 2016 You Can't Stump the Trump series and said okay, it's
time to monetize that shit.
Trump had been hyping up a big announcement due to drop on December 15th.
It's going to be huge guys, make sure to tune in.
But it was just NFTs.
And holy shit, the rightoids were not happy about it.
Listen to Steve Bannon lose it.
Meanwhile Newsmax, a pretty right-leaning news source, had a hilarious reaction.
Everyone is dumbstruck that this is what Trump is doing now.
You guys all doubted me when like a month ago or whatever I said it was Ron DeSantis
and not Trump who was the future of the Republican Party.
I was correct.
This is what Trump is spending his final bits of energy and influence on.
The MAGA movement at this point is spent.
Of course, despite the despair of the rightoids, and despite knowing exactly how these sorts
of schemes go, Trump got his bag.
A 4.5 million dollar bag, to be precise.
The Trump NFTs sold out within a day, each one going for $99 a pop.
And hey, you know, to Trump's credit, they actually are beginning to inflate in value,
at least for now.
Private owners of Trump NFTs are now selling them on the NFT exchange website, OpenSea,
for $1200 a pop or more.
By the way, the fine print says that 10% of each subsequent sale of any Trump NFT goes
into the pocket of the artist responsible for them.
What a tidy grift.
And there also seems to be a serious question about where all this money is going.
Trump himself has stated that while the cards use his likeness, and he is clearly promoting
them, he is not in charge of the venture.
In fact, the company officially running the show is the blandly named NFT International
LLC, whose mailing address is a UPS office in Utah, but whose official business address
is a house in Wyoming.
This is a notorious piece of property in the Shell company game, being the official home
of thousands of LLCs, many of which are components of organized crime.
NFT International LLC is owned by another company, CIC Ventures, with a mailing address
at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach.
This company is owned by former Trump advisor Nick Luna and current Trump lawyer John Marion.
Those advertised sweepstakes prizes such as dinners with Trump and trips to Mar-a-Lago
with every NFT sold?
I don't know about you, but I wouldn't count in any of those ever actually materializing.
I think Trump has lost it, guys.
He wasn't like this in 2016.
I think it was a combination of his celebrity status and ego, his decisive 2016 victory
over the Republican establishment, his win over Hillary, the realities of being a president,
and his apparent Twitter addiction, all turned Trump into a caricature of himself.
And he was already kind of a caricature.
And I think that loss in 2020, where the real world finally impacted that bubble he was
living in, completely fucked him up.
He's been raving about how he didn't actually lose and it's so unfair and this and that
for two fucking years now.
And I think everyone is just done with the copium.
You know how you sometimes bump into that guy from high school who had one legitimately
awesome moment at the big championship sports ball game where he triumphed and took it home
for the school?
Only now he's been graduated for years and yet he still brings that shit up every time
you see him?
Almost like that's where his life peaked?
That's what Trump is now.
I think that 2020 loss and his subsequent isolation at Mar-a-Lago has brainrotted him
to the extreme.
He still talks like he's the president, he makes announcements like he's the president,
he's got files at Mar-a-Lago that he refused to hand over and the FBI had to fucking raid
him for them.
I can already hear the coping comments.
He didn't declassify them and he couldn't because the Atomic Energy Act places jurisdiction
over nuclear secrets in the hands of Congress, not the president.
I think Trump hasn't fully faced up to the fact that he lost and he's going through
a very public denial and spiral process that is honestly pretty sad to watch.
All that being said, Trump didn't only announce Trump NFTs on December 15th.
A second announcement which got way less attention was this one.
Today I'm announcing my plan to shatter the left-wing censorship regime and to reclaim
the right to free speech for all Americans.
In recent weeks, bombshell reports have confirmed that a sinister group of deep state bureaucrats,
Silicon Valley tyrants, left-wing activists and depraved corporate news media have been
conspiring to manipulate and silence the American people.
They have collaborated to suppress vital information on everything from elections to
public health.
The censorship cartel must be dismantled and destroyed and it must happen immediately.
If any U.S. university is discovered to have engaged in censorship activities or election
interferences in the past, such as flagging social media content for removal of blacklisting,
those universities should lose federal research dollars and federal student loan support for
a period of five years and maybe more.
We should also enact new laws laying out clear criminal penalties for federal bureaucrats
who partner with private entities to do an end run around the Constitution and deprive
Americans of their first, fourth and fifth amendment rights.
In other words, deprive them of their vote.
And once you lose those elections and once you lose your borders like we have, you no
longer have a country.
Yeah.
Trump's plan is to dismantle the censorship happening in schools, media and big tech using
government power.
I understand the appeal.
We have seen schools, media and big tech all be censorious towards the little guy.
At the same time, schools, the media and big tech also have free speech rights.
And the idea of the government coming in and curtailing the free speech of anyone, whether
that's your average Joe or the owner of a successful business, is pretty scary to me.
Especially when that sentiment is coming from the mouth of a guy who over on Truth
Social recently said that the Twitter files being released by Elon right now are grounds
for overturning the 2020 election and the termination of all rules, regulations and
articles, even the Constitution.
Now, whatever the Twitter files releases are, and there's some debate on that, they are
not grounds for the termination of the Constitution in order to unilaterally reinstate Trump as
president.
And this type of flagrant disregard for the Constitution makes Trump just as unfit to
rule as the Democratic lawmaker who says the Second Amendment doesn't matter.
Yeah.
While this is mostly a goofy video about Trump and NFTs, I think there's something under
the surface here.
I liked Trump in 2016.
The memes were great, and some of the shit he was saying in that elections debates were
spot on, but he's become something else in the past six years, something that I don't
think anybody with a conscience can continue to support.
Also, isn't it strange that NFTs are basically just the rare Pepe's black market meme come
to life?
I know that was a joke, right?
