In the summer of 2018, western Pennsylvania birders, ornithologists, biologists, field-tripping
teachers, Appalachian Range romantics, and trail-loving hikers all had reason to celebrate.
The Nature Conservancy, one of the nation's largest environmental NGOs, had partnered
with the Hawk Mountain Sanctuary to preserve these 2,380 acres of wooded bird habitat some
80 miles or 130 kilometers outside of Philadelphia.
In the grand scheme of things, the move wasn't anything major.
By itself, a massive environmental organization preserving an area the size of a small ski
town didn't move the needle.
But the deal was bigger than local interests alone.
The benefits were global.
To fund the preserve's protection, the Nature Conservancy, partnered with BlueSource, began
selling carbon credits and, in an effort to offset emissions, JPMorgan Chase purchased
over 96,000 of them.
It wasn't just corporations buying in either—at just $15 a ton, individuals bought credits
to account for their summer vacations, too.
While small in scale, Hawk Mountain seemed a perfect project—a pragmatic effort that
saved important habitat and refuge for local birds and people, and provided means for the
environmentally conscious to address their own impact on the planet.
The only problem was, as one intrepid investigative journalist would expose, it was all built
on at best a massive oversimplification, and at worst, one big green lie.
At the simplest level, forest carbon offset projects work by comparing the amount of forest
preserved versus the assumed deforestation had it not been saved.
This means that calculating a hypothetical baseline really informs the entire project
and how many credits they can actually sell.
And here lies the issue—all the carbon offsets sold to JPMorgan Chase and guilt-ridden individuals
alike were calculated against a faulty baseline.
This is the project's planning document, submitted in 2018 to the American Carbon Registry,
and this is the baseline the project's built upon—that if it weren't for intervention,
the forest would be subject to aggressive clear-cutting and high grading.
The problem was, Hawk Mountain Preserve, as its name would suggest, was already a preserve.
Since the 1930s, after the land was purchased by avid birder Rosalie Edge and the Hawk Mountain
Sanctuary Association was set up, this area's been closely looked after, managed, and protected.
The forest didn't need saving—it wasn't under threat—a fact borne out by the preserve's
and its own contemporary staff saying as much.
Of course, if the forest wasn't under threat, then there wasn't much carbon dioxide here
to save from entering the atmosphere, and thus, there wasn't many real carbon offsets.
It's these very carbon offsets, cheap for the buyer but ultimately meaningless, that
allow corporations like JPMorgan Chase, the very institution that invested more money
in oil and gas than any other bank from 2016 to 2020, to make claims like this—that they
offset all company travel through projects like Hawk Mountain.
Carbon credits provide major companies an incredibly cheap green screen to hide behind
while their faulty offsets continually underdeliver, and this is hardly a problem unique to a bird
sanctuary in Pennsylvania.
Not far down the road from Hawk Mountain is Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
Here, the Nature Conservancy brokered a deal to protect 22,000 acres and establish an offset
market in 2011.
First, it was Chevrolet that bought into the project, then in 2014, it was Disney who agreed
to fund the area's protection through 2022.
While the project helped Disney establish itself as an industry-leading offsetter, it
did little to actually offset carbon emissions, as the baseline again assumed the area was
threatened by aggressive harvesting.
In reality, though, recognizing the importance of the forest to their municipal water, Bethlehem
had only actually harvested about 0.4% of the watershed's acreage in the prior two
decades.
The same thing happened here, in Albany, New York, where offsets from watershed forests
that hadn't been harvested in decades went up for sale in 2019.
And here, too, in a swath of forests known as Pennsylvania Ridges, where the Nature Conservancy
began selling carbon credits in 2019, even though the institution itself had purchased
the land in 1999 and preserved it ever since.
Uninformed of or undeterred by the faulty logic, Disney bought 180,000 credits from
the project.
Across all of these, meaningless offsets actively undercut their own mission, and these issues
extend well beyond the East Coast, and well outside of the Nature Conservancy's purview.
California's Cap-and-Trade program uses forest carbon projects so that heavy emitters
can purchase offsets rather than lower emissions, and this program, too, has holes.
Of the 193 million carbon offsets sold in the state, 156 million are forest credits,
and of those 156 million, 131 million are called Improved Forest Management Credits,
or IFMs.
These IFMs provide credits by implementing best practices to maintain maximum carbon
storage.
Basically, they commit the project area to minimal harvesting for the next century.
Now, in order to quantify the amount of credits each project produces, like with voluntary
programs, there needs to be a baseline, or an average common practice, to judge the IFM
against.
California calculates this common practice number by breaking forests into regions generally
informed by tree species and forest density.
Each region, in turn, has an average carbon carrying capacity, and it's these averages
that are the problem.
Take this swath of forest here in Northern California.
It's relatively wet, it's heavily wooded, it's composed primarily of large, dense
tanawak and douglas fir, and according to the state, it sits in the Southern Cascade
Supersection.
Because this supersection is so large, it encompasses, according to Carbon Plan's
research, three subregions of different ecological makeups where the two inland regions are relatively
drier, more sparse, and able to store less carbon.
Therefore, when creating a baseline for this project plot, ACR 189, the state used an average
informed by data that doesn't represent the local environment, and thus is artificially
low.
In their own analysis, which used more accurate and specific tree species data, Carbon Plan
estimated that the section was over-crediting ACR 189 by 50%, and while this example sits
on the upper end of over-allocation by this date, their research showed that of the 65
IFM projects they studied, 53 had over-allocated, leading to an over-crediting percentage of
29.4%.
By using such broad forest classifications, California's program had unintentionally
created meaningless carbon credits that quietly undercut their own emissions goals.
And this issue isn't confined to national borders either.
Around the world, project upon project is failing to live up to expectations.
In Brazil, the Paitre Surai made history by becoming the first indigenous tribe to sell
credits to protect their own forest—most visibly to FIFA in 2014, to offset emissions
from that year's World Cup.
The next year, however, diamonds were found in the protected land, and the forest was
quickly ripped to shreds by those looking for a quick profit—rendering the already
sold credits meaningless.
In a protected area of Cambodia that sold credits as forest coverage sat at 88%, independent
analysis by ProPublica and Descartes Labs found that coverage had since dropped to 46%
as state-sanctioned logging and population influx accelerated deforestation far faster
than the project promised.
In Indonesia, carbon offsets were sold to protect a span of forest for conversion into
Acadia plantations, despite the fact that the government had placed a moratorium on
plantation development in the area.
Among myriad other issues, Nikkei Asia found that three times more carbon was sold as credits
than the project was likely to actually offset.
Time and time and time again, projects are making their money upfront, and then failing
to live up to the long-term promise that encompasses the entirety of their value.
These forest projects fail to address all three vertices of the carbon offsetting triangle.
The trio of factors that make for theoretically effective crediting.
It makes intuitive sense, for example, that a proper carbon offset must be permanent or
that the rate of decline must be accounted for.
What makes this difficult, though, is monitoring illegal harvesting in remote areas, or projecting
future fire losses, or anticipating what climbing temperatures will do to the ecological makeup
of a forest.
The project also needs to ensure that the carbon they sequester isn't just leading
to increased emissions elsewhere—that the CO2 isn't leaking out.
It's one thing to protect a swath of forest in the developing world, but it's another
to ensure that doesn't lead to more aggressive clear-cutting elsewhere beyond the reach of
state authorities or even roads.
Finally, and perhaps of most difficulty, it's crucial for an offset project to prove that
the forest protection wouldn't have happened otherwise—a naturally speculative effort
with so many shades of gray that the Nature Conservancy, for example, can justify an offsetting
project on property that they themselves had already preserved.
At the core of this triangle, though, and largely the reason it isn't heated at every
turn, is the need for dogged monitoring and accounting—two management mechanisms, in
a field defined by price points and expedience, that require time and money and therefore
plague offsetting projects well beyond forestry.
Theoretically, though, if an offset scheme can verifiably determine a baseline, verifiably
account for or assure permanence, verifiably account for or prevent leakage, and verifiably
prove additionality, then it might actually work.
Under these constraints, well-intentioned actors have aimed to innovate more advanced,
more effective systems of carbon offsetting.
Perhaps the most promising of these alternatives stems from one surprisingly specific process.
This is the Kopal district of India's Karnataka state.
Roughly 1.4 million people are spread across its dry, rocky landscape, making a living
largely by growing groundnuts and grains.
Of this population, 99% rely on traditional cookstoves.
More often than not, that means they're using three-stone fires, where a trio of rocks
is used to elevate a pot over a fire fueled by wood, coal, dung, or other biomass fuels.
The Kopal district is in good company—globally, three billion of us rely on similar traditional
stoves for cooking.
They can be built and fueled simply by gathering what exists around us, but the advantages
pretty much end there.
The thermal efficiency of three-stone fires, as in the percent of heat created that actually
makes it to the pot, is just 10%.
That's colossally low, especially compared to the 75% thermal efficiency of the typical
electric stovetop.
Therefore, the average household that cooks on a three-stone fire uses between 11 and
26 pounds, or 5 and 12 kilograms, of wood per day.
Burning such a quantity of wood every single day clearly has a sizable environmental impact—in
fact, some 25% of global black carbon emissions, a damaging pollutant, stems from this style
of cooking.
Of course, those using three-stone fires do so out of necessity—they either can't
afford or don't have the infrastructure to support gas or electric stoves—but there
is an intermediate alternative.
It's called the improved cookstove.
Essentially, this is a catch-all term to describe biomass-fueled stoves with higher thermal
efficiency—often around 20 or 30%.
With higher thermal efficiency, the fuel need is lower, and so a household switching
from a three-stone fire to an improved cookstove is estimated to eliminate between one and
a half and four tons of carbon emissions per year.
This is a hefty amount—roughly equivalent to the average annual carbon footprint of
a whole person in one of these households, or to flying between New York and Singapore
five times.
So, replacing these with these would go a long way to reducing emissions, but the problem
is that improved cookstoves are expensive.
Their 1,400-rupee cost is equivalent to a week of income for the average Coppola district
resident.
However, 1,400-rupee is only 18 American dollars—a miniscule amount to pay to offset such an
amount of flying, for example.
Therefore, cookstove replacement was a prime candidate for financing through carbon credits—a
perfect solution where certain individuals value an action above its cost simply for
its environmental benefits.
On top of that, the math was simpler—the higher the thermal efficiency, the lower the
emissions should be.
Having identified that, NGOs globally started distributing improved cookstoves to households
reliant on the three-stone fire, including in the Coppola district, where 43,000 stoves
were distributed to 21,500 families in exchange for the organizers selling 43,215 tons of
carbon offsets per year for a decade.
Now, what takes the system of cookstove replacement carbon offsetting from theoretically good
to great is its myriad co-benefits—the advantages stretch beyond just environmental.
To start with, gathering those huge quantities of wood to fuel traditional stoves takes time—an
average of 18 hours a week, in fact.
Researchers have found that overwhelmingly, the task of gathering wood for cooking is
left to women and girls, and it takes time that would often otherwise be spent on education,
for example.
Therefore, the use of improved cookstoves, which require an average of only five hours
of wood gathering per week, could help close the education gender gap observed in many
poorer regions.
On top of that, cooking is typically completed inside one's house, so the smoke inhaled
by users of traditional cookstoves is equivalent to smoking two packs of cigarettes a day.
Improved cookstoves do not eliminate smoke, but they do lessen it, so their distribution
works to eliminate some of the 4.3 million annual premature deaths attributable to household
air pollution.
Improved cookstove programs can also create local jobs manufacturing and maintaining stoves,
they can reduce unsustainable local deforestation—the co-benefits stretch on and on, and so it's
no wonder why, in the face of compounding stories of disastrously ineffective forest
protection programs, cookstove replacement was heralded by everyone from the United Nations
to Hillary Clinton as the next big innovation in carbon offsetting.
The math was simpler, the additionality was indisputable, the co-benefits were myriad,
and the costs were low.
These programs had the potential to finally offer carbon-conscious companies and consumers
a truly verifiable way to actually offset their impact on the world, so long as theory
translated into reality.
To test their program's effectiveness, researchers put hundreds of households in the Coppola
district into a test group—half were given the improved cookstoves immediately, and half
had to wait a year to act as the control group.
The researchers then tracked the various households' wood consumption to see how well it lined
up with the predicted decline.
With stoves increasing from 10 to 30% thermal efficiency, offsets were sold based on a theoretical
67% reduction in wood consumption.
What the researchers found was that when actually used on the ground in the Coppola district,
the improved cookstove households averaged 7.9 pounds or 3.6 kilograms in daily wood
consumption.
However, crucially, the control group used 9.3 pounds or 4.2 kilograms.
Improved cookstoves only led to a 15% decline in wood consumption.
So little that it couldn't even be considered statistically significant by the study.
That's to say, according to these results, hundreds of thousands of faulty carbon credits
were sold to individuals and companies who believed they were genuinely eliminating carbon
from the atmosphere—individuals who paid a premium over the forest protection alternative
to finance the purportedly more effective form of carbon offsetting.
What happened on the ground is that individuals' actions didn't conform to the optimistic
beliefs of the program's designers.
Almost half of the subject households didn't exclusively use the improved cookstoves—they
kept using their three-stone fires simultaneously.
This is a phenomenon so common that it has a dedicated term, stove stacking, and a whole
subset of research into its causes.
Broadly, stove stackers say they do so because it saves time—the more burners, the better.
That means that the main solution to stove stacking is giving each household more stoves,
but less carbon is going to be offset by the third stove as opposed to the first, given
less frequent use, so achieving the more verifiable version of a cookstove replacement program
comes with additional cost per ton offset.
Another core co-benefit of improved cookstoves is that they make cooking easier, but unsurprisingly,
making cooking easier often means people cook more.
There is almost always suppressed demand among traditional cookstove users, and so this makes
accounting for the carbon saved by the switch all the more difficult.
Given this difficulty, not all programs confront real-world conditions in their design.
United Nations Clean Development Mechanism-certified cookstove replacement programs are not required
to test the stoves and the extent of their fuel savings in the field.
Program designers can base their math off laboratory tests, the tests that led to the
failed assumptions of the Köpple district program, such as measuring how much wood is
necessary with each stove type to boil a given unit of water.
Current independent certifiers, such as the Gold Standard, require real-world kitchen
performance tests, measuring actual wood consumption in the actual project location by actual users
over a span of days, but not all experts agree that the more stringent path is the correct
one.
Water boiling tests are quick, cheap, and easy.
Kitchen performance tests are slow, expensive, and complicated.
That cost has to be passed on to the ultimate purchaser of carbon credits, and so this opens
up a broader, more subjective question.
Is it really worth it to increase cost, to increase accuracy?
Many cookstove replacement programs, including those based on less-precise water boiling
tests, are genuinely effective, but more of the kitchen performance test-based versions
are effective.
So, is it worth increasing cost?
Is it worth risking fewer carbon credits sold to be more confident that those credits are
actually effective?
Right now, the market seems to say no.
The least accurate type of carbon offsetting programs, forest protection programs, are
generally the lowest cost and hold a majority of the carbon offsetting market.
Meanwhile, the theoretically most accurate type of carbon offsetting, direct air capture,
where complex machinery literally sucks carbon out of the air, is the most expensive and
barely exists at commercial scale.
Consumers in the carbon market are making their purchasing decisions as they always
do.
If it costs $10 to offset a ton of carbon through one program and $15 through another,
why would they pick the latter?
The public overwhelmingly has neither the ability nor the desire to analyze the particulars
of individual carbon offsetting programs, so the cheapest option presented to them almost
always wins.
But that cheapest option is the one with the greatest uncertainty over whether it will
actually work.
It's the one with the greatest potential for the numbers to be fudged by nefarious
players looking to turn a profit.
All the stories are about projects where the carbon offset was overstated.
None are about carbon offset being understated.
If people are given the opportunity to turn a profit by fudging the numbers, people are
going to turn a profit by fudging the numbers.
Not only is the market enabling this action, it's incentivizing it by funneling the vast
majority of money into the cheapest, least verifiable, most exploitable projects.
And this isn't one of those situations where perfect is the enemy of good.
Carbon offsets are a form of syntax.
Individuals and companies buy them to alleviate the cognitive dissonance that stems from doing
something that accelerates climate change.
Therefore, if a person decides to take that transatlantic flight because they can negate
their emissions concerns simply by checking the offset box at checkout, that offset has
to be 100% effective to not do harm.
If that offset is just 90% effective, if the offsetting potential is just slightly overstated,
if families cook just slightly more than expected due to the convenience of their new
and improved cookstoves, the environment is in a worse place than where it started due
to carbon offsets.
Any behavioral economist would agree that carbon offsetting does lead to at least some
individuals or companies omitting more than they would if it wasn't an option, so this
scenario is not a fantasy.
Therefore, carbon offsetting, a practice presented as an innovative solution to the world's
carbon problem, has an extremely high risk of actually raising emissions.
Whether it does that is an entirely different, unanswerable question.
Given the complexity of just accounting for the carbon offset by an individual program,
entering that industry-wide would be entirely impossible, but the potential is there.
It's not that every carbon offset program is a scam.
There are plenty of extremely well-managed programs run by people genuinely trying to
make the world better that have truly verifiable offsetting impact and truly advantageous co-benefits.
Carbon can be truly offset, but that's not what the market incentivizes.
The market incentivizes the scam.
The market incentivizes a race to the bottom.
The market incentivizes the scenario where carbon offsetting, as a cohesive phenomenon,
has genuine potential to accelerate our march towards climate catastrophe.
If you've made it to the end of this video, you've clearly realized that, believe it
or not, talking climate policy can actually be interesting.
The world is changing faster than ever, and as catastrophic as that is, it's also fascinating
to watch unfold in real time.
I've certainly realized that over the years, especially as I produce two documentaries
about the subject—one profiling the Marshall Islands, the country that's expected to
be the first to become uninhabitable due to sea level rise, and another looking at
the Colorado River, the primary water source for the American Southwest, which uses more
water than the environment provides each year, putting the region on the path towards an
imminent water shortage disaster.
Each of these projects was produced on location with a rather big budget thanks to the funding
provided by Nebula, and by extension, all the Nebula viewers, so you can watch both
of these over there.
Of course, Nebula is the streaming site that I and a bunch of other smart creators started
to act as the best possible home to the stuff we make.
We post our regular videos over there early and ad-free, exclusive videos we call Nebula
Plus, and high-budget Nebula originals.
We also release videos from our new channel, Jetlag the Game, an entire week early on Nebula.
Most of the channels with the highest audience overlap with Wendover are also on the platform,
so chances are you already watch plenty of Nebula creators.
But what makes this the best deal in streaming is that you can get two streaming sites for
less than the price of one.
Signing up via CuriosityStream.com slash Wendover bundles the two platforms together for just
$14.79 a year with the current sale price, and of course that also means you get access
to all of CuriosityStream's great library of non-fiction shows and documentaries, like
their fantastic show Engineering the Future.
Signing up for the best deal in streaming gives you the best possible viewing experience
of the creators you already know and love, gets you access to a huge catalogue of new
content you'll probably love too, and it even helps support this channel, so click
the button on screen or head over to CuriosityStream.com slash Wendover to sign up for the bundle deal
today.
