So yesterday was Thanksgiving. Not for me, I'm Canadian, we have our Thanksgiving in October.
But in the States, it was all about turkeys and pumpkin pie and visits with family members people don't usually get to see all that much.
And if you're even remotely different from the rest of the family, in temperament or hobby or whatever,
I'm guessing you can relate to this scene.
Well, well, look who decided to leave their cave today. Yeah, fuck you two.
I'll take a wild guess that you, like me, remember exactly what this was like.
Or maybe you're young enough to be experiencing it for yourself right now, in which case, let me assure you, it gets better.
At the very least, when you move out, you can do whatever you like, even if it means avoiding these family get-togethers. Like I do.
But this ritual, this reoccurrence of the family's black sheep being mocked publicly simply for reminding people that they exist,
I'd wager that we all know what that feels like, and that we've all thought to ourselves at one point or another,
yeah, I'm in my cave because being alone in there is better than being out here with you.
I mean, say what you want about gamers, it's pretty clear that they want to be left alone to game,
and not actively turn awkward social situations into ideological fights.
That's what social justice warriors do, though.
Every year, around Thanksgiving, and to a lesser extent, other holidays, like clockwork, these articles come out.
How to have a conversation with your angry uncle over Thanksgiving.
You're morally obligated to call out your racist relatives at Thanksgiving.
The annual dinner is the perfect time for uncomfortable conversation.
Fun ways to come out to your shitty family this Thanksgiving.
When I was younger, I'd hide away with my Nintendo 64 and avoid the family because they were all religious right types.
But man, if I were a kid nowadays, I'd be hiding away with my PlayStation 4 to avoid the SJWs.
In any case, it's no surprise that social-justicy type people would actively try to turn the one day of peace that the family might get into a warzone.
It's all a part of that postmodernist, deconstructionist garbage, where nothing has any inherent value,
it's all a brutal power structure, and every human interaction ever is simply a game of conflict.
Lovely people to eat dinner with, but instead of your racist uncle complaining that you've brought your black girlfriend to the table,
soon enough it'll be your progressive aunt ranting about your whiteness or the patriarchy.
These articles are preaching to their own crowds, but in a very specific way.
They're written from the point of view of a young coastal elite, as all of these columnists tend to be,
having to make the arduous journey back to their flyover state home town,
and for a short time during the holidays, lower themselves to visiting with the hinterland savages.
And just so the point gets across, if you're not living in places like LA or New York, these articles consider you as one of the savages.
We need more people standing up to racism and bigotry than ever before, because guess what?
The racists aren't worried about offending us, so why are we worried about offending them?
Well, if your goal isn't family peace, you shouldn't be worried about offending them, privileged HuffPo writer.
However, considering that your camp wants to make giving offense a part of hate speech laws,
maybe you should give up your attempts to be edgy little shits around the dinner table, unless you want to find yourself guilty of a hate crime.
All of this garbage is an extension of Anita Sarkeesian's everything is sexist, everything is racist nonsense,
where there can be no fun, no happiness, no celebration, no reprieve, just the eternal hunt for all things problematic in society.
And why wouldn't it be this way?
These people are attacking conservative politicians and celebrities when they go out to eat, go to work, or even at their homes.
Why wouldn't they take a giant shit on the holidays?
As long as the SJWs consider the totality of the human experience to be a vicious power struggle between ideologies, then this will never ever stop.
Speaking of Anita, what does she have to say about this?
Hey feminist killjoys, this episode is going to be a quick one, because we know you're dying to get back to slap fighting with your older brother,
napping on your childhood twin bed, and pretending to go to the store for more ice so you can smoke in your car.
Jesus, you sound like someone who is nearly 40 and has yet to discover what truly makes them happy in life.
Don't just leave the room when your racist uncle says something offensive, make sure he and everyone around you knows why you're leaving the room.
Look him in the eye and say, that was incredibly racist. Then get up and leave. Maybe knock something off the table as you go.
Yes, absolutely. Be completely selfish. Make sure everyone knows you're raising a gigantic stink over nothing.
Make all of your relatives count the seconds until you're back on the plane to LA.
Recognize that keeping the peace is just code for emotional manipulation.
You don't owe it to your racist uncle to let him spew hot garbage over the dressing and sweet potato pie just because your mom doesn't want any drama at the table.
No free dinner is worth that.
If you thought I was exaggerating when I said that social justice warriors consider the totality of the human experience to be a power struggle, well, here you go.
Enlist the non-terrible members of your family in challenging your racist uncle with you.
Why are you the only one who has to make a stand? Tell your sister to pause the DVR on the football game, back you up, and act like a decent human being for once.
And if there are no non-terrible members of your family that you can join forces with, why are you even still wasting your precious air miles on them?
Why not start a new holiday tradition with that friend who's staying at home drinking boxed wine?
If you are such an entitled shitbag that no one can even stand you, then unite with a fellow single cat lady and share your sorrows.
Okay, I've devoted enough of this video to Anita. She's not even relevant anymore, so fuck it.
My point is, Thanksgiving may be over, but Christmas is around the corner, and it's only going to get worse as time goes on.
There are many legitimate reasons to cut family off. They could be abusive, or they could be legitimately racist, to the point that if you're in an interracial relationship, they go out of their way to shit on your partner.
There are also many legitimate reasons to just let people's minor faults slide for a weekend, because you only see them once a year and the stakes just aren't that high.
Not every offense is worth declaring war over. Microaggressions are just a stupid idea, but don't sit on the fence about it like a pussy either.
Don't huff off during the family party and cause a big scene and ruin everyone else's night, just so you can gobble up all those attention points. Either keep the peace or don't show up.
That's why, when I was a kid, I just didn't leave my cave at all. Smash Brothers was calling.
And that's why, as an adult, I generally don't go back home either.
Smash Brothers Ultimate in two weeks, guys. I'll see you over on my Twitch channel. I love you.
