Thank you.
Hello.
How's it going, guys?
Good morning.
I'm going to type this real quick, then I'll start, okay?
Hello.
I didn't know Arch was co-hosting today. No, no, no.
Arch isn't the furry.
V is the furry.
What's going on, guys?
Brent, you're here. Are you here to complain again?
Sorry, guys, I'm the reason I was late as I was talking to an artist.
And I'm just finishing up, you know, detailing the next the next art stuff for the channel. Here's the thing.
I want some new artwork.
You know, the the fat dev with the scrolling background, it's kind of overused at this point, I think.
I think I don't know if you guys agree, but like it's been around for three or four years now and I wanted something new.
So I decided to put some gameplay footage in.
The in yesterday's video.
And I think like there was a few complaints. Most people didn't seem to care, though, to be honest.
And I think most people just view me as like second monitor content anyway.
So it doesn't matter if I just have random gameplay footage in the background, but I just want something different.
I want I'm still I still I'm still going to use the fat dev with phone artwork for TikTok Tuesdays, but I want something different for the other videos.
And.
I got to figure out what I want to do, because.
Lots of lots of channels use random gaming footage, and I do like random gaming footage behind behind discussions of conversations.
But some people complained about it.
I do watch a lot of commentary slop anyways.
Don't commentary videos just have random gaming footage anyway in the back in the background?
Isn't that the case?
I don't quite know what the commentary community is, but.
Oh, yeah, the the dev walking up the background for that one covid video, I was intending to do a covid series and I got sidetracked.
Displayed two random game in the split screen track TikTok.
Oh, because here's the thing I like using gameplay footage when I'm talking about like gaming or YouTube being or drama.
Right. Because that kind of feels like it when I did the Skullgirls video gameplay footage was fine.
When I did the Final Fantasy video gameplay footage was fine. I did a.
I'm probably gonna do a video on Capcom soon. And for that just random gameplay, random gameplay footage is fine.
But to be honest, it felt very strange to put random gameplay footage in a discussion about political theory.
That sound that felt very strange. You know what I mean? It didn't feel right.
I thought I thought I would like it, but I kind of didn't. But I still want a different. I still want something different for the background.
I guess the issue is. I'm not sure how much I want to invest in this sort of thing anyway, because I might be radically changing my setup when I move in a few months anyway, because I'm moving come springtime, probably April or May.
So if I radically change my setup and I can actually, you know, let's say I lose some weight and I can actually be on camera and be presentable and not be a fat fuck.
Then maybe I wouldn't even use a background. You know what I mean?
I don't know. I still I still got to think about it.
I know like it's a Gundam alternates between, you know, animations or drawings of his character and also random gameplay footage.
I think what like I think what it's a Gundam does stylistically is what I would like to do with some of it with some of my videos.
I just don't have the time or the manpower or the patience, frankly.
You become a vtuber. I don't know what that did.
Who knows? Maybe I'll just make like a v tube avatar of just like my fat dev self anyway.
As for a camera, I mean, I don't know. I've also considered doing more streams.
I mean, the weekly zip is coming up on 200 and I set an informal goal for myself that.
I would change the format of my of my streaming stuff at 200 and my plan, I think my plan was basically just to stream more.
All right.
I got like a bunch of ideas and they're all kind of disorganized and they're kind of pulling me all in different directions, you know.
And some of them involve artwork. Some of them involve me getting on a camera.
I don't quite know what I want to do yet.
Can't accuse Dev of being a tourist who becomes a vtuber.
Yes, couples are still in the works that will come eventually.
Yeah, gameplay footage works better for indefensible. I agree with that. I agree with that.
Like I tried to do it yesterday and I thought I would like it. I didn't like it, you know, so I got to find something else.
I got to figure something else out.
In fact, you know what, I might even just message Gundam and ask him how he does it, you know.
Like who he got to do it, maybe that'll help.
Coffee's good, guys. Coffee's good.
OK, what else is happening? What else is going on?
Hold on, let's pause this.
Yeah, I'll figure something else. I'll figure something out, I'm sure.
I have like, it's kind of strange because like all the ideas are like half formed and they're all interesting.
But I'm not sure I have enough time to do them all and I want to do them all. You know what I mean?
Do reading footage.
Kefl's did a stream with Chris Chan. It's so over. Thanks for the two dollars, Rusta. Appreciate it, buddy.
Well, I have I have Gundams like like DMS. I can talk to him whenever I like.
So the almighty loli doesn't like me.
Yes, like the almighty loli is part of like that, that group of people who did not like the fact.
That that I basically said that V tube simps were simps, so.
Oh, also, I'm not sure that I'm not sure I know who meant his way this, to be honest, I don't know who that is.
But like, basically, I have like an idea for like a series of different types of content, right?
And so the gaming footage with maybe a bit more editing quality talking about gaming related issues.
That'd be like one series and then me talking about like the ten minute takes videos.
That'll be like a different series. It'll have like a background or something, right?
And if I can fit all. Here's the thing. Also, I need more staff, right?
Dave does a lot of good work, but it's not cutting it anymore. I need more.
The need to the channel guys, if you don't mind, I would say that like my goal.
In order to be able to afford to.
To be able to afford to move and set up my studio once I move, I probably need another like $10,000.
So that'll be my goal to push towards. Over the next four months or so.
I don't know, Dave's not going anywhere. They're not going anywhere. I don't mean to say that.
What I mean to say is like, Dave, I need more help than just what Dave can provide.
We donate to does not become a simp. Got it. No diverse simps.
That's like you saying they're just like your average Twitch thought that pisses us off.
A lot of them are. A lot of them just are like the average Twitch thought, dude.
Just simple. That's how it is, dude.
I mean, I can give you the argument that I gave V yesterday. It was a pretty good argument.
I think he ignored it. I think it was a good argument.
Like here. Here.
OK, I'm going to show you. I'm sure you want to talk about. OK.
So listen.
OK.
You have Emirates, right?
And she's in her tub with the bathing suit on.
And she's taking donos and she's writing names on her arm.
For four donations, you have Amaranth.
And then you have Dodger.
And Dodger just kind of plays the games that she wants to play whenever she wants to do it in her room.
She doesn't she doesn't do the Twitch thought thing, but she is, you know, an attractive woman on the Internet.
So.
What's the difference between these two? I mean, there's clearly a difference, right?
Despite them both being attractive women on the Internet who live off of Twitch and who get money from donations.
What's what's the difference between them? You know, there's there's clearly a spectrum of thought and nonthought.
Right. There's clearly a spectrum. And even though you can't cleanly draw the line between the two daughters married, even when Dodger wasn't married, though.
Also, Amaranth is a boyfriend. Amaranth is a fucking boyfriend, dude.
Or is she married now, too? I don't fucking know. The point is, is that even though you have these two extremes, right?
Thought and nonthought and that there's like a gradient between them where where a woman can be like slightly more thought like as they move towards the other pole.
But just because there's a gradient and the line between them is blurry doesn't mean that there's not two obvious ends, right?
Dodger is not simp baiting. That's a big part of it, isn't it? Now, listen.
Lots of V tubers, lots of V tubers, even the ones who market themselves as pure or at least non lewd, they definitely simply they definitely simply.
All right. With with the you know, with with the extremely attractive, almost almost perfect picture ask model with the very different, generally higher pitched, generally cuter voice.
When they get a donation. Absolutely. They absolutely simply simple as that. Simple as that. Right.
And so I mentioned this to V and V said, well, you know, there's also a similar spectrum between like Vash and Hassan and people like me or him.
Right. Which is true because there is this spectrum.
But then I told him, like, listen, you're making my point back to me because you know what happens when Vash gets a donation?
He says, thank you for the donation, comrade. Get ready for the revolution.
We're all going to be out there like like Vash. He's not simp baiting in the same way, like appealing to your deck, but he is appealing to your sensibilities.
All right. There's this feeling, at least in terms of how Vash talks to his donators.
That he's going to be there with you for the revolution and that you're donating for the revolution.
But I mean, we all know that if the communist revolution comes.
Watch isn't going to be there. You know, Vash Vash's parents worked in Hollywood.
He grew up in Beverly Hills. He lives in a gated community in San in Seattle now.
Like Vash is going to be on the fucking street fighting with a revolution.
He's not going to be fucking there.
So this idea that like he like Vash doesn't do the simp baiting in the same way as like appealing to some sexual sensibility or even some like girlfriend experience or some like you have to take care of me because I'm the cute girl.
Like like quasi Tamagotchi experience like like the NPC memes do right.
Vash doesn't do that, but he does appeal to the sensibilities of of his, you know, like his sad communist revolutionary or quasi revolutionary hopeful failed revolutionary audience.
Right. Like whenever I talk to you guys about donating, I appreciate the donations you give me.
But I also constantly say don't donate to me if you can't afford it.
In fact, like here there are there are things that I could do to get more money out of you guys that would be duplicitous and would be immoral and that I won't do them.
You understand? So this is what I'm talking about.
OK.
Hold on.
What's your opinion on Thomas Hobbes? He's all right.
He's right about some things wrong, but other things. Thanks for thanks for the 10.
I'm sorry. Appreciate it, dude.
Isn't that just appealing to demographic them? Why call it simp baiting?
Because there's a duplicitousness in it.
Like I could I could be here and like every time you guys donate to me, I can be like, yeah, thanks. Thanks, dude.
Guess what? We're going to go. You know what this donation is going towards? We're going to go.
We're going to revitalize centrism. Liberalism is going to be OK. We're going to be like I could or I could even I can even go further.
Right. I know that that a lot of you guys are more right wing than me. I could be like, keep donating, guys.
I'll turn more right wing if you keep donating. I'll start supporting the alt right.
Or else we're going to the dissident, right, guys, like I'll start like.
There's like it would be more sophisticated than that, obviously, I'm just speaking off the cuff, but the point is, is that I could say things that.
Either would be directly false or.
That would be.
That would imply something that I don't mean, but that you would think that I mean, and I would have plausible deniability.
All right, because lots of streamers do that.
Lots of streamers do that.
And I don't do that and I refuse to do that.
You know.
You wouldn't know that since you like here, like Lord Boneman, like you're kind of like, why even here?
Are you actually just here to put words in my mouth?
There is an honesty knowing that my money only goes to you. You don't want to be the completionist. Yeah. Oh, fuck that. That's a great example. The completionist. Holy shit.
Probably is a bigger than a bigger than most of you. Do you think so? I don't know.
Here's the thing, right? You have you have like a cute girl, especially if it's a cute anime girl, because then it's unrealistic.
And every time you donate, she squeaks, she changes her voice. She tells you, oh, just how thankful she is for it. And she does a little dance and her model jiggles around.
Are you are you seriously fucking saying there's it's all above board. Nothing's being implied there. Nothing's like there's nothing. There's no subtext to that whatsoever.
Like if you if you're saying that you're fucking coping, right? You're just fucking coping. And in fact, you're probably locked in to being a simp.
And here's the thing, like, because of the way that these online conversations and arguments go, a lot of you guys in like, here, like, like, valiant just did it.
If YouTube are genuine enough by your stand, then they're okay. Yes. Yes, valiant. That's exactly the point. Because here's the thing. I never said all V tubers. All right.
Like, you're unironically doing the hashtag, like I have to do the fucking hashtag not all V tubers thing the way we did like fucking hashtag not all men before because feminists are being retarded about men. And now you're being retarded about V tubers. You understand?
Someone said in the chat, the only vtuber I watch is Pippa, she's called the Vasha horse. It was actually really funny. All right. There are actually V tubers that I like.
But this there's an idea that like, I just, oh, God, people say that, like, dev supported the harassment against pick me. Like, how could you possibly fucking come out with that? Like, you have to be retarded. I hate to just toot my own horn, but it sometimes just seems like, am I am I just like, smarter than the average person online? Is that it? Are most people on the internet? Is that fucking dumb? Or that fucking dishonest?
Like, is that what most humans are?
Fuck. So how's that? Is that my waifu?
But anyway, like, I don't like, I'm not a thought leader, not the head of any sort of political movement.
I certainly can't give you guys a girlfriend experience. I can't say, Hey, if you if you donate to me enough, maybe I'll fuck you. I can't do that. I certainly don't don't make make you guys think that you can care for me like a Tamagotchi by donating, right? All of those avenues are cut off.
The only thing I do is like, you can support me, I'll keep making videos. That's what you get for your support. It's a transaction, right? And I'm not gonna I'm not gonna coach that transaction in any sort of other emotional appeal, whether that is political, or sexual, because I think that's a moral. All right. And in so far, as other streamers do that, lots of women do it.
Lots of politics streamers do it. And lots of vtubers do it. But in so far as they do it, I think that they're acting immorally. And I won't do it. It's as simple as that.
What else? What else is happening? Oh, my God. Oh, yeah. So I mentioned, if you guys remember last week, last week, I was like, Dude, getting on the ADHD meds was amazing.
Remember that shit, guys. So I was given one week of 10 milligrams of Vyvanse, and then five weeks of 20 milligrams of Vyvanse. Okay.
Hold on, Brian Linden, $5. Thank you. Now what you need to do to get more money from us is to be wrong on purpose to bait us into arguing. Also, pick me election stolen and died suddenly. Oh, my God. Thanks for the fiber, dude.
So so stretching. Oh, okay. So Vyvanse, right. When I was on the week of 10 milligrams of Vyvanse, I felt fucking incredible. My ability to focus was drastically improved. I could stick to writing. I could stick to reading. I could stick to writing.
I could stick to reading. I could actually click complete books in one sitting. I could like I could get on with like writing a long script. No problem. I could actually work. And now, without the Vyvanse, I can work about 30% of the time at that level. With the Vyvanse, it was more like 75 to 80% of the time. It was excellent. And I was like, Yes. Oh, I can finally do all the things that I want to do.
So Dylan Bowser, welcome. Let's get this sip, boys. But the cringe article is the next level this week. Thanks. Thanks, Bowser. Do a long $5.00. Hey, Dev, any plans on doing a deep dive in accelerationism? Catch you on the replay. One day. Yes. Because I don't like accelerationism on either side. So, yes.
Here's the thing. Um, but then after the week of 10 milligrams, it was time for me to step up to 20 milligrams. And on 20 milligrams. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Everything was worse. Everything was worse than then. It was worse than me at baseline, like without medication. It was fucking terrible.
Oh, my God. It was really bad. It was really bad. So people saying it's math. It's math. It's math. It's like it's related to math, but it's not the same as math. Everyone does the joke. It's math, but it's related, but not the same drug. The nobody care. What's this?
Going tomorrow. Titanium. Why is Biden lesser evil compared to Orange? Mainly because of the Eastman memo. That's the main reason. The Eastman memo is why I think that Biden is the lesser evil compared to Trump.
So here, here, here. Here's Here's the situation here. Titanium knows what's going on because titanium is also on on Vyvanse. So let me describe it to you. Okay. So in general, Vyvanse. Okay. Here's the TLD of how it works. Right. I think I think I said this last week, but I'll say it again real quick this week is that if you have ADHD, you're like looking around, you can't keep your focus on anything because everything is so stimulating.
Right. So basically what you do is it lowers your threshold for no, you know, everything is boring, but that's what it is. Everything's boring. So you're constantly being stimulated by a new thing. So what it does is it lowers your threshold for stimulation. Right. So basically, if you must sit down and do a long job, it takes longer for that job to get boring.
It remains interesting for long periods of time. That's that's what that's what the drug does, basically. So the you're able to write and read, and just generally focus on things better and not be sucked in to like constantly snacking every time you walk through the kitchen, right, or get hooked into addictive video games for hours and hours and hours because it has such a strong reward pathway. Right.
So.
And honestly, a lot of the stuff you can actually just kind of like learn good habits and muscle through on your own.
But but sometimes you can't get all the way there. So I wanted I wanted to try it. I want to try it. I gave it a go.
I gave it a go.
And so what ends up happening.
Is you have the side effects of high blood pressure, which kind of sucks for a fat guy like me.
No appetite, which is pretty good for a fat guy like me.
And so on the 10 milligrams, I was doing all the work. It was amazing. My life was measurably improved. I had no appetite, which was good.
And the high blood pressure symptoms were minimal. So it's like, okay, you know, I'll, I'll lose weight and deal with that on its own. Not a big deal. Right.
I didn't experience any loss of creativity, which is a common side effect that I didn't experience. And I didn't experience any any anxiety, which is a common side effect. Okay.
So like, things were perfect. Then I then I jump up to the 20. And on the 20.
The high blood pressure symptoms were constant and very uncomfortable. They never went away.
They were just there all the time. And I just felt terrible.
And also lots of anxiety. And I don't have anxiety.
Normally, like without medication, I'm not I'm not a person who ever gets anxiety. I am not an I am not a person who is prone to getting anxiety. But I had it on this. I had a whole bunch of anxiety.
And I was like, Oh, my God. And it doesn't matter that like, my focus was still improved. Like I was a fucking wreck. I couldn't do anything on the 20. And I was like, Oh, my God, this is like, this is fucking. Oh, my God.
It was terrible. And so I was like, you know what? I'll keep trying. Maybe maybe I just got to get used to the the 20 mgs. Right? I'll just I'll just keep trying. So I just muscled through it for like three or four days. And it didn't get any better. I was just like, Oh, my fucking God.
In fact, one of the reasons why I'm not happy with the editing job on the video that came out yesterday is because I forced myself to edit it while I was in this terrible state. I was like, you know what, I need to get this video out. I just need to fucking do it. So I've just forced myself to just it's like just the bare minimum. Just get all the fucking things on screen. Fuck it. Just just get it out. And I'm not happy with what I did with it. But it's out. Okay.
Okay. Um, so I'm just like, Oh, I stopped. I didn't take any today. I didn't take any today. I'm going the doctors is open tomorrow. I'm going back. I'm going to be like, Listen, put me back on the 10. And that'll be that. However, the only the only issue is that 10 milligrams is not considered a normal dose.
Here, maybe it is somewhere else in the world. But like, 10 milligrams is what you give the children, or it's what you give to adults to eventually boost them up to something higher. It's not considered a dose you should stay on. But so I'm going to tell them though, like, Listen, either you put me on the 10, or I just I'll just take the 20s for you. And I'll just start cutting them in half. Because I'm not doing that again. Fuck. Oh, my God. So here's the issue.
It didn't really screw with my mind. All the symptoms I'm describing are like body or like body symptoms, right? It was like body anxiety. It was all stuff happening in my body, but my mind was pretty much intact.
$5 stigma. Thank you. Almost every med I've ever taken that messes with brains have always been at about half the dosage for my weight. Really? Yeah. Maybe I'm just I'm just very sensitive to it, you know.
But yeah, I'm going to try to get I'm going to try to stay at the 10.
If they if they say no, we will only give you prescriptions for 20s, then I'll take the 20s and I'll cut them in half. But I'm staying at 10. Fuck that.
So that's what I'm doing. So today, I'm not on any of the medication. And I'm certainly feeling better than when I was in the 20. That's for sure. Also, for everyone saying it was meth. There's like, there's no like, there's no addictive property to this.
Like, I don't feel the urge to like, take the pill or anything. I don't feel I don't feel I don't like miss any of what I was feeling. I'm just like, that sucked. I won't do that again. Like, there's nothing addictive here. You know what I mean?
So I'm just like, Okay.
All right.
So yes, that's the current situation with me and the drugs.
Yet. Yeah, but it's been almost two weeks of me doing this. I figured there'd be something.
I figured there'd be something.
I'm lucky, maybe because those are slow. Also, to be honest, I never really got addicted to alcohol or weed, even though trying those as well. I tried smoking, didn't get into smoking.
Even maybe I just don't have an addictive personality. Well, to be fair, I do have an addictive personality. But it's towards food and video games. It's not towards any sort of drug.
Devo three years later, I can quit at any time.
How would you recommend including sleep schedule? Here's what I do.
I open the windows, and I allow the sun to shine into the room as I wake up. And I wake up with the sun. It's quite nice.
I can't wait to take this bill. That's not how it works. I'm not feeling it at all, dude.
I understand titanium, and that's probably what it was. That's probably what it was. But you know what? Right now, I feel better.
Right now, I feel better. I'll go back and get tens, and it'll probably be okay.
So what else do I want to talk about before we start? Well, we're already starting. I mean, I guess this is definitely part of the show, isn't it?
Oh, yeah. I don't know. I think, like, sometimes the amount of haters that I get, and I get my fair share of them, for sure. More so now than before.
Probably because of, like, Pick Me, Trucker Video, all that stuff. But the amount of haters that I get is sometimes disheartening, you know what I mean?
And in terms of the pure, raw numbers calculus, it doesn't matter. Like, I can do... Hold on. Jess, I haven't sent dollars. Thank you.
I think with meth is the active ingredient, which is an amphetamine. My friend who takes the meds has to tell how employers this, because drug tests look for the ingredient and flag it as meth. Makes sense. I know what you mean, yeah.
Okay. I do hate or bait sometimes, and sometimes it's really fun, right? But sometimes, like, I'll talk to people and they're just retarded and they want me to agree with them.
And when I don't agree with them, they take it personally. Like, the amount of right-wingers in the past, let's say, year, it's been slowly ramping up over a year.
The amount of right-wingers who legitimately hate me because I don't agree with their takes has kind of gone through the roof.
And it's gotten to the point where I do not care to cater to them anymore. I was like, well, fuck you. You know what I mean? Like, it's not just that you gave a take I disagree with. They act like they've been personally attacked by me.
No, no. I'm sure it's not me. Yes. And here's why. Because when I disagree with someone, that's a disagreement, right? When I have a take that you don't like, when you have a take that I don't like, we disagree.
Okay, we disagree. Fine. We disagree. And we can have a discussion and we can go like, okay, well, here's a point. Here's a point. Here's what I think of your point. Here's some proof. Here's some evidence. Here's some numbers. We can have the discussion and work it out, right?
However, there are people who I give a take they don't like, and then they morally attack me. Or they say, I can't believe you've changed up, even though I haven't really changed.
Or they'll say, I can't believe you were a liberal dev, even though I've always said I was a liberal. Or they'll make a big show about no longer watching. Right?
And then it's just like, what should I do with this? Like, what should I fucking do with this guys? Like, it's one thing like here. All right. One of my mods, one of my mods is Avalon Apple. And he disagrees with me more than most people. He's constantly sending me shit about why I'm wrong.
And yet I still consider him a friend. And I still take his opinion seriously, even though we disagree. And there's no hate between us. All right. You understand?
Compare that to someone who is like, Oh, this video critiqued my point of view, I need to make a very public I need to make a very public statement about how you don't understand that the West has fallen and I'm on subbing from you. And I can't wait until you're completely destroyed. It's like, what the fuck? What the fuck? What's wrong with you?
That riff person, so we will make their opinions part of their identity and take a person we don't confirm that part of their reality. That's true. That's true. But it's also it's also the fact that there's, again, a weird parasocial thing that some people have adopted. All right, like, and this is why I'm very sensitive about all the people who push the simp shit.
From that previous conversation, and why specifically do my best not to push it as much as I can. All right. Because there have been people who have taken it like a personal attack, like I've backstabbed them. Like I've betrayed our friendship, which doesn't really exist, because I like you guys, but like, you're also viewers, you know, you're not you're not like on the same level as Naomi, for example, or Dave, you know, I don't know you in real life. But they think it's like this incredible, like betrayal.
That I would give a take that criticizes them. It's like, what the fuck is wrong with you?
person. Thank you. Some people will make their opinions part of their identity and take it personally. We don't have from that part of the reality. Yep. That's for sure. $20. Some territory. Thank you very much, man. When people start to substitute their, their politics with personality, how else can they take a difference of opinion other than a personal attack? Yeah, exactly. Right. Exactly. And right wingers are doing that, too. Yeah.
Destiny's approach of purging fans every time you get a huge influx to remind them of your actual takes is based. There's like a balance there fable. I agree with you, by the way, the balance is like, you can purge fans. But if you're like, if you're small, and you purge too hard, you destroy your own growth, right? But then you also have the problem of being captured. Like what if it turns out that you give one take that is not in line with your other takes. And now you gained a bunch of people who you don't actually agree with. And they're all following you now. And they're all just ranting at you, because you don't agree with them.
Because you because they thought you were somebody else, you know what I mean? Like, if you're a left winger, and you give one right, one take that right wingers like, and now like 90% of your audience is right wingers. And you have to be like, Listen, I don't fucking believe this shit. And then you're constantly fighting with them or the opposite to like, when a right winger gives a take that left wingers like you know what I mean? So, for me, it's like, I'm a liberal, I've always been a liberal. Liberalism will sometimes agree with the left and sometimes agree with the right. And so when you come in here, and you see, like, if you're a right
winger, and you see a right wing take, and you're like, Yeah, devs based. And the next day, I give I give a take against the right, and you like, fly off the handle of like, how you've been betrayed. Like, I just have no patience for that anymore. All right. I have no patience with that anymore. I'm at the point now where it's like, if I were to purge my entire audience, like here, most of you guys are pretty cool, right? Most of you guys are pretty cool. Most of you guys are pretty cool. However, if it turned out that you
all went full retard, and I had to purge all of you, and I went back down to being like a 20 viewer fucking politics streamer, I would do that. Because, yeah, if I gotta get another job, I'll get another job. You know, I do not want to be beholden to saying things I don't believe.
Like people online. They say I love you a lot. I was stretching Zamze or Zamze. Yeah.
Like here, here. I'm gonna show you examples what I mean. I got a few examples because this has been happening like a lot in the past a little bit and I'm just fucking done with it. And since since 2024 is going to be the dev authoritarian year.
I'm going to be done with people like this. All right. Hold on. Let me see here. Let me see. Like.
Listen, five dollars. I heard you like strawberry ice cream. I'm on subbing and hoping that you lose everything for your insane fruit ice cream views. Rocky road for life.
Give me, let me pull this up.
Tara Shevanka, five dollars. And some of you guys are cool. Don't change the stream tomorrow.
Okay. Here we go. Like this guy, right? So what's going on here?
Is Tim Pool's complaining about has been hotel, right? Oh, hey, Apple's ghost.
Apples, do you wind it? I talked about you recently. Just rewind a bit and listen to it.
There's a low pay five dollars judging by the comments. I feel like you didn't make it clear
in your video that the current liberals aren't liberals, but other progressives.
That's true. Lots of people are progressive liberals, not like classical liberals or social
liberals or conservative liberals. They're progressives. And that's the problem.
And even then, I still have progressive friends because why not?
Photography, five dollars. I'm conservative with you all the time, but I always listen.
I always appreciate your positivity. I'm tired of the doomer right takes. Same here, man.
Clear to clearly come be at two dollars. Deb, become a VTuber with bad A.I.H. art from members.
OK, OK, thanks, guys. Thank you. So listen. Tim Pool. Outrage over Amazon
show praising Lucifer. Yeah, yeah, whatever. OK. And then this random fucking person shows up.
I'm talking about something else. And he says, where's the trucker video? All right.
And this happens fucking constantly. All right. And there's this belief among
a portion of my audience and also a portion of people who used to be my audience,
but have since moved on. And they think like Dev is avoiding the trucker video
because he actually uncovered the truth. And what it is, is that his politics and ideas are wrong
and he can't spin it any other way. So he has to just not talk about it. He can't bring it up.
He has to be. And I'm just like, no, I'm lazy. That's all it is. I'm just lazy.
There's no underlying other explanation. I'm just being lazy.
That's it. That's it. Dev, it's a meme. Here's the thing. It's not just a meme.
It's not just the meme, though, because I started a counter meme of plus one day. Every time someone
mentions the trucker video, I say plus one day. And now we have people who are unsubscribing,
right? Like this guy. And I just said, get the fuck out. Right. And he gave me some long fucking
leftist meme. It goes on and on and on like a giant thread about why, you know, Oh my God,
I can't believe I sunk so much time into you. And I can't like, you're like, fuck you.
Unsubscribe. All right. Just get the fuck out. Just get out. Like this shit honestly kind of
pisses me off. The announcing that you're unsubscribing or like announcing that you're
leaving the stream to go watch somebody else's stream shit like that. It's like, listen,
listen, guys, I want you to understand this is not an airport. All right. You don't need to announce
your fucking departure. Just go away. It's as simple as that. If you don't want to, if you're
pissed at me and you want to have a conversation about our, about our disagreement, that's one
thing, but to declare that I am, I am now moving on. Good. Get out. So look at this
minus one subscriber. I mean, you're not a viewer of mine. You're not a viewer.
Why should I care what you think? There you go.
And yes, here's the thing. Sometimes it is just a meme, right? Sometimes it is just a meme and
that's fine. Like that's okay. We can meme it up, but there are some people who are taking it
serious and I'm just fucking done with them. I'm done with pandering to them. I'm done with their
fucking, their dumb bullshit where they come in and they're always like demanding shit of me.
Get the fuck out. All right. I'm done with it. Antelope, the Greek $2. What do you think of
Georgism? I actually do like Georgism. Georgism is interesting. All right. But I want to do a
video on it someday. So I'm not going to talk about it just yet, but I do like it.
Viewers who try to control the creator. Yeah, exactly. I tell them, I keep saying this shit,
like I'm going to make whatever content I want to make.
Like, and if you, if you don't want to watch it, then don't watch it. That's fine.
But I'm going to do what I want to do because it's my channel. And if you don't want to watch,
if it's not for you, then it's not for you, but it's for me. That's, that's the important part.
And like, you see stuff like this pretty, pretty commonly. There's no, I see stuff like this
commonly is what I mean in my fucking comments. Like here, this is, this is the video that I just
put out 17 hours ago. Okay. Here's the, it's the new video. And this guy says, I'm sorry, Dev,
but you've ever so slowly lost all the qualities I thought made you good over the last few years.
And as a result, I'm unsubscribing. Wish you the best, but I don't want to stay on this ride.
I mean, one, I haven't changed. So I don't know what qualities I've lost. I've done the,
I've, I've had the exact same takes and done the exact same stuff this whole time,
but two, okay, just go like, just, just, just, just get the fuck out.
I don't even know what he's talking about here. Like,
is this like a lefty who has been around and he thinks I'm too right wing?
Is this like a right winger? Who's like, I don't, I don't even know what fucking side this guy's on,
but it's like, just, just go, just leave.
And here's the thing. I'm not even doing the, the total biscuit style ruthless calculus,
right? Where I could look at my views. I could look at my subs. I can see they're
both slowly growing over time. Could be faster if I worked harder, but that's on me,
but they're not going down. And it's like, you know what? Even as people unsub from me
and they're saying, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done. I'm leaving. I'm leaving. I'm done.
Even as those people go, I mean, they are, they are in, in the total biscuit sense being replaced
because more numbers are coming in than are going out. So I'm in no danger, but nonetheless,
I don't want to make that argument because it kind of sounds like too, too calculating.
I simply want to say, I'm going to make what I want. I'm going to say what I want.
And, and this shit just pisses me off. Like, what do you expect to say here?
What, what exactly do you expect to influence by saying this?
Think about it. Like, should I beg and be like, come back, dude? No,
I'll change. I'll do whatever you want. No, no, I fucking won't.
Hold on. I want to see super chats here real quick. If you talk about the trucker video,
does it add a day? No, no, no. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
video. Does it add a day? No, no, no. It's that's honestly, mostly it's mostly just a troll, man.
I'm just fucking around. I'm Holsteiner. $5. If you'll finish the flaws of liberalism,
excellent work and a great job at the end. Thank you. I don't think they're going to watch it
though. I don't think James Lindsay or Helen Pluckrose even know who I am.
Even though it's for them. But yeah, like this one here, this is the first channel I
unsubscribe to. I don't like Trump per se, but this is a step too far. The arrogance.
It's like, okay, go away then. Fine. Fine. You know what? This is actually, I think the worst
one. I think this is the worst one. This guy's like quit shilling your shitty gaming channel.
Less than 1% of the channel subscribers bother to give a shit. I just tell them fuck off and
stop watching me. That's how I feel about it. All right. Because you know what? I like doing
my gaming channel. The gaming channel gets 50 viewers compared to like the 500 we have right
now. But I prefer it, you know? Okay, hold on. That's the wrong word. I don't prefer it. I like
both projects, but I like, I give them equal weight because I have, I have equal enjoyment
with both of them is what I mean. So people who are like, stop shilling the gaming. Fuck you
get out back. You know what? Here, here, hold on. Let's go to this guy.
I just, let's just kick him off the channel. Fuck him. I don't care. Fuck him. I'm, I'm done with
people who think that they can, they can continue to control what I do with my channel or my time
by saying, stop doing this. I'm on subbing. You need to say, you need to do, you need to say,
fuck you get out. If I want to completely convert this channel into a 100% gaming channel with
nothing but let's plays and completely destroy everything. That's that's my prerogative.
All right. I'm not going to be told what the fuck to do with my own platform by anyone.
Simple as that. And by the way, you guys should watch the gaming channel or else.
I enjoy being successful. I enjoy the donations and the viewers, but I would rather do something
that I truly enjoy with no viewers and no donations than to do something that I hate,
but to have viewers and donations. Does that make sense? Does that make sense?
That's how I feel about it.
That's how I feel about it. And I think I'm just,
I've reached the limit of dev being a nice inclusive, you know, everyone should have their
say. Everyone should have their take. I'm going to completely respect everyone's free speech,
even as you shit on me and try to destroy what I'm building. I think I'm past that point.
I think I'm past that point.
I think I'm past the people who want to somehow like shame me or steer me
or demand that I do something for them. I think I'm past that.
I don't want those people around anymore.
Oh, $5 for Holts. Instead of stop doing Paul and just focus on gaming or I'm leaving.
Here's the thing. Zam is my values haven't changed, but like
my experiences have definitely taught me a few things.
You know, I ran the discord for since like 2015 as a complete free speech zone.
I did not moderate it. I let people do whatever the fuck they want.
And for a while it was actually really fun because everyone was chill.
But eventually it got to a point where complete fucking retards showed up and ruined it because
in like a pure free speech zone where everyone's being chill,
if one person steps out of line, the community says, Hey, what the fuck's wrong with you?
Like, stop. Right. And if they're a good person, they'll generally stop.
You know, sometimes they'll sometimes they'll get blocked by some people if they don't stop.
And eventually they learn. Right. But once you start to include people in that community
who don't care about social pressure and don't care if they get blocked, then they start to
and they're just like, I'm just going to keep being like a shitty fucking person.
And they do that. And then they start to build up. Right. And they start to invite their friends.
And now you have a group of people who are in the server, who are in the community.
You know, I know, I know, Daddy, I know other people moderated it. Yes, I know. I know.
I understand. But but the rules that I had you guys moderate by were very lax.
You know what I mean? They were very lax rules, like say what you want,
do whatever you want, have fun. But like enough people joined the discord that were just
shitty people who did not care about being socially shamed and who did not fit in with
the actual vibe of the server. They ended up creating their own terrible spaces. And what
they would do in those spaces is they would raid other servers. They would raid other people in the
server. All right. They would bully people out of the server by chasing them around to the various
different rooms. A whole bunch of things started happening. And it's because without any sort of
moderation, I let the terrible element just grow and grow and grow under the guise of inclusivity
and saying like, okay, we all have free speech. We're all welcome here. We can all have these
debates. But then they took that that good nature that I provided. And they basically ruined it
with their bad behavior. So that's why that what's wrong with that. What's wrong with that
is that all the people, all the shitty people came in and started abusing the other fucking people
in the server. And then it got to a point where they were inviting people who weren't even like
viewers of mine. They just knew. They just knew that like, this is a server that was
unmoderated and they could fuck around in it. And I think it was like 2021. I started purging people
and people were like screaming, you can't do this. You can't do this to us. You're a free
speech guy. And I started purging people. And they're like, I never liked you. Anyway. I didn't
even, I don't even know who the fuck you are. I'm just here to fuck around. It's like, get the fuck
out. Right. So basically I got, I got to a point. I got to a point where I was like, you know what?
The, the rights of liberalism can be used to destroy themselves if wielded by bad actors,
by evil people or by complete fucking retards. And that's why you see some memes. It's like,
listen, liberal, liberal rights for people who have more than 120 IQ. It's like, you know what?
Maybe that's actually the fucking me. That's how it should be. You know? Yeah, it is. I gave them
an inch. It took a mile. Yeah. So you know what? You're going to be a new discord server.
It will be open to the right now. It's only open to donators. There is a new discord server.
It is only open to donators. It will eventually be open to everyone down the road sometime,
but this will not be a server that I allow to go to shit.
And all the fucking retards and glowies people who are calling for actual violence, people who
are actually bullying people, people who are actually breaking rules, and then crying free
speech about it later. None of them will be spared the wrath of dev.
You're good. Then you don't get the fuck out. I don't care.
If you don't like the new authoritarian dev arc, then you know what? You can leave. Or you know
what? If you don't like it, you'll probably end up doing something that'll have me ban you. So
pick your poison. You can leave, you can get banned, or you can fall in line. I don't care
anymore. And no, it doesn't mean that I'm banning critiques or criticisms of me. I'm not banning
that shit. I'm banning people who, who are just fucking evil and terrible and who hide it through
like a thin veneer of critique when there's not actually any critique there. They just want to
shit on somebody or people who don't even have the veneer who are just bad. I'm just getting
rid of them. Yeah. And cooking and fitness streams to add cooking and fitness streams
to the sub or I'll move. We'll listen to get into Terry Carter's musical threat.
Also how to get on the new server on the old server. If you're in the donator channels,
there's pinned links to get on the new server. So if any of you have donated,
you may come over to the new server. It's already there. It's already available. Yeah.
Plato said this in his criticism of democracy. Yes. Democracy, but retards ruin it.
Here's what's in here. $5. I've got two dates, two different poly people this week.
Wish me luck. Oh no, dude, dude. Not the Paulies. Not the Paulies.
Skeptical wave says, Devin, you consider these people newly exist due to the decline.
Listen, skeptical waves. I hate to break it to you, buddy, because I know where your politics go,
but the vast majority of people who I'm describing, they're more right wingers than left wingers.
There are definitely left wingers like this that I'm describing, but none of them would ever be
caught dead in my server. They're all watching vosh and they all think I'm a fascist. All right.
The ones who were in my server are right wingers.
And these are people who are like screaming about like wanting to do legitimate violence
in real life. These are people who are screaming about how they just hate all trans people or all
gay people or all black people. Sometimes they're screaming about like how they want to just bully
everyone else out of the server. They have been bullying people out of the server. Like there's,
there's a room where there's specifically meant no arguing. All right. No arguing in this room.
This is, this is a room to vent about your daily life and your troubles and how things might seem
home hopeless. It's like the, it is the, we're all going to make it bro's room. All right.
And some of these people would monitor that room and then bully the people who posted in there.
And I am just not going to tolerate that anymore.
Nothing. I'm a super chat. Oh, $5. Thank you. We have freedom to achieve our best,
not to mess everything's not to mess things up for everyone. Yes, exactly. Right. Exactly. So
another liberal value is is not just free speech, but also free association.
Okay.
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. That's what it is. Yeah.
Free association is another liberal value. And that's the one I'm going to be leaning on more
because I'm just tired of tolerating people who are fucking terrible. And frankly,
who I look down on and I really don't like and who I think actually make my community
when I'm trying to build worse. So they're going, they're all going to go. So by the way,
if you are a donator and you are in the old server, the old, the old server will eventually
be nuked. So make sure to get yourself in the new server. Okay. A tricky Mario for $5. Thank you.
Articles, please. Otherwise Carlos will punish you with constantly in puns.
A devs M bison arc for $5. Thanks. Jiggy calzone. I just wonder why waste your life. Hate watching
funny that it's more common on the right. Left is trying to cancel out of distance.
I have noticed that. Yeah. I think there's a lot of right-wingers who believed that I was
a right winger because I critiqued the left. I'm not a right winger. I'm not a right winger. So
good to have to try to avoid too much screen time. I already do, man. I do actually go offline
quite a bit now. I don't think I missed any super chess. I'm scrolling back up. I don't
miss any super chats. Oh, here we go. I did find one. Sorry. Well, isn't thanks for the $5 dev.
Stop doing gaming and just do politics or else I'll take lives and devs walls sublease and play
sabaton and weird Al in the evening hours. Oh, I see. Okay. I was old as time. Yep. Yep. Thank you.
Thanks for all the super chats, guys. I do appreciate it. I do appreciate it.
So, yeah, anyway, I do have some plans with upcoming months that will be that partially
dependent if I get this Vyvanse thing worked out, but we'll see. Right. And the plans do involve
getting the weekly sip to episode 200 and then maybe at episode 200 and changing up how I do
some things about how I stream. I want to I want to do more streams. All right. I want to be live
more often. I don't want to do and I don't mean I don't mean the gaming stuff. The gaming stuff
is the gaming stuff is like a fun bonus at the end of the day, right? I want to be live more often
during the day, doing like research streams or politics streams, talking to people,
maybe reading some books or reading, reading court documents, reading papers, you know,
I want to do more of that stuff. So I think at some point after weekly sip 200,
I'm going to probably end the weekly sip, maybe not end it, but turn it into like a segment of
a larger stream and change things up about how I do streaming. I do want to be I do want to do
more streams. At the same time, I don't want to give up doing the gaming streams because the
gaming streams I find I find a lot of fun. You know, I like it when when Dave and I hop on the
couch and we play a video game, you know, and most of you guys don't watch that. I'd like it if you
did. But I understand that most of you won't because you're here for politics, not for gaming.
But nonetheless, like I said earlier, I want to do it. I enjoy it. It is a great way for me to
unwind at the end of the day, or playing some Mario or playing some whatever the fuck the game
is. And I just I like it. So no, I'd appreciate if you support that. That'd be nice. But I do,
but I'm not going to get just because I'm doing other streams or I want to do other streams
doesn't mean that I want to give up the game, the gaming stuff at night. All right. And then like,
more streams, which can probably be cut down into stream segments. So basically following the
Twitch poll model of doing some streams. And I'll probably upload the stream segments to like,
the Devin friends channel. Actually, yeah, that's another one. There was a guy on the deck. Okay,
I fucking show you this. Hold on. There's Devin friends, which is where I upload, like my talks
with people. Like I do debates with people. I talked to Brianna Wu, I talked to whoever it
goes on Devin friends, right? And can I fucking find this? No, it's gone. I think it's gone.
Is it maybe it's this one? Hold on. I'm gonna look for it.
Like here, I'll show you another example. Okay. This guy, I am now sufficiently sick of seeing
notifications from this channel for ancient videos that I have unsubscribed. I just said good,
like get the fuck out. All right. Devin friends is meant to be an archive of streams. And it's
going to be an archive of stream segments in the future. This is what the channel is for.
All right. Fuck, I hate people who do that shit.
They've gotten one guy people not even the stream. Yeah, kind of. I watched the gaming stream.
Seeing Dave and Naomi call you retard constantly is fun.
You have highlights? Yeah. Basically, the Devin friends channel is going to become like
a stream highlights channel. I'll probably move a whole bunch of of old streams over there.
Or maybe I'll leave like, I'll leave some here. I don't know. I don't know how I'm going to
organize it. But basically Devin friends will become stream highlights channel
once I start doing more streams.
So more streams is a plan. If the gaming stuff ever happens to take off, or at least
slowly grow, that would also be nice because continuing that and expanding that is also
the plan. Maybe we're finding some of that. Both of these kind of are predicated on me
losing weight though, because I'm like, I understand the appeal of Hassan, he's in good
shape, which is why lots of people watch him. Like I'm, if you ever see me on the fucking gaming
channel, I'm a fat blob. I see, I watch you for your sips and whatever commentary videos
you upload. I care very little for the video game streams, TBH. And see, here's the thing,
like, like Val Medic, that's, that's your business, right? That is your business, Val Medic.
But that doesn't mean I'm going to stop doing them. You know what I mean? Like,
you don't have to watch what I'm putting out, but I'm not going to stop putting out things
that you're not interested in because I still enjoy them. That's what I mean. All right.
And also, yeah, I know, I know daddy editor's coming.
Yes, that's happening. That's happening, daddy. That's coming in the next month or two.
Um, hold on. Let me try to find to the example.
Don't ruin your brand. I don't care about my brand. Come on, come on. You fucking,
my NAS is going slow. Just, you know, one guy emote.
I think there already is like a one guy emote on seven TV.
Okay. Yeah. So Dave and I played through lies of P right.
I also want to interact with the community more. Yes. I do want to do
more like Collins or whatever with the community. Yes.
Okay. Hold on. I'm here. Okay. Just wait.
Yeah. So here I'll, I'll, I'll, this is like, uh, a VOD of one of the gaming streams here.
This is lies of P like I'm fat. All right. I look quite fat.
Now Dave looks skinnier than me, but his slouching doesn't help because he like,
he's like a giga sloucher. He's actually taller than me, but I look much bigger than him
because I'm really fat. I'm also more muscular than him by a lot. Like I have a lot of muscle
too, but I'm also really fat and he's just like a sloucher. He's like a, he has like tiny arms,
like really like thin wrists, thin legs, and he's a tall guy and he slouches. So like,
and also I'm just fat before I can do any sort of professional streaming that has my face on it.
I got to lose some fucking weight guys. Like that's just the truth. All right.
That's just how it is.
I still have the flash shirt. Yeah.
One of my dad calls you fat. So, so like I got, I got before I can actually do any of this
sort of, um, slouch mask, maxing posture, Chad,
and go do as losing a hundred pounds. I'd like to, you know what I mean? Like, I think before
I can do any sort of streaming with my face on it, like that's, that's more serious than just
me being on a couch with Dave. I got to lose weight, got to lose weight because I don't think
if I put my face on this stream instead of this artwork, I don't think the stream is going fucking
anywhere. Um, go V tuber, make a V tube avatar PC. Thank you for the five gifted memberships,
dude. Thank you. Thank you. It flatter cats for $5. Is there a list of games you plan to stream?
Because most of them don't really interest me, but I'd watch, uh, for example, crosscode stream.
I mean, I want to play crosscode it's it is on the list, but like we're finishing up sea of stars
and I'm probably going to give like, you know, retro new games, a short break before I start
the next one. I don't see the game list is like never ending and always growing. You know what
I mean? So yeah, that's kind of the point that I'm getting across here is like my stream plans
for both the gaming channel and for this channel, I think just require me to lose weight before it
will ever take off because I think, I think I'm, I think at some level I'm just too gross to watch.
You know what I mean? Um,
I guess obviously, of course, for, of course, for my own health too. Yes. Jiggy. I agree with you
on that. Yeah. Um, beyond that, I mentioned earlier dividing up my content into different
types of shows because, but I need, I need different artwork and I need, um, I need,
I need different artwork and I need also, I need to figure out how I want to divide it.
Basically I have plans, but they're good. They're going to take a little bit of time to set in stone.
And honestly, even just having that one good week on Vy Vance kind of showed me what I was
capable of doing. You know what I mean? Because on that one week, man, I got so much stuff done
before the, before I up the dose, I got so much good work done so I can do it. I just got to deal
with this stuff. I love the current video background with you smiling and all the evil
words cycling. It's amazing. I don't know. I feel like I got to update it or something.
I think, I don't know. I'll figure it out. I'll figure it out. No new artwork to lose your first
10 pounds, maybe. Well, a lot of the new art assets are already coming in. Like the gaming
stream already has new, new art assets. And I'd say about half the new art assets for SFO already
in as well. But yeah, that's, that's the plan that I've just outlined. I just outlined my plan for
the next few months, more streams, research streams. I'm going to try to basically get the,
get the stream stuff locked down for both gaming and non-gaming content. And then try to try to
organize the, the video essays because I would love it if like Dev and Friends were a stream
segments channel for the streams that I do. SFO still posted like my scripted takes
because my scripted takes are, my scripted takes are, they take more time to kind of put together,
but it's still doable. And then like anything, anything else is just like kind of fun stuff.
Like the DevKit channel is fun. No one really watches it, but it's where I just do my vlogs.
I just kind of hang out there. It's like, Oh, I feel like talking about this thing today. So I'll
do a vlog about it. Or I'll talk about a movie or I'll talk about like a piece of technology
I've just tinkered with. Like the DevKit channel is like my personal like channel just for me.
You know what I mean? The TF2, dude, the TF2 servers up on the new server.
Listen, new discord server has Minecraft has TF2. Things are okay.
Yeah. The evil words meme is getting old in the background. Lots of people,
lots of people don't get it. Yeah.
Anyway, I'm just rambling and repeating myself at this point.
So never heard of your personal blog. Yeah. Yeah. My personal blog, my personal vlog
channel is called the DevKit. Yeah. The DevKit is what it's called. And yes,
sent in. Hi, the new server. The new discord server is linked in the donation,
the donation room of the old server. So get yourself in the clay castle. Hey, man, it's
been a while here. I'm going to grab some water. Listen, I've now just been talking about like
personal stuff. And like my health and my feelings and my plans for like an hour and a half at this
fucking point. So I'm sorry, it's been so long. But you know what, do you guys want to talk about
articles now? You guys want to talk about articles now? Here. I do buy old games and
consoles. I also mod them. It's just like a fun side project for me. Here. I'm gonna grab some
water. And I'll be back in a second. Okay. It's me a second. All right. Hold on.
Also, the new chair is doing very well.
Listen, listen, my long term goal after I move and I have the studio built
is that like, maybe maybe just me on my own. Maybe me and a co host will do a show called
the daily sip instead of the weekly sip. And what we'll do is I'll just like, I'll stream for like
four or five hours and I'll cover articles or news or just research things. And I'll do that
like five times a week, something like that. Hold on. Some of the chat says everyone with
their weight loss advice. SFO doesn't want to lose weight. That's why he's trying to
hype himself to do it. People get fat for nothing. No, some guy on the internet. That's not how it
is. I do want to get I do want to actually lose weight. It's just I don't have the time to devote
to like an hour long workout every day or something. Unfortunately. Bring back the porn
star. Bring back Lilith. Okay, sure. Three dollars. Hey, Dev, for losing weight, I recommend
no commitment gym membership like plant fitness. So just make hundreds of equipment. I make it
tear it up. I just got a couple of months of dues to make $25 a month. Listen, here's the thing.
I've been in shape before. I've been fat and then lost all the weight before. So I know exactly how
to do it. I appreciate all the advice, but I know what to do it. I just got to find the time,
you know, I think like this desk, you guys have probably heard my desk slowly collapsing over
the years. I'm going to buy a new desk when I move. And then once I move, I'm going to have
probably a standing desk that like goes up and down. And one of those one of those things where
I can walk in place while I do my work. I love that average American class tweet you made a
month ago with a picture of Miss Frizzles class. It made me smile. It was funny because people are
saying this is an average American class in 2024. Look at how there's no white people in it. There's
like a bunch of black kids and like some white kids and there's like some like Indian kids or
Chinese, whatever. Right. And I'm just, I just posted a picture of Miss Frizzles class.
Like people are losing it, dude. It's like, why are there so many black people in America?
I mean, there have been for a long time, dude, is there anything new fucking weirdos?
Did you post those graphs in the economy? Ironically,
the information on them and your claims and what they say don't line up. Yes, they do.
Hold on. I'll pull them up again.
They absolutely do. Give me a second.
Hold on.
Okay. Where is it?
Okay.
I'm pulling them all up. Hold on. I did three tweets that were kind of similar.
Three or four, actually. Okay. Yeah. Here we go. Here we go. Okay. So
here we go. Okay. So I'm going to, this is me making fun of all the fucking
dissident right weirdos who are, who are talking about this civilization is collapsing.
Everything is crumbling around you. Keep watching those, those TikToks of blacks,
kicking the shit out of whites. Let it completely color your perception of the real world that you
barely interact with. Take the black pill through my sponsored link. And I posted it with the violent
crime rate in the United States. Just going the fuck down over the course of the nineties.
It's mostly leftoids who complain about Biden's violent crime bill.
Some rightoids complain about it too, but mostly leftoids, but you know what? It fucking worked
like, Oh shit. The Democrats passed a bill in the 1990s that massively curtailed crime.
That sounds pretty fucking good to me.
But yeah, like violent crime going down. It's a pretty good trend right there.
The second one that I posted, people are saying, like, yeah, you sound like a muscovite during the
USSR being comfortable in the main province of the United States. You sound like a muscovite.
In the main province, while the rest live in squalor, I have traveled my fair share. And
all I see is countries being ruined by mass immigrants and treasonous governments. It's
like, okay, well, where's the ruin. Yeah. You've seen TikToks of druggies wandering around San
Francisco and said the whole world sucks, but in reality, things are actually getting better. So
like here, let's see. So this is violent crime. Same one going down. We've already seen this,
right? Here's this one. Real wages rise again as wage growth outpaces inflation. So real wages
are wages adjusted for inflation. So if inflation is going up, but real wages are going up higher,
you're actually making more money, even adjusted for inflation, right? So for example,
there was during the COVID bullshit from here to here, there was a lot of economic problems.
All right. Now you might say those economic problems, you know, they were a price we had
to pay to deal with the emergency. You might say that the price that we paid was way too high,
that it did not deserve that kind of response and that they ruined things. Either way, we're out of
that era now. We're past that. And now that things have actually begun to return to normal,
things are in fact improving again. All right. Consumer price index, average hourly earnings,
real average hour, and then the real average hourly earnings. So yes, real wages are once
again outpacing inflation. And then there's, what was this one here? Right. The poverty rate in the
United States. Yeah. So like poverty has gone like up and down. It was, it peaked at 15%
in like 93. It went down to like, what is that? 11 and a quarter, went up a bit, went down a bit.
And then it was the lowest in 2019. Then this little hump here seems to be the COVID hump
of poverty. I don't think it's going back up again, guys. People are like,
we're all living in squalor. Like, are you like, where the fuck are you? Like,
I mean, there's less people in poverty then after the fucking 2008 collapse, what do you mean?
And then there's this one where like this guy is saying that like, it's so hard for millennials
to buy a house. Now you look at this gen Z on track with older generations, homeownership
rates. So basically each one of these lines is what percentage of that generation owned a house
and at what age they owned a house at. So let's look at the baby boomers. That's like the brown
line that goes really far. So something like, what is this? 10, 15% of baby boomers owned a house at
age 15 or sorry, age 18. It's now something like, what is this? 60% or 70% of baby boomers owned a
house at 40. So that's the baby boomer line, it goes up. Look at gen X, same thing. 10, 15% own
a house at 18, at 40. It looks like just slightly less than the baby boomers, but pretty close.
Right? The millennial line. In fact, the millennial line actually started off a bit better
than the baby boomers and the gen Xers. At 18, a few more of them actually owned houses
and their line, like it dips a little bit below here, but it catches back up. So like millennials
at age 40 are pretty close to the other generations in terms of their house ownership rates.
Right. And then gen Z, gen Z started even higher and they're actually doing okay so far too.
Right. There's the line. So there's this perception of the economy as being completely
and utterly fucked beyond repair and everything's collapsing. Everything's terrible. There's rampant
violence in the streets. And I think a lot of this is honestly just pushed by social media because
you're scrolling all day, seeing viral sensationalist clips of like druggies wandering
around the streets of San Francisco in a haze, or you're seeing like these, like just like random
violence of people just fighting in the street. Right. And Oh, especially if you follow that one
guy who posts only black on white violence clips, if you follow him, you think there's a race war
going on. All right. But in actuality, things seem to be pretty much in line where they should be.
Right. Like it seems like millennials are owning homes that are at roughly the same rate
as previous generations. Crime seems to be going down.
The economy seems to have recovered. Like all the numbers that we can pull up and look at,
they don't show, the numbers don't correlate to what people are feeling. People are feeling,
people are feeling like in their guts that a collapse is coming, but the data doesn't show
the collapse. So there's two possible interpretations of what's going on here.
One interpretation is that there is no collapse and people are just fucking
schizoids because they spend too much time on the internet. That's possible. Another
interpretation is that there is actually a collapse, but it's somewhere that our data
can't see. And we have, and like, for some reason, it's like a collapse coming in from
a novel direction that we're not studying, or we don't understand and people's intuition can
pick up on it, but we just don't know how to, how to capture it and understand it in any sort
of reasonable way. All right. So it could be, it could be either of those situations.
Artemis Fowl says, this seems like an intellectual failure to understand data. How so Artemis,
how so? Or they're lying. Okay. Here's the thing. If you want to say that they're lying,
um, Avalon, you can say that, but now you have to, now you have to like prove a whole
bunch of other shit for me to accept that because these come from multiple institutions
that do not, they're not, they're not all the same power block. All right. If like different
governments and different universities and different institutions are all saying,
this is probably the case. You need to, you now need to show that they're all lying.
Let's see what else? Hold on. I'm still scrolling here. I mean, let me grab all the,
all the supers titanium for $5. I think doing the research stream is once a week
is a good start to start building the habits now. Possibly. Yes.
Um,
$10 from snartigan. Thank you. People want to feel like things are worse than they actually
are. So they can justify misery and learned helplessness. Internet induced mental illness
is the real crisis. Yes. Yes. I absolutely think that's the case. Start again. I think lots of
people, they fucking suck. All right. They're sad. They're sitting inside. They're scrolling
on their phones all day. They have nothing going for them. They can't get a fucking girlfriend.
They can't hold down a fucking job. Their life sucks. They're like 35 living with their parents.
And they're just like, this is someone's fault. It's gotta be if they're, if they're leftist,
they'll say the bourgeoisie. If they're rightists, they'll say the globalist elite,
but they're saying basically the same thing. It's gotta be the man keeping me down. It's like, no.
All right. Like just deal with it yourself or deal with, deal with it yourself.
Like maybe you should solve your own fucking problems before you start
talking about how the entire world's out to get you.
Artemus Fowl, $5. That graph really means nothing to have real wages increasing 0.5%
after falling 23% doesn't leave people in a better position than when they started.
Yes. Okay. So I understand this point of view. The issue is that you can't really go back, right?
So for example, when people talk about, I know this is not what you're saying,
Artemus. I'm just using this as an example. Okay. People talk about inflation, right?
Inflation was 8% during, during COVID lockdowns. And now inflation is back down to 2%.
And it's like, well, there you go. Inflation has decreased, but people are saying,
dude, dude, but the prices are still high. It's like, you can't go back. You can't go through
a deflationary period of negative 8%. All right. Cause like inflation would fucking,
they fucking sucks, but so does deflation. All right. You can't actually have the prices go back
because basically both inflation and deflation cause their own economic problems.
And it's better to not move at all. All right. It's better to have, to have your, your dollar
relatively, relatively fixed and set and things are good. But if you go through an inflationary
period, it would cause more damage to then go through a deflationary period
to get back to where you were. It's actually better to stop and stay where you are.
Yeah. Inflation is a rate of change. Yes.
This guy who just chatted is what I'm talking about. He says, wait, wait, wait. Inflation
does not go down. Yes, it does because inflation isn't the price. Inflation is the rate of change
of the price over time. Right? So if something costs a dollar and then you go through some
inflation and now it costs $2 and then it stays at $2 for like 10 years, what that means is inflation
has stopped. Yes. But anyway, talk about what I was saying. Yeah. Like it does suck that we
went through this, this period of contraction because of COVID and you can argue whether or
not that was necessary. That's a different conversation, but it happened. And now we're on
the, we're now on the upswing again and starting to recover. If your argument is that we haven't
recovered everything we've lost during COVID yet. That's true, but we will. I'm actually quite
confident that we will give it enough time. I have read plus sized alpha manga. Yes, I have.
I like it. It's funny. I'm not claiming we had deflation. I'm claiming that we shouldn't have
it. And that people who want prices to go back down to what they were before are they, they want
it. Um, tricky Mario for $5. Thank you. I'm a game show fan too. And I've seen plenty of
black contestants in the seventies and eighties game shows on other minorities. Yeah. Like
you can't say this about Europe, but America has actually always been a multi-ethnic nation
since its founding in this idea of we want it to be a white nation, like fucking stupid.
Uh, what else? Let's see here. What's the other super chats. Let's take a look at them.
$5 from wonderful galaxy inflation rule 34.
Thanks dude. Anonymous coward for $5. It could be a recession in an industry specific areas.
Tech is a bloodbath right now with mass layoffs and high supply of workers on and offshore.
Oh yeah. There's definitely that too, right? Like we've been seeing like all those tech companies,
just like shedding people like Twitch is shedding people and Amazon and, and what was it like
LinkedIn just fired some people like a lots of tech jobs are going away right now. But honestly,
a lot of them are useless jobs. A lot of them are just like the, that fucking Instagram girl
who does nothing all day, right? A lot of them are just useless, shitty jobs. And it's probably
better that they go. He sent me a stream labs. Let me go take a look at it. Artemis.
Thank you as always. Artemis. Thanks.
I'll load it in. Hold on. $5 from Tara. Shevanko proposition. You get 8% deflation,
but your 401k crashes 50%. Was it worth it? Probably not.
Um, dr. Diddler to to horror. Stop talking about your sick inflation.
$5 and living does walls. I live with a fat Canadian gamer has goat ridden man server
and his genocidal child bride. This is clearly society's fault. Billions must need $5.
Starting in every time shoe says line go up world more good or I feel like ceiling. Yes,
growth is good. See people. When people do the line go up meme, they're generally talking about
like GDP, which is not good. Like GDP doesn't matter because GDP is like, you can have a
suffering population and GDP can go up. Right. So GDP is not, is not the line you should look at.
There are other lines, but those lines are going up too. All right. Like child mortality going
down, you know, worldwide poverty going down poverty in our country is going down. All right.
Violent crime going down, war going down. All right. So many things are actually better than
they were just, and yeah, it's, it's slow. There are setbacks. Sometimes there are setbacks that
take hold that like that, that, that last whole generations, but things are actually getting
better. Okay. Like calm down and fucking doomers. Things are okay. Wonderful galaxy, $5. I'm stupid.
Why is deflation bad? So deflation is bad. Deflation is bad because it incentivizes you
not to spend your money. Right. So for example, let's say that you have a hundred dollars
and with a hundred dollars, you want to buy. Oh, fuck. You know, here, hold, let's say you have
a thousand dollars with a thousand dollars. You want to buy a TV. Okay. And you're like,
I'll buy the TV. But if you're in a deflationary period, it's like, dude,
the TV is price will drop by like a hundred dollars in six months because of deflation,
because, because prices are going down because money's worth more, you know, as, as inflation
goes up, money's worth less as deflation goes up, money's worth more. So it's like, I shouldn't
spend my money right now because I can get that the same thing for less money in six months.
So I'll just hold on, hold on my money. Right. And so everyone holds onto their money.
And now you're in a situation where like, if deflation is high enough,
it completely disincentivizes any form of spending. So it's like,
you know, I, I have, I have these, these business needs, right. I got to replenish my tools,
replenish my whatever, but you know what, those tools and materials and supplies,
they'll all be a lot cheaper in six months. So I'll just push through and just
make do with it. All right. And then what you have is if you're going through deflation,
what you have is people are now buying less things, which means that the, the,
the producers of those things, they don't have to produce as much. Right. It's like, well,
shit, no one's buying our products. You know, no one's buying the TVs we're making. Fuck. I
guess we've got to, we've got to produce less TVs, which means less income for them, which means you
got to lay people off because now people there's not enough work for people because you're not
making as much stuff. Right. And so you can actually enter into a deflation spiral where
your economy completely stagnates. No one's making anything anymore. No one's buying anything anymore.
And no one has any jobs. Right. So deflation has its own set of bad things. If that goes too high,
just like how with inflation, you have, if you have runaway inflation, now your money's worth
nothing. Everything's like the prices and everything are sky high. You can't afford
anything anymore. Like both, both inflation and deflation have their own problems.
Okay. What else? What's next?
Artemis $10. Let's see. CPI is a highly manipulated figure and has almost zero
transparency. How it factors its values doesn't account for a shrink inflation that is obviously
happening. Don't put faith in graphs that mean nothing. At the very least, you will have to
provide me with something else to counter at Artemis, but thank you for the $10. I do appreciate
it. $5 deflation. Isn't bad. No, it is lower gas prices, increase the economic growth of a nation
inflation and deflation are natural and happen all the time. Yes, they're okay. Something being
natural doesn't make it good. That's a dumb argument. All right. Inflation and deflation
do happen all the time, but there's negative effects to too much inflation and there's
negative effects to too much deflation. All right. The gold standard is fucking retarded.
Jesus gold fucking standard. Okay.
There we go. Yeah. The deflationary spiral.
The great depression was regarded by some as a deflationary spiral. Oh, wow. Okay.
See, I wanted to look up an example of it, of a deflationary spiral because I knew Japan had one
at one point. I didn't think it'd be the great depression, but okay.
But no deflation can be bad. Yes.
Um, yeah, I'll, I'll grab your, your, uh, your other super chat Artemis. Give me a second here.
Cocaine is natural. So it's good for you. Thanks dude. Where's the fuck? Where's the
fucking Artemis for $5 says inflate these balls in your mouth. Fuck you.
Deb, you definitely have time to work out. I doubt you are doing anything when you first wake up
my dude. Um, I'm adding up all my time. A lot of my time is spent on putting together stuff
for articles or no, no, for videos, but it's not properly utilized primarily because of the ADHD
symptoms, which that one week on 10 milligrams of Vyvanse actually helped a lot. I think with
better organization, I'll be able to like cobble together extra time to do a lot of the things that
I want to do. But right now I'm a disorganized mess. I need to work on that first, but listen,
thanks. Thanks very much for everything.
Agarizer they're both bad, but let's only let them do the one that hurts the little guy
and makes mega property holders better off. Are you a communist? Are you complaining about the
Bourgeois Sean King $5. I now mostly only listening to you and what if all tests because
the amount of autistic research you guys do. Well, thank you very much. Yeah.
Sammy G $10. Every time I hear a dev talk about weight loss is mine. A little LOL. If you're
really serious about fixing your health, I have way better advice for you than some influencer
and no exercise needed. Well, Sammy, wait, where are you? I'm going to moderate. I'm going to add,
wait, is this you? Sammy? Okay. No, there you are. Sammy, listen, Sammy.
I understand like the gut flora stuff, because that's something you research, right?
Well, I mean, fine here, you know, I will take you up on it. Fuck it. Let's do it.
Let's do it. Toss me a DM in Discord, Sammy, and we'll and we'll do it. Okay.
Just eat tapeworm eggs. Yeah, that's what I'll do.
That's what I'll fucking do. Same even in Discord. Hold on. I'm gonna look it up.
Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Sammy.
Are you not even in the fucking discord?
Here, hold on. I have Dr. Diddler on Discord and aren't aren't Sammy and Dr. Diddler.
Friends. Because you just put me in a group. You can't figure out this girl. Are you serious?
Are you an old lady? Okay, hold on. I'll DM you on Twitter. Okay.
There is a new discord for my community because the old one is shit and full of fucking losers.
I'm making a new one. We have Sammy's a Zoomer. That's right. Zoomers can't do technology.
Okay. Here. You know what? Even though the new Discord is Donator only,
I'll DM Sammy an invite to the new Donator only Discord for free.
Nepotism is happening, guys. Nepotism is happening. Live on stream.
Hold on. Where's the invite?
And how do you get the fucking invites?
I'll just copy the one from over here. Hold on. See, I also don't know how things work.
I also don't know fucking how things work.
Okay.
Listen. Okay. Here, Sammy. I've pasted it to you. There you go. So listen. Listen. Listen, kiddos.
Here's what's going on. Dev, that's unfair to others. Sammy's my friend, though. It's okay.
Listen, for those of you who have like a recurring $5 donation through Twitch or YouTube or Patreon
or Subscribestar, then you then you get into the Donator room in the old Discord. And the
Donator room in the old Discord has a link to the new Discord. But the article's not
the articles I've given you, Dev. Artemis, you're giving me so much shit. I don't know what...
I have like 200 fucking messages from you I still got to get through.
Here. I do have my own articles you can talk about. You want to talk about those?
Is it articles time, guys?
I have not heard about the Moamax nonsense. I know that like Stardust is covering it and
Treadlogic and everyone. I know they're all covering it, but like I haven't been following
the drama. I'm sure it's fucking hilarious, though. I'll go back and look at it when it's
all been wrapped up, I think, and get the full story all at once. Also, Sammy, you're
you're not even talking in DMs. Anyway, the new server, the new Discord server,
is Donator only for now? Donator only for now?
It'll be open eventually. Artemis says, don't ask for evidence if you're not going to look
at rebuttals on the stream. Oh my god, fine, you fucking autismo. Give me a second.
Yeah, all the shit. Okay, okay, let's see. Let's see, let's see. What is it?
Read Sammy's advice as an article.
Okay, let's see, let's see. Let's read it. Let's read the article that Artemis has given us.
Is the US purposefully opinion piece? So this may or may not be the truth.
Oh, wait, Sammy, you can't have more than one tab open? Oh my god, okay, listen.
Is the US purposefully, wait, bro, get to the articles already. I'll do whatever the fuck I want.
Is the US purposely under reporting inflation? It's hard not to wonder when you look at how
it's calculated, okay. How a 400% increase in the price of a TV ends up being a 7.1% decrease
according to calculations in a department of governance. Okay, let's see, let's see.
Let's see how this works.
We're living in a world where people seem to relish in the consumption of misinformation.
That is different versions of reality and alternative facts. Some of the stuff people
believe is beyond loony. For instance, it's easy to dismiss the truly wacky stories from
the QAnon world about politicians and Hollywood elites drinking the blood of babies.
It's very, to be fair, I think a lot of the right ways that I talked to you would believe this,
though. It's very, bully Sammy, everyone bully Sammy. Wait, Sammy, here, I'll call off the
bullying against Sammy if you draw more dev fan art. I have to siphon at least 5% away of your
I have to siphon at least 5% away of your attention from Adam and Sitch.
Okay, it's very difficult, however, to detect the deception that takes place when government
agencies report on matters related to the economy. So difficult, in fact, that most
economists don't even understand it. Never mind the general public, okay. One of the most damaging
deceptions emanates from the methods used by the US Bureau of Labor Statistics calculation of the
consumer price index. The reported CPI is currently running at just under 7%,
annualized. You might be surprised to hear that the number would be close to 15% if the BLS used
the same formula it did in the 1970s. So this might be the case, but it also might be the case
that they changed because the new formula is more accurate or appropriate than the old one. This is
implying that they're trying to hide it by changing the formula, but it actually might not be the case
at all. Schnitzel says, I'm not a YouTuber anymore, I'm just Schnitzel. Well, hey, Schnitzel,
welcome back, buddy. Thanks for the two dollars.
At some point in the 1990s, the US Congress decided the old formula needed updating,
so they introduced several methodological improvements. In fact, over the past 30 years,
they have changed their methods of calculation 20 times. Making any sense of their approach is
impossible as the BLS does not disclose the raw data it uses in its formulas. In the art of
illusion, keeping a secret is the greatest sleight of hand. Okay, so this is Flare.
It probably would be good for them to disclose raw data, I think.
But also, again, changing formula does not necessarily mean that it's bad.
Every 20 pounds dev loses, I draw fan art. Okay, you know what, Sammy? I'll talk to you
after the stream about it, okay? $10, Sean King. I was talking to my professor the other day,
either of you who has a PhD in gut flora. He said they recently concluded that your
gut flora has light to no effect on your weight. Oh, okay.
Okay, the changes fall into two broad categories. First, adjusting prices based on what the BLS
refers to as hedonic changes in quality through innovation, where the consumer derives additional
pleasure from a specific product such as its computer, TV, or appliance, results in reducing
or eliminating the real life price increase. Okay, so I think what this basically means is like
the next model of TV is worth more, but it also has more features that people like.
So the price to feature ratio remains the same. That makes sense?
The approach they use is so complex, even Stephen Hawking would have difficulty deciphering it.
As an example, the following is the BLS's own attempt at an explanation of their approach
when calculating the hedonic value improvement of a TV set. Okay, let's see.
Item A is a television that is no longer available and it has been replaced by new item television B.
The characteristics in bold differ between the two TVs. There is a large degree of quality change
and there is a very large, 400%, difference in prices of the TVs. Rather than using the 400%
increase in price between item A and item B, the quality adjusted rate of price change is measured
by the ratio of the price of item B in the current period, $1,000 or $50, over an estimated price of
item B in the previous period. That makes sense, yeah? Like different eras, the TV comes out,
different prices and qualities, so you take what you know about stats and go back in time and say,
this TV would be worth this much at this point in time. I hate extra features, I hate extra,
okay, okay, snare it again. To derive the estimated price of item B, we use the following
equation, where PB T plus S minus one is the quality adjusted price, PA T plus S minus one
is the price of item A in the previous period and is the constant E, the inverse of the natural
logarithm, exponentiated by the difference of the summations of the B's for the set of
characteristics that differ between items A and B. The exponentiation step is done to
transform the coefficients from the semi-logged form to a linear form before adjusting the price.
So like this isn't so complex, this is like high school level math guys, like it's definitely like
grade 12 level high school math, but still like, how do you understand this?
Because what they're doing is they're saying, okay, TVA came out in 2010, TVB came out in 2020,
here's their prices, here's their feature difference, all right? Now with the price
and the feature difference between the two TVs and also the rate of inflation, you can now calculate
what TVB would have been worth if it came out alongside TVA. Once you calculated that,
you look at the difference, now you know inflation.
It makes sense, this makes fucking sense.
Nothing confusing about this, nothing's wrong with this.
Okay. A TV that has gone up in price by 400% is reported in the CPI as going down in price by 7%.
Tell that to the average salaried worker who just had to buy a new TV set while his salary
hasn't increased in years, he couldn't care less. At the end of the day, it still represents a
bigger chunk of his paycheck, as they say in the software world, garbage in, garbage out.
So I don't know, man, because yeah, you don't got to buy, if you're a poor guy who has to replace
his old TV, you don't got to buy the TV that it has a 400% price increase on the actual number.
What you can do is just go buy the cheaper TV. It still exists. Buy a lower end TV that's
more in line with your fucking budget. God, this is stupid. All right.
Dev, you can't question these things. If they say it's too complicated for you,
it's too complicated. That's what Forbes taught me. Nah, man, this is dumb.
Ah, like the fact that this makes sense and is not actually them like hiding the true inflation,
but it's like, oh yeah, different, like you got to calculate inflation by looking at like
different products and like their differences. And when they came out in different prices and
the kind of, you kind of eyeball it by calculating it all together. Like,
yeah, that seems reasonable to me. What's the problem here?
Okay. The other calculation method used by government statistics is substitution. Put simply,
if one item in your basket goes up in price, they can choose to change the item to one in
a similar category. Take meat products as an example. If beef prices go up, they can substitute
with chicken. That sounds kind of ridiculous, actually. Yeah, that's kind of dumb, isn't it?
If chicken prices go up, why not try some ham, cheddar instead of Swiss cheese? You get the
picture. The inflation of protein products may explain why spam canned meat sales have recently
have hit a record high for the seventh year in a row. So if they're doing this, this I think is
actually shadier saying we're not, we're going to like just get a different product that looks close
enough. And we're not going to do any of those balancing act they did here. This actually looks
shady. I don't like this. If this is, if this is how it's actually happening, I don't like this.
Thumbnail is furries talks about inflation and this checks out.
The way the weighting of items in the CPI basket also produces a distorted picture of the cost of
living, especially for lower income groups. As an example, food and beverages represent only
50% of the index. Okay. Meat, poultry, fish, fruits, and vegetables and represent a combined
3% of the index makes you wonder where the BLS people expect people. Oh my God. Well, no,
because food represents this much because there's other things to buy than food.
Dev your explanation would make sense until you realize the CPI chooses items arbitrarily in
order to produce a negative CPI comparable substitution at every level. They can make
these changes. Zero transparency says Artemis for $20. Thank you very much.
Well, let's keep going with the article. You sent
items in the basket, such as travel or not in your budget in 2021 alone,
rents have increased 18%. And as most of us know, from going to the grocery store,
all food items are going through the roof, sugar, corn, wheat, coffee,
here. Here's the funny thing with this. All right. All of you guys in America screaming about the
free market. We're libertarians. You want a free market? You want a free market is
the free market is your landlord can raise your rate, your rent 18%. You know what my rent got
raised last year? Like 2%. You want to know why? Because you don't have a free market
in renting here. You know what we have? We have state mandated rent control on all rental
properties that only allows them to increase rent alongside inflation.
My rent got raised 45%. Damn. That sucks, dude. Yeah. In Canada, all rent is pegged to inflation.
Like the initial rental price, the initial rental price is basically like they post the prices,
what they think it is. But after you've moved in, you have a right to basically
only have rent increased by so much in line with inflation. And that's fucking based.
Nationalized land equals free. No, no, no, no. Oh, fuck. God, you're not hearing what I'm saying.
Your landlord owns the place that he rents to you, right? And the government does not control
how much he can increase his rent on you, right? So he'll increase it 18%
and you free market cucks will like it. That's the free market.
Mandatory 500% rent increase to all single mothers based.
$2 from lives and does walls. Thank you, man. They're gonna try raising rent.
Let's actually do that. Hold on. Number sign. Not in Ontario anymore.
If it's a new construction, they can up their own. I don't think that's true, but let's look.
Let's look. Okay. Let's look. Hold on. In Ontario, can new constructions
have rent increases. Let's see.
Hold on. Let me look into it.
I'm quickly skimming this. I don't want to have another fucking
random ass arc. I'm going to be skimming it.
I think what this is talking about is initial rent.
I don't want to get sidetracked to fucking again, though.
I don't want to get sidetracked anymore. No more articles. Stop sending me one. Stop.
Terrorist $5 in the U.S. Rent controls instituted. More apartments get converted into condos and sold.
Do you see something similar happen in Canada? No, actually, no. Funnily enough,
that's not happening here. As far as I can tell.
I read this file $5. My second article shows that the claim of the economy returning to normal is
wrong at the CPI is a lie on top of this article. I don't want to keep getting fucking sidetracked.
Alexander Bryant, $5. I'm behind the stream, but what I think is going on is not economically,
but social. Things are really icing right now. You're going to make pretty good money.
Thank you for the $10, Alexander Bryant. Appreciated.
But what are you... Hold on. No, you're right. Sorry. My brain's all over the place right now.
You're right. I think a lot of what's going on isn't economic. It's social.
People feel like things are actually bad when they're not. That's what I think is going on.
Okay. Hold on. I'm looking up.
Give me a moment.
Give me a moment.
Listen, you guys in the fucking chat talking about research streams, this is what they are.
We're researching. Buckle in.
Hold on.
Because of some shortcomings of the consumer price index,
notably that it uses static expenditure weighting and it does not account for substitutions,
the personal consumption expenditures price index, PCEPI, is an alternative price index
used by the Federal Reserve, among others, to measure inflation. From January 1959
through July 2018, inflation measured by the PCEPI has averaged at 3.3%
while using the CPI is averaged at 3.8%. That's still pretty close.
Okay. Hold on. Let's see these two different things here.
Okay. Let's pull the data up.
Okay. So.
The consumer price index.
Blue and red lines are the consumer price index measuring inflation.
Green and purple lines are the personal consumption expenditures measuring inflation.
And it seems like when you actually take in those other things into account that they do,
inflation is actually lower.
Hold on. So the PCEPI takes into account the substitution effect,
which is your criticism of the CPI, Artemis. But it seems like the PCEPI has less
the PCEPI has less highs and lows and measured inflation.
Like. Huh. Okay.
What is this data for ants?
Ballcrafted your board, then get the fuck out. Goddamn it. Let's see here.
Oh, God. Artemis, what's wrong with it then? Tell me what's wrong with it this time. You fuck.
Yet comparison to CPI. Here we go.
The formula effect accounts for different formulas used to calculate indexes.
Okay. Different formula. Weight account. Okay. The weight effect accounts for
importance. Okay. Out of pocket spending. Okay. Okay.
Let me put it this way. Let me put it this way. Artemis.
Artemis.
Artemis, do you have any actual data?
Since the this other index doesn't show what you're saying,
Artemis, do you have any actual data that shows that things are just getting wildly worse and
out of control? Like, you know what I mean? Is there any actual data that things are getting
like incredibly really fucking bad here? You know what I mean?
Okay. Hold on.
I heard of Mrs. Other article.
Okay. This one? No, we just read this one. What's the other one? This one.
This one. Okay.
Okay. Second article.
Credit card balances spike in the third quarter to a 1.08 trillion record.
Damn. What are you all using your credit cards on?
Collectively, Americans now owe 1.08 trillion on their credit cards.
Persistently higher prices have caused consumers to spend down their savings and increasingly turn
to credit cards to make ends meet. At the same time, credit cards are one of the most expensive
ways to borrow money. What are you guys buying? Like, if you're buying food is one thing. If
you're just buying big TVs, I don't give a shit. Like, you're retarded.
Okay. Credit card balances have spiked by 1.54 billion year over year.
Credit card balances experience a large jump in the third quarter consistent with
strong consumer spending and real GDP growth. Okay. What are they spending it on?
Credit card delinquency also rose a boss across the board, especially among millennials
or borrowers between the ages of 30 and 39 who are burdened by high levels of student loan debt.
Oh, is this a student loan debt thing? Maybe. Okay. With most people feeling
strained by higher prices for food, gas, and housing, most cardholders are carrying
debt from month to month or falling behind on their payments.
And a greater percentage of balances are going more than 180 days delinquent.
Nearly one-tenth of credit card users find themselves in persistent debt
when they are charged more in interest fees each year than they pay towards the principal,
a pattern that is increasingly difficult to break. The issue really is what are they buying
with this stuff? Because if it's literally like Netflix and Starbucks, I don't care.
They can simply fucking burn.
$2 from lives and does walls are buying super chats. Thanks, buddy. Thanks.
Love the last video dev from Donald Donovan. Thank you, dude.
Okay. $5 almost filed. Let me clear this article is directly addressing your claim that it's
social because you are incapable of understanding the graphs you were throwing. That is not true,
Artemis. That is not true, but thank you for the money.
And yes, the video was great. Another classic. Thank you very much, Mr. Bra. Thank you.
Okay. Let's see. Let's see here. Okay. Why credit cards keep debt keeps rising.
Despite the steep cost, consumers often turn to credit cards in part because they're more
accessible than other types of loans that comes at the expense of other financial goals.
That's money that doesn't go to a college fund or down payment on a home purchase.
Okay. Until recently, most Americans benefited from a few government supplied safety nets,
most notably at the large injection of stimulus money, which left many households sitting on a
stockpile of cash that enabled some card holders to keep their credit card balances in check.
But that cash reserve is largely gone after consumers gradually spent
down their excess savings from the COVID-19 pandemic years. Okay. So
could it be that these people lost their job during the pandemic,
got a bunch of money from the government that tied them over, never found a new job,
and now they're just broke and poor and spending money they don't have? That's possible.
Could it be that some of these people are retards, got a giant fucking inflow of cash,
thought, Oh my God, dude, this is, Oh, this is amazing. Spent all of it. But because they're
dumb animals, they didn't actually get their habits under control. And so after the cash
flow stopped coming in, they kept spending like they still had that flow. And now they find
themselves in debt. It's also probably possible. People are retards like that for sure.
Phil Swift, $10. It feels like culture war is more one-sided than ever. Right wing presence
online isn't as strong as it was during Trump's term. From my experience, it's super noticeable
as a passive observer. I don't agree at all. It's bill Swift. Thank you for the $10. I don't agree
with you. I think the right wing is currently ascended. Um, ball craft $2. I've heard articles
are coming eventually. Um, can we get the dev debt as a tool thing again? I think people need
it. Yeah, exactly. Right. Like victim blaming. What are they victims of their own fucking
spending? What are you talking about? Number sign. Okay. I swear to God. All right. There's,
there's more right-wingers in my chat. Like people in my chat who are more right-wing than me,
but also the right wingers in my chat. They're more communist than me.
It's like, Oh my God, dude. Oh, the bourgeois, the, the bankers, the international capital is
fucking the working class, dude. It's like Jesus fucking Christ. No dev being like, I need evidence
and also dev makes loads of assumptions. Did you not just hear what I said? I just said,
it's possible. This is th this is one of the reasons it's possible. This is a different
reason. I'm not saying I'm not making assumptions. I'm saying this is possible.
Possible. All right.
It's possible that these are the cases. Okay. Here, here, chat. Actually I want to hear,
I want to hear why do you think this is happening? Chat. Go ahead.
What are the various possibilities? Go.
I almost found $20 dev. You hack. You immediately paint the people having to incur more credit card
debt specifically to pay rent or food, but claim they're buying Netflix. You're blaming people
instinctually and covering for the government. No artists. I just said it's possible. What do
you think possible means? You fuck. Okay. It's possible that these are people who lost their
jobs during the pandemic. And now they have to, they had to use all the government stimulus to
pay for rent or food, but after the pandemic, they never got their jobs back. So now they're
fucked. And they're, and they're spending with credit. That's possible. It's also possible that
these are people who got used to living high off the hog with the government cheese coming in.
And now that that's run out, they're not, they're not tampering down on their spending again.
And now they're, they're still spending more because they like that, that new lifestyle.
And now they're in debt. That's also possible. What are the possibilities going to be?
There's probably more. There's probably more that I haven't thought of.
Teres Shvinko, $5. People can sidetrack you with super chats. Can I purchase the first article?
We'll get to articles right after this. Okay.
Yeah. Great. Clay or not says I maxed out my credit card game
on waifu games in 2020. I was retarded. Yeah. Well, there you go. Yeah.
$5 Phil Swift ascending on God. Just like that. That just isn't the general question I get.
I'll be at looking at places like Twitter aren't good indicators. It does feel like culturally the
right wings on the upstream right now. It does feel like a, a lot of the ESG DEI stuff is being
rolled back. A lot of the cancel culture stuff has gone. Like the right is ascending right now.
Okay. $5 on Devin. Your stream should be called E Falk. Every frame and argument with Chad
are most follow $5. You have no evidence for your assertions. You are theory crafting.
Yes. I'm looking at this and I'm saying, what are the possible reasons? Because that is what
you do when you're trying to figure things out. What are the possible reasons? Do you
have any possible reasons? I know the gold standard is fucking retarded.
Okay. Let's see.
Consumers are maintaining and supporting their lifestyles using credit card debt.
That could be the lifestyle of just barely getting by after losing a job or the lifestyle
of spending way too much fucking money during the pandemic either, or I don't know.
It's been a struggle, said Adriana Cubillo, 25, 25 years old of Modesto, California.
My rent is going up. So even though all my bills are paid, I'm sometimes living paycheck to paycheck.
Okay. I mean, you got to move out of California obviously, but still doesn't, there's no like no
reasons given here. Yeah. Okay. Let's see. Well, you know what? We can look it up. Hold on.
Is there any reason for this? Let's see. Hold on.
Yeah. Credit card delinquencies are arising fastest among lower income borrowers,
millennials, people who hold other kinds of debt like auto or student loans,
according to the federal reserve bank of New York,
rising inflation is one factor behind the problem. Okay. Let's see.
Okay. Let's take a look. Let's take a look.
During the pandemic, many Americans use stimulus payments from the government to help pay off their
credit card debt, but things drastically change once. So they already had the debt
before the pandemic.
There's Shevanko $10. I don't think ESG is declining for cultural reasons like tech
firing is expensive. Any product that ESG can't be sustained with more expensive borrowing.
I got to think about it for a bit more.
Prices are going up. Wages are decreasing. Communist. Communist.
The free market means that the seller of goods can sell them at whatever price they like.
You fucking commies. All you right wing commies in the chat.
Yep. Low income borrowers are bad with credit. This has always been the case. Millennials. Okay.
Raising interest rates to combat inflation. Even credit card users with higher payments.
They don't pay off their monthly balance in full. Okay.
It doesn't have the answer I'm looking for though.
It's not a free market. Oh my God.
What I mean to say is, it is not the government raising prices,
it's the companies raising prices, which is completely fine within a capitalist system.
The real free market has never been tried. Communist. All of you.
Okay. I'm done with this, with this rabbit hole. We're done with it.
Yeah. Donovan Gill for $10. Thank you.
If we are talking about the economy, the stock market is being carried by seven companies,
the inflation is being brought under control,
interest rates are insane, we will all be fine. Yep. I think things will actually be okay.
Okay. Given enough time, things will be fine.
When money printer go brr, those who get it first benefit and the rest of us pay for it.
That's not capitalism. Sounds like you should be buying some bonds, buddy.
All right. It's interesting to listen to Dev because everything is framed as if the people
screwing up and the government is not to blame for this. Each solution he provided says it's
the people's fault. Listen, even if the government is to blame, and they might be like, who the fuck
knows, right? You are also partially to blame for your circumstance. Simple as that, especially
now that you've, that you've now seen what's going on, right? Like, Oh shit, dude, my credit card has
a 20% interest rate on it. Should I go buy that completely unnecessary bullshit and put on my
credit card? No, you shouldn't. And if you do, it is your fault. Even if the interest rate is,
is completely the fault of the government, the fact that you're out there swiping your card.
Yeah, that is you. $5 from a Ory. Thank you. Luxury. Good sales are increasing and it's
overwhelmingly low income households that spend money. They don't have to show off that they're
not poor. Exactly. Exactly. You got people who have no fucking money buying cars, way out of
their league, buying like giant fucking TVs, buying tons of shit. They don't need buy nice
clothes, trying to look good. And it's like, shut the fuck up. Like, what are you doing? You,
you retard. You deserve your fucking poverty. Yeah, they're, they're, they're debt maxing,
baby. They're debt maxing. I was super busy during the pandemic in a computer RMA department.
Lots of people were buying computers and now that the stimulus money dried up and the pandemic is
over. Business is slow. Yep. That's about right. I could buy buns bonds or the government could
leave me alone. God. Oh fuck. Libertarianism is not a serious philosophy guys. It's just not.
You want all the benefits of society, but you don't want to pay a government for them.
It's dumb. That's stupid.
I mean, if you want to, like, if you want to implement like a,
an IQ limit for loans, you can do that. Sure. Sure. Loans only for smart people because they
want to destroy themselves with them. I mean, think about it here. How about this? Just take
away, take away everybody's poor credit card. Why not take them away? If you're all poor,
you don't get a credit card anymore because you always can't be trusted with it. That sounds
pretty good. Right? It's like, Oh shit. I'm so poor and stupid. I spent all my money. I just
kept swiping the card. Now I owe so much on it. Oh, my life's fucked. Okay. No more credit card
for you.
The South Korea don't have the same issue. What are you talking about? I don't know what you're
referring to. Sorry, but thank you for the $2. Every millennial and Zoomer crying about working
40 hours a week and barely making rent is at fault. They buy premium shit. They buy expensive
shit they don't need. They buy every subscription service. Yes. This is all fucking true.
You deserve their fucking poverty. Yep.
Okay. My God, it's been two and a half hours. You haven't talked about any articles yet.
Maybe I should just cut down to only like the fun articles because I have way too many articles
here as well. We already have that. It's called the credit score. Now, you know what? No, you
guys, you guys deserve the articles. We'll go through them. We'll go through them all.
Let's go article time. You guys ready?
So you guys complained about me reading old articles.
Here's an old article for you from 1797. We're going to read it.
The Hatters Gazette reprints from an old journal dated January 16th, 1797.
The following amusing account of the wearing of the first silk hat in London. John Hetherington,
haberdasher of the Strand, was arraigned before the Lord Mayor yesterday on a charge of the breach
of the peace and inciting to riot and was required to give bonds in the sum of 500 pounds. It was in
evidence that Mr. Hetherington, who is well connected, appeared on the public highway wearing
upon his head what he called a silk hat, which was offered in evidence, a tall structure having
a shiny luster and calculated to frighten timid people. As a matter of fact, the officers of the
crown stated several women fainted at the unusual sight while children screamed, dogs yelped, and a
younger son of Cordwainer Thomas, who was returning from a chandler's shop, was thrown down by the
crowd which had collected and had his right arm broken. For these reasons, the defendant was seized
by the guards and taken before the Lord Mayor. An extenuation of his crime, the defendant claimed
that he had not violated any law of the kingdom but was merely exercising a right to appear in
a headdress of his own design, a right not denied to any Englishman. Here he was, wearing the first
ever top hat. The average TF2 hater. Two dollars from Dr. Nutter is now a weekly slur.
So there you go guys. There's the there's an old article for you. How do you like it?
Two teens were busted in the subway stabbing of a man who wished them a happy new year. Jesus fuck.
Here's the teens. Two teens have been arrested and charged with attempted murder in connection
to the brutal stabbing of a man who wished him a happy new year in a Bronx subway platform.
Emanuel Awa and Elias Aflada, both 19, were cuffed and they faced robbery and assault charges linked
to the January 1st stabbing that left Carlos Peliza, 29, with serious injuries. Peliza was
standing on the southbound D train platform at the 182nd street, 103rd street station in Fordham
Heights around 8 45 p.m. when four strangers walked up to him. He greeted the crew with happy
new year before they suddenly began pummeling him. Then one of the attackers whipped out an
unknown sharp object and stabbed the victim multiple times all over his body.
Jesus fucking degenerates dude. There they are in New York.
So there is something I've noticed, right? When it's black people attacking white people,
the media does not put race in the headline. They might put race in the article and the pictures
certainly show race, but in the headline, no race. But when it's a white person attacking a black
person, nobody has any, yeah, they say youths, they say whatever, but like when it's a white
person attacking a black person, they have no problem putting race in the headline. And honestly
that double standard is fucking disgusting. Okay. What's next? Oh yeah. This is from info wars,
dude. Info wars back in August 18th, Biden administration preparing to bring back full
COVID restrictions. The rollout is going to begin in mid September.
This rollout didn't happen, did it? This rollout seems to have not taken place.
Let's see whistleblowers from the TSA and border patrol have raised the alarm to info wars that
the Biden administration is setting the stage for a full COVID lockdown,
masking TSA employees in mid September. Let's see. Let's see. They're going to be,
they're re-implementing masking starting with airports as early as mid September.
Then the policy will escalate and by mid October mask will be required by all pilots, flight staff,
passengers, and airport patrons. Where's the rollout guys? It's not a matter of if,
but when the official numbers of COVID will go up and they will return to forced masking.
Hold on. The big AC. We knew about headline racism years ago. You didn't know. I've been here too,
you fucking moron. I'm just not blaming like all blacks or all whites or whatever the fuck
for any of this nonsense. See, your answer guys. Good news. I was about to get into a car crash,
but I steered out of the way. Clearly there was never a threat of a crash.
I never said that seed brands are what I said is that like this isn't threat of a car crash.
This is not the same situation. This is it's happening and it didn't happen. That's the point.
I'm kind of curious. Does this article?
Oh no, it's still here. Okay. Yeah. All right. Maybe you would have deleted it. Okay.
Yeah, dude. Alex Jones has warned that this system will bring back biomedical tyranny
and the launch of this new crisis in September will allow a buildup of control
that would allow the use of mail-in ballots for the next presidential,
mail-in ballots are already common. You don't need, you know, if you don't like mail-in ballots,
that's fine. That's one thing, but they don't need another excuse. They're already here. All right.
So anyway, yeah, listen, regardless of what else happened, this did not seem to happen.
This seems to be fucking fear-mongering on the part of Infowars.
Five dollars from lives and does walls. I've seen unalived rather than killed in a headline
regarding a murder involving the new asylum seekers. Fucking ridiculous, dude. Yeah.
Yeah. Yes. The Infowars headline is clickbait, but I'm calling out clickbait as bullshit.
Zam, as he says, Deb has a parasocial relationship. I've actually been thinking about this.
I think on some level, parasociality goes both ways, right? Because I know people who are here a
lot. I know. I know when I recognize the name, I see him every single stream. I'm like, yeah,
it's that guy. Yeah, it's that guy. Then when he goes away and comes back six months later,
I'm like, oh, where did you go, dude? Like, it kind of feels bad when someone leaves,
right? On my end, like me looking at the chat and noticing someone disappears and it's like,
oh, where did that guy go? Like, I do miss him. And like, I think the parasocial relationship
goes both ways. You know what I mean? Because, and then like, he comes back in six months and
he says, I was gone doing this. And I was like, oh, dude, like, like, we can't, we catch up. And
it's, it's, there's like a feeling of like, oh, you left, you know, you don't know me. Hey,
real STS. How's it going, buddy? Also like the people who now hate watch, or the people who
used to like you, and now they hate you, and they're on other channels, like shitting on you,
like that feels pretty bad sometimes. You know what I mean? It's like, five years ago,
you were in my comments, posting and having fun, and everyone's having a good time. And now you're
in someone else's chat. Like, you know, a lot of these audience are like former dev viewers who
now hate me, right? And I go in there. And like, anytime I come up, they're like frothing in the
mouth to say negative things about me. And it's because they feel like I've backstabbed them
because I'm not a right winger. And they are, you know what I mean? So it does kind of feel bad.
When I'm just like, oh, yeah, you're kind of cool. Five years ago, but you've lost your
fucking mind. And now you're over here, like hating on me. So I think there's definitely
a parasocial aspect from, like streamer to chat, not just from chat to streamer, definitely.
Now, the real Joe Biden $20 Thank you, isn't the argument that see you right? Oh,
it's stinky dumb dumbs. They didn't lock you down forever. So you were wrong.
The same as the left saying someone didn't get truly canceled because they didn't commit the
sewer slide. No, no, because the right always specifically said this was going to be eternal
COVID fascism, you're going to be living in a social credit score for the rest of your life.
This was going to they were going to be marching the jackboots up and down the street,
you were going to lose all of your rights, nothing was ever coming back. The right was
very specific about this being permanent, and they were wrong about that permanence.
So that is a difference. But thank you for the $20 I do appreciate it. $10 from art of us. Thank
you again, dude. Regardless of the fact that people have fought back against the mask mandates
that were reapplied, because they aren't here now. They were never tried. I never said that
Artemis. What I'm saying is like, I don't think that there was actually ever going to be a rollout.
And I think this is just a lie. There probably are times in which they try to roll something out.
And then people say, fuck you, and then it doesn't happen. And that's what should happen,
by the way, like, that's how it should be. Governments should, in fact, respond to the
popular will of the citizens. Because democracy as actually isn't a sham, guys. But I think this
was just cope on the fact of employers this time. Start again, $2 hard to have relationships with
the swarm of bees. Yeah, I know what you mean, dude. $2 from ball craft, do more 1860s articles.
Okay, let's keep on let's keep on going. Harada denies the role in Tekken eight jiggle physics
blames programmers and modelers based jiggle physics aren't a new phenomenon. They've been
around just as long as modern entertainment has been if not longer. But jiggle physics are
arguably more prevalent in video games with the like of streets fighters, sixes Chun Li,
and the entire femme fatale cast of Dead or Alive roster almost all cited examples. Tekken has its
fair share of female fighters, whose breasts are for a lack of better phrasing out of control.
While it's easy to blame the issue on Katsuhiro Harada, the longtime producer of the Tekken
franchise, it appears the ever vocal developer specifically asked not to incorporate jiggle
physics into Tekken but to no avail. He wanted Tekken's character movements to be more serious
and stiff and to stand out from their fighting games. However, much to his surprise, character
chess started bouncing once the game was close to being finished.
He added that programmers and modelers were secretly working on it together.
He eventually relented after seeing that each title improved on the physics of the previous
entry, explaining that the muscles and fat started to sway more naturally with each work.
Hey, dude. More jiggle physics. Holtsnader for $5 Thank you. I never thought that I thought that
this would be something that the government could use to coerce the population when needed.
I don't think it's happening, man. I don't think it's happening. I don't think any of
this shit's coming back, to be honest. And also, there's definitely like the argument of
if there's actually a super serious pandemic, should they lock down? The answer is probably
yes. But like, how do you trust them when they say it's super serious? Probably not.
So like, there's a balance here, for sure.
Because if it actually was a super serious pandemic,
and the government said, listen, guys, like, we don't have to do this. Disregarding the
trust issue you should in the super serious pandemic, right? Okay.
Damn. Anyway, he gave a statement in his episode of Harada's Bar.
Oh, my God, breast physics and video games have become a controversial subject in recent years.
The issue is often grouped together with the industry's still unrealistic body standards,
the improving but still lacking representation diversity in games,
as well as a sometimes purposely stunted character development obvious civilization of virtual
women. No, sexualize them all. Sexualize all the women's. And frankly, most of the men do.
Anyway, Tekken's coming out. It's probably gonna be okay.
Oh, yeah. Ex porn star Mia Khalifa uses face mask to pick up dog poo, then puts it back on.
What the fuck? $2 a whole scenario. I'm happy to be wrong. I agreed in the serious.
Yeah. Thanks, man. Thank you for the donations, dude.
Okay. The Lebanese American took her pup out for a stroll when it decided it couldn't hold it in
any longer. So she picks it up. Someone was recording. This is gross. She picked up the
dog poo with her mask, threw it away and put the mask back on. God. Mia Khalifa 27 removed her mask
keeping up the apparent muck before dropping it in a nearby bin. Viewers were then made to skirmish
you put the covering back on before resuming her walk. Oh, God. I just saw Mia Khalifa put poop on
her face. And then she replied, at least I'm not an anti-masker. Oh, my God, dude.
I just got back from traveling and I have to walk my dog. So safety first. Everyone has to
wear a mask. Some people believe that the video is a hoax. Both parties are looking for publicity.
She's still cute. It's still worth to go back and watch her porn,
but I don't think she has much value otherwise.
Yep. That's kind of gross, isn't it? Okay.
Oklahoma lawmaker. This is the thumbnail. Oklahoma lawmaker wants animal control to
take furries from public schools. Send her to the pound, boys. Send them to the pound.
A student behaving like a silly goose in Oklahoma could soon be hauled out of class by animal
control. State Rep Justin Humphrey introduced a bill on Tuesday that would ban furries from
public schools across the state and allow animal control to come round them up.
Students who purport to be an imaginary animal or animal species, or who engage in anthropomorphic
behavior commonly referred to as furries at the school, shall not be allowed to participate in
school curriculum or activities. The legislation would require parents or guardians to pick up the
child from school. Otherwise, animal control services shall be contacted to remove the
student.
There's no way it's going to pass, right? But it's fucking hilarious.
GigaChad. Everyone post those GigaChads, dude.
The Republican lawmaker previously proposed creating a Bigfoot hunting season in the state
and did not expand on the definition of furry-esque behaviors or what kind of
animalistic mannerisms or dress would get a kid kicked out of the classroom.
Thanks to the two dollars, Bellcraft, that they identified as animals.
Although the bill itself did not include a goal or reasoning for its existence, Humphrey previously
said it was to deter children from identifying as animals. People are going to call me insane for
running this bill. Hell, I say that they're insane. Women have discovered the final dog
pill. Unless there's compliance to the bill. Thanks, guys.
If you got an animal coming to school, how are you going to get them vaccinated? How
about we get them neutered and how about we send them to the pound?
The Republicans seemingly pointed to a bogus rumor that Michigan's school district was providing
litter box for students identified as furries. Yeah, that was last year's fucking nonsense.
Imagine trying to legally define furry behavior. Oh my fucking god, dude.
I don't want to see some kid go to the bathroom in a litter box in the kitty litter.
These people, those people up bare have lost their mind letting these people pretend to
be animals in the classroom. If they're going to be animals,
let's send them to the pound. Let's send them home. How do you teach a cat math?
There are an estimated 250,000 people in the USA who identify as furries,
a subculture whose members enjoy dressing up as cartoonish animals,
sometimes as a sexual fetish, but more often as a fun escape. Fucking fur fags, guys.
I accidentally went to a swingers party on a first date, but rather than leave, I slept with 50 men.
Okay, lady.
A model who accidentally went to a swingers party on a first date revealed that instead of leaving,
she ended up having sex with over 50 men and found it empowering. Her name is Kazumi Squirts.
She's 24. Teddies. Thanks, Benjamin Hardy. Thanks for the $2. Kazumi Squirts,
who lives in Malibu, California, lifted the lid on her most unconventional first date.
Where she accidentally ended up at a sex party.
Okay, lady. I'm sure you did. Luca the Vile, $2. Thank you.
Terrific decay is just what we let you know about. Oh my God. Fucking furries.
Kazumi, who wants to remove the stigma around swingers parties,
said the whole thing came out when I went on a date with this guy. We were in the car heading
to a restaurant when he started telling me about a party and his girlmate, who was just as crazy
as me sexually. It sounded like fun, so I said we should check it out if we're getting food.
When we got there and opened the door, we spotted his friend with loads of guys in various states of
undress. We had already discussed my interest of swing parties, but I couldn't believe he had
brought me to this party. Me and my date looked at each other. He put my hand on my shoulder and
said, have fun. So I did. So this wasn't a date. He was basically recruiting you to get fucked by
his bros. He was going out to hunt down women and bring them into the swinger party. All right.
This wasn't the first time that she had been to a sex party or swap partners. I'm not surprised.
The open-minded model loves being the center of attention and isn't phased by having sex with
multiple people on the same night and says that it's empowering to follow your sexual urges.
I can't wait for her to be like, you know, I've now fucked a thousand guys,
but I want kids now, so it's time for me to settle down and someone needs to come date me.
And it's like, nope, nope, fucking nope. Fuck that.
Okay. Vaping does not harm pregnant women or babies. A shocking study claims. Oh,
I mean, I don't believe it, but maybe it's true. Who knows? Let's take a look.
Smoking cigarettes while pregnant has previously been linked to birth complications and fetal
damage, but a new study suggests that vaping could be potentially safer option.
New research from queen Mary university of London found that vaping during pregnancy
helped expecting mothers quit smoking cigarettes without posing any detectable risks to the
pregnancy. The team of researchers found that after the first trimester pregnant women who
used a nicotine replacement patches or e-cigarettes gave birth to babies with birth weights,
no different from non-smokers and birth weights significantly higher than those who smoked at all
during their pregnancy. So yeah, I know you swingers. I get it.
Birth rates is one of those ways you can kind of figure this out,
but it could be something else. Like there's other ways to determine health problems, right?
There's other ways to determine health problems. I need my child dose math. Yeah.
Yeah. The data says that the data suggests that regular use of nicotine replacement therapy
don't have any adverse effects on the mother or the baby after the first trimester, nor is
associated with adverse pregnancy events or poor pregnancy outcomes. E-cigarettes help pregnancy
smokers quit without posing any detectable risk to pregnancy compared with stopping smoking without
further nicotine use. Hmm. I need to look at it some more, you know.
Yeah, exactly here. So nicotine can cause permanent damage to the developing fetus's brain
and other organs. There's not a weight thing. This is an organ damage thing.
So I don't know about this one, dude.
No, I gradually was like, are you dead or not like that? No, dude,
God, I swear to God, you have fucking brain worms. All right. Listen, when someone gives you
evidence, you don't simply accept it because it jives with what you already know or reject it
because it doesn't. You have to look at it and examine it and be like, hmm, okay.
What does the evidence say? What doesn't it say? What is it leaving out? What other possibilities
are there? All right. Fucking think about it for a bit. Jesus. I fucking hate partisans, dude.
Like, I hate this too. Jesus.
You still have a severe optimism bias. Yeah, that's because the world's actually mostly good.
It actually is. If you go outside, you can kind of see that.
Also, you know, just trust the institution to have trust the study.
Good. God damn it. No, you're being dumb. You're all being stupid.
It says safer, not safe. Okay, well, it might be safer in the same way that eating cigarette ash
is safer than eating bleach. Okay, I get it. Let's continue on. Educators are outraged
after attorneys argue that a first grade teacher shot in the school is a workplace injury. What?
The Newport News Education Association president condemned the premise of the school division's
motion to dismiss Abigail Zwirner's pending $40 million lawsuit. The motion was filed last week
by attorneys representing the school board and argues that Zwirner, who was shot in her
classroom by a six-year-old student, is only entitled to file a worker's compensation claim
because the injury she sustained from the shooting is a workplace injury and the shooting was a
hazard of the job. What the fuck? No, it's not. It's not a normal part of your job to get shot.
James Graves, president of the Newport News Teacher's Union, said the argument is
ridiculous. This is not military. This is not the police department. This is an education system.
These lawyers have started a significant hurricane in our district by saying that being shot is part
of what teachers signed up for. This is a slap in the face. Yes, fucking okay. Let's see if I
can find an information about the six-year-old. Okay, hold on. Abigail Zwirner, I'm gonna look it
up. Shooting of Abby Zwirner, a six-year-old male student shot her.
Oh, my God, dude. Guys, guys, guys. We love you, Dev. I'm just messing with you. Also,
you're the blinched, reaching expert. Thanks. Thanks. Fucking alternator. Thank you. Okay, listen.
Okay, hold on.
The student's conduct included behavioral issues at school, cursing at staff, whipping students
with his belt, and choking a teacher. In 2021, the student came from behind his teacher,
locked his forearms around her neck, and pulled her backward. He was subsequently moved to a
different school. And the week before the student, and before the shooting, the student was shot.
Before the shooting, multiple staff members, including Zwirner, told school administrators
about the student's conduct and concerns he might have a weapon. A six-year-old kid brings a fucking
weapon. Yet, the student threatened to beat up another student, and the student was shot.
The student was shot, and the student was shot, and the student was shot, and the student was
shot, and the student was shot, and the student was shot, and the student was shot, and the student
was shot. The student was shot, and the student was shot, and the student was shot.
And the student was shot, and the student was shot, and the student was shot.
Yet, the student threatened to beat up another student. The second teacher went to administrator.
The teacher has taken the bow on herself to search the student's backpack. A third teacher,
a student has searched another student, and he says he had a gun on the child that he would
shoot him if they reported it. The teacher was told to wait out the situation as the school day
She reportedly texted an unidentified individual saying that the student claimed to have a gun and the school administrators weren't helping.
During a routine lesson at 2pm the student pointed a 9mm Taurus pistol at Zwirner and then shot at her when she tried to reach out for the weapon.
The bullet passed through her hand and then lodged in her chest.
Police reported that the shooting was intentional and there was no struggle or warning given before the student discharged the gun.
The child's mother, Deja Taylor, owned the gun that the student brought to school in his backpack.
Immediately after being shot, Zwirner escorted all the students out of the classroom and away from the shooter while another staff member restrained the shooter until police took the juvenile detention.
Oh my god, dude.
Wild!
This is fucking... what's the student's race, Dev? Yes, we all know the student's race is black.
We all get it. We get it. This is some inner-city fucking gang-ass bullshit.
Yeah, this is insane, dude. And the fact that the school administrators didn't do shit.
Shit.
My god.
Oh shit, dude. The kid has ADHD.
Damn.
Don't worry, I won't shoot anyone, guys. Don't worry.
Sean King. 10 Canadian dollars. Thank you.
I think the reason the guys in here hate it when you tell them that things aren't that bad is because they see it as you are telling them to trust the tribe over the hill.
Oh god, I'm not...
If that's how they view it, they gotta upgrade their fucking thinking because they're thinking stupidly.
Stupidly.
This is victim blaming. The kid's getting justice for his phone, GigaChad.
Yeah, this is fucking insane, dude. Jesus fucking Christ.
Okay.
Let's see.
Unhinged hospital greeter, 27, has been slapped with several charges, including attempted murder and a Queen stabbing spree.
Tricky Mario, thanks for the fiver. I bet a lot of Ms. Frizzle's field trips are safe from this student. As I would say, I knew she would stay home today.
So, this is the unhinged hospital greeter. That's this guy here.
There he is, our hospital greeter.
The suspect in the stabbing spree across Queens has been slapped with an attempted murder and assault charge for the five violent attacks.
Jermaine Rigueur, who reportedly laughed in one victim's face after slashing them, was charged late Wednesday with three counts of attempted murder, four counts of assault, one count of attempted assault, and criminal possession of a weapon.
Wild, dude. Fucking wild.
Here's the thing. I think even though crime rates are actually going down, what's happening is the few crimes that are left become more sensationalized like these, right?
This is like, like, this is insane fucking bullshit.
Listen, you can recognize all the patterns you want. But as I always say, pattern recognition is the beginning of knowledge, not the end.
Like, there's a bunch of idiots on Twitter who are like, I see the pattern. Everyone is black, therefore all the blacks are in fact the criminals and that is just how it is.
It's like, no, no, no, no, that's just as stupid as not seeing the pattern. That's just as stupid as not seeing the pattern.
It's a string of random attacks. He's been doing random attacks this whole time.
A 61 year old grandfather was knifed in the back as he walked to the laundromat.
After the alleged perp stabbed him from behind, he turned and smiled at him as he walked away.
Then, a 34 year old Shanika Anderson was stabbed as she walked home just after midnight. Holy shit, dude.
Look, this guy's like fucked up.
$10 for Brian Linden.
I'd bet the reason the violent crime graph is off is because it uses UCR rather than NCVS data plus them moving to a new reporting system in 2021, forcing them to rely on estimates for 2021-2022 data.
Maybe. I don't know. It's possible. I actually do think that things are getting better though.
There are sensationalist crimes like this guy fucking stabbing randoms, but the crime rates are overall going down.
Also, hey, Sitch and Adam. Which one of you is it? Is it Adam or is it Sitch?
Did you watch my new video, by the way?
I mean, to be honest, it's a video you already know about, to be honest, because you talked about it.
I heard that you got banned for a week. That sucks.
Google users can now ask to have their explicit photos removed from search results.
Oh, dude, if your nudes are out there, you can get them taken down.
S class, baby. Yeah. Well, I like them both, really.
And also D club. But still. Hey, Sitch.
Hey, Sitch. I did. It was great. Did you? Because here's the thing.
Assuming it's such such we've had that conversation on your channel several times about, you know, the whole the the what's the problem with liberalism?
Oh, yeah. It falls apart into communism sometimes because of these these philosophical reasons.
Right. That's an argument that you've had with me. You've had it with Sargon.
And the the video is just outlining how that works.
And I'm not sure if you if you agree with that logic, but I'm glad you enjoyed the video, though.
OK, so Google on Thursday rolled out a new policy that allows people to request that their personal sexually explicit photos be removed from search results.
The new feature is one of three updates that Google says are meant to give users more control over content about themselves that is available through popular search engine.
Through the popular search engine. It is just one of the many things we're trying to do to help people feel control.
Of their online experience. Wait, I'm going to be honest, I did watch the video. I was just being played.
You mean you didn't? You fuck. You can't even lie to me properly, Sitch.
Well, guess what? Go watch it. Fuck you. Fuck you.
Sitch, watch more dev videos. You're missing out on all of them.
Sargon was on Lauren Chen's new show talking about the slide from the rule of the communism. Here's the thing, like when Sargon describes.
When Sargon describes the.
I will when you get on Discord. Yeah, Sammy, get on Discord. Sammy, get on fucking Discord already.
God damn it. Sargon was on Lauren Chen's show talking about the slide from the rules of communism.
I mean, the thing the thing with Sargon is like that slide exists, but it's not inevitable.
And also, it seems to be the only thing he talks about right now. So it's like, come on, dude.
There's more there's more to the conversation than just that.
Anyway, you can now. Oh, God, my back.
OK. You can now request Google remove their personal sexually explicit explicit photos.
Google says it's meant to give users more control over content about themselves that is available through his popular search engine.
It is just one of the many things we're trying to do to help people feel control of their own experience.
One exception to the removal policy is if the user is actively commercializing their explicit images.
OK, so if you have nudes on the Internet, you're not a porn star because like a boyfriend leaked them or something.
You can get them taken down. OK, that sounds pretty good. That sounds decent, doesn't it?
Hi, Sitch. Can't wait for your videos to return. It will be better than being here.
What the fuck, dude?
The company also introduced a new dashboard that tracks when a person's personal contact information appears in its search results,
which the company says will make it easier to users to monitor and request the removal information about themselves from Google search results.
That tool will now alert users when new results pop up containing contact information.
OK, this all seems like pretty good stuff, doesn't it?
This all seems pretty decent.
Ah, God damn it. Everything is just stretching. Oh, fuck.
Oh, ow, that hurt. Ow.
Oh. OK, hold on.
Yeah, I think I just pulled the muscle stretching or something.
OK, give me a second, give me a second, I'm just going to stretch it out.
I definitely did something.
Oh. I did something quite painful to my thigh.
Oh. I like I was just stretching and then like it just I could feel the muscle seize and it's in the most incredible pain.
Oh. Oh.
Ah.
Rub it and stretch it, you'll be OK.
Hold on.
I, I grabbed some ibuprofen. Hold on. See, listen, I'll shake my pill bottle like Ethan Ralph ibuprofen.
Oh, OK, it's like, OK, this is like a really bad charley horse or something.
Oh.
Do not rub it if it's if it's in your leg, don't risk a DVT. It's not a DVT.
OK, hold on.
Such go watch my video and then you can demand things of me.
Mm hmm.
Oh.
Oh. Oh, fuck.
Hold on. I'm going to put my leg up.
Oh.
OK, OK. Did I miss a few super chats?
Did I miss some?
Hold on.
Let me go to the super chat.
Thanks for the support, though, guys, I appreciate it.
OK, hold on.
How much do you a yoga stream, says Holston, head or two dollars? Thank you.
Why are all the Sitch and Adam show crew wrench but me?
Dev, you're basically giving them permission to bully me, which is terribly illegal.
OK, did you have to convince me to rent you, I guess.
Donovan Gill, four dollar or five dollars, thank you, as a as a regular watcher of both Sargon and James Lidsey.
Very disappointed in James's response to Sargon. Yeah.
And me, too.
A DVT is a deep vein thrombosis.
Which I think is just like a blood clot, is that all it is?
DVT is like a type of blood clot, isn't it?
Yep, a DVT is occurs when a blood clot forms in a vein deep inside of your body.
Yeah.
Oh.
OK.
Oh.
Give me give me give me a second, OK, friends.
And where's where's where's did that? I don't see him.
Where's Diddler?
There he is, OK.
OK, Diddler. Oh, OK.
My first argument is that I'm a good boy who did nothing wrong.
My second is that Sammy cannot hold sway over me.
There is that sent you many gifts. Thank you, Diddler.
I appreciate it.
You know what I'll do? OK, we'll have to do some equivalent exchange here.
I'll have to I'll give Diddler Maude, but I'll have to remove Maude from Sammy instead.
Until she she redirects 10 percent of her fan art efforts towards my channel instead of Adam and Citrus.
That's how it has to be.
OK, let's see here.
Let's continue on. Sports Illustrated's entire staff told they're getting laid off.
Fuck you. The future of based.
The future of iconic magazine Sports Illustrated looked dire Friday after the publisher announced mass layoffs.
I don't have pinpoint chest pain. I'm fine. It's just the fact that there was a cramp in my leg is just a cramp.
It's just a cramp of the arena group, which has been roiled by reports that the fabled magazine published a generated content.
I admitted to failing to make a three point seven five million quarterly license payment to authentic brands group due this week.
As a result, the publicly traded arena announced Thursday would make significant reduction in its workforce of more than 100 journalists.
The unionized workers received a memo Friday telling them some employees will be terminated immediately and paid in lieu of a 60 day applicable notice period under the union contract.
Employees with the last working day of today will be contacted by the people team soon.
Other employees will be expected to work through the end of the notice period and receive additional information shortly.
Yep. This is happening to here's the yet notified.
You have to. Okay. So this happened to a lot of things right now. I might do a video.
Listen, what if I give money instead? Thanks, Sammy.
But I like your artwork, Sammy.
Do I got to pay you for it? Do I got to pay you to do some art?
Oh, listen, Sports Illustrated entire staff like the thing about this is like.
OK, I think I think the pain is like fading slowly. OK, so.
Sports Illustrated entire staff, there's a lot of journalists, like journalists outlets right now, media sites and and publications.
They're just losing tons of people. Lots of social media. They're asking tons of people.
The layoffs are coming on and then all these useless fucking loser jobs where no one does anything of any fucking value.
They're all getting destroyed. And it's probably a good thing.
Inflation is down. The economy is great. Pay no attention to all the massive layoffs in every company in America.
Sigurur, listen, listen, they're cutting the fat. All right.
Remember that chick who like did nothing? It was an Instagram or wherever or wherever it was.
There was LinkedIn and she just walks around looking like looking really looking really suave or whatever the fuck.
And she's like wearing nice clothes. She's partying, constantly doing no fucking work.
She's constantly relaxing on the job, doing all this fucking bullshit and living the high life.
It's those people that are getting axed there. This is not part of the real economy.
They're just fucking money sinks. Eat a long yellow fruit. It'll help with cramps.
OK, thank you. Lives and does walls.
Wait, don't pay me, lol. It's more of a time issue for me than the motivation to do it.
OK. A third of Britons don't know that transgender women were born male.
What? More than a third of UK residents do not know that transgender women are biologically male, according to a poll, calling into question public understanding of the debate over gender.
OK, so are we talking about people who are so ideologically captured, they think that trans they're like, no, biology doesn't exist.
They're all biologically female. Or are these people who are just so ignorant about trans stuff that they're like, trans women, is that like dudes who want to be girls?
I don't know. I don't know.
Campaigners said that the finding showed politicians, journalists and pollsters needed to be more explicit when speaking about gender issues.
As in many cases, members of the public did not know what the politically correct terms mean.
Hold on. 35% wrongly believe that a transgender woman was born female or that they were unsure.
The confusion was even greater for the shortened term of trans woman, with 40% either being unsure or believing it meant someone who is registered female at birth.
This is stupid.
This is dumb.
Actually, what what got Adam and Sitch fucked anyway?
NBM said several bodies such as the BBC regularly used terms that further explanation, for example, in stories about transgender participation in sports, the debate over self-id.
In many cases, the terms were adopted as a result of lobbying from trans activists who often claim it is discriminatory and offensive to refer to a transgender person's biological sex.
However, the poll said that there's high levels of misunderstanding and confusion with the terms, and there is a need for language to be more explicit.
We took it down. If you get a channel strike on YouTube and you can stream uploaded elsewhere, they can hit you with another penalty.
Yeah, if you like ban evade, you're fucked.
Such an Adam.
All right, so this is funny, but stupid. Got it.
It's pretty good.
Delivery driver caught dumping grocery order on the side of the road.
What?
Why?
A delivery driver has been has been spotted dumping a grocery order on the side of a dirt road by an angry onlooker.
The video filmed in Melbourne shows a small pile of groceries dumped on the side of the road with a delivery driver hunched over the bags.
Mate, I'm watching you. Of course, it's fucking Australian.
Mate, I'm watching you drop that rubbish there. What is it?
Shouldn't be going to a customer.
The driver said the order was going to a customer for picking up one of the Woolsworth bags.
There's not even a house here. What are you doing?
The delivery driver eventually picked up the items and put them back into the car, apologizing for getting in the driver's seat.
The footage was posted to a local Facebook group and woman commenting, confirming the order was hers.
OMG, my day keeps getting crazier.
This is my shopping, she added. She said, added that her order was delivered shortly after the video was filmed.
He sped up so fast and skidded on his way out, also reversing into a bush.
She ordered $100 worth of groceries, $15 for express delivery, and the driver's like, I'm just going to dump it on the side of the road.
What the fuck, dude?
And then the passerby caught it. But like, why?
Why, dude? Why?
Okay, you know what? Even though there's a few articles left, I think I'm going to pull the plug in this episode a little bit early.
It's time to put it down. I'll get to the articles next week.
Okay.
Ooh, ooh.
Yes.
Thanks for all the support, guys.
Oh, we are at $499.
We almost hit $500 of donations today, guys. Thank you very much.
That's very... I appreciate it quite a bit.
You're very appreciative.
But yes, I'm going to... Oh, Stug brings us over the line with a giant boo.
Listen, Sammy, Sammy, I don't know if you've been here the whole time. Did you see the big fight that I had earlier?
It's a fun fight. Like, I enjoy arguing with chat over stuff, but I think I helped.
Thanks very much, videosynth. Thank you.
But yeah, it wasn't a pulled muscle. It was intense.
No, no. Basically, yeah, my leg's actually mostly better.
Like, the pulled muscle was very painful for like 10 minutes. Like, it was fucked, but I'm actually doing pretty good now.
No, it's just... It's been three and a half hours. I do want to...
Sorry, I'm just breathing through my nose. I do want you to just get to some of the things today.
But thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate all the donos and all the help.
You guys are incredible. You guys are keeping things going.
Like I said, my goal is an extra 10,000 by the end of the... By the start of the spring.
So you can actually set up... I'm setting up a studio. A real life studio, guys.
So that's the goal. So thank you very much for helping me get towards it. You guys are the best.
I'm just having some water.
Adam... No, sorry, Sitch. It's you, Sitch, who's in there, aren't you?
Unless he fucking left. He might have taken off.
But if you're still there, Sitch, you... No, Adam invited me on your channel in the near future.
Make sure you're not fucking banned when it comes time to have me on.
Make sure you're not fucking banned. Here, I'll type it.
Don't be banned when you want me on. Also, watch the video.
Anyway, thanks very much, guys. You guys are the best.
I've got to go. God damn it. I've got to go. We're going to go raid Chud Logic.
He's still online, right? Isn't he? Is Chud... Chud's a good boy.
Go in there and spam him with coffee cups because Chud's great.
We're going to go raid Chud. And I'll see you guys next time.
Actually, you know what? I'm like halfway done writing tomorrow's video.
So maybe... Actually, I'm actually back on track, okay?
Anyway. Oh, and yes, of course. For those of you who asked at the start of the stream,
I'm getting my medication checked out for tomorrow because I'm not going on that other shit again. Jesus.
Like, oh my God. Okay. Anyway, enough stalling. I'll see you guys tomorrow.
Was there anything else?
I know Kibz wanted to move the Project Zomboid stream to today, but I don't know if we're doing it.
I'm just going to ask him real quick.
Come on, Kibz. You fucking femboy.
I don't know.
Anyway, listen. Lots to do. I'm just distracting myself now.
I'll see you guys later, okay? Have a good one.
Fuck you.
