Hey guys, this is Dave, duh.
Anyways, this is kind of a big thing for me.
My friend that I used to work with at a group home,
he was a huge Warhammer fan and a big tabletop gaming fan,
and he actually convinced me to invest in a Kickstarter campaign.
It's a game called God Slayer, which is like a skirmishing type tabletop game.
Less units, so it's just a little bit easier to strategize,
and I'm not the greatest at strategy games anyway,
so I said, fuck it, I'm just going to go along with it, I'll give it a shot.
I was really excited.
And I chose one of six factions.
There are the Mortons, which are like necromantic Romans.
There's the Halodines, which are like a more spiritual Greek culture.
There's the Banebro, which are like chaos sort of deal.
There's a lot of like mutate and stuff like that,
and they mutate humans as well as animalistic beings.
There's the Troglodytes, which are shadow-aligned troll-based characters.
There's the Trollith and shadow trolls and little bastards as well.
Let's see, who else is there?
Oh, the Norgar, which are a combination of other giants or like Vikings and dwarves.
They're pretty cool.
They're my second choice, but my first choice was these guys called the Wild Folk of Aenir.
They are Celtic-based, kind of very druidic.
They've got different units that are like archers.
They've got melee fighters as well as druid types.
Later on, they're going to bring in a new faction from that sub-faction.
It's going to be more death and decay magic, so that's what drew me in to begin with.
Anyways, it's not my usual style.
I just thought it would be more like the Norgard.
They're like blunt force sort of deal.
I mean, you've probably seen anything from the way I play games, far from subtle.
But these guys that I ordered are actually much more hit and run,
so it's going to be an entirely new experience for me, and I am pretty jacked.
So anyways, I'm going to get started with opening the box.
All right, so I've got some Caesars.
I'm going to try to do this without causing any real damage here.
Oh god.
It's been nearly six months that I've been waiting for this.
My Kickstarter ended on March 2nd.
My buddy is very, very jealous of me right now because he ordered something at the same time as me,
and he ordered a much bigger package.
Mine cost me about $240.
His was almost $500.
This stuff is not cheap, although apparently, according to other tabletop gamers that are more seasoned than me,
this is a pretty damn good deal.
Some armies are known to last up to the total of something in the $1,000 range, if not more.
So that is quite spectacular.
$500.
A little nurse.
Cardboard.
A bunch of, I'm guessing, oh.
That's weird.
German newspaper.
That is freaking funny.
That is so fucking funny.
So, I see.
Why part of the deal?
I'll try to get this.
Oh, okay. That's much better than I expected.
Bubble that out.
It makes it pop like a little kid sometimes.
Anyways, this deal ended up coming with a couple of things extra.
One is this t-shirt that I got, and this is a Felder carrying case for my models.
So this is very exciting.
I'm hoping the shirt is the right size for me, and I'm generally a medium.
Looks good. It's a bit big, but I should be able to shrink it down.
That's pretty awesome.
I think I might just wear this from now on. Just give me a second. I'm going to change.
Okay.
So this is the shirt.
It's actually very well designed.
There's some crappy iron on or whatever that's integrated with the shirt, so I'm just going to press on.
It's going to be fantastic.
My buddy Brandon and I are going to be wearing these, I'm sure.
The guys, I can't really talk about it, but we have an opportunity to help the company at some point.
So hopefully we'll be able to go out and show off the game and whatnot.
But anyways, let's get down to the rest of it.
This feels incredibly heavy.
I don't know what this might do.
Okay, that's not a good start.
This may be what... yep, it is.
Every bigger pledge got something like this, which is the map from the game.
I will probably have to spread it out on the floor.
It's that big. There's actually two posters worth, which I will be putting up in my room, I'm sure.
Because that is badass.
Sweet fucking Christmas.
That is the world of Caledon.
Essentially just one giant mass of land with a few islands interspersed, of course.
It's actually on a floating plate amongst a bunch of other floating worlds controlled by the elements.
I will probably see, you know, this is...
Actually, I believe, never mind, this is Gorn.
Gorn is this continental thing. Calerin is the whole universe, I believe.
Apparently there's just assloads of lore interspersed in here.
It's odd, actually. I was expecting overlap, because these are the same island.
Actually, it doesn't really look like this is matching up.
Okay, there we go. There we go. That looks better.
That's the actual... such a huge, huge, huge area that they had printed.
I don't have an overlap, but they even have all the kinds of terrain, geographic features, like godlands.
Looks like floating islands or something. Deserts, water, ice, fey lands, badlands, uncharted.
There's just crazy, lots of detail in here.
They got godlands. Yeah, see, they got floating above.
As for my guys, I think... oh, they're from here. Near the northwestern part.
That's their haunting grounds.
So, from now on, I'll be able to actually use this lore from here and plan out wars and battles and scenarios and whatnot against my bitter foes.
So, next up is... something very heavy.
And the other one is... yes!
This would be the book set.
Now, one of these books is, in fact, the rulebook, so everything you need to know to play the damn game.
And the background book, all the fluff of the lore. This is what I've been really, really excited for.
So, I will most likely be spending the rest of the day reading that.
Hopefully the rulebook, too, but the background book is pretty extensive.
I think it's something like 200 pages of lore, so I'll be immersing myself in that motherfucker for a while.
Let's see how this looks.
Now, there's been previews and whatnot of these books all over the place, but I guess I'll get a chance to open this myself.
That was a hard cover. That's okay.
Ooh, look at this stuff. The detail, look at that shit.
That is a Shadow Troll, I believe, or a... yeah, it's a troll anyway. It's a troglodyte.
And these, of course, would be the Dwarfs or the Nordgard.
Just flip through. Yeah.
Oh my god, there's so much stuff in here. There's so much information. Jesus.
I had enough of a time reading Greek mythology as a kid, all this stuff.
I've always been a huge fan of history and mythology, so I'll be right up my alley.
There's artwork everywhere. Oh, they even have the individuals. That's the hallowdimes right there.
Mortons, Nordgard, just every single little tidbit of information that I want to know about something that doesn't exist.
I mean, Game of Thrones fans have their encyclopedia as well, so...
No, I'm wrong. I love Game of Thrones as well, but right now, this is worth that.
And a rulebook. Let's see, I don't even know. Ooh, okay. That's cool.
Looks like the mortons, which is my guys, the wild folks. See, this guy's got his antler helm and two swords.
We drew it off in the background there, so that's pretty jacked. Awesome.
Ooh, look at this. Crazy. Crazy for everything.
Wow. I can even tell you how to make up your composition of your warband. That would be very helpful.
All this great stuff.
All these are tactics. I mean...
It's no wonder. The forums for this game are just so rife with people talking about the rules and whatnot,
and I'm just thinking, fuck, I hate all you guys. I hate you so much because you've already got the book and everything.
These are all English and German guys. Or British and German, for the matter.
All these backgrounds, whatever. Psychology. Psych.
That is hilarious. I love it. I can't believe it.
Let's see. It's just getting morale and whatever going.
That guy. That guy I want to play eventually. That guy is, I believe, necromantic style,
so I won't be able to use him for a long time. At least not until the second wave is out.
God knows when that's going to be, so I'm going to have to content myself with the one that I have in my hands right now.
Anyways, we'll be going through every single, look at it, every single thing.
All these different spells and stuff I can put on there.
I love the smell of the new book, too. Smells great.
I'm getting a little too energetic with this book. I'm trying to rip it open.
Just flipping through. I can't wait to sink my teeth in that.
Wow. Just everything. Every little tiny insignificant detail.
I'm watching Lord of the Rings and seeing all the little runes they put in the armor and all that kind of thing.
Some people might think it seems so pointless to use people that really enjoy that sort of thing.
This is bread and butter.
For that, I actually got extra. When I get there, I'll definitely pull that sucker up.
Here I believe. I guess not.
Apparently the models are not already in the bag. I don't want to take this out. I don't think they have a really great place to do this.
Okay, here we have our starter box. Deutsch version. What the hell? Okay, good.
I'm going to have a bunch of this. It's going to be a lot smaller than I expected. Lord.
I'm really, really hoping that this is going to work. Sorry about the view.
These things are absolutely tiny. I was expecting maybe...look at this thing. This is my finger. Here's my pinky next to this thing. That's how fucking small these things are.
They're such a tiny little thing, that's a lot of detail. Holy shit.
Very, very small. In order to paint these things, it's going to take a hell of a lot of patience. Something I've found to be lacking in on a lot of things, so hopefully this is going to be a wake-up call.
I spent enough goddamn money on these things, but I do not want to waste anything.
I have an audience. Look how small these fucking things are.
How many did you get? This is... In this giant box? Yeah. Well, it's because I had the case and stuff in there too.
Yeah, there's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight in here, plus there's another, like, sixteen in the case.
Yeah.
I believe this is my warlord.
Yes, it is. He's lacking all his accoutrements, his antlers and swords and whatnot, but he'll be taking care of soon enough.
They're called blade slingers. They have spears that have slings in the end for rocks, so they're a bulk of melee and range units. Range is not very good, but it's good for enticing people into traps.
This guy is the bard of Aenir, closely enough. He's carrying a bagpipe so he can make battle songs and slightly buff his units around him.
This is claymore, which I'm not too, too big, but apparently he does some pretty good damage. So, apparently that's all.
So this is my little army, my warband, so to speak. I'll actually put these guys back in here.
Thankfully, because they come in pieces like this, it's quite easy for them to not be damaged.
This comes all the way from Germany, Deutschland. That's cool. We have the jewel, I guess you could say, of the thing.
Very nice. Apparently these guys are really well known for quality, quality, quality cases. Now, that's no hard code, but apparently, yeah, these guys are just rolling out.
I'm hoping all my other stuff is in here, because I ordered more than this. This one here will probably be pretty upset.
Holy shit. This is the autumn megalith, and it's really hard to... This thing is fucking heavy. This thing weighs like a pound, at least.
It is heavy, goddamn it. Look at that. Yeah, it's insane. Okay, so I got my character cards, and apparently I've also got these action tokens that I will most likely get laminated, because it's easy to lose them, and they don't appear to be incredible.
It's evil. It's not very hardy. They have tactics. These tactics are just, as far as I know, they're just little moves you can use during your activation of the character, so it will give them a little buff or movement or what have you.
This guy, I'm not sure where he is. I've got this guy from the Kickstarter, the elevate grove druid, and this thing, the autumn megalith. I don't know how the hell it's really the same little plastic thing, but this thing is, this megalith is a leyline-based magical artifact.
It doesn't move, but this guy right here can channel its energies to other heal people in an area of effect, or can use his general magic to shoot bolts and whatever across, and the range is apparently just insane.
A couple feet or something like that. That's on the table, so that is very, very far.
I also have, oh yeah, the stormbow beastmen. These are half-ogres. Ogres in this game are actually, well, they are good, so to speak. They interact with humans. They've bred with humans.
So they have been used in all these different armies, especially the haladin and wildfolk armies, so they are quite the boon. His defence is very high. His armour is pretty decent too, so you can tell he can take quite a beat, and this guy is a bow hunter. He's an archer.
Here we have this. High magic, high defence, high armour. It has all these different abilities. You can draw on that thing. Time vault, that's interesting.
You also have these health bars, and some of them you can use for, not this guy, but let's see if I was going to use this guy. He's got a wound bar, and somehow that will affect the health bar even more during a fight, so that is going to be quite an interesting mechanic.
More blade slingers, more blade slingers for these guys. This is going to be quite good. I see, now I have some more of these guys. This is a female blade slinger, that's cool.
These guys are pretty decent at introducing strong female characters, so I'm looking forward to it. I might even give all my guys names and whatnot, hopefully not too stereotypically Scottish or Irish, but I'll be definitely hoping to improve on the lore like that.
That's very nice. Oh wow, these guys are a stormbow beast on me. They've got some health, and he's also missing a head. He's headless.
There's his head. Right to there. Yeah, I don't want to fuck with that guy. He's big, big dude. I believe that's another stormbow beast punch there.
More blade slingers. More blade slingers. Another female, that's cool. More blade slingers. There's a lot of blade slingers there, like your main infantry.
I think these might be all blade slingers. A ton of these guys to fuck around with. A lot of guys to paint. They kind of have tridents or spears. That's cool. There's nearly every unit or model.
There's a difference, because units tend to be just a group of little guys, but they all have individual casts. Here is my ovate grove druid looking up to the sky.
Yea, I summoned ye. Badass. Him and his best friend, the ovum megalith. Or monolith. I think it was megalith. These guys are going to cause some serious damage.
The mechanic here is you have to cut out individual squares, or what looks like not even squares. Take these out. Keep your guys in there.
Not sure if there's anything else. Nope. Wow, that's a lot of perforations there if you can see. Not sure exactly what he's doing for, but I'll figure it out eventually. My buddy there, Brandon, he will definitely fill me in on that shit.
I am completely confused when it comes to this. I'm going to put these bad boys back for now. I've got some other fish to fry.
I hope I can get these guys safe enough. Oh, I put that guy there. Ok, new best friend. That is a hell of a lot of foam.
What a hell of a lot. Shoot. Ok. Well then, looks like that's all of it.
Cool bit of stuff. My t-shirt. Sweet detailed map. The amount of lore that I will be perusing. The starter kit, which initially I thought of just getting that, but I got taught to a much bigger army. And of course my bigger unit and my case, which I will try to close. Anyways, thanks for watching and this is going to be fantastic.
