So, it's just the three of us today, unfortunately. Lilith is AWOL. She's missing. I don't know
if Lilith got stuck back at work. She does work at like a smoothie store, so sometimes
you're just like, fuck, you gotta stay late. Shit happens. Who knows? Unfortunately-
What's a smoothie? The fucking smoothies must be made.
Yeah.
I would like a smoothie actually right now, fuck.
I've never liked smoothies. They're fucking chunky and yucky and whatnot.
Maybe you haven't had a good one. Maybe you haven't had a good one.
Really? You don't like smoothies?
Like chunky. Like what's chunky smoothie? Normally they're smooth.
Yeah, you really gotta like, you really gotta blend that shit, Arch.
In my country, smoothies are only made by like immigrants working at like minimum wage.
They don't really care. Like there's not even milk in there. Like it stopped being milk
a week ago. Now it's just like solidified yogurt with some bits of strawberries in it.
I mean, you're supposed to use a little bit of yogurt, like whatever the fuck it's called,
but like, I think you're smooth. If it's chunky, then they didn't make it right.
Yeah. Also you can just make your own, man. Just get some frozen fruit, get some milk.
A blender?
Yeah, exactly.
If I'm going to do that, I'm just going to eat the fruit.
But a smoothie, you can drink it. It quenches your thirst and fills the tumpee.
Yeah. And it's cold. You can have it on like a warm day. Wait, you're in Norway. There
are no warm days.
Put me down. Thanks. That's a brilliant idea.
Listen.
Minus 30 or something.
Well, wait.
I just minus 30 here too.
Yeah, it's actually very cold today.
Yeah.
My God, I wish I had something cold to drink.
Well-
What are you talking about? Like I go to Dairy Queen in the winter. If I'm driving by, I'm
like, oh, I want a fucking, one of them little chocolate shaky thingies.
In any case, in any case, Lilith isn't here. We are unfortunately on a pretty strict timetable,
so we have to go without her. I'm sure she'll be back next week. Hopefully, maybe.
Maybe doesn't even know.
Before we get started, I do want to point something out. I mentioned last episode, the
whole race baiting thing didn't really happen so much the same way that it happened with
Lord of the Rings, the Rings of Power or with Obi-Wan Kenobi hasn't really happened
here so much. I did finally find one instance of the race baiting, and it was, of course,
from marysue.com because why fucking wouldn't it be?
And they say, predictable as always, racists are mad about the new The Last of Us posters
and-
Am I?
Yeah. Wait, are you the people they're talking about here, Arch? So basically, this article
is trying to make the claim that because Joel's daughter was race swap, which we did
talk about last episode, people are angry and the fans are, this is fan backlash, it's
fan entitlement and it's all this other nonsense that we've heard a thousand times before.
However, when you talk about Kenobi or when you talk about the Rings of Power, there's
reasons here that they could have that point of view. They're not very good reasons, but
there's at least reasons. For this though, I haven't seen this at all. It's like they're
trying to manufacture an outrage and like no one is biting. No one's saying anything
about this shit.
I will defend my dislike of Arrondir to the death.
And even you said that Joel's half black daughter didn't actually matter in the end.
Well, no, not because of their skin color. Like I don't hate Arrondir because he's Puerto
Rican. I hate Arrondir because he can't act.
Yeah, his acting is stiff. The thing is, if you get an actor, an actress, and they're
not the correct race of a character that they're representing, you can get away with it sometimes
if their performance is so stellar that, hey, they were the best one for the pick. It just
so happened they had the wrong skin.
It's why I actually really enjoyed Disa. Like she's probably one of the best characters
in the Rings of Power.
That's true. She was. Despite the fact that she wasn't accurate to the lore, she actually
did a stellar performance. And that's honestly all that really matters.
If they glued a fucking beard onto her, I would have no complaints about her.
Now that you've mentioned the dwarves, Naomi and I recently watched The Witcher Blood Origins,
which is awful. I don't know if it's even worth doing a video on, but it's so bad.
Maybe I'll do a video on it.
But like, I did one and it's just, it's my biggest takeaway. Like you could spend a lot
of time critiquing the storyline, the acting, the presentation, the costumes. There really
is no end. But my biggest complaint is that it manages to make mythical fantasy with a
high age elven faction, boring and mundane.
One thing I noticed is that that show didn't do bearded dwarf women either. And I'm like,
hold on a second. Wasn't there a bearded dwarf woman in the main Witcher show? I was
like, what? Why, why didn't you do it in this one? Netflix? What the fuck? But Naomi and
I saw this. We were like, oh, I'm surprised they actually did it because this is the,
this is the kind of thing Hollywood doesn't like to do, even though it would be body positive.
And then they just didn't do it in, in blood origin. So what the fuck? Why?
Was there, Oh God, see for a moment, I'm sitting here thinking to myself, like Dev must be
why there were no dwarves in that show. And then I remembered that all female dwarf character.
She's crazy. She was a dwarf. I fucking hated her so much. She, she put like her dead lover's
ashes into her mace and went around killing people. It's so dumb. Cause the worst part
is like, Oh, you killed my, my, um, lesbian lover. We didn't see this. We haven't been
to like literally the only source we have for this is the clearly insane dwarven. And
this thing too, I didn't even register her as a dwarf because she doesn't look like one.
She looks like a little person. And since that is all she looks like, they have made
no effort to make her look stocky or dwarven in the slightest. And so all I saw was a modern
day little person. It was just Peter Dichlage to me.
What did they call dwarves too? Anyway? Uh, God, okay. Okay. Devil politically correct.
This word for midgets. Yeah. Arches. My mouth is open there. Cause I can't believe our just
being PC. I was like, whoa, that's what is the politically correct term for midgets. Let's
see a height challenged people. Oh Jesus. Yeah. When people, uh, if you must refer to
someone by their condition, uh, dwarf dwarfism and little person or LP are acceptable LP.
Yeah. Oh my God. We'll be a little, cause they're a little personal P and midget is
considered derogatory. So there you go. And we got way the fuck off topic. My point was
just to say, I think we've wandered slightly off topic here. Yeah. Yeah. My point was just
to point out that unlike every other thing that we've seen in, in let's say the past
year, um, this is the one time where the race swapping didn't seem political, didn't seem
to matter, didn't impact anything. And the show is pretty good and yet they're still
trying to make it into a political issue because that's what get clicks. Well, of course. Um,
I actually, I saw an interesting article on this. I don't know if I saved it cause it
was such a pathetic nothing burger. I think, I don't remember where it was, but it wasn't
one of the usual baiting sites, right? Yep. And it was trying so hard to find something
wrong with the last of us and you could tell they were fishing and I'm kind of sitting
here like, why? You're, you're literally just trying to be the contrarian in the room now
and Hey, I know I get accused of this. Like we get accused. It's like you only watch it
cause it's bad. I'd prefer it if Obiwan was good. I wanted Obiwan to be good, but it wasn't.
It's fair. A lot of the comments in the last video have been saying like, why are arch
and Kib so negative? I'm so happy that Lilith gives them the Smackdown every now and then
with some positivity. And I'm like, well guys, a little, it's not here today. It's not going
to happen. I think, I think like, I think all three of us, not so much Lilith, but all
three of us, we were like in nitpicky mode in the last, in the last video trying to find
the flaws. We were just used to it at this point now, but now I'm like, Oh, it might
actually be good. Well, yeah. I mean, how we did it last time is we were actually looking
at it. We were all going into it with a very negative mindset because to be honest, we've
had a string of terrible shows and it's, it's been exhaustive and it really sort of drains
you. It was actually refreshing that the previous episode, cause we even said in the previous
episode that it was actually not that bad. Listen to what we say, but that's my favorite
part. See, I think like of TV that I've seen in the past five years or so, aside from this,
the only thing that's been legitimately good is, uh, the boys is pretty good. Invincible
was pretty good. Star Wars, Andor was pretty good. And this, and like everything else has
just been raw fucking sewage. I was not fond of Andor. I haven't seen it. So I can't count
it. It's, it's not bad. It's actually not bad. I was pleasantly surprised at how, how,
you know, not amazing, but serviceable that it was the best parts of Andor would be so
much better if Andor just wasn't there. That's my primary complaint. Like I would love to
watch a TV show that goes more into depth about the, the, uh, the empire. Like the whole
prison thing was really interesting. How they run a prison, the whole security detail and
all of that shit. That was really interesting. Uh, even Mon Mothma, although she was the
most modern current year of all the characters was all right and had some cool stuff. And
I loved, uh, uh, uh, Peter, Peter Lindquist, the, the, the smuggler guy, you know, the
guy who was starting the resistance. That was cool shit. I just wish Andor wasn't there.
Well, don't worry. He dies later. It's okay. I know that. And that was the reason why I
didn't care. Cause I'm like, I know he can't die. He's the, he's the one person in this
show I know has the hand of God watching over him. He said he just died, didn't he? No,
he dies in the future. Cause this is a prequel. Oh, this is dumb. See, there's only six star
wars movies. You guys, you guys need to program here. Okay. Should we, now that we've spoken
about every other TV show under the sun, do you want to watch the last of us? If you want
to watch the last of us, I actually kind of do. I'm very curious as to how they're going
to handle the next sequence. Oh, what happens next? I don't remember in the game. That doesn't
matter. I guess. You know, yeah, that's not spoil it. Cause arch, you're still ignorant
of all this, right? This is all still new to you. He hasn't played the last of us since
we last talked. I don't think let's, uh, let's roll then. Here we go. I'm pressing play.
Oh, there was no intro sequence this time with like some flashback or something. I'm
sure we'll get to it now. Bangkok 2022. Don't get the parasites into the river parasites
into your hand, man. That's cheating. You're almost supposed to go one there. Now you're
definitely cheating. Well, you put a little pile of rocks there. You think that's still
there after the filming of this, you just go out there and see it, kick it over. Well,
there's I know for a fact, there's an abandoned subway station in Toronto. You can go down,
you can like sneak down there and just see all the shit that various movie crews left
behind because Hollywood goes up there to shoot like subway scenes all the time. Nice.
But that's kind of cool. Yeah, it is. What about the sandwich? Yeah. I was about to say,
what about the rest of the chicken sandwich? It didn't eat. It might've been a few days.
In the wilderness now. Yeah. So we don't know how long it's been. Don't blame me for something
that isn't my fault. Wow. You are the least lovable forehead I've ever met. You can still
land a plane there though. How did you guys like the thumbnail for the last video? I loved
it. It could have like, you could have enhanced the forehead a little further. I only barely
enhanced it. I could, it was how, how little I needed to do was okay. Like I want you to set
like a plane on it next time that's landed. Like as a man who has a sizable forehead himself,
that thing is enormous. He's like, yeah, I can feel this power from here. People are the real
monsters, sir. Wouldn't you not want to know if that was the case? Kibs, they changed something.
I knew about this. Oh, they're driving weren't they? No, Bill and Frank. One of them was supposed
to be dead, but that he's alive in this one. So we're going to see both of them. Oh, okay. No,
I missed two. It happens more often than you think. Did you suck at shooting or like in general? Damn.
Okay. That's kind of cute. I got to grab some stuff. I stashed. Why do you have stuff fast here?
You ask a lot of goddamn questions. So he doesn't have to carry it the next time. He hasn't been out
here in a year though. It might not be here. Entirely possible scavengers came by, but how
many scavengers are there and how many scavengers are going to check out a random store? I'm
presumably she hid it. Mortal Kombat 2. These lines would be better if it wasn't delivered by
her. Like I cannot help, but she's just not the right character for this. I actually don't mind
the snark between them. Oh no, I like the snark. I just don't like her delivery of it. Because the
snark is definitely the thing that really did make the interactions of the video game. Made them
endearing. Now I'd be scared personally. Don't fall in. Yeah, don't check with your flashlight
down there first or anything. Oh, thank you. I expect something. Yeah, I wouldn't do that. I'm
sorry. I'm a fucking pussy. I ain't going down for a minute. This is all new, isn't it? Where's
the jump scare? I'm expecting it. It's too tense. It's gonna be here. Ah, she will reach for it.
Don't do this to me, Cho. I don't like jump scares. It's gonna happen, Kibbs.
There it is. It wasn't gonna be a jump scare? They were actually gonna be building like...
Oh, he's sad. He's like, help, I'm stuck. Oh no. Now I'm surprised that he's not dead,
because these aren't like zombies, you know? They're not dead that have been reanimated.
They're still living things. Surely being crushed for this long would kill you. It might have
happened recently. I mean, it had to have, because he hasn't fully turned, his eyes aren't fully
covered. I just want to see you like start picking pieces of the mushroom off her. Jesus, what are you
doing? That's pretty gross. Now, don't be a fucking monster. Like, just put them down.
Yeah, actually, I don't mind that, because she's curious. Like, okay, what's actually inside of
you, etc. It's like, wow, I let my hyper important cargo that I killed my fucking girlfriend for just
kind of wander away. I mean, to his knowledge, she was only in that other room. No, you think
he would have reacted to the clank sound, or the dragging sound, or the thumping sound.
That gun's way too big for her. This is kind of stupid, though. Unless he's coming back for that
thing fairly soon, that's not going to be fireable by the time he gets back. Yep, his plan is to
return. That plane is remarkably intact, considering what happened to it. And how it landed, too.
Pilot didn't do too bad. There probably was survivors. So, the tainted food all hits the
store shelves around the same time Thursday. People bought it, ate some Thursday night or
Friday morning. The day goes on. They started to get sick. Afternoon, evening, they got worse.
I think this is all new. Then they started biting. Yeah, this is not a very good explanation,
because food goes through a whole fucking hell of a lot of sterilization procedures and shit.
Like, you wouldn't just get fungus in there on a national scale. Not only national, because of
different plants around the world, but it would only be a local area that would be actually
affected. And it would be soon. Flower Made in America isn't really flown to, like, everywhere.
This would have to hit, like, every single source of a food supply and then be distributed across
the globe. At the same time. Yeah, I know. Like, some grain reaches certain bakeries before other
bakeries. They bake the food a day or a few days earlier. Hey, listen, this show turns out to be
pretty basic. It's anti-globalist, anti-supply chain. Anti-government, too. Again, the only
real complaint I have about this show so far is the whole change to the mushrooms is just a bad
change. This is another thing, too. I don't know if this was in the game, but I don't think that
would happen because it's going to be very difficult to get soldiers to cold-heartedly
gun down civilians because there wasn't room at the fucking hospital. Yes, getting a soldier to
start gunning down civilians, especially these civilians are fellow countrymen, is not easy.
Some people easily will do it. It's like your families. Here's the flashback. Yeah.
The thing is, that's the thing. Soldiers aren't mindless fucking
trolls. This is Hollywood we're talking about here, aren't you?
Hollywood is kind of anti-army, usually. Hollywood thinks that the military and the
police are just these crypto-fascists waiting for orders from whoever happens to hold the
reins of power. And they'll gun down whoever the fuck... Oh, yeah, so Bill and Frank,
they were like the libertarians, eh? Yeah. Yeah, Bill... I think it was Bill who was the
hardcore libertarian who was just like, I've been waiting for so fucking long for the world
to collapse so I can live out here in peace. But he didn't live in a forest, he lived in a suburb.
He's a base man. What a bossin.
He's a collector. That's a selection. Yep. I like he's got Waterloo, the great weasel of lies down
there. Oh my god, look, he put on a gas mask. How hard was it for him? Now that's an actor I
respect already. Look at that. I think I know who this guy is, so I get recognized his voice.
In fact, he's willing to wear a gas mask. This fucking guy.
I don't think I would have chosen the shotgun to go out hunting the feds, but... Basically,
the feds came through, evacuated everyone, and if you couldn't go, they killed you. He smiled. Oh,
it is? It's the fucking guy from... Oh god, what's that show? Oh fuck, I can't remember.
I'm actually glad they picked him, though. He's gonna go fishing.
Might as well. Might as well.
This must be heaven for him. I mean, the power's still on, so you might as well...
Yep, it's gonna be off soon. Yeah. That was fast. That was fast,
unironically. Only lasted a day. All my commenters were saying that the feds couldn't shut off their
gas stoves. Yes, they fucking could. He had to turn it back on. I like this scene a lot.
The doomsday prepper gets what he wants. Yep. There's gonna be some traps.
I actually really appreciate these flashback scenes when it's like this.
Showing us the characters before. I didn't appreciate the previous ones,
but this one's nice. The previous one was bad, but this one... He's growing veggies.
He's got chickens. Yeah, man. He's gonna be living a good life. Yeah. I want to point out that
everyone that's in the federal camps are starving to death right now, or having food shortages.
This guy's living the time of his life. It's gonna get a little lonely, though.
No, he turned back on the electricity, or is that the generator? What did he do at the gas plant?
He turned back on the natural gas to the city. You would have thought that this guy like this
would have an independent gas supply, like, you know, the gas canisters in the stove.
But here comes a zombie.
The show is growing on me more. Oh, he's like turned the suburb into a...
He's like built a gate and all this shit. Damn. Yep. Don't tread on me.
Oh, my God. I think he has a Windows XP computer.
Looks like it. Well, if you don't want your shit to crash.
I mean, I just like the attention to detail. That's great. Baltimore QZ. It's gone.
Damn. You're hurt. How did he fall into the hole?
He was down. He camouflaged it with a fucking chicken net. That thing would be hard to see.
He's how the hell did he get one of the federal scanners?
He probably just killed some of them while they were out.
They might have left him in some areas.
And every bum you talk to about it is going to show up here looking for a free lunch.
And this is not an Arby's.
Free lunch was a restaurant.
I mean, after four years, the isolation is bound to be getting at him.
Yeah. In fact, I'm kind of shocked that he hasn't gone literally insane yet.
I just noticed that this guy is Ron Swanson. Jesus.
Yes. That's why I'm so glad they got him. He played Ron Swanson.
It's like the same character.
Yep. This is a stellar pick, by the way.
Well, I wish you were hot blonde, but I guess you'll have to do.
What? What just happened?
I'm just looking around and he's suspicious.
He's so happy.
It's like, yeah, that is the correct response, though,
considering what he's probably been so used to is.
You're welcome.
Oh, this is a heartwarming scene, you know.
It is so I guess I'll be going on.
This is you.
He's reading them like a book.
Yeah. Oh, my God.
It's my favorite.
He's like, I'm a musician. I'm valuable.
I can raise morale.
It's been a little bit. Give me a break.
Oh, sure. How long since that piano was?
Oh, no, they're going to get tangled.
So he's going to be alive now.
Yeah, because in the original game, he was dead.
And that's why it was super abrasive, if I'm right, or was it drunk?
I can't remember something like a weird or about him because he was gone.
So, wait, Arch, how how did your gaydar go off on this?
Quite a while ago, honestly.
No, it's it's obvious.
Even if you don't know, this was charged for quite a while now.
So it wasn't spoiled for you?
No, because for me, it's like I was sitting there thinking like,
this is probably going to be the gay scene.
See? Well, this isn't anything new because this is how it was in the original game.
So it's not always a thing.
But this is more like an origin story to how I will say it was a little bit forced.
Like this was I don't know, like I didn't mind this.
This is actually decent because they're in the apocalypse.
Like the guy's been lonely for four years.
They're they're both nervous.
But this guy, the guy on the bed, he comes across as a little bit too seductory.
You have the other guy.
The other guy's doing a better job.
It doesn't like actually, I think this guy is doing a better job because he's.
I like him a lot as an actor.
Because they're the guy on the bed.
He comes across as way too suave for this.
Like, wait, no, I don't want a sex scene, though.
Like the romance is fine.
No, Kim's got to watch it.
No, it feels a pinch forced.
I feel like instead of a scene, this should be their relationship after a week
or a month or two.
But I guess time constraints.
So, man, see, I like everything except for like, I don't like I don't need to watch.
I have sex for lunches.
That's fair, even great ones.
Come on, that was at least a dinner.
It's a bit cheap.
I didn't really pick up on anything gay until the piano.
Even though I knew that they were gay because the game.
But like, still, I had pent up on the gay around the shower scene.
Oh, the shower scene, the shower scene, because he acted very giddy, like nervous around it.
Like he was in the shower.
He was like, Oh, my God, you're in the shower.
Yeah, oh, come on.
Hey, would you stop?
I like that.
It wasn't actually just a sex scene noise.
You live in a psycho bunker where 9-11 was an inside job and the government are all Nazis.
The government are all Nazis.
OK, hold on a second.
I'll pause there for a second.
I need to tweet.
That's brilliant.
I love it.
Oh, man, this might be my favorite episode yet.
Yeah, this is pretty good.
You know, it's actually kind of refreshing.
And you know what?
For an HBO show, I was worried they were going to go the gross path where it's like,
pep.
And I was like, oh, but they actually just like they cut to black.
They cut or they did not cut back.
They cut the screen before anything started.
And that's good, because the important part about the show is you to tell the story
and narrative elements and the relationships between the two characters.
You don't need to focus on the non-essentials.
The flat flaps the groups.
You have it, kids, you're out here getting your cheeks plapped all the time.
Listen, that's for money.
That's a different again.
this it was a little bit too obvious in my opinion because the other guy came across as overtly
sexual quite early on and he he comes across as way too much of a seductress i don't see it at all
i mean it's just me i like bill zach what the fuck's his name he's he's fucking stellar i i
think it's absolutely hilarious how bill does the whole 9 11 truth of the government are all nazis
and it turns out he was right but there's like a weird left right overlap here
where you have like the libertarians who sometimes say the exact same thing as the socialists
about government well in this universe the the government basically was too
too super controlling didn't relinquish power are you are you pissing there kibbs jesus
oh sorry i was pouring myself some tea oh okay listen your mic's all fixed now your mic's fixed
we can hear that at this point oh damn that picked that up yeah i was pouring myself some more tea
i wasn't peeing into the cup i swear
but uh yeah i actually think that's pretty cool also they chose the best actor to play bill
yeah they did they should have done like he meets him he picks him up and they kind of like okay
you can say you can stay the night and then like three days later then you do the piano scene or
something yeah i would have liked this to be a little bit less starstruck romance but i'm gayer
than you fixing up some of the shops yes bill is the more masculine ones are we hosting formal
garden parties now no there might be but we are gonna have friends excuse me he wants to build a
town yep he wants to build the community i've actually been talking to a nice woman on the radio
you what that's not gonna be fucking happy
right this is that that is actually extraordinarily stupid okay we have all of these resources here
uh would you like to uh come on over and sample some of them i'm the same way this is how they
met i'm not schizophrenic he's gonna pull out the gun he has under the table which i get by the way
how nice this is to have a civilized meal in such a beautiful place
he doesn't oh that's disappointing i mean that's way more fun we don't end up working together
they made both of them look a lot younger working together
the actors and actresses i mean like they are younger in the in the story but like
they really de-age them nicely with makeup or age them up with makeup in the present whatever
i want to show you something not inside frank frank
bill's mad yep
i understand i still want him to be holding a gun under the table he'll come at night quiet and armed
that is true i mean this place screams easy pickings
yeah you need more people here you need a little town not just the two of you
more manpower would be useful for defense yeah those traps in that fence is not going
to be an obstacle to people with tools well organized hungry looking for resources
um well they put a bunch of fucking cars he's fortified a bit like i can't
just one more loop around i got something to show you huh not that
oh
he got excited
it's radishes it looks like strawberries
a little one a little one
i expected it to be more pissed about that and yeah they were strawberries you thought
they were radishes it's close to these strawberry bushes yummy strawberry they're very tiny
strawberry not natural strawberries by the way those are modern day bio-engineered berries yeah
chunky at my uh girlfriend's childhood home they have strawberry bushes in the back and
they're much bigger bushes with much smaller berries yes those are modern day strawberries
this episode has actually been pretty good at building these two characters up yep
so
yeah no this is actually probably the single best gay romance i think i've ever seen
i'm quite enjoying this
a rain catcher uh-oh stormy night that means shit's about to go down boys prepare for some
tragedy they're ready okay that's more than a little stereotypical but
flame throwers yes i was about to say like holy fuck hey you gotta wake up dude it's time
oh shit
he's just taking him out yep bill's already out there
he's going to help yep the woman has armed herself with a ppk and it's going to come help
dude just stay in the house
he's just in the middle of the fucking street
get inside he's gonna yeah i was about to say he's gonna get him killed
we gotta get you inside no no to be fair it was bloody retarded for him to stand in the
middle of the street fucking illuminated by the fire okay i think it's time for the bandits to
call it quits that's a lot of casualties yep he'll take care of you
you lied to me dev i lied to you
he died
oh definitely looks like he died
yeah there's no way because bill's the one that survives out of the two in the game
oh thank god there's no wheelchair now oh damn they're a little old oh no the other one's in a
wheelchair okay oh no uh so you just kind of skipped over the whole recovery period he's just
he's he's fine now bill's the one recovered the other guys in the wheelchair dead not good
i mean 10 years you can recover in 10 years yeah but i i would have liked to seen it rather than
just like yeah he was fine damn they did a better job of aging these guys up than the obi-wan show
did aging anakin down yeah did you see that somebody used a snapchat filter and did a better
job yeah that was sad so he must be ill or something
yeah that looks like some sort of
what is it where joe biden can't draw a clock what's that called again
he's having a hard time eating yeah yeah i i don't necessarily think this is illness i think this is
old because that's a pretty good painting everything is it i know he's a prepper but
he should have spent the past 20 years building a little town rather than just living like this you
know if they had a community that would probably would have made them stronger in the end but yeah
yep now they're gonna die alone sad and childless i should have taken a little child orphan that
wandered by the fence that didn't blow up yeah that didn't get the shotgun or something like
oh look this one's alive i want to keep it i want to keep a little suicide on top at all just to
make it extra sad what if what if someone he shows up there wasn't anything to cure this before the
world fell apart oh this is cancer oh he's terminal you'll wear what i ask
who will get married it's time for drag queen story hour you cook a delicious dinner
and then i'm going to take all of these
he pranted flowers
where did they get the paint from they could probably make it also entirely popularly it
was dried paint and all they do is moisturize it home depot traded for it anything
in the eyes of god you're still degenerates
damn it's true though yeah it's true though i mean marriage is more of a christian thing anyways
i know filthy christian i'm a heathen i am when it suits me fair enough rabbits like their first
meeting i guess nice touch a lot of this is unique to the show they didn't go into nearly
as much detail yeah now the problem with crushing pills and your alcohol is that it's gonna taste
like ass afterwards yeah that's why you should just be a man and gulp them down immediately
well now they're gonna do it here comes the meal first
okay i gotta point out they've still got a wine left after like 20 30 years he must have had
quite the fucking stock well also the wine store remember yeah true but even a wine store there's
yeah true but even a wine store there's a limit to how much wine is in that store
i don't think they're drinking wine every day probably only special occasions you know
savoring it yeah that's gonna taste fucking awful you barely stirred it
like the spoon my wine is gonna taste awful
oh damn that would be so hard to do you guys better get in bed quick might be fast acting
sleeping meds it should take a while
but from an objective point of view
it's incredibly romantic damn yeah that's how you know she's not a woman
because otherwise she'd be mad right now she'd be menstruating violently
and now will joel and uh forehead come about and find them dead in their each other's arms in bed
so you're telling me dev lied extra hard they both died anyways well uh i did
now this is actually very very different i don't know if you recall kibbs but in the game
if you found all the logs um these two had a fight frank had run away from bill and died
somewhere out there and then you bring the news back to bill and bill is pissed about it
and he but also frank left a note basically saying you fucking destroyed my life i hate
you you ruined everything i'm glad to be free of you it's like it's jesus it's it's not a happy
ending i think i prefer this one this this one is more sad that one was more like damn
damn they still have gas for their generator after all these years
like i'm sorry my gas will have turned to fucking jello by this time oh power so long stay there
this is probably the next day or something still here the generator too
like at least turn it off at the end
i feel like they've got better things to worry about i'm sorry frank i'm just gonna have to
go outside and turn off the generator real quick before we die in our each other's arms
now that's what i call a fire hazard yeah you guys should put the candles too
the lights are still on yeah this is literally the next day yeah there's a heavy pattern of dust
on the thing maybe not yeah because that or is there or is it just the sun on the table it's
kind of yeah i see i see i'm not sure no maybe not no i think it might actually be just the
next day or no it's no no it's definitely all the next day no it's been a little bit yeah
yeah yeah you can see it clearly there the dust it's been a couple weeks maybe
something like that oh god your wide googly eyes not enormous forehead triggers me so
hello
it's quite the forehead though you can admire its power
hey joel here's the keys to the castle
oh she went outside what the fuck
yeah joel you really should keep a closer eye on that no well there she is i was just
windowing fuck bev to whomever but probably joe i figured i fell under whomever
him was this so he's dead now no that's kind of lame i was gonna be accidentally survived
they poisoned each other yeah somebody fucked up the dosage and lived so they're dead 2023
the last gay person on earth passed away if you find this please do not come into the bedroom
we left the window open so the house wouldn't smell it will probably be a sight i'm guessing
you found this joel because anyone else would have been electrocuted or blown up by one of my traps
at least he's a sick bastard the bunker code is the same as the gate code but in reverse
anyway i never liked you but still it's like we're friends almost
and they kept a bit of that spirit in there if i never liked you
yeah a bit late sorry about that
hold that tongue
try to keep tris alive okay wish you told me that sooner yes not tris that was close
keep her safe joel definitely don't let her blow up in a building full of zombies
that'd be fucked up don't get weird ntr'd with a like tentacle kisser that's very descriptive
i know but i have a feeling yeah definitely don't let her choke on any fungus once you're not around
we're kind of weird
sick how did he know that
pablo is having an emotional moment
that cut on his cheek just never seems to grow does it grow grow close you mean heal
yeah it should be fading at some point shouldn't it i think it well
it takes a couple days yeah but it's been a couple of days
all right all right come here let me give you a cut and we'll see how it's like
no it's the bill mobile truck to be fair joel would be smart to try and start his own little
town out here holy shit this is still a fully stocked place this guy was a genius
a garand too grab some cans from over there nothing dented or swollen
dude no the winchester let it have the winchester
those aren't cans you stupid fucking
oh listen toilet paper toiletries are a pleasantry
five they haven't like the amount of shit this dude must have looted to last all these years
he had a whole town to loot yeah but even that's not that much shit
i'm taking a shower and then you're showering seriously damn
oh women fuck oh yeah just close it don't worry about that i mean the people here are dead but at
the same time god yeah i guess i'm the only one thinking about the future because i'm i'm really
like okay you know what they should do turn off everything when they leave like lock this place
up maybe it's useful in the future ah the woman gun
the night don't fuck i thought she was gonna look down the
the gun goes off in her backpack from throwing it around
and then an iconic rear view shot as they drive out the gate forgetting to turn off the generator
and all of the other valuable stuff there yep as the volume increases
yep and it stops being a radio broadcast it becomes actually a soundtrack
come on do the iconic rear view shot as they leave the game don't disappoint me baby
tv show whatever the fuck you are
i'm still gonna say bill died though i want to see how bill would talk to people
oh i'll take it i'll take it from the open window
camera the last rancid shot of the fucking desiccated skeletons
that's a little unnecessary don't do that
i think i'm gonna love you tasteful just the way i like it wow that was a surprisingly tasteful
episode yeah i didn't go too far i will say it feels like a bit of a fucking waste but what do
you mean look at this little pessimistic poly there was there was no actual story progression here
pretty much it was more of a thing for the uh people who played the video games to appreciate
these characters it also sets up that in this world despite all the tragedies despite all the
hardships and all the horrors that there were people that still were able to have find happiness
in life well it's not just that it is that but it's also the fact that if they were gonna include
like just these levels from the game they had to they had to flesh them out right because i don't
know if you recall the area around bill's place kibbs but there was a bunch of just like fetch
quests and you're going through like through a suburb and you're just finding stuff for bill
and he's like listen i'll help you out but you gotta do something for me go find this and it's
like it's it's video gamey right so they had if they're gonna put him in and put his story in
they had to do something different with it yep instead of it being a fetch quest which honestly
is a better way to wrap up his section of the thing and for people who played the video game
it actually adds quite a bit because it adds a lot more insight based on the notes about you know his
life that changed the more dark ending where frank just sort of fucks off and dies yeah
they changed the part where uh yeah they're actually estranged lovers and
frank dies and bill just cries about it in his house as you drive away
once upon a time i had somebody that i cared about
partner somebody i had to look after
and in this world that sort of shit's good for one thing getting you killed so you know what it
did why isn't the fuck up and i realized it's got to be just me bill today it ain't like that
it's bullshit it is just like that jesus
what do you know this guy or something
frank who the hell's frank he was my partner
he's the only idiot that would wear a shirt like that
he's got bites here and
here
i reckon he didn't want to turn so yeah i guess not
well fuck him that's my battery that fucking asshole jesus that's more of my stuff
so what you just just gonna steal my shit and run off is that it frank bill i uh
i found this in there and i uh i figured you should have it
and that's how you feel well fuck you too frank
fucking idiot you ready to go
you think well it's a bit more awkward but yes that's true it was a bit more tasteful and they
did it very tasteful too like when it came to the sex scenes they didn't they didn't make it weird
like a lot of hbo shows do and they also didn't do that thing where they could show the window
and show the corpses there be like look it's gritty like okay thank you kind of sour the
moment they understood that uh it had a very pleasant feel the whole episode
now what's the next part of the game kibbs you recall uh my memory's all screwed up i'm gonna
play last of us one like once and the problem is every time i'm thinking about the last of us i
keep i can't unsee the last of us part two sections i also keep mixing up with like the
early storylines of the walking dead because it's very similar the next bit is where they get
ambushed in pittsburgh remember that kibbs that there's that famous scene yeah he's like
he's not even injured and just like runs him over that's gonna that's gonna be great okay so i know
where we are in the plot now okay i'm still just not at all hooked into this show if anything if
there is any weakness to this show it is that for somebody who like me who doesn't have nostalgia
goggles for the show i'm not i'm just not interested well this was a this was a nice
gay romance and it's one of the most uh tasteful ones i think i've ever seen
but i was like i don't know these people it's it's more of a show written for what feels like
the people who played the video game and honestly yeah i'll take that i'll take that over what we
got with the halo show where it was meant for the general audience and not the halo fans
because that was the biggest fucking thing with the halo tv show that made it so bad
it had nothing to do with halo it had halo characters and their names thrown around
but miranda keys captain keys all these people they none of them were at all their characters
they were just skin suits here these characters feel much more alive and that i can appreciate
though i do understand arches point for the for the newcomer the person who's never played last
of us and whatnot like it's gonna come across as like hey like why did we have a huge background
story for some family when you could have done this differently because for from arches point
of view what would have been probably better for the newcomer would actually be taking use of
visual storytelling entering the room seeing the dust gathered seeing the pictures on the wall you
can disseminate you know the relationship of these two characters that are dead and they could it
would have been a much shorter and smaller sequence but you could have done it in a
different way i suppose to make it more approachable for newcomers but at the same
time it's a huge section of the game and it's really hard to just walk around it it kind of
had to be touched up on it does feel like this was made specifically for the fans at this point
because they spent so much time on a character that doesn't matter in terms of the actual story
but matters if you played the game it's better than the reverse fan service is better than
ignoring the fans yes that is absolutely correct and again it's still so far has actually proven
to be one of the the better video game adaptations it still lacks in some areas like that the mold
retcon just feels very unnecessary in my opinion unnecessary pointless and just flat out worse
than the original because i don't know i just don't know why they did it because the the tendril
idea of stepping on the spores currently they did it because they wanted to stomp out the last
piece of the check who made it yeah and the thing is i did see at the beginning of the episode well
i did actually like this one quite a bit neil drachman is still executive producer i believe
like the problem with him is he is actively he's he's being a douche like the original girl who
the last of us like made her story about these characters and set it up and it kind of seems
like every time she's done something kind of cool or really interesting he actively is trying to
sabotage her work like in last of us part two with sabotaging ellie's character and basically
fucking her up and making her out to be a terrible person like that's just kind of bad so it feels
like the show is hindered by neil drachman uh in the background honestly if they just lost him
i think the show would probably be doing a lot better how how is it actually doing in terms of
people watching it and like like reviews and stuff what i can't it's actually doing very well it
actually grew its audience after episode one which is very unusual yep because word of mouth that
happened with revenge of the sith when people uh during its launch like people were like i don't
know last two movies are a bit special and people hey it's actually pretty good and then people
started to go see it i'm gonna look for it on uh good old rotten tomatoes tomatoes oh my god jeez
97 tomato meter and 96 audience score i don't know if it's that good maybe people just need
something that's like decent nowadays and they'll just throw they'll throw 90s at it in the modern
world the house of dragons is a masterpiece because it's not complete shit and that's
it's actually tragic because our our standards have lowered quite a bit because everything that's
been coming out our standards have polarized because all we know is garbage or gems that's
actually lowered actually technically i was right i think arch is a bit no you're dumb it's not no
no you're dumb it's not what it means at all our standards have lowered no no no no you're lowered
too you know well if they uh if they keep going with the plot i don't know how many episodes
they're going to be in the season eight episodes ten episodes i'm not sure but if they keep going
with the main plot i mean we're this is about a quarter of the way through the game so i guess
we'll have to see i'll just see how long it takes the value of this episode is going to be apparent
at the end of it because this was an entire episode dedicated to back characters if this
ends up leaving the plot feeling rushed at the end then it will not have been worth it
oh true like if we get to the end of this see this season and we find out that all like it
feels rushed or any way like missing something then that means that this episode actually will
have detracted from the primary plot which is very bad but that's going to have to be found
out later on in the show i guess if they wanted to make a more contemporary show what they could
have done is they could have had them stop at bill's and then bill's place gets overrun and
then bill has to leave with them that's what a normal zombie story would do and then if you
wanted flashback later to bill's life after he's become a character that you care about i mean
i think a normal zombie story would would make a story like that just because you have to have a
reason to care about bill but like like i said before i think the the show just assumes that
you played the game and so you already care about him yep so you want to know about bill and frank
for the newcomer if we didn't tell barge about bill and frank well you'd be like who what the
fuck like this whole sequence would make no sense yeah and we also primed him for that fact that
that's also something to take into consideration the whole episode was spent dealing with them so
for a newcomer who's never played this before or played the video game they'll be like what
what why are we on this weird side tangent with these two characters that's gonna come out left
field a little bit for them so that's the end of the of the video oh i guess we should probably
point out that uh in the middle of the of the recording love love showed up and was like what
the fuck time zones man that's how it is dev's planning don't lie dev it's not just dev's planning
listen listen no she had to work tonight if we had actually waited for a little if we wouldn't
be starting till about right now that would be way too late for you arch yes yeah so hopefully next
time she won't have to work nights and she'll be here next time hopefully hopefully i guess that's
it huh yes that's the end oh i thought you were gonna do like an outro thing well me saying
hopefully is the outro maybe i don't know oh i don't know if i don't know if you've noticed
but i usually just end my videos whenever i fucking end them i just drop them you lazy little
town see i feel like you should you know be like all right see you guys you know later or something
you're just like get out of here all right fine then kibbs here's the outro here it is i'll do
one just for you okay the one episode that you two aren't massively homophobic is the one episode
that Lilith can't make it i can't believe it ah we'll have to get back to our act then
i've never been afraid of gay people he's like i just hate them
