Brought to you by Keeps. Stay tuned till the end for more information.
Hey Meme Sauce, Emp here. Why are the Simpsons green?
The green Simpsons effect is a running gag on this channel where I take footage of the Simpsons and
hue shifted upwards approximately 44 degrees, transforming their familiar yellow into a somewhat
alien green. The joke began in a video from February 2016 in which I remixed a clip from
the episode Homer's Enemy. At the time, the Simpsons had just aired their 588th episode.
588 nanometers is the approximate wavelength of yellow light as seen by the human eye.
MDB is the internet's most popular film and television database and the place where people
from all around the world unite to rate everything a 7 out of 10. The Simpsons as a series has managed
to earn an 8.7 and a handful of its very best episodes have reached the fabled 9 category,
but out of nearly 700 total episodes and counting, just one sits definitively above all the rest.
The name of this episode is Homer's Enemy.
The Simpsons is the longest running primetime television series in the US and across three
decades of programming, no other episode is more provocative, polarizing, and profound.
It is the resounding conclusion to one of the greatest runs of any show ever. After this episode,
The Simpsons was never the same and come to think of it, neither were we. I've had to work hard every
day of my life and what do I have to show for it? And what do you have to show for your lifetime of
sloth and ignorance? Stay the hell away from me because from now on we're enemies.
It's impossible to appreciate the significance of Homer's Enemy without first understanding the
series that preceded it. The Simpsons is a show about many things, family, politics, religion,
but most importantly, The Simpsons is a show about America. There's a running gag in the series over
the specific location of The Simpsons' hometown. Springfield is one of the most common place names
in the US. You can find a town called Springfield in more than 30 states. So which of these
Springfields is home to TV's most iconic yellow family? The truth is it doesn't really matter what
part of the country The Simpsons call home. The series has intentionally kept clues about
Springfield's location inconsistent and contradictory. Springfield isn't in America as
much as it is America. The town represents an amalgamation of American culture, attitudes,
and institutions. It's a malleable template for the show to comment on society in the United States.
The true location of The Simpsons' home may forever remain an enigma,
but in a way, all of us live in Springfield.
Two hours away from Springfield, Oregon, a young Matt Groening is developing a passion for cartoons.
In 1972, he leaves his parents, Homer and Marge, to attend the progressive capital of the Pacific
Northwest, Evergreen State College. There, he would embark on the first steps in his journey
towards creating one of the most influential cultural contributions of the 20th century.
But before he could do that, Matt Groening had to enter hell.
Like many aspiring artists of the modern age, Matt Groening would spend much of his 20s languishing
away in California. While bouncing around between what he described as a series of lousy jobs,
Groening would document his frustrations in a self-titled comic book called Life in Hell.
The comic carried much of Groening's youthful cynicism and irreverence, and what started as
a set of photocopied drawings shared among friends quickly picked up steam throughout
LA's underground art scene. One day, Life in Hell would end up in the hands of television
producer James L. Brooks. Matt Groening may have started off California dreaming,
but his doodling was about to pay off big time.
This is FOX.
1987 would change the face of American television through the grand opening of the FOX network.
For nearly three decades, the big three networks had reigned supreme over the airwaves.
American television in the 80s was much like the culture that surrounded it.
Conservative, sanitized, and family-oriented,
primetime programming consisted mainly of sugary sitcoms with responsible and virtuous role models.
The big three networks at this time had one simple strategy, mass appeal. They strayed
away from programming that would risk alienating general audiences. Typically, this group included
children, parents, and the elderly. The FOX network had a different strategy in mind.
Their plan was to appeal to the other guys.
Generation X represented a group of Americans unlike any that came before them.
It was a generation who found themselves born into a very different America than the one afforded to
their parents. They grew up in a time when the president, America's most prestigious role model,
was forced to resign in shame after getting exposed as a corrupt scoundrel. They witnessed
the mighty and unbeatable U.S. military get humiliated through a fiasco in some part of
the world most of them couldn't even find on a map. By the time they reached adulthood,
they were met with a worst economy since the Great Depression, unthinkable environmental crises,
and the continued existential dread of nuclear annihilation. With all that said, it's not hard
to understand why many in Gen X had no choice but to view the world with ambivalence and apathy.
Television in the early 80s tried to maintain the illusion of America continuing to be the
shining city on a hill, but for those occupying lower ground, the realities of the country's flaws
were far too much to ignore. Fox became the first major network to specifically appeal to the Gen X
attitude of cynicism and irreverence. The very same themes featured in the works of Matt Groening.
In 1986, Groening got a call from James L. Brooks offering the opportunity of a lifetime.
The Fox network was looking for a cartoon segment to air on the debuting Tracy Ullman show.
Unwilling to give out the rights to life in hell, Groening conceived of a different premise,
a family based on himself, his parents, and his two younger sisters. The Simpsons entered the fray
among a long lineage of American television families, and soon, people would come to realize
that they were not at all like their predecessors. The Simpsons represented an honest portrayal of
dysfunction in the American household. Viewers were immediately drawn to the yellow family's
relatable drama, and the segment quickly became one of the most popular on Tracy Ullman.
By 1989, The Simpsons had become so popular that they were upgraded from segment to series,
and so began one of the most influential television programs in the history of American
entertainment. It's remarkable just how different The Simpsons was than anything else on television
at the time. It was edgy, subversive counterculture from an underground artist. The show was
experimental, avant-garde, and even postmodern at times. It was the first mainstream show to
repeatedly reference and parody other media, relying on the audience's own knowledge of
movies and TV for much of its humor. The show was free to determine its own creative direction
without network interference, a liberty that was virtually unheard of in 1989. Not to mention that
the series was animated, a genre that for the past two decades was exclusively associated with
children, toys, and breakfast cereal. The Simpsons broke so many molds that it's almost preposterous
to consider a show this brazen airing on network television in prime time. The series essentially
rebelled against all of mainstream television and ended up taking much of America with it.
Season one debuted to an audience of 30 million people, immediately cementing itself as Fox's
flagship series. The mischievous Bart Simpson became a cultural icon, one of the first
characters to truly appeal to the slacker mentality of the 90s. The character embodied
the overall spirit of the show, defiant, unapologetic, and anti-authority. The series was
simultaneously beloved and controversial. It was unafraid to challenge America's most revered
institutions. To make American families a lot more like the Waltons and a lot less like the Simpsons.
Hey, we're just like the Waltons. We're praying for an end to the depression too.
It's easy to imagine a TV show mocking the president now. It's all but cliche at this point,
but in 1992 it was almost unthinkable. Much to the chagrin of President Bush,
American TV families became much more like the Simpsons by the end of the decade.
These talking dinosaurs are more real than most real families on TV.
Eventually audiences ended up resonating more with the yellow cartoon family than many of the
others portrayed by real-life actors. The Simpsons didn't just challenge the status quo, it redefined
the status quo in its own image. And while it began its run as the anti-sitcom, the show would
eventually transform into something entirely different. Hello, I'm The Real Jims, some guy
who talks about The Simpsons on YouTube, and this is the history of The Simpsons Showrunners, seasons
one through seven. The first two seasons were run by a combination of Matt Groening, James L. Brooks,
and Sam Simon. Obviously these early years were very developmental, so all three of them brought
a skill set that would build the foundation of the show. Season one is well known for its rather
rough animation, although things improved significantly halfway through. The early years
were considerably more down to earth and character driven in terms of their plot and joke writing.
They loved doing fantasy sequences, but weren't about those fast-paced cutaway jokes or anything
yet. They kept things small, kept the focus on the family. However, Bart was the breakout star
and got a lot of the attention in these early years. Season two was more about the world
building, introducing tons of new characters and giving people like Skinner, Mr. Burns,
and Grandpa spotlights. These stories became slightly more topical and satirical,
and the characters watched more TV. You can see moments where things are getting a lot more wacky,
but by and large, these first two seasons were about telling these classy,
focused, character-driven stories with few gimmicks. For seasons three and four,
Al Jean and Mike Reese took over as showrunners. This was where the show became significantly more
referential and bouncy, so to speak. They weren't afraid to cut away to something else to do a quick
joke, or suddenly do these extremely elaborate homages. Maybe cut to the TV for some movie
parodies. We get more B-plots and converging storylines. There was a stronger Hollywood vibe
to this era. You'd get these big guest star extravaganzas like Homer at the Bat and Krusty
Gets Busted. Season three tried to keep one toe in the season two pond, take a more balanced
approach, whereas season four pushed the show in a more surreal direction. Although that might be
a symptom of more Homer-focused episodes. By season four, the balance between Homer and Bart
tilted much farther in Captain Wacky's direction. That being said, it never reached the point of
just being a meta-comedy. These punchy pop culture references were balanced by actual
character drama. It's not just a silly romp through Duff Gardens, it's also about Selma
wanting to have a baby, or that Lisa needs braces. Seasons three and four took these extremely
down-to-earth character storylines and told them in the most cuckoo bananas way possible.
Seasons five and six, helmed by new showrunner David Merkin, took the show in a bigger and
more high concept direction. I think big is the best descriptor of this era. You'd get Homer going
into space, Bart becoming famous, Springfield legalizing gambling, Lisa taking on the toy
industry, and that's just season five. Whereas season six concluded with Who Shot Mr. Burns,
and filled the rest of the season with mysteries, conspiracies, and life or death situations.
These seasons loved the big Springfield stories, loved finding excuses for the residents to devolve
into an angry mob. Their homage and parody game was still strong, sometimes evolving into full
length episode parodies. This was also the rise of screw the audience jokes, in which they
explicitly set up a fake punchline, and then do the exact opposite. The jokes became considerably
more subversive and sarcastic, constantly playing games with the audience. There's a higher sense
of self-awareness here. The audience has seen a lot of their tricks already, so they gotta
keep us guessing. Veteran writers Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein took over the show in seasons seven
and eight. Season seven took the subversiveness and meta humor of the previous year, and applied
it to the types of stories from the early years. There was more of an emphasis to bring things
back to the family, tell these emotional character stories like Mother Simpson and Home Sweet Home
Diddly Dum Doodly. But it wasn't just a throwback, they took a more experimental approach. Let's do
an extremely mundane and observational simulation of George Bush. Now let's do a bunch of short
sketches and pulp fiction homages. Season seven loved experimenting with its characters, putting
them in these strange high concept situations and deconstructing who they actually are.
By now, it should be clear that the show had evolved into something far beyond a simple riff
on the 80s sitcom. But this isn't even close to its final form. In season eight, they pushed things even
further. Season eight of The Simpsons would mark the final run of the Oakley and Weinstein era.
Many consider it the last hurrah of The Simpsons Golden Age. But before their departure, the
showrunners were about to take the series to strange new places. Season eight features the
most ambitious and experimental episodes that The Simpsons has ever produced. It pushed the concepts
and characters within the show to their absolute limit. The episodes were perhaps the most
self-aware and meta in the history of the series. They didn't stop at just breaking the fourth wall.
At times, they deconstructed the television industry at large, and on one occasion, The
Simpsons went so far as to deconstruct itself. It is the most ambitious and high concept episode of
The Simpsons' most ambitious and high concept season. At long last, we have arrived at Homer's
Enemy. It's an episode that presents The Simpsons in their natural habitat, but with a single
addition. Frank Grimes was created not just as a foil for Homer, but as a foil to the series itself.
In many other settings, he would be a hero, but in Springfield, USA, there is no greater antagonist.
Grimes is a prime example of a sympathetic villain. His work ethic is admirable and his
struggle is relatable. With Frank Grimes, The Simpsons succeeded in making an antagonist so
compelling that he made the audience start to resent the protagonist. Grimes presents a
scathing critique of Homer Simpson, the flagship character of the series.
Homer's Enemy confronts the most confounding issue of our time, inequity. The character of
Frank Grimes was conceived to resemble actor William H. Macy, who often portrayed downtrodden
working-class roles. Grimes would end up being voiced by longtime Simpsons cast member Hank
Azaria, who delivered what is in all likelihood his greatest performance of the series. Azaria
described the performance as the most emotional and meticulous he had ever attempted. His goal
was to portray Grimes with a seething passion underneath a totally calm exterior, such as the
temperament of many working-class people today. Everyone knows what it's like to be treated
unfairly. It's one of the most frustrating experiences imaginable. When we contribute
to society we do so under the expectation that our effort will be rewarded. This doctrine is
the essence of the American Dream. What does it mean to be American?
It's a question that will remain forever contested depending on who you ask,
but in my humble opinion, the spirit of the United States is rooted in ambition and discontent.
Ambition creates discontent. The desire to change the status quo drives people to demand something
greater. It's what drives people to give up everything they ever knew and cross an ocean.
It's what drives people to overthrow the most powerful monarchy in the world.
It's what drives people to venture into parts unknown in search of gold, oil and whatever else
that might make tomorrow a better day. The American frontier saw people risk everything
for the opportunity of prosperity and individual liberty. They operated under the simple ideal of
a man controlling his destiny through only his own passion and self-reliance.
Frank Grimes represents the classical American hero, the only problem being that he exists
in modern America, where the idyllic frontier has been all but replaced with catatonically
tapping away at a computer for 40 hours a week. In most aspects, the US is no longer the land
of opportunity as it was once regarded. Many Americans now experience disillusionment with
the American dream, believing that we are now subject to the same kind of tyrannical oligarchy
from which our forefathers originally fled. The only difference now is that we have run out of
oceans to cross. Frank Grimes not only witnesses his own efforts fail to improve his standing,
he witnesses Homer prosper from a lifetime of sloth and ignorance.
Homer's outcome reflects the American dream, but his actions reflect the antithesis.
The episode raises a serious question, one that potentially threatens our entire perception of the
series. If we believe in the simple principle that hard work deserves to be rewarded, then shouldn't
we resent Homer Simpson? Well, why do we like Homer Simpson? There's no denying that Homer is
a very flawed character. Simpsons writer John Schwartzwelder suggested that Homer may embody
all seven deadly sins. Many aspects of his character are quite unpleasant, if not downright
unflattering. At times, he is reckless, ignorant, impulsive, and over-emotional. He is the spitting
image of how people from other countries stereotype Americans. An overweight, lazy,
dim-witted consumer. You can call Homer many things, but one thing you can't call him is
pretentious. Homer Simpson is the real deal. He doesn't hide behind a sanctimonious persona.
The truth is that we like Homer because he represents all of us, whether we want to admit
it or not. In complete contrast to ambition and discontent, Homer embodies a totally opposite but
equally American ideal, laissez-faire. The attitude of letting the world around you run its own
course. Such is the essence of freedom and individual liberty. Only by relinquishing
control over others can we ensure our own agency to do as we please. Laissez-faire is most commonly
mentioned in economics as the key principle of capitalism, which, depending on who you ask,
is the cause of and solution to all of life's problems. Laissez-faire created Homer and it also
created Mr. Burns. Is true freedom even attainable if its unaltered state inevitably resurrects
tyranny? Pretty much every political belief system today exists to answer this question in
one way or another. Realizing that perpetual endlessness of political debate can easily
force us into a nihilistic outlook of society at large, but Homer Simpson may offer us a way out.
Something very zen about this episode, you know, it's Homer's
blind happiness, his ignorant bliss, that just gets him through, you know?
Despite his overwhelming flaws, Homer has managed to reach a state of modern day enlightenment.
His childlike ignorance has liberated him from the rat race and the cult of work.
He somehow exists in total harmony with the frustrations of 20th century life.
In a world where everything has become so nauseatingly complex,
Homer represents a return to simplicity. He goes to work, clocks in, and gets paid to do nothing.
He is essentially stealing from the most evil man in town and he doesn't even question it.
Homer, I don't use the word hero very often, but you are the greatest hero in American history.
If Grimes represents the classical American hero, then Homer may very well be the modern
American hero. Sometimes the best way to fight the system is not to rebel against the system,
but to exploit the system. Hey, you seem like a great guy, so I'll give you a little tip.
If you turn that security camera around, you can sleep and no one will ever know.
With a character like Homer, there's beauty and imperfection. Unlike an ideal father figure,
he doesn't always have all the right answers, but watching his misadventures provides us with
solace that for as much as we screw up, things can still wind up okay.
Not everyone can be like Homer. Not everyone should be like Grimes.
Society can only function with a good mix of both.
It's easy to feel sympathy for the plight of Frank Grimes, but at the end of the day,
Homer is not his enemy. Hating Homer is kind of like hating your dog. Sure, they may inconvenience
us, but that's just the price you pay for unconditional affection. With all the cruelty
in the modern world, it's about all you can ask for. At the end of the day, Homer has a heart of
gold, even if sometimes he has a hard time showing it. Where Grimes goes wrong is blaming Homer for
his own misfortune. Perhaps the best scene in the episode is Frank Grimes snapping at the sight of
the Simpsons' home. Realizing Homer's material wealth utterly destroys Grimes' outlook on life,
the sheer unfairness of the situation transforms his relationship with Homer from mild annoyance
to bitter hostility. Homer's enemy draws many parallels to Arthur Miller's death of a salesman,
one of the first high-profile works to truly question the ideals of the American dream.
Death of a Salesman's Willy Loman is a misfortunate, exhausted worker who measures his
life's worth through popularity and material wealth. He becomes so paralyzed by this idea
of success that he loses his grip on reality. Likewise is the story and fate of Frank Grimes,
who comes to resent Homer's popularity and material wealth. However, this perceived injustice
is ultimately an illusion stemming from Grimes' incongruent concept of success. Homer was never
wealthy because of his success, nor was he successful because of his wealth. Homer is where
he is because of the intrinsic value he places in the people and world around him. This theme is
accented by the B-plot of the episode, where Bart buys an abandoned factory that everyone else
thinks is worthless. If most of us bought a factory at auction, we would immediately become
consumed by thoughts of profit, value, maintenance, and renovation. When Bart buys a factory, the only
thing he thinks about is how he can use it as an extended playground. This premise is a microcosm
of how Homer is successful and Grimes is miserable. It is specifically referenced in the dinner scene
to punctuate this distinction. During his rant, Grimes doesn't care about who Bart is as a
person. He only bemoans the unfairness of his material possession. Contrast this response with
Homer reacting to Grimes' life story. I live in a single room above a bowling alley and below
another bowling alley. Wow. While Grimes complains about living between two bowling alleys,
Homer is impressed. I believe that referencing a bowling alley with this line was a deliberate
choice by the writers to remind the viewer of Homer's lost dream of working in a bowling alley,
a dream he chose to sacrifice for the good of his family.
Ultimately, status and material possessions do not determine our character. Our value as
individuals is dictated by how we act in our most challenging moments. When push comes to shove,
Homer chooses to be kind and forgiving, while Grimes chooses to be spiteful and vindictive.
I would die a happy man if I could prove to you that Homer Simpson has the intelligence of a
six-year-old. Frank Grimes' fatal flaw is spawned through his obsession with fairness. Unlike the
principle of freedom, fairness is not something that can be explicitly given or taken away.
It will always be fundamentally tied to randomness and chance. The sad reality is that life is
inherently unfair. There will always be someone more fortunate than you, but by that same token,
there will always be someone less fortunate than you. Tomorrow you could win the lottery and then
die from a lightning strike. Would that be fair? It's impossible to answer because both of those
events are entirely out of our control. They exist beyond the scope of our influence. Even in our
most systematic attempts to practice fairness, inequality always manages to slip through the
cracks. There is no such thing as an absolutely fair system. Someone will always be getting the
short end of the stick. By trying to sabotage and humiliate Homer according to what he thinks his
co-worker deserves, Frank Grimes is entering himself into an unwinnable battle. In the end,
his obsession with fairness ultimately drives him mad. The idea of rewarding a man as incompetent
as Homer Simpson is simply too much for him to bear. Homer's job as a safety inspector at the
nuclear power plant is one of the most iconic gags in the entire show. The premise of a buffoon being
responsible for preventing a reactor meltdown is as hilarious as it is dark. If you ask me,
however, the whole setup is a perfect metaphor for Homer's outlook towards the universe.
He exists in one of the most stressful environments possible, yet his only concerns rest
within his narrow slice of the world. Homer is destined to remain forever content, even if the
world melts down around him. There will never be an elegant, harmonious solution to all of
America's problems. A part of America will always be fighting, and another part will just sit back
and watch the fireworks. The engine of America is powered by turmoil. No matter how tough things
get, it just keeps on chugging ahead. The end of Homer's Enemy is one of the darkest moments of
the entire series. The audience is intended to laugh at Frank Grimes's epic meltdown,
but at the time, not everyone found it funny. When this came out, I really recall it made half the
audience very mad. The more recent generation loves this episode, but when it first came out,
a lot of people got very angry about it. Upon release, the episode stirred controversy among
the Simpsons faithful. The grisly ending polarized viewers who had actually grown attached to Homer's
Enemy. Frank Grimes was so persuasive that he successfully turned a part of the audience against
the face of the show. In just a single episode, the Simpsons introduced the most compelling
antagonist in the history of the series and then utterly dismantled him. They took the classical
American hero and lowered him in a casket among gregarious laughter. Looking back, one has to
wonder if the series was burying more than just Grimes at the end of this episode. The origin of
this episode was what if a guy seemingly from the real world had to come deal with Homer. The
original concept for the character of Frank Grimes was taking a normal hard-working man and placing
him in the satirical and often nonsensical cartoon town of Springfield. He was designed to be
categorically unlike any other character on the show. It's for this reason why many have since
labeled Grimes as one of the most unique characters in Simpsons history. Except, there is one other
character in the series lineage who does bear a striking resemblance to Grimes. A character who
on many occasions showed great envy, insecurity, and vindictiveness towards one of his peers.
The name of this character is Homer Simpson. You know, if you gave Ned Flanders a chance... Oh,
here we go again. Look, I don't care if Ned Flanders is the nicest guy in the world, he's a
jerk. In the beginning, Homer's enemy lived right next door to the Simpsons. Ned Flanders served the
role of Homer's original foil. He represented the idealized role model of traditional family sitcoms.
This era of the show featured a much more desperate and frustrated Homer, one who would go
through great lengths to try to measure up to the more wealthy and popular Flanders. Early plots of
the Simpsons were frequently driven by Homer's jealousy of Flanders' material possessions.
Beyond matters of wealth, Flanders highlighted Homer's inadequacies as a father. You were right
the first time! He's perfect! Perfect in every way! A major theme in the early seasons is Homer
learning to accept the imperfections of his family. The Simpsons may look dysfunctional
versus the picturesque and well-behaved Flanders, but that's okay, because the Simpsons don't have
to be the Flanders. This conflict effectively captured the original spirit of the show,
eventually culminating in the season 3 episode when Flanders failed. It's an episode that eerily
mirrors Homer's enemy, but with the roles reversed. Despite Flanders only showing Homer
hospitality and kindness, Homer still roots for his demise. For once, Homer actually gets his wish,
and only then does he realize that the ultimate triumph over his adversary hasn't made him any
more happy. Many fans of the show wonder what could have happened to the character of Frank
Grimes if he wasn't killed off after a single appearance. It turns out the answer may have
been hiding in plain sight all along.
Hey, you okay, Grimy?
I'm better than okay. I'm Homer Simpson!
Only by viewing Homer's Enemy through the totality of the series can we truly grasp the brilliance
of the episode. Homer's Enemy is not just a critique about the regression of the American
Dream, it is a testament to the progression of The Simpsons. When Homer encounters Frank Grimes,
he is essentially meeting an earlier version of himself. It could be said that the original vision
of The Simpsons was to confront the whimsical television landscape with a brutal dose of realism.
The sitcoms that I grew up with presented a sort of weird, zombified ideal of the American family,
and it didn't relate to anyone I knew in reality.
The show began with a series of grounded and unromantic stories designed to challenge
the establishment in place around them. What they never envisioned, however,
was becoming the establishment. By the late 90s, The Simpsons were larger than life.
They had become an American institution and a worldwide phenomenon.
The show had accomplished more than its creators could have possibly imagined.
The Simpsons always prided itself on being at the cutting edge of nuanced, subversive comedy.
They pioneered an entirely new genre of programming. Pioneers will always get a lot
of credit for whatever they discover. They take unthinkable risks at a time when the odds are
completely against their favor. However, every pioneer knows deep down that they will inevitably
be overtaken by their successors. After eight seasons and 175 episodes, The Simpsons were
running out of stories to tell. There comes a time in all of our lives when we want to go out
and change the world, to break free from the system. Eventually, though, life always catches
back up to us. Being like Frank Grimes is inherently unsustainable. Sometimes the only
option left is to be like Homer. Following the end of the eighth season, showrunners Bill Oakley
and Josh Weinstein departed to work on the ill-fated Mission Hill. Matt Groening was
all but checked out of The Simpsons at this point, focusing much of his attention on developing the
concept for his new series, Futurama. Starting with season nine, The Simpsons began what can
only be described as a long slow march to mediocrity. It's extraordinarily sad to still
see The Simpsons producing new episodes today. It's like watching a dominant athlete have all
their remarkable abilities stripped away through the march of time until they are no more special
than the rest of us. There's a reason why many all-time greats in pop culture also happen to die
young. We never get to witness them wither away into a shell of their former glory. The brilliance
of those first eight seasons now only amounts to a measly quarter of the show's entire lifespan.
The Simpsons has been on the air so long that YouTube videos complaining about the show's
decline have themselves become stale and cliche. What was once the epitome of media counterculture
is now owned by the epitome of the media establishment. Following Disney's acquisition
of Fox in 2019, The Simpsons featured in a series of uncanny animated bumpers welcoming their new
overlords. Considering the prior two decades of openly trashing the evil empire, it's hard to
believe that this was even the same show anymore. In all honesty, The Simpsons was never designed to
survive until the 21st century. The big media conglomerates just keep it around as a ceremonial
token to evoke nostalgia for better times. At this point, Homer Simpson has been relegated to a
figurehead akin to the likes of Mickey Mouse and the Queen of England. Like many other forms of
counterculture, The Simpsons ended up becoming the very thing they sought to destroy.
If I had a TV show, I'd run that supper into the ground.
Don't cry for me. I'm already dead.
The Simpsons may have fallen hard, but we only see it that way because its original
runs set the bar so high. Lots of people today have been amazed by The Simpsons'
remarkable ability to prophesize modern-day events in past episodes. The truth is that
for as wacky of a place Springfield is, it was entirely modeled off our reality.
As you know, we've inherited quite a budget crunch from President Trump.
America is still America, and certain patterns in history tend to repeat themselves. If anything,
The Simpsons predicting the future serves more as a testament to how tuned in the series was
to American culture at its peak. The satire of The Simpsons held up a mirror to our world.
It shouldn't be much of a surprise when some days we start mimicking the reflection.
It's unfortunate to consider how younger generations never had the opportunity to
experience The Simpsons at its creative and cultural peak. While the actual show has never
been less relevant, the spirit of the show has witnessed a rebirth through the rise of remix
culture on the internet. One could say that the fast-paced irreverent attitude of The Simpsons
perfectly foreshadowed interactions on the internet today. Much like a certain young
cartoonist from Oregon, a new generation of artists is now using The Simpsons as a springboard to break
into the cultural space. The life cycle of the show has now come full circle, going from parody
to parodied. So despite its descent into corporate mediocrity, it's at least comforting to realize
that The Simpsons is still contributing to culture in a meaningful way. One such contribution was
made by British underground street artist Banksy, whose brutally unflattering satirization of The
Simpsons was aired as part of a 2010 episode. Banksy once famously reflected on the concept
of the second death, when somebody speaks your name for the last time. It suggests that even
if we cease to exist in a physical sense, our legacy will continue to influence those who
follow us. Frank Grimes may have only lasted a single episode, but what he accomplished in those
few minutes of screen time was unforgettable. There comes a time for every long-running TV
series when they jump the shark. A moment when the creators realize that they have exhausted all of
their creative juices and have nowhere to go but down. So they release an episode so unabashedly
preposterous that it fundamentally undermines any immersion in the story, characters, and world
moving forward. With Homer's Enemy, The Simpsons jumped the shark, but in typical Simpsons fashion
they did so in the most brilliant and subversive way. They welcomed an age of mediocrity with the
show's final masterpiece. Homer's Enemy is a monument to a television empire at its absolute
peak. It pushes the original artistic vision of the series to its absolute conceptual limit.
In just 23 minutes of screen time, The Simpsons created something so intensely profound that we
still think about it more than 23 years later. After it aired, The Simpsons was never the same.
It didn't just change the show, it changed the way we looked at the show.
Homer's Enemy was an episode so high concept that it elevated the series from a source of
entertainment to a source of study. It entices the audience to dig deeper and think harder about the
show than they ever have before. Oftentimes the greatest art doesn't give us all the right answers,
it makes us ask the right questions.
The discussion continues. The great lengths we stray in search of our own interpretation of
Homer's Enemy gives us a wider appreciation of the series as a whole. A majority of Simpsons
episodes are not spectacular. Many of them are hard to even call entertaining, but we don't
remember the series for those episodes. When people think of The Simpsons, they think of an
incredible show. They think of a show that redefined comedy and satire. They think of a
show that pushed the boundaries of what was possible on television. They think of a show so
influential that every other show would eventually copy it in some way. The legacy of The Simpsons
has always been defined as a show that stood out from everything else around it. So to answer the
question, why are The Simpsons green, we may instead want to ask why The Simpsons are yellow.
So yellow skin, why? Because it looks like there's something wrong with your TV set.
Sometimes a small tweak in what we find familiar is all it takes to change our whole perspective.
The Simpsons made everyone stop to adjust their TV sets, but the picture within was never broken.
Everything else around it was. The Simpsons opened our eyes to the yellowness of the whole world.
After a while, we no longer questioned why The Simpsons were yellow, they simply were. It was
only then when for just one moment, the creators had nothing else to do but to make them green.
Homer's enemy is The Simpsons Magnum Opus, and there will never ever be another episode like it.
Hi, I'm Zlist YouTuber Rusty Cage. You may remember me from such videos as The Knife Game
Song and The Knife Game Song Part 2, but today I'm here to tell you about a revolutionary new product.
Until now, this was the only way to prevent baldness before it starts,
but that's all changed thanks to Keeps Hair Loss Prevention. Let's meet their spokesperson,
Dr. Spiral. Hello, Rusty. Hi, everybody. Hi, Dr. Spiral. Rusty, would you like a product that's up
to 90 percent effective at reducing and stopping the symptoms of hair loss? I sure would, but
wouldn't we have to pay those outrageous pharmacy prices for something the drug company probably
spit in? Not anymore, thanks to Keeps Hair Loss Prevention, the most affordable FDA-approved hair
loss product. Wow, you saved all that hair from a single dose of Keeps? That's right, and you can
visit an online doctor right now and get your prescription shipped right to your door. Visit
keeps.com for 50 percent off your first order. That's keps.com.
Song and The Knife Game
