Buffy is back, and that's a good thing.
AI will replace your financial advisor, and that's a good thing.
Christianity is a religion for losers, and that's a good thing.
America is not a Christian nation, and that's a good thing.
Most people are single, and that's a good thing.
You're contagious, and that's a good thing.
Government funds local news, and that's a good thing.
What the hell is it with absolutely terrible journalists
ending their article headlines with the phrase, and that's a good thing?
Does it stem from the journalistic class's intrinsic need to march in lockstep?
To act like the NPCs they actually are?
Is it virtue signaling?
Where journalists will write complete garbage meant to appeal to no actual reader,
but simply so they can post the article link in their private chats and email groups
in order to show their SJW peers their daily contribution to the culture war?
Or is it simply a ham-fisted extension of the media's desire
to control the thoughts and behaviors of the populace?
Will the articles and opinion pieces not only reveal the author's positions,
but inform the reader of what their opinion should be as well?
It's kind of like the SJWs on Twitter who say,
oof, or yikes, or problematic, or toxic, or let's unpack this.
Honorable mentions go to wow, just wow, maybe, just maybe, let that sink in,
and this, so much this.
It's too bad that Shitlord and Yasqueenslay have depreciated.
They were the ones that were the most fun to abuse.
Oh well, nothing good ever comes from somebody with pronouns in their bio, I always say.
But I think it's more than just journalists informing the plebs
of the correct opinion of the day, or virtue signaling to their peers.
I genuinely think it's the beginning of a type of newspeak.
I'm sure you all understand the reference, but just in case,
newspeak is the fictional language from 1984 where the fundamental goal of the language
is to delete thoughts by deleting ways of describing them.
The obvious example is the word ungood.
Because the word bad no longer exists, people have to use ungood to describe negative things.
Through newspeak, nuance in language is lost, and deeper knowledge becomes harder to understand.
And because of this, it becomes significantly easier to simply classify all degrees of
unapproved behavior under one singular negative label,
with no degrees of severity to distinguish them from each other.
This might sound familiar to you.
Consider that everybody from Hitler to Jordan Peterson to Milo Yiannopoulos
to Richard Spencer to Sargon of Akkad have all been called Nazis.
Horrifyingly enough, this method of thought control actually works in real life,
at least to a limited extent.
Consider the word Islamophobia.
Phobia denotes an irrational fear, but there's certainly rational reasons to fear Islam.
But if it's all just Islamophobia, then it's all just irrational.
No nuance is allowed.
Sometimes it's not about the crushing of nuance in order to fill the gaps between language.
Sometimes it's about the infantilizing of a language in order to remove meaning.
Consider verified Twitter SJWs who use the word
gross to describe almost everything they disapprove of.
There's no deeper meaning beyond that.
It's just gross, the way that a child finds something gross.
Is it gross because it has unpleasant physical qualities, like it's slimy or something?
Is it gross because they personally don't like the thing themselves?
Or is it gross because they don't like it,
and they want to associate their subjective dislike with objective physical qualities?
The next time you see a SJW on Twitter describe something with the word
gross, politely ask them what they mean by the term.
I bet you'll get a blocking in response.
If you think I'm off my rocker for characterizing these dumb journalist tropes as newspeak,
then finally consider this.
Why do you think that so many SJWs focus on language instead of real-world activism?
Aside from being too lazy to get off social media, of course.
Why do you think they want the use of personal pronouns to be required through government force?
Or for an ever-expanding definition of hate speech to be illegal in every jurisdiction
and a bannable offense from the entire internet?
Because they believe if you control the language, then you control the thought behind it.
And to some extent that's true.
If you have a shorthand label for an idea, it's a lot easier to explain that idea
than describing it fully every time you need to speak or write or think about it.
But what radicals fail to understand is that language naturally evolves.
It can't be socially engineered from the top down.
Just like culture or an economy or people's aptitudes can't be socially engineered from
the top down, though that certainly doesn't stop them from trying.
The tendency for journalists to say,
and that's a good thing in their articles shows you exactly what kind of people they are.
They're people who believe that through enough political force,
populations can be made to not only behave, but think in the way that they desire.
And that's a bad thing.
Heh.
