You know, despite the talk from all the globalists regarding how we're all one human species
and there should be no borders and we're all in this together etc etc, you can really
tell who actually believes that and who doesn't by looking at their coronavirus pandemic response.
Which nations are working together with others? Which are simply going it alone? Well the
results might surprise you, or maybe not.
Global rush for Trump-backed virus drug sparks India export ban. They're talking about
here I think hydroxychloroquine, which is a drug that if taken while you have the coronavirus
seems to at least somewhat reduce the symptoms sometimes. It's certainly not a miracle cure.
But as soon as this became known, suddenly India stopped exporting it. That's no big
deal though, hydroxychloroquine is actually pretty easy to get a hold of. The plants that
it comes from can basically be grown anywhere. But as you can see by the article, India banned
exports of a malaria drug backed by US President Donald Trump amid a run on supplies globally.
India is probably buying time to ensure its local needs are met first. And that actually
makes complete sense. It's better to help yourself before you help somebody else. Because
if you're incapacitated, you can't help anybody else.
In the States, people are stealing masks and other medical equipment from hospitals. This
was two months ago, so who knows if it's still happening now. But additionally, this
is also individual people, not the actions of a government. The article doesn't directly
confirm this, but the tone of it makes it sound like the people who are stealing from
hospitals are actually those doctors and nurses who are working there, probably stocking
up on their own personal supply from the hospital closets.
Of course, even though the media reported on this at the beginning of March, by the
end of March, after Trump had agreed with them that doctors and nurses were in fact
stealing PPE from the hospitals, the legacy media of course flip-flops. Trump could help
solve the mask problem and said he's making baseless attacks on New York nurses. Baseless?
Weren't you guys reporting that this was actually the case? French border guards impound trucks
filled with 130,000 facemasks bound for Britain for the NHS workers battling coronavirus.
After realizing what was on board, border guards in France held the truck there. Macron
has promised to requisition facemasks for the French crisis. I mean, presumably Britain
had fairly purchased those masks. It was their property and the French just took them.
It's okay though, according to the Global Times, which is China's English propaganda
outlet, China has returned the favor to the EU while American help is absent. And this
article is about how awesome the communist government of China is, sending all these
supplies to Europe. Of course, that was basically just a propaganda stunt, because almost all
of the actual medical supplies that are manufactured in China, but owned by American and European
firms are no longer leaving China, and those businesses have in fact been nationalized
by the Chinese. The world needs masks, China makes them but has been hoarding them. Yeah,
the American medical supply company 3M, they had millions of masks in China. China's
not letting those go. They might send over a couple of pallets of supplies to make themselves
look good on the world stage, but they're keeping everything now. Maybe the West should
move its manufacturing base out of a country that has no problem with just stealing everything
should the situation require it. Italy, one of the worst hit countries in Europe, has
been asking the EU for help, and has received nothing from them. So much for an ever-closer
union, I guess that's just completely abandoned as soon as a crisis comes along. So as you
can see, all of these places that want this globalism, that want money flowing between
countries, that want this privileged upper class of people who are predominantly socialist
leaning and who can jet set around the world having no actual ties to any one location,
who can fly into a community, destroy it for profit, act like they're still moral because
they virtue signal as social justice warriors, and then just fly away leaving the people
there to live in the rubble. All of that nonsense, all of that talk about how we are one human
race and how all cultures are equally beautiful and how everyone's way of life is valid,
all of that comes crashing down as soon as there's an actual emergency. For those people
who have survived solely on ideology and who have never actually experienced any real hardship,
their true feelings are laid bare when put under stress. It's a mad scramble, everyone
for themselves. But that's not everyone. A lot of people have been reacting completely
differently. Here's the story of a small business based out of Liverpool. These two
build custom 3D printers and sell them, and they've decided to use their tech to start
printing hundreds of face shields for coronavirus clinics. The crew over at the Canadian based
Linus Tech Tips YouTube channel, they've got about a dozen 3D printers, and they made
a video series on how they fired up their production to make face masks for local hospitals
in Vancouver, and how you could do the same if you also have a 3D printer. This guy mostly
talks about movies on his personal Twitter account. But his day job at a factory, they're
currently pivoting the factory to solely make surgical masks and other medical garments
in short supply. We can make two million masks a day, and check this out. Bureaucracy and
red tape are making this hard, but if anyone knows of any hospitals or facilities that
are in need of the following, please DM me. Surgical masks, face masks, surgical gowns,
coveralls, gloves, all phones for the coronavirus hotline are jammed up, as well as all number
numbers from Governor Cuomo's press conferences. If anyone has any direct contacts on how
to best supply our facilities, please let me know. It does not have to be within New
York. People keep saying it's the government that has to do something about the crisis.
But all of the raw production power that we need, that we have, comes from private industry.
And at least in some ways, the government just slows things down. Here's the CEO of
Razor, the company that makes computer mice and keyboards and stuff like that. So I haven't
had much sleep over the past couple of days to get this initiative up and running, but
I'm happy to be able to announce this on behalf of the team here at Razor.
With the worsening of the coronavirus situation, health authorities worldwide are facing an
extreme shortage of surgical masks used by the frontline healthcare staff in the battle
against the virus. Over the past few days, our designers and engineers have been working
twenty-four hour shifts to convert some of our existing manufacturing lines to produce
surgical masks that we can donate them to countries around the world. We intend to donate
up to one million masks to the health authorities of different countries globally. Elon Musk's
Tesla company has also stepped in to make ventilators and N95 face masks. And average
everyday people are joining in too. Folding at home is now more powerful than the world's
top seven supercomputers combined. Folding at home is an application you can download
and run on your computer. And what it does is it networks your computer to millions of
other computers running the application while you're not using it. Scientists have been
using everyone's computers via folding at home to study things for years now. But right
now the company running folding at home, they've decided to harness everyone's computers to
try and map out the protein sequences of the coronavirus. And so even if you can't do anything
yourself personally, if you have a computer that you're not using, you can literally just
run folding at home overnight and your CPU will automate some of the research that the
scientists are requesting. People are volunteering more than their computers. More than twenty-six
thousand joined the UK's land army to pick fruit and vegetables at farms across Britain as they
face a season without a workforce. Seven hundred and fifty thousand people also volunteered in
the UK to help the NHS. Twenty-seven thousand people signed up as volunteers to assist Canada
Health. Even ExxonMobil, not exactly a company I'd put at the top of my list for for ethical
companies, they've decided to also start making face masks. Trump's enlisted General Electric and
Phillips to make more ventilators using the Defence Production Act. I'm not fond of the
government telling private business what to what to manufacture, but apparently they're still
selling them at profit, so whatever. Basically though, where governments have begun to fail,
private citizens and corporations are actually picking up the slack. And it's also not been a
complete failure of government either. Pfizer, an American pharmaceutical company, has been
collaborating with German private businesses and is now beginning to test a possible coronavirus
vaccine in the United States. Trudeau sunk 1.1 billion dollars to fund coronavirus vaccine
development in Canada, tapping into both Canada's universities and private medical companies. And
we are seeing the results of that effort. McMaster University is developing a home-based
coronavirus test. It acts similar to a pregnancy test and would reveal results in 20 minutes.
Researchers at the University of Western Ontario are confident that their work on a coronavirus
vaccine will soon bear fruit. The Vancouver biotech company, Abcellera Biologics, has
discovered the antibodies for coronavirus treatment. The Quebec-based company, Medicago,
is close to testing their vaccine on humans as well. These are all schools and companies that
received those grants from Trudeau's government. And although I don't approve of many of the other
things Trudeau has done, this seems to have panned out just fine. There are multiple articles and
sources saying that the Americans, Canadians, French, and Germans, both their governments
and their private industries, are at least partially collaborating on their vaccine
efforts. I haven't seen any evidence that the British are in on it, but if they are,
I wouldn't be surprised. If they're not, I wonder what they're waiting for. Because you
don't have to be either a complete isolationist or a complete open borders fanatic. There is a
middle ground there. There is no reason that like-minded, free, democratic countries can't
work together on this problem. And there's also no reason why they shouldn't get their
own cases under control before offering help to anyone else. That is how responsible people react
in a crisis. They don't leap in foolishly because they might put themselves in harm's way and just
create another victim. Adding another body to the pile won't help anyone. But at the same time,
once say Canada is safe and things are relatively under control, why wouldn't we help others? Why
wouldn't we share our research? Why wouldn't we export at least some of our excess medical
equipment, assuming that we have any? That's what aid on the global stage should be. I'll help you,
but I'm keeping my eyes open. I'm handling my own affairs first. It's not this ideological,
ever-closer union, open borders, we're all the same nonsense. Because that's just a house made
out of tissue paper. It's nonsense that just crumples in the slightest provocation. In an
emergency, you can really tell who's going to be the coward. The one that screams everyone for
themselves. The one that stampedes in a crowded theater or stabs people in the back when all hell
breaks loose. Those people are identified very easily. Just watch them when there's no crisis
in a time of plenty. If they're acting like there's nothing to prepare for, like the future
isn't potentially dangerous, if they lounge around and look at you strangely while you get your ducks
in a row, they are exactly the type of people to become unhinged once a storm comes. And this
doesn't just apply to people, it applies to nations. The arrogance of places like China or
even the EU, that was a luxury. And you can tell by their recent behaviors that that luxury has run out.
