Brought to you by Raycon Earbuds. Stay tuned till the end for more information.
Hello, Your Honor. As you can see, I've decided to make a video essay in place of a written essay.
Generally speaking, kids are dumb. They tend to not know anything about anything,
and very few of them have any skills that can be considered even somewhat valuable to society.
Being an adult is better in just about every conceivable way. But despite our overwhelming
advantages, there's one aspect where kids have us absolutely beat. In 1972, British progressive
rock band Jethro Tull released their fifth studio album, Thick as a Brick, an epic tale told through
the ambitious format of one continuous piece of music. Front man Ian Anderson credited the
fantastical lyrics of the composition to an eight-year-old boy named Gerald Bostic.
The album was so imaginative it made sense to many that it could only have come from the wild
mind of a child. When it comes to creativity, kids are king. And 20 years ago, one show helped many
of us channel our inner eight-year-old. 1999 was a landmark time for American animation. The year
introduced us to some of the most influential cartoons of the 21st century, but lost among
the titans of its era was a series that received far less fanfare. Home Movies was a largely
forgotten show that debuted on a largely forgotten network. UPN was Viacom's awkward attempt to
establish a new broadcast network on American television. Across its 11 years of operation,
it struggled to even make a dent on mainstream culture. If you were watching American television
in the 90s, you probably weren't watching UPN. In 1999, the six major networks broadcast 164
unique shows on the air. Arranged by viewership, UPN aired 22 of the 25 least watched shows of the
year. And second from the very bottom of the list was the subject of today's video. Home Movies
premiered on April 26, 1999 to historically low ratings, the worst the network had ever seen in
its time slot. Just 30 days later, UPN pulled the plug and canceled the show after only five
episodes. During its brief stint, the series received generally unfavorable reviews from
critics. The launch was one of the most disastrous in the history of television, and it's not hard to
see why the 90s audience weren't exactly crazy about the new cartoon. Pretty much everything
about the show was unorthodox. The art style was crude and childlike. The series was animated using
the incredibly niche technique of squiggle vision, which some viewers found hard to watch.
The show's dialogue was almost completely improvised, which was practically unheard
of for any other animated program at the time. The comedy was subtle and understated in an era
of bombastic in-your-face humor. It was a show that looked like a Newgrounds animation and
sounded like a podcast. Needless to say, Home Movies was unlike anything else in its era,
and hardly anyone was willing to watch something so different. However, not every series needs to
be loved by millions of people. Sometimes all a show has to do is impress just one.
During its short run, Home Movies managed to pick up one important fan in Khaki Jones,
an executive at Cartoon Network. She loved the show so much that she convinced the network to
renew Home Movies for three more seasons. On September 2, 2001, Home Movies would
re-debut as the very first program on Cartoon Network's brand new animation block Adult Swim.
Now loosely scripted and flash animated, the show had turned over a new leaf.
And gradually, over several years, audiences finally began to warm up to it.
The series has since developed a cult following and has been critically reassessed as one of the
best cartoons of its era. So how exactly did Home Movies age so well? On its surface, it's a
relatively simple show about the trivialities of childhood. But where the series truly shines is
through its meta-contextual significance. Home Movies has possibly the most to say of any show
about the nature of the creative process. This is crazy, but maybe you might be working a little
too much on your films. That's what people say, but... Creativity is a concept that has always
been somewhat enigmatic to us. The ancient Greeks did not have any words in their language
corresponding to the idea of people as creators. For centuries, philosophers did not consider art
to be creative, positing that the role of an artist was to simply interpret what was already
provided by nature. In the Middle Ages, creativity was heavily intertwined with religion, and artistic
spontaneity was attributed to flashes of divine inspiration. It was only during the Renaissance
when philosophers began to consider that human beings were capable of producing creative works
on their own volition. Soon enough, creative work had become a legitimate profession.
Artists achieved worldwide fame for their unmatched ability to bring their imagination to life.
By the 20th century, creative works laid the foundation for billion-dollar industries.
Entertainment media eventually became so inescapable that the tools of the trade became
accessible to just about anybody, setting up the premise of Home Movies. The story of a boy and his
camera. Throughout the show, we get to experience the adventures and misadventures of Brendan Small,
who makes movies with his friends Jason and Melissa. Brendan's parents have recently divorced,
and filmmaking provides him with a much needed escape from a turbulent period in his life.
Although his movies are far from the best, he's not afraid to keep trying. The character of
Brendan Small is a not-so-subtle nod to series co-creator Brendan Small. Home Movies presents
a rather unique symmetry between its creators and characters. The essential conflict portrayed
within the show parallels the external conflict experienced by the show. Home Movies was not a
show for everyone, as evidenced by how few people actually watched it while it was on the air.
Those who enjoyed it likely related to the characters based on their own creative and
personal struggles. Brendan is a 21st century Charlie Brown. He's a natural underdog, grappling
with the unfairness of a world beyond his control. Within the show, Brendan's movies are not exactly
the pinnacle of filmmaking. They are often riddled with technical errors and general sloppiness
befitting of a novice who's figuring things out as they go along. But even though his movies may
appear crude, they are far from aimless. Brendan takes his filmmaking very seriously, more so than
pretty much anything else in his life. He sees his ability to make movies as his defining attribute.
It's easy for us to dismiss children's activities as inherently goofy and frivolous,
but Brendan's artistic endeavors are far more meaningful. Nothing he creates is arbitrary. Each
one of his movies has a clear vision, even if his ability to execute may be lacking. Brendan's plight
is something experienced by all creative people at one point or another. No matter how brilliant
our vision may be, we're always caught in a tug of war between imagination and feasibility.
Home Movies offers a powerful commentary on the barriers to creative fulfillment.
Our society has a somewhat paradoxical relationship with creative works.
The most illustrious artists, musicians, and movie stars are often among the most revered people in
the world. We each dedicate a significant amount of our free time engaging with creatively motivated
products like film, music, and video games. Nearly all of us would agree that these things
vastly improve our quality of life. However, despite how much we enjoy the fruits of our
most successful creators, modern society is generally unforgiving to the process it takes
to get there. For as much as powerful institutions like Dispout platitudes about the importance of
creativity, the fact of the matter is that our society is not very welcoming to creative people.
Creative ideas are inherently risky. Each innovative new solution is usually preceded by
a dozen failures. It's for this reason why the vast majority of jobs in the economy don't value
creativity as a skill. There's no need to reinvent the wheel if the wheel itself is good enough.
When most jobs can be accomplished by mindlessly rehearsing an already proven formula,
the ability to think creatively is worthless. This is why artists who haven't hauled in gazillions in
revenue don't tend to receive much prestige. Without impressive dollar amounts to show for it,
the value of creativity is intangible, which for the average person might as well be nothing.
Because of their perceived lack of value, creative people often find themselves being overlooked,
invalidated, or even stigmatized for their ambitions. It's an attitude all too familiar
to the creators of home movies. Back in 1999, Brendan Small and Lorne Bouchard were too young
and unproven minds looking to make something truly distinct and avant-garde. The resulting
project nearly ended up costing them a rare opportunity as success in the entertainment
industry. Both creators would eventually go on to have long and successful careers,
but if it weren't for a chance rescue from a lone network executive, their creative contributions
may have never had a chance to flourish. It's easy to recognize their skill in hindsight,
but were they really any less talented 22 years ago when their grand artistic vision
was canceled after just five episodes? It's often difficult for us to evaluate whether any given
creative project will be successful. Bigwig Entertainment executives have the resources
to create anything they want, and most of it usually ends up sucking. Of course,
these people aren't fools. Somewhere along the way, the entertainment industry figured out that
movies and TV shows don't have to be good to make a boatload of cash. It's completely logical for
media moguls to invest their money in the 10,000 superhero reboot versus an unproven original
concept. The problem is that once all the money is made and enough time has passed, the product
that remains is not very inspiring. Logic is often antithetical to creativity, and creativity
is often antithetical to profitability. There's a reason why the most critically acclaimed art
tends to be the most niche. Truly great works are never meant to please everyone. The strength of
art lies in its power to alienate. If you want to see something new and innovative, it's going to
have to be a little alien. Prioritizing mass appeal and financial gain misses the point of
creation entirely. Historically, the greatest art has almost always come from people who have had
nothing to lose and no one to impress. By removing ourselves from the expectations and limitations
of others, we become truly free to pursue our vision. Creativity may be the ultimate exercise
in autonomy. It's an activity through which we have complete control over our domain.
Mastering the creative process requires overcoming one's limitations while retaining as much autonomy
as possible. Home Movies is a passion project, let's say, in that we fight for the things that
we think the show should be always. Both Brendan's movies and the show that encompasses them were
heavily limited in budget and manpower, but found a way to make the most of what they had. We can
still find them endearing because there's never any question of who's in creative control. Home
Movies may not be the most polished product, but it's charming in the way it allows the personality
of its creators to shine through. Art is ultimately a metaphysical extension of the self,
meaning that just like us, it's dynamic. In a long-term creative project like a TV show,
it's intriguing to watch it evolve along with its creators. In Home Movies, there's a tangible sense
of progression through the seasons. The creators get more confident in their storytelling, the
writing becomes more sophisticated, the actors really start to settle into their characters,
even the animation noticeably improves as the show's animators develop their techniques.
When given the space to do so, art can come alive. Home Movies was fortunate to wind up on what was
the perfect destination for creative liberty. Adult Swim was the first television studio to
truly embrace experimental creator-driven content. Tragically, the vast majority of commercial
artists are given nowhere near as much freedom over their creative destiny. Perhaps the most
difficult constraint any creator faces is having to navigate through a system that fundamentally
misunderstands our goals and motivations. By and large, society is run by the creatively bankrupt,
for the simple reason that society is run by adults. Ever since the 20th century,
psychologists have attempted to empirically define and measure creativity. Across repeated
studies spanning decades, researchers found that unlike nearly every other skill,
creativity tends to decrease as we get older. When it comes to creative reasoning,
specifically divergent thinking, no one is better than children.
In 1968, George Land and Beth Jarman were commissioned by NASA to devise a creativity
test for the agency's engineers and scientists. After applying their test to nearly 300,000 adults,
they found that only 2% scored at what they defined as a genius level. Just out of curiosity,
the researchers ran the same test on a group of a thousand preschoolers. Out of this average
sample of children aged no higher than 5 years old, the amount who achieved a genius score was
98%. Somewhere along the way to adulthood, we appear to unlearn the skill of creative thinking.
Of course, there are some intuitive factors for why this happens. Children lack the knowledge or
life experience to make informed decisions, so they have to rely more on their imaginations to
make sense of the world. As we get older, we become capable of more logical reasoning,
and creativity becomes less important in our day-to-day lives. Adults are also far more
cognizant of social perception. This newfound concern over how we appear to others contributes
to possibly the biggest obstacle to creativity, fear. Specifically, the fear of failure. When we
enter adulthood, there's an expectation that we should be at least competent at what we do.
It's often shameful to show a lack of aptitude in any given skill. Failure causes us to get
ridiculed by our peers and punished by our employers. Many adults have been conditioned
into the mindset that failure is not an option, to such an extent that they try to eliminate the
risk of failure in even the most minor circumstances. Children, on the other hand, are not
encumbered by such strict pressure to perform. They are mostly free to try and fail as much as they
please. Creativity cannot prosper in a culture of fear and anxiety. To truly reach our creative
potential, we can't allow failure to paralyze our willingness to explore new ideas. After all, the
fastest way to improve at anything is to learn from our mistakes. Speaking of learning, one major
factor which has exacerbated the decline in creative thinking has to do with the one place
where children are required to spend most of their time. Failing. Homework. Much, much more homework.
It's no secret that public education doesn't exactly have the best track record as of late.
As schools have grown increasingly obsessive over standardized testing, they have become notorious
for stifling creativity. The structure of the modern education system overwhelmingly forces
students to think inside the box. School very rapidly teaches kids that their imaginations are
irrelevant. Getting good grades almost entirely depends on your ability to robotically memorize
arbitrary facts and figures. It's no wonder why so many young creative minds feel so antagonized by
modern education. As a student, you're given an ultimatum to either abandon your instinctive
curiosity or get punished for failing to conform to the system. In home movies, Brendan is a
character who embodies this struggle. He is very clearly a bright and motivated kid, but he finds
himself totally disconnected from conventional education. In a broader sense, this disconnect
reflects the underlying conceit of the entire show. Home movies is not just a show about how
kids thrive with creativity, but also how adults struggle without it. The structure of the series
fundamentally divides its characters into two distinct groups. While the kids often soak up
the spotlight, it's the adults who provide the show's most nuanced commentary. Pretty much every
major adult character in the series suffers from a significant flaw. The tedium of adult life has
left them uninspired and unfulfilled. You get the impression that each of them has a substantial
void in their lives which they're all trying to fill. This motif is punctuated by overtones of
divorce and loneliness which linger throughout the entire series. Home movies exposes a great
irony in the adult world's perceived superiority over children. Episodes typically feature both
children and adults dealing with a similar problem and displaying similar levels of
powerlessness to solve them. The series questions the prevailing belief that our logical adult
thinking is inherently beneficial. While concrete reasoning allows us to make good decisions,
it can simultaneously inhibit us from exploring better ones. Abundance and knowledge can make us
more informed, but it can also make us more cynical, stubborn, and prejudicial. Home movies
tends to portray its adult characters as being rigidly said in their own ways. They often have
a hard time expressing their honest thoughts and opinions to others, choosing instead to remain
burdened by their own discontent. By contrast, the children of the show rarely display any of
these characteristics. Creative thinking allows them to be far more earnest, cooperative, and
flexible. As adults, we're used to interacting with children in a condescending way, a relationship
that doesn't have to be so one-sided. The most harmonious moments within the series happen when
both the kids and adults engage with each other as equals. It turns out that despite everything
we know, we can still learn a thing or two from children. Don't get into show business, Josie.
Don't spend your life being dragged down by projects that you'd lose interest in and have
to sneak away from. Where's my childhood gone, Josie? These days, creativity remains an elusive
skill in the adult world. The way our society works, most creative people won't end up being
successful. But in a strange twist of fate, the most successful people are creative. In the 1950s,
psychologist E.P. Torrance developed one of the first comprehensive tests of creative thinking.
Over the following decades, researchers began to realize that the Torrance test was a stronger
predictor of lifetime achievement than any other known method. Longitudinal research suggests that
it is creativity, not IQ nor academic grades, which correlates the strongest with individual
success. In 2010, IBM surveyed over 1,500 CEOs from around the world and found that 60% cited
creativity as their single most important leadership quality. Great scientific minds
like Isaac Asimov and Albert Einstein have both expressed that creativity is vital in even the
most logical fields. Those who master the creative process can go as far as their imagination takes
them. For something so influential, it's a shame that so few of us actually retain it as we grow
up. Research has shown that even children are becoming less creative compared to previous
generations. In life, we take a lot of things for granted and fail to appreciate their greatness
until long after they're gone. On April 4, 2004, home movies went out on the air for the final time.
The series made it to 52 episodes, surviving 10 times longer than its initial ill-fated run.
It exceeded pretty much every expectation that its creators could have envisioned.
But sadly, all good shows must eventually come to an end. Home movies chose to finish its run
in the only way it could. A big part of the freedom we get from creative projects is the
power to walk away. At the end of home movies, Brendan and his friends lose their passion for
making movies. As is the fate with almost all kids, they had grown past their creative endeavors.
When it was all said and done, they realized that the movies were no longer needed.
They had served their purpose. For the first time in the series, Brendan is ready to step out from
behind the camera and into reality. Home movies was a show that was remarkably ahead of its time.
Just one year after the series ended, we were all introduced to a little-known website called
YouTube, a place where anyone can become world famous from making home movies. Thanks to the
internet, it's never been a better time to be creative. And while many of us may have unlearned
how to think creatively, none of us ever truly forget it. If you want to reclaim your imagination,
a good place to start is learning from the case of Gerald Bostic, who, like the kids in home movies,
doesn't actually exist. They were all created by adults who remembered how to think like an
eight-year-old. As the great painter Pablo Picasso once said, all children are artists.
The problem is how to remain an artist once we grow up.
Welcome, Rusty. I've been expecting you. Come, have a seat.
Oh God, what are we selling this time?
What if I told you that nearly everyone you know is a slave to the system?
Have you ever looked at the world around you and had the strange feeling that something is not
quite right? You feel it when you go to work, when you go to church, when you pay your taxes.
Are you suggesting that we're all imprisoned in some kind of simulated reality?
No, we are definitely in the real world. The problem is that the real world sucks,
and spineless bureaucrats make us do a bunch of annoying pointless crap like paying taxes.
You see it when you look out your window, when you turn on your television.
This society is simply unfair to people like us. So what are we supposed to do about it?
I cannot give you a harmonious solution to all of the world's problems.
What I can offer you is a way out.
I am speaking, of course, about the Raytrix.
The Raytrix?
Rusty, have you ever heard of the term sigma male?
I'm not sure I have.
Most unfortunate souls are born into this world to be nothing more than sheeple.
Fools who will gladly pay outrageous prices for premium wireless earbuds without even a
second thought. It is the wool that has been pulled over your ears to deafen you from the truth.
However, the sigmas of the world reject this premise.
They recognize that there is an alternative to other premium audio brands that starts
at just half the price.
No way.
You can't mean-
That is correct. I'm referring to Raycon earbuds, your key to unlocking the Raytrix.
With this state-of-the-art technology, you can tune out the stupidity of the world around you,
anywhere, at any time.
Let the sheeple graze on the lies of the system which imprisons them, while you bask in the
amazing audio quality of the Raytrix, free from the shackles of our noisy society.
Rusty, I've always suspected that you are a true sigma.
Now is the time to prove it.
Of course, no one can be told what the Raytrix is.
You have to hear it for yourself.
This is your last chance.
After this, there is no turning back.
You take the blue pill, the story ends, you wake up in your bed, and go back to paying
whatever other premium audio brands want to charge you.
You take the red pill, you stay in Wonderland, and I show you how far downward the spiral goes.
What if I told you that you can purchase your own
pair of Raycon Everyday Earbuds by visiting buyraycon.com or by visiting the link in the
description beneath this very video.
Once in the mainframe, you must input the code HOLIDAY to gain access to the 15% off
site-wide discount, and only then can you truly harness the gift.
Of course, with free shipping and returns on all Raycon products, gifting is easier
than ever.
And with five stylish colors, you don't have to pick between just red and blue.
So pick up a pair of Raycons today, and you too can enter the Raytrix.
And that makes him a lot smarter than you.
That's what I keep telling them.
Home Movies premieres in two weeks on UPS.
