When I was putting the finishing touches on the Charlottesville video, the Boston rally
started going down.
And my initial reaction was, I've got to do something on this.
And then shortly after, the Phoenix rally thing happened.
And then the Barcelona terror attack went down too.
And then the Charleston shooting.
And then the Buckingham Palace sword attack.
And then the media shat itself to Trump's response to Hurricane Matthew.
Holy shit, it's hard to keep up.
I could do a play-by-play of each event, if people really wanted me to.
Like I did with Charlottesville.
Show the big happenings, analyze them, give my take.
But frankly, there's a lot of people out there that have done so already, with varying
degrees of competency.
Ranging from far better than me to far worse.
I think there's something bigger here that we have to discuss though.
Something that links all these seemingly disparate events together.
I'll still do some analysis, but I want to discuss the big picture for a minute.
Let's talk about the theory of Howland's Spheres.
Daniel Howland, in his book The Uncensored War, devised a theory that divides all political
discourse into three concentric circles.
The inner circle, known as the sphere of consensus, contains all knowledge in which
there is widespread agreement, or at least the perception of widespread agreement.
Within this first sphere, journalists feel free to invoke a generalized we when discussing
their points of view, and often take for granted shared values and assumptions.
The middle circle, known as the sphere of controversy, is where rational and informed
people regularly hold differing views on a topic.
To an ethical journalist, these topics are therefore the most important to cover, and
also the most important to remain unbiased about in their coverage.
In order to present an objective as possible view of the situation to the public.
The outer circle, known as the sphere of deviance, is basically the place where bad stories go
to die.
This is the realm of topics that journalists generally do not discuss at all, either because
they are obviously false or unfounded, they're taboo, or they're so insignificant that
they're simply not newsworthy.
If these topics ever are discussed, they're specifically framed as ridiculous, dangerous,
or in some other way, marginal.
Here's a simplistic example of the spheres in action, and I'll use the Nazis because
they're going to be coming up in this video more than a few times.
The claim, Nazis are bad, directly falls within the sphere of consensus.
The majority of people agree that Nazis are in fact bad, to the point that you don't
really need to explain why they're bad anymore when writing an article on Nazis.
To contrast, the phrase, Hitler did nothing wrong, and no I don't mean the meme you
see everywhere on the internet, I mean an actual serious interpretation of that phrase,
belongs within the sphere of deviance.
You're very rarely going to see this interpretation of Hitler in the media, and when you do, it's
going to be used to showcase the danger or insanity of a subject on the fringes of society.
Meanwhile, a hypothetical article titled, say, Neo-Nazis hold Unite the Right rally
in Charlottesville, sits within the sphere of controversy.
The title itself invokes the Nazis are bad assumption from the sphere of consensus, and
this invocation implies that the article will not be taking the stance that Hitler did nothing
wrong from the sphere of deviance.
Basically, the outer circle consists of topics that must never be discussed, and the inner
circle consists of topics that can be discussed but rarely are, simply because they're considered
to be common sense.
Now, why am I bringing all this up?
Because Hellen's spheres accurately represents the way in which journalists see the world,
and as the individual journalists or even specific outlets and organizations change,
the contents of the three spheres also change.
For example, where left-wing outlets like Salon or Vice or whatever are more than willing
to blanket every single attendee of Unite the Right as a neo-nazi, a right-wing outlet
like, say, Fox News, may be more willing to call them alt-right instead of neo-nazi, or
mention that multiple different factions of people, some with very different sets of goals
and visions, all attended Unite the Right.
So the statement, not everybody at Unite the Right was a neo-nazi, sits cleanly within
the sphere of deviance for left-leaning publications and journalists, but is actually within the
sphere of controversy for centrist and right-leaning publications and journalists.
Keep this idea in mind, we'll be coming back to it a bit later.
Let's check out what the Boston rally actually was.
Thousands march in Boston in protest of controversial rally.
Thousands of counter-demonstrators march Sunday in downtown Boston in a largely peaceful response
to a self-described free speech rally that had sparked concerns of possible violence.
It's clear today that Boston stood for peace and love, not bigotry and hate, the Boston
mayor said.
On the embedded video in this CNN article, the news ticker reads,
Tense scenes erupt in Boston as thousands march against hate.
And the crowd was very large.
ABC caught an aerial view of these counter-protesters.
And it looks like thousands of them are flooding the streets.
But let's try and get some footage shot by people on the ground, I'm sure we can dig
some up.
Evan McMurry, working for ABC, got ahold of an enlightening video shot by a drone regarding
the crowd size.
He says, this is the first video I've seen that really shows the disparity between the
quote, free speech rally, and the thousands of counter-demonstrators.
It doesn't sound like he's taking a neutral opinion on this one, guys.
Why do you think that could be?
At least, in the video, we can see that the Boston police actually set up barricades,
preventing the counter-protesters from approaching the park's rotunda, where a gathering of
what was estimated to be about 30 people showed up to protest such hateful topics as Massantos
genetically modified food, black lives actually mattering, and the views of a local candidate
running for office using the hashtag, shiva4senate.
That shiva guy, by the way, is Dr. Shiva Ayadurai, and he uploaded his speech at the Boston Free
Speech Rally to his YouTube channel.
Here's a few choice bits.
They tried to stop us today, didn't they?
But, you know, we weren't cowed down.
And I will always stand up for all of you, and all of us here, in many ways, are true
patriots.
Because we, in spite of that noise out there, we're here to stand up for something very
fundamental, which is called free speech.
And let me tell you that they tried to prevent me from coming here, as you may have heard
in the media.
They asked me why I associated myself with all of you guys, even though they have no
idea who you or we are.
Let me remind you about Joe Biden.
He's a guy who said Obama, which many of those people support, is the first clean, quote
unquote clean and articulate black man.
He's a racist.
But no one asked about that, did they?
Hillary Clinton stereotyped and mocked my people, Indians.
You can go see the YouTube video, in a very offensive manner, just go look at it.
She mocked Mahatma Gandhi, who's one of the icons of Indians.
You see, you won't find a lot of Indians like me here, because my parents were considered
low caste.
Lower caste than most of those people out there, who don't even know what it means to
be that.
The establishment is what's infested with racists, not us.
I don't see any racists here.
Yeah, this guy just seems like a fucking Nazi, doesn't he?
He probably put an armband on right after the video ended.
But wait, what the fuck is this?
Who's this cleric Larper in the background?
Well, it turns out they're from the Healing Church, otherwise known as THC, and they
have something to add to this rally.
You should look at the Healing Church on Facebook, and I'm like, I outrank Pope Francis.
I'm the Hebrew-Catholic Trump, to which it's grand, it's attached.
They're not fascists, or Nazis, they're just hippies.
That's the tree of life, oh lord, the tree of life.
I'm just looking at it.
One moment, this is a prayer service.
Oh, sorry, sorry.
You and me, come to the church.
They're just a bunch of fucking hippies, man.
Are these the insane white supremacists you thousands of morons came to fight?
A bunch of peace pipers?
That's not gonna stop Antifa, oh no.
One guy got stabbed in the hand, because he's got a neo-nazi haircut like Richard Spencer,
and so therefore he must also be a neo-nazi.
Never mind that it's just a fucking haircut.
Never mind that this style was all the rage with male hipsters and SJWs under one year
ago.
Never mind that closed-minded conservatives would attack long-haired male hippies back
in the 70s with the exact same fucking logic.
Here's an independent journalist, Jessica Weese, who covered the counterprotest.
Tensions high, I was just surrounded by activists who screamed at me, called me a traitor for
asking a man in a Trump hat why he was here.
So when a journalist decides to actually ask for the point of view of public enemy number
one, the Trump supporter, the mega hat wearer, the conservative, they're traitors now?
It really seems like Antifa and the left in a more general sense want complete control
over the media narrative.
Here's an elderly woman holding the American flag at a rally.
Here's an Antifa thug dragging her across the park, solely because she's showing her
patriotism in public.
Here's some angry protesters demanding of a heavily tattooed man his opinions on white
people before another guy comes up behind him and sucker punches him behind the ear.
Never mind that there's no proof this guy was actually a Nazi.
Never mind that even if he was, he wasn't being violent.
Here's Joey Salads, who went undercover as part of Antifa's infamous black blocs,
in order to capture abuses committed by the protesters, abuses which include the unprovoked
assault of an innocent Trump supporter who was simply walking down the street.
Here's an Antifa member demanding a woman take off her shirt, because the shirt in question
has a logo on it that he considers to be oppressive.
Damn dude if you want to see some titties they're all over the internet.
Give it a break.
Here's a picture from the Boston Globe of counter protesters attacking a free speech
demonstrator, complete with the phrase free speech in quotes in the byline, letting us
all know that the Globe's position is that these people aren't really free speech advocates,
just neo-Nazis.
Here's a woman who's holding a sign stating that she disagrees with both Antifa and neo-Nazis,
but supports freedom of speech for those groups as a matter of principle.
An Antifa twitter, by the way, has since doxxed her for this.
Here's a member of the Boston Antifa network named Kevin, claiming that the stabbing of
a police horse is justified because the horse is racist.
Yeah, I wish I was making this insane shit up guys.
So a quick recap of Boston, a free speech rally held by hippies and stoners and Indian
politicians speaking truth to power, gets crashed by thousands of violent protesters
wearing black masks and carrying weapons, who proceed to attack innocent people and
cause property damage.
It really makes you think, you know.
It's almost like Antifa, the anti-fascist group, are the actual fascists.
But let's bring back the theory of Holland Spheres for a second and look at some of these
events with that framework in mind.
Remember CNN's news ticker, tense scenes erupt in Boston as thousands march against
hate?
CNN has very clearly defined the Boston counter protest as a march against hate, and by implication,
the free speech rally as a rally for hate.
Therefore the statement, the Boston rally was a rally for hate, sits within CNN's
sphere of consensus.
The sphere where things are simply taken for granted.
There was no debate on whether or not the Boston rally really was a rally for hate.
It was simply assumed that it was.
Even though the Boston free speech rally was clearly not attended by hateful people.
Even though to anybody who paid attention, the statement, the Boston rally is a rally
for hate, would very obviously sit within the sphere of deviance.
But against logic, reason, and the facts of the situation, CNN put it in the sphere of
consensus.
When Jessica Weis decided to ask a Trump supporter what his motive was at the rally, she was
making a public declaration as a journalist.
She was stating that the idea that Trump supporters may have legitimate grievances, and may exercise
their rights to peacefully protest about those grievances, exists within the sphere
of controversy.
That it is not to be immediately dismissed, nor immediately assumed, but it is to be discussed.
And she was accosted for it, because these people want that idea to be within the sphere
of deviance.
And this brings me to my larger point, Holland's spheres, as a theory, doesn't just apply
to journalism.
It applies to all human interaction, and it accurately describes how Antifa, and its supporters,
are attempting to manipulate popular opinion of these events.
For example, let's say five computer programmers are discussing a topic related to computer
programming.
They don't need to explain the basics of computer programming to each other every time
they have a conversation, even though that stuff is obviously necessary knowledge to
be able to understand the conversation.
The basics of computer programming exist within the sphere of consensus in this example.
However, if a professor of computer programming is teaching a classroom of first years how
to program, the basics of computer programming are not within the sphere of consensus, but
within the sphere of controversy.
In an interpersonal sense, you can think of the sphere of consensus to be the context
of any given situation.
If you have it, you can adequately understand the arguments to come.
And without it, what comes next will simply be meaningless to you.
Here's another example.
Say you have two separate friend groups.
In one group, racist humor is appreciated.
In another group, it is frowned upon.
In the first group, racist humor is situated within the sphere of controversy.
And in the second group, it is situated within the sphere of deviance.
And these classifications still stem from the sphere of consensus, the context of that
friend group.
In the first group, the sphere of consensus consists of knowing that nobody in the group
is actually racist.
In the second group, the sphere of consensus consists of not finding any racist joke funny
as principal.
Holland's Spheres, in my opinion, is an accurate representation of how any grouping
of people larger than one self-polices its language and thoughts.
Any friend group, organization, news outlet, website, government, workplace, protest, or
any other collective of people, can have its opinions and ideas modeled by Holland's
Spheres.
And the contents and sizes of these spheres are not universal.
When two separate groups with two very different models of Holland's Spheres encounter each
other, they clash on ideological grounds.
This is, say, Antifa and the Alt-Right.
However, sometimes a subgroup within a larger parent group will try to force the parent
group's spheres to more resemble the subgroups.
This is Antifa and the American Electorate.
In other words, this is Antifa forcing its ideas, its views, and its definitions onto
the rest of the US citizenry that doesn't necessarily share those ideas, views, or definitions.
And the theory of Holland's Spheres show us how Antifa is attempting to control not
only what may or may not be discussed, aka the spheres of controversy and deviance respectively,
but also the context of any given situation, aka the sphere of consensus.
They don't even hide this anymore.
On RefuseFascism.org, Antifa has announced a November 4th national conference.
Check out the language used in this flyer.
It's time to get serious about driving the Trump-slash-Pence regime from power.
This nightmare must end.
The Trump-Pence regime must go.
In the name of humanity, we refuse to accept the fascist America.
Now, has the past nine months of Trump in the Oval Office been a nightmare?
Well, no.
Not really.
It hasn't been great.
I'm sure some people on the right are happy, some people on the left are not.
But it hasn't been this dystopian nightmare.
Do these people have the authority to declare anything in the name of humanity?
No, and yet they do with conviction.
Is America fascist?
Well, no, Trump was elected through a legitimate process.
That doesn't seem to matter.
Is any of this reflective of reality?
No, and yet that's the language they use and the ideas they hold.
Dystopian nightmare, fascist America, and Trump regime are ideas within their sphere
of consensus, and they plan to make it within everybody else's spheres of consensus too
by any means necessary.
Are you still not convinced this is a language war as well as a physical one?
Check out Boston Antifa's Facebook post on the counter protest.
There is no room for capitalists, conservatives, libertarians, classical liberals, or supporters
of the US Constitution in our city.
You must leave.
Hashtag Boston resist.
All of these ideas they've just listed off, they're all the same to them, despite being
radically different ideas.
In the minds of Antifa members, they're all strung together because they're all
within the sphere of deviance.
That's their only uniting trait.
I know, this all sounds a little bit out there sometimes.
But with Hallen's spheres in mind, take a look at the headlines that came out after
Boston and Charlotte's villain Phoenix.
Unmasking the leftist Antifa movement, activists seek peace through violence.
Antifa is short for anti-fascists.
Their main goal is disrupting neo-Nazis and white supremacists.
Seeking peace through violence.
Peace through violence.
It's insane to think that CNN would be apologizing this fucking hard for people who start street
battles at peaceful protests, but here we are.
Neo-Nazi violence, even neo-Nazi speech, exists within the sphere of deviance for CNN.
But Antifa violence?
Sphere of controversy.
Let's give that one a fair shake.
CNN eventually changed the subtitle of the article and scrubbed it of all peace through
violence references.
Presumably after they realized that the rest of the world didn't actually share their
ideological bent on the subject, but they didn't edit their Facebook posts or video.
Because they're idiots.
Check out CNN's coverage of Phoenix, too.
So, Antifa's violence, sphere of controversy, Trump's speech being angry, sphere of consensus.
Are you seeing a pattern yet?
When the alt-right uses domestic violence imagery to make a mockery of Antifa, the BBC
is more concerned with the smearing of Antifa's public image than it is of the accuracy of
the alt-right's mockery, which is very telling considering Antifa's actual tendency
to attack anybody that disagrees with them, including women.
The Huffington Post put out an article stating that being a soldier will turn you into a
racist.
The Guardian considers rational centrists to be the true ideologues, presumably for
not adhering to leftist ideology.
And here's the hottest take yet.
Charles Barkley is a great example of a black white supremacist.
I know this is going beyond Antifa now and into general regressive left bullshit, but
I want to make sure this point gets across to you as clearly as possible.
Here's a diagram of the Holland Spheres for average everyday people.
Here's a diagram of the Holland Spheres for the violent minority known as Antifa.
And they're sympathizing mouthpieces within the mainstream media.
Do you see the difference?
Do you see how many fewer ideas are within the sphere of controversy?
More ideas that they consider to be ideologically in line with them are within the sphere of
consensus.
It's not even worth debating those ones, they're universally good and true, and you
should just accept that.
Additionally, more ideas that they consider to be ideologically opposed to them are within
the sphere of deviance.
They're evil, and false, and only worth talking about negatively, and if you disagree
in any way, you must be evil and false too.
It's my opinion that if you graph out the sum of all the ideas of any echo chamber into
a set of Holland Spheres, you're going to get a large inner circle, and even larger
outer circle, with very little room for debate in the middle.
I would say that this is indicative of an intellectually unhealthy group.
A free society would have a much larger middle sphere, reflecting its tendency to use rational
discourse to settle matters of debate.
So when the next Boston or Phoenix protest happens, when the next Barcelona or Charleston
attack goes down, and you start to read or listen or watch various news sources, keep
an eye on Holland Spheres.
What are they simply assuming to be commonly held positions that you disagree with?
What are they going out of their way to reference negatively, or twisting themselves into pretzels
in order to excuse?
Pay just as much attention to those things as to what they're actually saying, if not
more so.
And as for you Antifa, your revolution's not going to work if you think you can actually
call for a time out during a battle in order to get your fucking service dog.
Thanks for watching everybody, sorry this one's a little late, I like to do these once
a week generally and I know it's been longer than that since Charlottesville.
My real problem was I didn't want to do just another surface level run down of the Boston
events, and I struggled a bit trying to find the angle I wanted to take.
It was actually by chance that I discovered Holland's theory of the spheres of public
discourse, and I realized that it fit in with the topic really well.
If somebody were attempting to manipulate popular opinion on a larger scale using the
media, the changing contents of the spheres would be a good way to get that point across
in a visual sense.
Thanks to everybody who supports me on Patreon, you guys help keep these videos flowing.
If you want to keep up with what I do, I post generalized project schedules over at facebook.com
slash sfotaku and specific releases as well as a lot of other bullshit over at twitter.com
slash sharpheadotaku.
There's also a discord channel where I chat with people regularly, links in the description.
I also maintain a gaming channel over at youtube.com slash c slash no talent gaming, and I stream
around four times a week at twitch.tv slash shortheadotaku.
Alright pals, that about wraps it up for me.
I love you.
Thanks for watching.
