Hello my friends, the title of this video should be self-explanatory, but in case you
don't get it, this is just going to be a brief primer on how I research things.
Because I don't necessarily want you to think like me whenever I make videos or I
do streams, but I do want you to at least learn the processes by which I come to the
conclusions that I come to.
Because in my opinion, finding the truth is more important than any sort of political
expediency.
Neither the left nor the right, no political camp, no ideological camp, no religion, nothing
has a monopoly on what the truth is.
Lots of people say that they do.
If they say my view is always correct, my tribe knows what the truth is all the time,
they're trying to sell you something, whether it's the far left, far right, doesn't matter.
So I just want to take two examples from either side of the aisle and just show you how to
really get the truth out of them.
Here's the first one.
This one I actually did live on the weekly sip a few weeks back, but I figured I'd just
do it again just to show you my thought processes on when I try to find what the truth is.
So this is from Vice News.
Far right extremists are threatening to execute doctors at a children's hospital.
The viral Twitter account Lives of TikTok promoted a lie about gender affirming care
at the hospital and now doctors are getting death threats.
Well, okay.
So let's see what the claim is.
Boston Children's Hospital said on Tuesday that its staff has faced a flood of violent
threats and harassment sparked by a false claim made by the viral Lives of TikTok account.
The account tweeted on August 11th that Boston's Children's Hospital is now offering gender
affirming hysterectomies for young girls.
The claim has been widely debunked by fact-checking groups, but as is typical in anti-trans rhetoric,
facts rarely matter and the claims were shared widely on right-wing social media accounts.
As a result, the hospital and its staff have faced a torrent of abuse.
They've received hostile internet activity, phone calls, harassing emails, including threats
of violence towards clinicians and staff.
And then the article gets into the various death threats and threats of assault made
by people on the internet.
On the one hand, I get it.
You shouldn't be getting those.
And the other hand is just the internet.
It's like cyberbullying ain't real.
Turn it off.
You know the quote at this point, but let's actually see what the truth is because this
article at this point focuses only on the fallout, but what's the truth of the claim?
Is it true that Boston Children's Hospital is now offering gender affirming hysterectomies
for young girls?
Now the claim has been widely debunked by fact-checking groups.
Let's see those fact-checkers.
Yeah, there's a political fact saying false, but I mean, PolitiFact, they're kind of biased
as it is.
There's always the memes, oh, it's been debunked.
And then you look at the debunking and it's just like fucking stupid.
So we don't necessarily need to trust this.
This is at least one data point, but it's not the whole truth.
So let's actually look at it ourselves.
The first thing that I would do when trying to find the truth of a claim like this is
to look at the quote itself.
Let's find the original tweet.
Oh, at this point, libs of TikTok might actually be taken down.
Nope.
It's still there.
And the tweet is actually right here.
Boston Children's Hospital is now offering gender-affirming hysterectomies for young
girls.
So let's watch this video and see what's actually going on here, okay?
Gender-affirming hysterectomy is very similar to most hysterectomies that occur.
Hysterectomy itself is the removal of the uterus, the cervix, which is the opening of
the uterus, and the fallopian tubes, which are attached to the sides of the uterus.
Some gender-affirming hysterectomies will also include the removal of the ovaries, but
that's technically a separate procedure called a bilateral oophrectomy.
Not every gender-affirming hysterectomy includes that, and people who are getting gender-affirming
hysterectomies do not have to have their ovaries removed.
Okay, so that video didn't actually say what libs of TikTok said that it did.
That was a video describing what a gender-affirming hysterectomy is, but said nothing about young
girls.
Maybe they're making a jump in logic here, because the video did come from the Boston
Children's Hospital, and you know, that is a point, but let's continue to dig and see
what's actually going on.
Special report, Boston Children's Hospital boasts a full suite of surgical options for
transgender teens, has 90 videos promoting surgeries to youth on their YouTube page.
Co-director allows vaginoplasty on 17-year-olds, but hints at even younger.
Okay, let's see what this is all about.
So when I see this sentence, I really want to know where the hints at even younger comes
from.
Where's the source of this stuff?
We have to look this up, so let's head in.
Boston Children's Hospital gleefully encourages surgical, pharmaceutical, gender transition
for teens.
Dr. Oren Gennor, co-director of the Boston Children's Center for Gender Surgery, said
in an email to WBUR that he was slightly flexible when it comes to the age of males seeking
at genital surgery.
This is a video series.
This is their YouTube channel.
Oh, they deleted the playlist.
Yep, here's the channel.
Not much engagement on these videos, but I mean, that's fine.
They're here for, they're not here to be YouTubers.
I'm not sure if these are, you know, promoted to children.
They seem to be like straightforward videos on information.
Boston Children's Hospital founded the Gender Multispecialty Service Program in 2007 and
welcomes patients as young as three years old.
That sounds kind of crazy.
I assume they're not doing surgeries on people three years old.
At GEMS, our mission is to assess and care for gender diverse children, teens, and young
adults.
Young adults makes me think that it's not just children going to the children's hospital,
that it's over eight teens.
GEMS provides a variety of options for medical transition that include prescribing puberty
blockers, testosterone, estrogen, plastic surgery in their surgery center.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
For children nine and under, the hospital helps facilitate a social transition that
prepares them for individualized treatment plans that can include puberty blockers, cross
sex hormones, and chest surgeries.
Chest surgeries are available at age 15.
Well, okay, there's one thing that I disagree with right off the bat.
Surgery should be coming at 18, not 15.
So I disagree with this, but we still haven't reached Libs of TikTok's claim yet that hysterectomies
are being offered to young girls.
Genital surgeries require several letters of support from the patient's healthcare providers
and must have lived as their identified gender for only 12 months.
For phalloplasty and metoidoplasty, they ask that you be at least 18 years old.
18 seems reasonable.
At that point, you're an adult.
You do what you want with your body.
Patients only 17 years old can obtain a vaginoplasty, but Dr. Oren Gennor, co-director of Boston
Children's Center for the Dead, hinted in an email that children even younger can be
operated on.
Gennor said in an email that he is slightly flexible when it comes to the age of males
seeking genital surgery.
He adds that the policy has not been finalized because of the issue around consent for sterilization,
which is a part of the procedure.
Let's see the standards of care model they're talking about.
Professional Association for Transgender Health.
Oh, this is a big ass document.
We've got to look at this, don't we?
Fuck.
English version 2012, loading in.
Can we just search for 18?
Pass page 18.
Surgery, maybe?
Surgery, page 54.
Active health, voice therapy, surgery.
Area for breast or chest surgery, creation of a male chest and FTM patients, persistent
well-documented gender dysphoria, capacity to make fully informed decision into consent,
age of majority in the given country.
If significant medical or mental health concerns are present, they must be reasonably well-controlled.
Breast augmentation and MTF, same things.
Persistent well-documented gender dysphoria, capacity to make an informed decision, age
of majority, and these all seem to be the same.
They all say age of majority in a given country.
So if we were to go back, when we have chest surgeries available at the age of 15, that's
bad.
It's not what Libs of TikTok talks about in that tweet, but it is bad.
And patients 17 years old can obtain a vaginoplasty.
That's also bad.
It has to be 18 across the board.
And when he says he is slightly flexible, this is a serious problem.
So there's a lot of things happening right now at this Boston Children's Hospital that
I disagree with.
And in fact, the standard of care also disagrees with this stuff.
But the original claim was not about chest surgeries at 15 or puberty blockers at nine,
vaginoplasty is at 17.
The original claim was gender affirming hysterectomies for young girls.
There does not seem to be any proof of that.
There's proof of other wrongdoing.
And if Libs of TikTok wanted to be factually correct, they could have reported on that
wrongdoing, but they didn't.
They chose to say gender affirming hysterectomies for young girls, which does not seem to be
the truth.
Now, the final point is that, oh, it's a children's hospital.
Well, of course, if they're going after kids, it's not adults getting it there, dude.
I saw people in the weekly sip chat actually say that quite a bit.
The only thing I have to say to that is that a while ago, the Boston Children's Hospital
extended the age range from 18 to 21, saying that's a little help for those college years.
Even though it is a children's hospital, it still has no problem treating young adults
from 18 to 21 and sometimes even treats full adults that need certain types of care.
Despite the chest surgeries at 15, despite the vaginoplasty at 17, both of which are
really bad things, this specific claim, gender affirming hysterectomies for young girls seems
to be false, or at the very least, they can't prove it.
Now, for example, if this tweet read, Boston Children's Hospital is offering gender affirming
vaginoplasty for young boys, that's actually a more accurate tweet, as we saw the policy
is 17, but that one doctor is willing to bend the rules on it.
So in that case, it wouldn't be a false claim.
But this claim is false.
Now at this point, I already hear your objection.
What does it matter if this claim is false?
Because the hospital is still bad, yes, but we have to be accurate.
We can't just go into this all willy nilly and just say whatever because there's some
bad stuff happening.
No, you can't be them.
You have to be accurate.
If I can dismantle this tweet through some simple Google searches, libs of TikTok looks
like a fucking moron, and now their credibility is shot, so if they come back with, say, something
that's actually real, who knows if it's true?
And while this is an example that kind of needles the right a little bit, I have an
equivalent example that kind of needles the left.
Here's something that Lilith sent me, and she was like, oh my God, they're finally doing
it.
They're finally coming for us.
Well, let's look at this claim too.
Approximately 9,000 transgender Floridians woke up today to find out they no longer have
life saving Medicaid coverage.
DeSantis bypassed the legislature and weaponized state agencies against his own constituents
for simply minding their own business.
This is not freedom.
Just like in the previous case, let's not take anyone's word for it.
Let's investigate this claim, because clearly this guy isn't exactly a neutral source.
He's Florida's first LGBTQ Latino legislature.
There are some articles on this change, discriminatory DeSantis administration regulation eliminating
Medicaid coverage for 9,000 plus transgender Floridians take effect this weekend.
This weekend on August 21st, Florida's agency for the healthcare administration shamelessly
executing the DeSantis administration's discriminatory agenda will rip away access to life-setting
Medicare for more than 9,000 transgender Floridians.
I hope this isn't just like the meme, like the over 9,000.
I hope it's not just that, okay?
What's the deal here?
Where does this number come from and where did this come from?
Well, it turns out that this tweet, while at least somewhat accurate, is written in
the most inflammatory possible way.
DeSantis bypassed the legislature.
Well, Florida's agency for healthcare administration is an organization under the purview of the
governor.
The legislature has no place in this process.
It's not bypassing the legislature if he's doing what the powers of his office allows
him to do.
Secondly, 9,000 transgender Floridians woke up today to find out they no longer have life-setting
coverage.
This implies that it just happened overnight.
It's like, what the fuck?
I woke up in this.
No, no, no, no, no.
This happened back on August 5th.
Florida medical board moves to block gender affirming treatments for minors.
The board also voted to start the process of requiring adults seeking such care to wait
24 hours for going forward with any medical procedures.
This was not something that came out of nowhere.
People woke up to him and was like, oh my God, it just happened.
No, no, no, no.
People have known this has been coming for weeks.
The medical board was following guidance from the Florida department of health, which
has claimed that there's not enough research.
So let's see what this guidance was.
404 not found.
It's gone.
That's okay.
I have a copy of it here.
This was published on June 2nd, 2022 for the board of medicine members of the board.
On April 20th, 2022, the Florida department of health released guidance in the treatment
for you.
So as the state, certain general, I recommend against certain pharmaceutical, non-pharmaceutical
and surgical treatments for gender dysphoria recommendations are based on a lack of conclusive
evidence and the high risk for long-term irreversible harms.
The overview conducted by Dr. Brindarnello Peterson, okay.
And Dr. Weircock, what the fuck are these names, dude?
The research where the doctors state that there is great uncertainty about the effects
of puberty blockers, cross sex hormones, and surgeries in young people with gender dysphoria.
So young people does not necessarily mean adults.
So I don't know where the 9,000 adults number comes from.
I don't necessarily agree with what's in this message, but this is guidance on what the
state should do, not necessarily where that 9,000, where does that 9,000 number come from
when he says 9,000 transgender Floridians.
The actual agency we're talking about doesn't have anything, no news post or anything related
to this change that apparently went into effect.
Why it's happening on the day that they say it's happening.
Why it's 9,000 transgender people.
There's no source for that.
Whenever an article like this one from the 19th to the 21st talks about it, all of their
sources end up leading back to the same date.
A series of articles published on August 5th.
However, those articles all refer to minors, not adults.
This implies that it's just people, not children, but just general people of age.
We have to find the source of this 9,000 number.
It's not appearing anywhere, anywhere I look.
And I think I might have it.
This is from the Williams Institute from 2019, Medicaid coverage for gender affirming care.
Let's do a control F for 9,000.
Nothing.
How about 9,000 with a comma?
Fewer than half.
Okay, that's just 69,000.
Oh, here we go.
There's a 9,000 entry for Florida under this table.
Table one, Medicaid enrollment of transgender adults by state.
Okay, so let's see here.
So for example, Alaska has 2,700 transgender adults and 1,000 of those adults are enrolled
in Medicaid and their gender affirming care is not covered by Medicaid or less than 1,000
adults.
There's 8450 transgender adults, 1,000 are enrolled in Medicaid and those 1,000 don't
have their care covered.
Okay.
In California, there's 218,000 transgender adults and 16,000 of them are on Medicaid
and their gender affirming care is covered.
Okay, that's what this is.
This third column, Florida has 100,000 transgender adults, 9,000 of those adults are on Medicaid
and Medicaid in Florida has no policy on gender affirming care.
So I guess in that case, it's just up to the individual doctor.
Maybe they approve it, maybe they don't.
For around 51,000 transgender Medicaid beneficiaries, coverage is uncertain because they live in
states where the laws are silent on Medicare coverage for gender affirming care.
The law doesn't say anything guaranteeing it or denying it.
So it's just going to be based on whatever the doctor thinks you need.
So that seems to be where the 9,000 number comes from is this table.
Now here's what I don't understand.
Whenever you have an article like this that says that the rules are changing for Medicaid
coverage, all of the sources eventually lead back to other articles that talk about minors,
not adults.
But this 9,000 figure comes from this collection of data that is specifically about adults.
So there seems to be two true statements here.
The first one is that 9,000 trans adults in Florida are on Medicaid and that the state
does not explicitly confirm or deny access to care through Medicaid.
That's a true statement.
The second true statement is that the rules regarding transitioning for children are changing
right now.
It seems to be the case that people are taking these two independent true statements and
mashing them together saying that those 9,000 transgender adults in Florida who are on Medicaid
coverage are somehow going to be affected by the rule change even though the rule change,
at least as far as I can tell, only seems to apply to children.
So how did this mess up happen?
How is it that this guy only read the headline to this article and then didn't look into
it and find out where this number comes from or go through the sources provided in the
article to get back to the source where it's only about minors?
How did this fuck up happen?
Well the answer to that can be found in this Politico article.
Simone Tris, director of the Southern Legal Council Transgender Rights Initiative said
on Wednesday that the coalition is expecting to file the case in federal court and will
seek a preliminary injunction to halt the ban from going forward.
So this is some kind of advocacy group that is going ahead and filing lawsuits against
the rule change that DeSantis wants to implement.
Simone Tris, remember the lawyer for this advocacy group says that Florida's ban will
affect up to 9,000 of the state's Medicaid enrollees who are transgender.
Florida joins either states that have already banned Medicaid dollars from going to gender
affirming care.
Okay, okay, okay.
So the first person to bring up the number 9,000 in the context of this conversation
is the lawyer for the advocacy group that is looking to stop the rule change.
Now presumably she got the number from this data set, so it's not like it's just a made
up number, it is an accurate number.
But this is why the lawyer said that the ban will affect up to 9,000.
So here's what's actually happening.
This person just directly said that approximately 9,000 transgender Floridians woke up today
to find out they no longer have life saving Medicaid coverage.
The 9,000 number comes from a data set regarding adults and the rule change seems to be affecting
predominantly children.
And the reason that these two were mushed together to appear to be part of the same
thing is because a lawyer for an advocacy group said up to 9,000 people may be affected
by this change.
That's a far cry from 9,000 people just woke up and found their rights eviscerated
by the state.
This number's use is from a lawyer who is making their case.
We expect them to put their best foot forward just like we expect their opponents to also
put their best foot forward and then let the judge hash it out in court.
Now I'm not sure if this change is actually good but you can see how every step of the
way the real information twists a little bit more and a little bit more until it starts
to sound like those scenes from V for Vendetta where the police are busting into people's
homes and dragging them away for just living a private life where they might be a deviant
or something.
It doesn't matter if you're left wing, right wing listening to this video.
If you are partisan you probably looked at the part of the video that makes your side
look good and you're like yeah of course this is really good, good digging dev you
did it and then you're looking at the part of the video that makes your side look bad
and you're like well you're just stretching the truth or you're just being partisan or
you just don't understand or you can't you know this is me doing my best to research
the topics as good faith as I can.
Now I could be wrong.
I'm not coming into it to make either the pro-trans or the anti-trans lobby look good
or bad.
I want to know what the truth is and the reason that I feel this strongly about it is because
there has to be some kind of standard, there has to be some kind of neutral territory in
which we can come together even though we believe different things and hash out the
agreement that allows us to live together in peace.
You can't simply destroy the overarching superstructure that you use to negotiate with each other
in the name of political expediency.
You can't just deny your political opponents however disgusting and morally reprehensible
they might be the basic rights that everyone should have.
Doesn't matter if they're Nazis, doesn't matter if they're turfs, doesn't matter if they're
socialists, doesn't matter if they're if they're groomers or pedophiles, doesn't matter.
There are still standards even for people you hate, especially for people you hate.
Even if they were in power they wouldn't give you that benefit and if you do away with those
standards you are at risk of becoming exactly like them.
If you truly are a member of the better side then that comes with acting like it.
