This is Wixom Lake—home to a humble marina, a waterfront church camp, a lakeside campground,
and a host of small neighborhoods where front yards connect to the road network and backyards
connect to docks. But Wixom Lake isn't actually a lake. Rather, it's a river—the Tintabawassee
River—whose flow happens to be suddenly upended by the Edenville Dam, creating a human-made
reservoir. But whatever you call it—a lake, a river, a reservoir—this nondescript body of
water in a nondescript section of central Michigan has real problems that start and will end with the
dam. Edenville Dam is entirely unexceptional. Until 2020, even the most knowledgeable
michigan d'heure would have a hard time placing it on a map. In fact, perhaps if anyone had heard
of it, it was because of what the dam was no longer allowed to do—generate electricity.
Its claim to fame was its lack of function. In the United States, there are some 91,000 dams.
In Michigan, there are about 2,600. Each and every last one was built with a purpose, or,
to further justify cost, multiple. The Hoover Dam would stop flooding in the Imperial Valley,
as well as provide water storage and power. Grand Coulee would provide electricity and
irrigation water. Glen Canyon, the thinking went, would air condition the southwest.
A far humbler dam in comparison, Edenville has a purpose too. Composed not of concrete but of
earth, a combination of clay, rock, and sand, running over 6,000 feet or 1,800 meters wide but
standing only 52 feet or 18 meters tall at its highest point, it was built to provide electricity
for its surrounding communities. With twin 2.4 megawatt generators, Edenville at its peak output
can only provide around 0.36% of the power of Glen Canyon Dam, but that's still enough power
to feasibly electrify the 34,000 households of Midland County, Michigan. Not bad for a dam built
with private funds some century ago. But that core case for its existence quickly waned when
its owner and operator, Boyce Hydropower LLC, received a federal order to shut down production
in 2018 on account of its inability to meet federal regulations. In the ruling's wake,
a power struggle between dam owners, lakeside property owners, and regulators had seen the
lake's levels rise and fall as the dam let more or less water through, but generally,
they sat below operating levels. Then, beginning on May 14th, 2020, and intensifying on the 18th,
it rained. First, it was manageable—by midnight at the start of the 18th, the water level still
sat below its lower operational limit—in other words, the water still hadn't reached the level
that allowed for power generation, let alone flood levels—but that quickly changed the following
day. As an incredible three inches or eight centimeters of rain fell,
lake levels rose nearly two feet or 60 centimeters in the next 24 hours, then another foot in the
next six hours, then another foot in the next six hours, then, along an unremarkable section
of dam along its eastern edge, it went. Now a river unleashed, the waters overwhelmed the
next dam down, flooding 2,500 structures, racking up nearly $200 million in damages,
and causing 10,000 to evacuate. No one died, but a lake few knew of beforehand now made
national news, and a dam long overlooked suddenly became the center of attention.
As the water receded, the forensic investigation began. The findings were surprising—the dam
hadn't overtopped. The water levels hadn't reached higher than the height of its lip.
It hadn't eroded, either. Rather, it had become unstable—it had fallen victim to a phenomenon
called static liquefaction—essentially, the process of progressive loading of the
soil to the point that it no longer functions as a solid, but rather, a liquid. Dam failure
due to static liquefaction is rare, and as engineers have readily admitted, it's not
well understood nor well documented. In this way, then, the Enville Dam failure was rather singular—
something rarely observed, something that's easier to understand as a freak accident rather
than a systematic failure. But it'd be a mistake to chalk the collapse up to bad luck.
Alternatively, the dam had real flaws of existential proportion that it seemed the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission revoke its license. Along with compliance issues and
operational procedures, the major issue that federal regulators took with the Enville Dam
was its inability to deal with heavy floodwater—that its spillways, the very structures
present along practically every dam to protect it from flooding, were too small.
While dams may not look it, they're incredibly fragile when water doesn't move through it,
as designed. Capable of holding back millions of acre-feet, just the slightest of spillovers
are disastrous. Even a couple extra inches of water height above a concrete dam will kick off
a calamitous cascade of erosion eating away at the structure's backside and base. On an earthen dam,
like Enville, water will seep into the structure and potentially erode it from the interior.
Should it overtop a dam of any sort, the unexpected pressure and weight is likely to
rip away at the structure. So, to ensure water stays at a low enough level,
dams have spillways. These are essentially extra throughput capacity. While normally water routes
through a dam's gates, spillways provide an extra route in case that's not enough to lower
the reservoir at the same speed that it's rising due to rain. Now, to pass modern federal standards,
Enville's two spillways would need to move enough water to avoid overtopping in the event of a
probable maximum flood—a theoretical flood event calculated by forecasters that would represent the
most severe combination of hydrological and weather conditions likely in the area—conditions
not so dissimilar to the rainstorm that rolled over Michigan in May of 2020.
Enville never actually overtopped, of course, but it may well have if not for its earlier failure.
Water, after all, was rising. And while operators had opened the overmatched spillways, they could
only safely raise the gates up to seven feet as any higher would endanger the structure and its
staff. Perhaps, then, it was less the fault of bad luck, and more so an outcome made inevitable
by the fact that the dam and its operators just couldn't keep up with the upkeep.
Now, at first glance, one might not consider Enville a regulatory failure,
as the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission attempted to get its owners to add spillway
capacity in a way that might have mitigated the eventual collapse, but one must consider that
such a story is far from unique. Across the nation, there are some 7,999 other dams that
are considered deficient, either in design or in maintenance, and then of those, there are 403 that
have the fatal pair. A condition rating of unsatisfactory, indicating that quote,
a dam's safety deficiency is recognized that requires immediate or emergency remedial action
for problem resolution, along with a hazard rating of high, meaning, in the event of failure,
one or more fatalities is not only possible, but probable. Each of these 403 is in a situation like
Lake Hodges Dam in San Diego, California. Here, the more than century-old structure is quite
literally cracking and crumbling, while also threatened by a known lack of adequate spillway
capacity for the maximum probable flood scenario. If the structure were to fail, it'd take less than
two hours for this entire swath of land to get inundated with water as much as 23 feet or 7
meters deep, leaving dangerously little evacuation time for the thousands of individuals living on
both banks of the San Diogito River, informing the regulator's belief of the inevitability of
fatality. Looking past the regulatory failures and design deficiencies and exceptional weather,
what fundamentally makes these 403 dams so dangerous is the fact that they're just, simply,
old. Age issues are always tricky as they only ever escalate, but, inconceivably, this isn't like
any other age issue—it's worse. That's because, right now, there is a massive, disproportionate
surge of dams getting to the age where age itself is an issue.
The impetus of this surge was a dam-building boom that occurred some 50 or 70 years ago.
Between 1960 and 1980 alone, some 31,000 of the structures were constructed in the United States,
representing more than a third of those standing today. And this was hardly confined to the US.
Around the world, dams were perceived as the perfect solution to provide copious quantities
of cheap, reliable, geopolitically safe energy. The World Bank, in its role financing development-
oriented infrastructure projects in low- and medium-income countries, was a major force in
enabling the development of not just dams, but large dams around the world—the kind that would
reshape entire regions. The thought was that a country would benefit from the employment created
by the construction of such structures, then, once complete, they'd have so much cheap electricity
that an industrial sector would pop up that would provide further employment. Meanwhile,
dams could also help stabilize a water supply, mitigate floods, and help with agricultural
irrigation, so with copious theoretical benefits, hundreds of millions of dollars flowed from World
Bank coffers and they became the number one financier of large dams worldwide.
But each time a dam is built, a geography is altered significantly. For example,
when the Kariba Dam's gates were closed for the first time and the flow of the Zambezi restricted,
that started the formation of what's now known as Lake Kariba. These reservoirs are a fundamental
component of dams—they provide the pressure to turn a turbine for power, and they're the natural
byproduct of stabilizing downstream flow—but they're also massive. Lake Kariba, in fact,
is over twice the size of the nation of Luxembourg. Or put another way, the Kariba Dam removed more
than two Luxembourgs worth of land from Zimbabwe and Zambia. 58,000 people lived on that riverside,
but, as water levels rose, they had to leave the only homes they'd ever known to decamp to less
familiar, less fertile land. Little to no compensation was given to these individuals,
and it took 50 years for any sort of meaningful community rehabilitation efforts to start.
This story was replicated essentially anywhere the World Bank developed a dam. In Guatemala,
the Chixoy Dam deplaced 3,500, and 444 were murdered by the government for resisting their
forced displacement. On the border between Argentina and Paraguay, the Yacreta Dam
displaced upwards of 20,000, again without any meaningful compensation. And problems
persist beyond just displacement—the Yacreta Dam propagated malaria and dengue fever by enlarging
the mosquito habitat, and simultaneously led to the extinction of two species of snail
due to habitat destruction. This is all to say, dams are not some simple device that
effortlessly translates water into electricity—they have a colossal impact. On average, this impact is
felt by poor rural communities, so governments and developers have long found their cries easy
to ignore. But through the years, as the cases counted up, public pressure was mounting on the
World Bank. In 1994, 2,000 NGOs signed the Manabelli Declaration calling for a full-scale
moratorium on dam financing, citing the staggering statistic that 10 million people had been
displaced from their homes by their actions. So, in response to this and other public pushback,
the World Bank partnered with the International Union for Conservation of Nature to form the
World Commission on Dams, a multidisciplinary panel of experts that would study past projects
in order to develop a framework for future ones and answer, once and for all, how to build a good
dam. The answer was perhaps not what the World Bank expected. What the report said, across 404
pages, was that, in sum, historically, the benefits of dams had been overstated and the
costs had been understated. That's to say, dams simply were not as good as previously thought.
While this answer had been coming into focus for decades, this was the most definitive,
official instance of it to date, and in response, both the World Bank and the world more broadly
slowed down its dam development. This coincided with a naturally waning financial case for
hydropower. It's far from the cheapest source of electricity in the US—multiple fossil fuel
sources are cheaper, and even solar and wind now beat its prices. And it's not like its higher
price can be strongly justified on environmental grounds—even ignoring habitat and home
destruction, the creation of a reservoir leads to the death of all the plants it drowns out, which,
in many cases, leads to as much or more greenhouse gas emissions in the first decade of operations
as a coal-fired power plant producing the equivalent amount of electricity.
So, in all, that era of rapid dam development is now bookended, leaving a huge quantity of
aging dams that, perhaps most dangerously, are increasingly unprofitable. You see, the confluence
between financial well-being and physical peril stems from the fact that 65% of dams in the US
are owned not by governments, but by private entities. The failed Edenville Dam was one such
example—after being passed around between companies for decades, in 2006 it ended up in
the hands of Boyce Hydropower LLC. Boyce was a small company whose operations were limited to
the ownership of a few area dams, and that was as intended—they operated more as an investment
vehicle, in fact, than a company. That's because it was owned by the trust of William Dixon Boyce,
the founder of the Boy Scouts of America, meaning, after his death, his wealth was put into this
legal entity designed to manage it according to his wishes, and therefore the trust's managers
made investments to maintain and grow the wealth, including, in this case, buying dams in Michigan.
Theoretically, dams could be a good investment since they're assets with
relatively low operational costs that provide stable, ongoing income through electricity
production. In this case, however, Edenville was bought at a particularly low price since
it was known from the start that it'd need some imminent and expensive upgrades. Nearly a century
on from its construction, the structure no longer conformed to federal spillway capacity guidelines.
After conducting hundreds of thousands of dollars of design work, Boyce finally determined that it
would cost some $8 million to conform to federal standards, which the company said they simply
could not afford. Therefore, they just didn't make the upgrades, and their operator's license
was revoked. The wide-scale private ownership of these pieces of public infrastructure
makes this situation far too feasible. Companies have assets that are becoming less and less
valuable as their economic case wanes, and therefore willingness to maintain or upgrade
them is low. So, there's an overwhelming surge of dams getting dangerously old with increasingly
disinterested owners, meaning dams are becoming less equipped to deal with the worst-case flood
scenarios. But the ultimate crux of the dam issue stems from the fact that global temperatures are
rising. Warmer air holds more water vapor, meaning it creates stronger storms with more
precipitation. The sixth IPCC report determined that the worst storms of a given decade in a
given place are already 6.7% wetter, and if global temperatures rise by 2 degrees Celsius,
as now seems all but inevitable, this intensity increase will be as much as 14%.
And the intensity increase is even greater for the worst storms of a 50-year span, meaning,
not only are bad storms getting wetter, but the maximum potential of the absolute worst storms
is intensifying even faster. Dams were designed to handle the worst-case scenario from decades,
even over a century ago, but now that worst-case scenario is rapidly and meaningfully escalated,
and the dams are getting worse. The worst-case scenario has not happened
recently, in the United States. There have not been recent dam failures resulting in major loss
of life, but there have been warning shots. In 2017, the Oroville Dam had to use its spillway
to reduce water levels during heavy rainfall, but its concrete bays quickly started to break apart.
Operators had to keep sending water through to avoid overtopping the dam, but this and
additional erosion from the emergency spillwater escalated and escalated and started to cut deeply
into the hillside, marching further and further uphill, getting perilously close to eroding the
very foundation of the dam, which likely would have led to collapse. Luckily, reservoir levels
lowered soon enough that this did not occur, but had the rains kept coming, there's little that
could have been done to stop the failure of this dam and the destruction of the heavily populated
areas below. Every dam anywhere is like a loaded gun. It impounds a massive quantity of water,
and water is perhaps one of the most powerful, dangerous forces on earth. The timescale of these
structures means that many people live and die only having known the altered geography a dam
creates, and therefore the altered geography starts to feel like the normal geography.
People get comfortable. They build beneath the dams, they enjoy the shorelines of the reservoir,
and a degree of complacency creeps in as the dam itself starts to feel equally permanent.
That complacency is catching up with the world as perhaps best explained by this simple graph.
Dam failures are rising, and the practical is matching perfectly with the theoretical.
There's no big mystery behind this—most of these failed dams are just plain old.
There is some action—it's not like the issue is going entirely ignored—but not nearly enough
to match the enormous quantity of dams reaching beyond their intended lifespans and the rising
frequency of those riskiest flood scenarios. So catastrophe will probably occur—at this point,
it'd be an anomaly of probability for it not to. Then, once it's too late for change and the risk
is solidified, complacency might finally wane and people might care about the wall of water
sitting upstream, just waiting for one crack, one channel, one inch of overtopping to allow it to
come crashing down, returning the river to its natural state, no matter what stands in the way.
I used to have a huge issue with data privacy. My job is to make videos that are seen by a good
number of people, and inevitably not everyone loves every video, so that's why it was so
concerning to me that a ton of my private information had been scraped from public
records and data breaches and published on data brokerage sites. This was a real safety
risk and as much as I tried to go through and remove these records one by one, there was just
always another site. The process was endless. So that's why I was so glad when I found this
video's sponsor, Incogny. They handle your data privacy for you. All you do is sign up,
give Incogny some of your personal data and grant them the legal right to work on your behalf,
then they'll go through and find which sites have your data, then handle removal requests until
it's done. Basically, you don't need to worry about whether your data is out there on some
sites you don't even know about anymore. This is not only important for security,
but these sites are where scammers and telemarketers often find your information,
so Incogny can help reduce the frequency of those headaches. Knowing just how bad one
security issue can be, I consider the cost of Incogny well worth it, especially since it's
not that much and even less when you use code wendover at incogny.com slash wendover to get
an exclusive 60% off an annual Incogny plan. You'll be supporting Wendover when you do,
so thanks in advance.
