Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with
too much free time, and I have made a lot of videos in my time about sensitive topics.
In fact, I think it's important to discuss sensitive topics because often they are the
ones where they might be the most at stake, particularly situations that involve sensitive
individuals.
However, on the other hand, it is completely understandable why some people do not want
to talk about these things, because they may not feel comfortable enough to do the
topic justice, or you might just feel it would be inappropriate.
I'm not one of those people, I'm sure everyone has received that impression now, I think
as long as you're bringing some level of discourse to the subject, there is nothing that should
be holding you back.
However, today's subject I feel is something that is honestly bigger than anything I've
covered in the past, and there's no real way to get around that, so I will try to keep
my regular structure, but honestly, it's one of those things where I'm also going to have
to let the topic guide me.
Let's talk about Etika then.
Etika born Desmond Daniel Amifer was a YouTube slash streamer from New York.
He started YouTube in 2012 under the brand of Etika World Network, abbreviated to EW
Network.
Over the years, he gradually built up a mandate of content, covering various topics.
It was certainly a bit more gaming oriented, but there was a lot of variety in what he
chose to cover.
This was because he was such a personality, and clearly had a lot of passion for everything
he spoke about, and being consistently invested in what you're talking about is a quality
rarer than many assume.
Over the seven years on YouTube, he developed a following of around 800,000 subscribers,
with a significant amount of these coming throughout the 2017-18 period.
I can't really say too much about him myself because I wasn't too familiar with him, and
it would be disingenuous to pretend I was, however, just as a side note, it would be
really interesting to see someone do a more tribute style retrospective on him.
So what was it about this topic that appealed to me?
Towards the end of 2018, in the midst of a highly successful run, Etika's channel was
deleted.
However, this was not the typical YouTube termination where some untrained bot made
a decision because someone spoke about a sensitive topic, and it thought the video was flat earth
propaganda.
No, this was what appeared to be a fairly justified decision, as pornographic content
appeared to have been posted onto Etika's channel.
Following this, he then took to social media, where he posted multiple statements that seemed
to allude to suicide.
This is where I first heard about him, because when a large influencer with a lot of reputational
clout posts about suicide, it will rightfully cause concern within the community.
However, not too long after this, he responded to the concern, clarifying that he was okay,
and apologising for the panic that he may have caused.
Alright, so, situation over, we can all get back to our day jobs and sleep at night knowing
that Etika is absolutely fine.
Well, not quite, because Desmond wasn't as okay as he claimed to be.
However, these issues did not resurface until April 2019.
When the suicidal tendencies returned, he threatened to delete Twitter and had some
interesting comments for those who tried to confront him regarding this.
This then led to his arrest and hospitalisation.
Less than a couple weeks after this was followed by an unusual shift in which he appeared to
be under the impression that he was a god, yes, a celestial being that had transcended
humankind and was in complete control of their surroundings.
He posted an array of offensive content and subsequently blocked close friends who reached
out to him.
He was then detained by the police in which he informed everyone that the revolution would
not be televised.
He was released from hospital shortly after, at which point he posted the diagnosis which
included his full docs.
Another video then appeared showing him assaulting a police officer and being arrested again.
Throughout this, he had multiple back and forths with Drama Alert host and Internet
personality Keemstar.
This eventually led him to go on the show for an interview where it became pretty interesting.
Hey guys, what's going on?
It's me, the Antichrist.
I've come to purge the planet of all human life.
I will be dropping nuclear missiles very, very soon on every single human being.
Death means nothing.
Why are you all so scared of death for?
It means absolutely zero in the interim.
Why do you think I made Trump president?
We're about to get some fireworks real soon.
This is this is what I'm asking.
Was this a publicity stunt?
Oh, this is my world.
You are playing in my game.
This is all me.
Stop thinking so small, dreamy, creamy, creamy.
Shut up.
Wait, what kind of salad?
Do you have kale and spinach in that salad?
Mostly kale.
You have superfoods in that salad?
Mostly kale.
Oh, really?
I take a lot of vitamins.
You have to.
My mind has to be on top of its game.
Why are you fat?
The multiple changes in Etika's personality compared with other reasons that we'll discuss
relatively soon had really created a fork in the internet regarding the cause of the
mentality that he had adopted.
Some asserted that this was all a simulation, others believed some of his actions were very
real and that no man in his position would merely make this up.
However, although many people were justifiably concerned for his well-being, few could foresee
what was about to happen.
After some more escapades, on June the 19th, Etika posted a video titled I'm sorry to YouTube.
In the video, he lays out his thought process and how it has led him to his current predicament.
Even without the knowledge that this would ultimately be his last upload, it's a pretty
tough video to sit through.
He seems extremely remorseful and addresses a lot of his recent ventures with a level
of reflection not previously seen.
He states that he had been suffering from mental health issues, and his language implies
that he was planning on taking his own life.
He was reported missing on the 20th, and a bag with his belongings was found by the Manhattan
Bridge.
It was not looking too good.
People's worst fears were confirmed on the 24th of July when a body was recovered, and
by the 25th, it was confirmed to be Etika.
Even with the anticipation, the shock was immediate and felt by many.
It is clear that a large number of individuals saw themselves as having a very close relationship
with the streamer, even audiences who had merely casually viewed his content were visibly
shaken.
Etika isn't the first YouTuber to take his own life, but few had ever seen a person's
mental state unravel in front of their eyes.
This sparked a new discussion on how the online world and platforms treat mental health, with
many people pointing fingers at figures who had enabled his seemingly destructive actions.
In spite of the thoughts and prayers type mourning, there was an equal amount of visceral
passion in many people's feelings, feelings that were justified in many ways, but ultimately
overlooked a behaviour symptomatic of the culture.
One of the greatest issues was that people just didn't know how to react to someone like
Etika going off the rails, and others who didn't believe it was real at all.
Today, I intend to investigate and discuss that behaviour.
It's a hard one, I'm aware, and I do warn people in advance that we'll be dealing with
sensitive topics.
The main point I want to discuss is to what extent this was avoidable, and what can be
done in future scenarios to avoid this.
Let's begin this topic with a little history.
YouTube and international media has a complicated relationship with mental wellbeing.
On one hand, the increasing awareness for certain conditions has definitely aided people
in diagnoses.
In the past, and still in some places today, there has been a stigma around being mentally
ill.
Go back less than a hundred years ago, and even in many Western countries, the best way
to deal with someone who may be suffering from mental issues were straitjackets and
lobotomies.
However, many countries quickly realised, hey, this might not be such a grand idea,
and throughout the 20th century, many sweeping reforms took place that humanised and categorised
the conditions that many people suffered from.
In the UK, it wasn't until 1961 that all the asylums were closed by the then Health Minister
Enoch Powell, who might ring a bell for British viewers for slightly less positive reasons.
However, in the decades following, there were still a lot of issues regarding public
perception of mentally ill individuals, because as many people know, even if you change the
laws, many of the stereotypes around these individuals still remain, often perpetuated
by communities and the media.
It has certainly taken a long time for a lot of people to have their perceptions shifted,
but we are making progress.
However, when one problem goes away, another arises.
In fact, a plethora of them decide to materialise, all ingrained in modern culture, with the
increasing nuance surrounding mental disorders no longer was it perceived as this sort of
rabid person in a straight jacket.
We move towards trying to define the many shades, typically from a psychological perspective,
a mental disorder is something that impairs an individual from functioning in their personal
life, or causes significant distress.
Nowadays, instead of throwing people who may be mentally ill in an asylum, we try and account
for their personal illness in their behaviour, we try and treat it, we try and help them
improve.
People with mental illnesses are at a disadvantage, and we do like to help people, however at
the same time we only have limited energy and resources to help people, and we don't
like people exploiting mental illness, whether it's for money or for sympathy.
On top of this, a mental disorder does imply that an individual may not be fully responsible
for their actions, for example, it is regularly used as a defence in court, which might result
in a reduced sentence or a referral.
This has ultimately caused a lot of controversy, because actions and consequences would always
exist separate of the person conducting them, and many people have trouble finding justification
sometimes for people's actions.
On top of this, people know that a person's character isn't defined by their mental condition,
and to assume someone did something on the basis of mental illness alone might well be
a great disservice to other people going through the same thing.
There are a lot of blurred lines, if someone's a psychopath, they will receive a fairly harsh
sentence for a crime, many would argue rightfully so, but suffering from another disorder may
completely devolve responsibility.
Now there are many rational arguments for why this is, but equally, there are still
a lot of unknowns, and many of us don't quite know how to deal with this, however, because
people don't like blurred lines, and because people like to have opinions, this will lead
to people perhaps judging situations prematurely.
The discussion of mental illness has reared its head on multiple occasions relating to
popular YouTubers and even celebrities, sometimes it is done in a fairly poignant manner, however
on YouTube, a lot of the time, it is not so much, arguably one of the more recent situations
that had allegedly fairly deep ties to mental illness was FouseyTube's quite incredible
public display of what the hell is going on, with the failure that was FouseyCon, and all
subsequent demonstrations that we had the delight of observing.
At the time, there was an ambiguity regarding the role the mental health had played into
it, but there was a shared fixation on the failure that was FouseyCon, and the fact that
he had hyped up the appearance of multiple celebrities and brought people from all over
the country, and even the world, to attend to him basically standing on a car.
As a public figure, many people, myself included, placed a significant amount of responsibility
on him, and many others saw the idea of a mental problem as a scapegoat.
It's understandable, given Fousey's history of lies, deception, and manipulation, particularly
within his pranks.
The people's patience was worn relatively thin by then, equally though, regardless of
whether he was stimulating or not, at the time it received a lot of attention.
Ultimately, the whole stunt seemed to be done for one reason, attention, it felt like a
person going one step further to retain the feeling of attention that he once had.
It was a fairly sad situation, and regardless of the attention given to him in the moment,
these sorts of acts are much alike to crying wolf.
You may gain attention at first, but people will begin to ignore it towards the end, and
like that, Fousey faded into the background.
Now there are many creators who talk about these issues, but prior to Etika, Fousey's
incident was the most recent public demonstration that has sparked debate about mental health's
involvement in accountability.
Ultimately, the conclusion was clear, the sooner the spotlight was off him, the better.
If someone only lives for attention, then they cannot survive, because unless you're
the bloody queen, people can't invest themselves in every single celebrity.
Not everything you do will be interesting.
There are many reasons that people come down harder on public figures, but the main reason
is because many creators and YouTubers make videos for a purpose, attention, but attention
isn't typically given, it's earned.
YouTubers want creators to work hard for their engagement, people can fake being insane,
but many people don't, because they know how it would trivialise the genuine cases
of insanity.
However, this promotes a scarcity in these incidents, so that when they occur, they receive
unconditional attention.
The concept of a mental breakdown is attention in the worst way for many reasons, and therefore
if people think it's faked, then they might feel cheated, they've given their attention
to someone's suffering when they could have given it to someone else who deserved it,
or for the emotional impact that witnessing a person allegedly suffering might cause.
People don't want to be taken for fools, however scepticism can sometimes manifest
and be applied where it probably isn't needed.
Now many people would say that today's situation is one of those instances, after all it's
quite clear that those who doubted him were in the wrong.
However, as always, I want to take a deeper dive and explore what made people think that
way, and if we could try and turn it round in the future.
People exist on a spectrum of scepticism.
When there are claims, there will always be people who are more likely to believe an individual
making those claims, and likely those who will have a higher burden of proof.
Both of these positions are somewhat justifiable.
One of the biggest problems with the Etika situation was that many people seemed to have
presumed positions on the basis of previous incidents and their own opinions.
This has been the product of much of the internet culture that has arisen over the last few
years, the sort of desperation to prove your own side right, but not really stopping to
analyse the actual information.
Let this be clear, this is not against anyone who may have quietly speculated about Etika's
mental health.
People are 100% entitled to those opinions, even if they are proven dubious in the future.
We all have our doubts, and I'm not one to please those.
However, there were many people who pushed ideas that really shouldn't have been the
focus of the situation at the time, nonetheless, they still existed.
Why did they?
Well, let's dissect some of the basic concepts of why people tend to doubt these things.
The first is reputation.
Public figures arguably get one of the worst wraps for mental health, despite the fact
that many times, they are equally as vulnerable.
This is mainly due to the conception that mental health issues typically come from a
lack of material items, such as money or a house, and as mentioned earlier, given creators
and their drive for attention, we are typically hesitant to dish out sympathy in their direction.
When people do certain things that seem like an immediate hunt for attention, people become
immediately sceptical.
In this instance, Etika's provocative moment of posting porn, followed by the numerous
suicidal threats, felt like a moment to shock the audience.
Although in hindsight, given some of his behavioural tics, it may have been foreseeable, many people,
particularly outsiders, saw it as too sudden a turn for it to not have taken some level
of orchestration.
However, the problem is, by focusing on the spikes of attention seeking, people overlook
the other conditions that may not explicitly be stated, but have to be taken into account.
By losing his channel, Etika practically lost six years of accumulated work that he
wasn't going to be able to get back, and alright, some might argue that it was a bombastic
way to torpedo his channel to focus on his other works, but he would have had to have
had a level of certainty that he was never going to return, and I don't think a creator
can logically grasp that often.
On top of that, the swarm of people who suddenly became interested in the topic seemed to dilute
those who actually knew Etika, thus creating a lack of perspective.
The response to Etika's behaviour ultimately became a spike, much reflecting the incidents
themselves, thus not really allowing people to look at his behaviour in between.
To add, there wasn't really anyone that close to him providing an unbiased perspective on
the mental well-being of Etika.
The greatest voice appeared to be Etika's ex-girlfriend, Alice Pika, who Etika was in
a relationship with between 2011 and 2017, however even then this did not seem to be
enough.
As an ex, Pika can only put herself through so much as well.
Even all the emotional baggage from a six-year relationship existing.
That can't be pleasant, I understand that.
In the months following, Etika apologised for his behaviour and seemingly returned to
his normal self, thus giving many a false sense of security regarding his mental stability.
As many people will tell you, just because someone may appear to seem stable, this doesn't
mean that they are, and an initial episode can often just be foreshadowing for what might
come after.
Ultimately, the difference between Etika and Fusi's episode is that what Etika did directly
harmed himself.
I'd much more compare his behaviour to that of Marina Joyce.
The difference is that at the time of the incident, Marina Joyce seemed completely void
of any motive for intention, and therefore it made people much more inclined to focus
on the issue.
Now don't get me wrong, there were people who didn't believe her either, but the difference
was that after her episode, she didn't return to the public spotlight in a way that Etika
did.
This leads us to the next issue, repetition.
People don't like the same things happening again and again, it is a classic rule of life.
As mentioned earlier, the story of The Boy Who Cried Wolf is a classic tale, but it's
not necessarily accurate in this instance, because we know now that the first time that
Etika cried wolf, the wolf was very much existent, but ultimately that tale shows that if people
cannot directly see the wolf, there is no guarantee that they will believe the word
of the individual who claims they saw it.
The worst thing about mental health is that many of the issues are completely invisible
for those who judge a situation, and therefore when they return again, people, although more
likely to doubt it, don't necessarily have any actual proof that they didn't exist, which
leads to a lot of speculation.
During his second breakdown, he was transported to hospital.
In a way, this should have provided verification to the fact that he was not well, however
he returned home surprisingly quickly and posted a printout of his medical report to
the internet.
Now the fact that he doxxed himself was once again rather concerning, but the experts in
this instance had concluded that he suffered from agitation.
The appeal to this authority with what appeared to be a rather mild diagnosis appeared to
add credence to the theory that this was just some elaborate ruse.
The only other authority at that time, Alice Pika, was blocked, and although understandably
upset and frustrated at how she had been treated by someone she was trying to help, clumsily
tweeted out that he would not hurt himself.
Probably not the best thing to say, although like many, I'm sure she didn't realise the
consequences at the time.
As the incidents escalated, many people began to realise a ruse this was not, particularly
when it reached the point that he attacked a police officer, however some of the doubts
still lingered, not assisted by the fact that Etika had made somewhat facetious comments
and set up an OnlyFans page on the back of one of his breakdowns, a paid subscription
service.
Even up to the day that he committed suicide, there were people who theorised that this
was not legitimate, but it was, and now we are here.
I think the problem is that people overlook that whatever Etika stood to vaguely gain
from these situations was not sustainable, physically or mentally.
He had already lost a lot, pushed away a lot of his friends, and taken himself to a
stage of public reputation that was so, so far from where he was.
The seemingly very mixed nature of public response made people highly hesitant to take
any action at all, the lack of people close to him speaking out or taking action meant
that he was left alone or vulnerable, and the failure of authority to take him in and
treat him at a time of vulnerability had left him exposed to the very mixed nature of the
internet, and although there were many people who took these things seriously, there were
numbers who prevented a consensus from being created on the right thing to do.
Maybe someone would have been able to intercept this if the outcry was loud enough, but it
never was, and when we were faced down with the implications of not being able to prevent
something that could have been apprehended, many people turned to point fingers at people
who had instigated this environment.
But how accountable are they?
Let's discuss.
People like to doubt.
It's a problem, and one that surfaced in this situation.
As mentioned at the start of the video, one of the sides of mental health that we have
a greater understanding of is that it can alter the way we might judge a person, particularly
on the basis of their actions, however, some people don't identify it this way.
One of those people was Keemstar.
In what I think is now a deleted video, which I wish I could find, Keemstar states that
he acknowledges that chemical imbalances exist, but doesn't believe that implies mental illness.
This is a statement that is echoed throughout many of his other tweets, though he has since
deleted a lot of them.
Now, many people did not understand this take at all, but I almost have a twisted sense
of comprehension of what he's saying here, albeit clumsily.
He understands that there are certain people with chemical imbalances in their head to
a greater degree, however, does not believe this premises the classification of a mental illness.
Let's go into deep philosophy, and I'll try not to lose you.
Essentially, what Keemstar is saying is that different people are different, and that these
differences, even ones that seem to make people a bit seemingly insane, are not differences
that necessarily provide them with illnesses that might devolve them of responsibility.
At the heart of this issue, every single person will be slightly different in the way that
they behave, and the biochemical roots that drive the behaviour.
No two people are completely the same, and we can't necessarily account for the disadvantages
that those differences may provoke.
At the end of the day, these differences will lead us down different paths, and no one will
ever be 100% compatible with the environment around them.
For many people, the question is when the line between personal accountability and accountability
to a mental illness may be drawn.
It's a difficult question.
Without the existence of mental illness, that line is discarded, thus leading to some more
rather interesting discussions.
As spoke about earlier regarding the definition of mental illness, we stated that it was something
that impairs an individual from functioning in their personal life, or causes significant
distress.
In the modern world, that is particularly hard to define, and we won't get it right
every time.
But ultimately, the sort of theory that Keemstar promotes only tends to work if mental wellbeing
existed on a fairly even playing field.
The problem is that ultimately, those who may be mentally suffering, or going through
hard times in their head, are typically deviations from an ideal norm.
Now, it's important to clarify what's being said here, because social norms do evolve
and change, and to suggest a deviation may immediately qualify it as a mental illness
is rather aggressive.
But the thing is that a lot of these deviations seem a lot more scientifically based than
socially brought forward on their own.
And that's the thing.
While there is great debate over where the line should be drawn, many of us accept the
extremes.
It is clear that Etika was on this extreme, and therefore shouldn't have been entertained
in the same way that we might entertain a FouseyTube character.
Many people alleged that Keemstar's promotion of this opinion ultimately weighted him with
some accountability of the situation.
He had invited Etika onto his show, which had led him to a rather volatile confrontation.
Many people saw the mentality Keemstar promoted as warring, because it would lead you to treat
a mentally ill person with the same level of tact that you would treat a mentally well
person, and when that treatment's coming from Keemstar, well, he's not known for his gentility.
Keemstar
also famously made this comment.
Many commentators cited this as a reason for why he should be held to a standard for this
instant, and to be frank, I completely understand why.
It was extremely distasteful, especially with the context we now understand, but it's
difficult to see that Keemstar was actively encouraging the behaviour, it was more over
an abrupt response that was very, very poorly thought out.
But still, if you have someone in a high up position in a public community, would you
not expect them to behave with a bit more tact?
Well, yes, but no.
The media's exploitation of mental health has long existed prior to Keemstar, in a way
he was terrible, but although many people have argued that he enabled Etika's arguably
very destructive behaviour, it's important to remember the people who enabled Keemstar's
behaviour to the sort of approach that people enjoy, this sensationalisation from this media
figure.
If no one wanted Keemstar's coverage, then he wouldn't have pulled as many views in.
There weren't enough people stepping in and stating that this was literally the worst
way to go about it, and in a way, it would have been hard for people to do that without
the foresight of what would happen.
Now you could argue that Keemstar should have had that foresight, I agree, but he didn't,
because the lingering doubt held by many people that this was not legitimate, and simply because
Keemstar is no better in many ways, there wasn't an acknowledgement that the consequences
could have turned out this way.
On top of this, you can't really definitively say that if Keemstar and others alike hadn't
publicly mishandled this, Etika would have been absolutely fine.
Keemstar's interview was insensitive and messy, but I highly doubt it would have altered
too much.
I mentioned the Marina Joyce situation earlier, and when that situation transpired she appeared
on an interview with DeFranco, a seemingly more professional news source for sure, but
still with the providence of coverage and traffic nonetheless.
Keemstar's interview, although bad, is much more a symptom rather than a cause.
Ultimately, the difference was that there was just a lack of intervention from many
people, and those who did attempt to intervene weren't close enough to break through.
And honestly, I think the medical authority have come away with a lot less criticism than
they could be receiving, because they should have stepped in themselves, but they just
sent him back home under the impression that it was just a bit of agitation.
To my knowledge, they did not monitor him, despite his continuous public displays towards
himself and others.
It worries me to think how someone who's not a public figure like Etika would be treated.
And listen, Etika did undergo therapy after his first incident, and was clearly having
some sort of help, but I really think more could have been done on the side of professionals
with his initial incident in mind, because regardless of the environment online that
it is incredibly toxic and deserving of its own criticism, online people are not expert
therapists.
A lot of people, at least, we could all do a bit better from being a tad more compassionate,
I do not know if I could honestly blame any online individual for the way this situation
has transpired, because the handling was just a reapplied template.
No one really went out of their way to approach it differently, it's just for the first time
the outcome was very different, and people couldn't begin to rationalise why, so the
fingers started being pointed, when really it was a collective problem that the presence
of some and the absence of others contributed to.
Let's talk about that.
In Etika's final video, he re-treads the experiences he went through from a rather
solemn perspective.
I'm sorry yo, I'm sorry I betrayed your trust, I'm sorry I pushed you all away, I'm sorry
I made a clown of myself, I apologise, I wish it didn't have to be this way.
When Etika posted indecent content on YouTube, and lost so much that he had worked for, it
was a strange scenario that could have been handled very differently.
It was the beginning of a long track to the end, and it brought up a very difficult topic.
YouTube removed Etika's final video altogether, and this provoked many people to criticise
YouTube.
Many people have additionally called on YouTube to restore Etika's original channel, and for
what it's worth, I'd like to echo those calls.
I don't know how practically viable it is, but I think it's important to remember people
for what they should be remembered for, and regardless of what has happened over the last
year to Etika, the content that he brought to the website should always outweigh his
untimely passing, and I think YouTube should pay tribute to that.
YouTube may terminate or place sanctions on a channel for a multitude of reasons, but
for this situation, it seemed protective to make sure that an incident like that doesn't
occur again.
Etika himself was not someone with predatory intent, and still owned other channels on
the website.
With the owner of the channel no longer with us, it is quite clear that the incumbent threat
has ceased to be, and therefore it would be appropriate to, in my opinion, return the
channel, for friends, family, and fans alike.
With that out of the way, should they have ever terminated at all, if he was just going
through a mentally vulnerable episode?
In his video, something he said struck me.
But I ultimately turned down help.
And you know what they say, you can't help somebody who doesn't want to help themselves.
I just didn't realize I needed help.
That's how deluded I was, man.
It's not y'all fault.
I don't want you to blame yourselves.
It's all my fault.
I'm the one that pushed y'all away.
Then I deluded myself into thinking that somehow I didn't destroy a big part of my life, that
somehow I was ahead of the curve.
It was like that heavy delusion that I couldn't pull myself out of.
I didn't even know I was in it.
I was saying and doing things that made no sense.
The way he framed the situation was interesting, because although he takes some responsibility
for what had occurred, it almost felt like he perceived himself as having no other option
given the response to the other instance.
That was what I found so sad while watching the video, the idea that he perceived himself
as in a corner.
The only other option was to take his own life.
Whatever had provoked that shouldn't have occurred, and although there will be some
people who you will never be able to talk out of, I feel that Etika wasn't one of those
people.
I think he would have taken an outstretched hand if he felt it was right for him, but
in his time of vulnerability, many judged him and the authorities punished him, when
really he maybe should have just got his channel back and been monitored a bit more closely.
YouTube makes exceptions for people all the time, where they otherwise shouldn't, and
although you don't want to open the floodgates for people abusing the conditions, I just
don't feel like it would have, even if I don't have a crystal ball.
The point that I stated in brief light of this is that ultimately, whether completely
real or completely fake, the solution doesn't differ too much from an outsider's perspective,
but what we need to do is focus on people getting help from offline sources.
If someone has been driven to the point that they simulate a mental illness, then they
probably need a break and they're still likely suffering from something else.
If they're real, then there should be no question about the course of action.
This isn't to say we shouldn't have a discussion about this stuff and the consequences that
they may yield.
There are people who do abuse mental illness as scapegoats sometimes.
I've spoken about individuals who may be mentally vulnerable.
It doesn't necessarily put a person above criticism, but it's equally important the
sort of criticism that you'll be dealing out, and the sort of mentality that you promote
towards a person.
Let my story be one that advises caution on too much of the social media shit, man.
It can fuck you up.
It can give you an image of what you want your life to be, and it can get blown completely
out of proportion, dog.
Unfortunately, it consumed me, and it made me forget about consequences to my actions.
It made me forget that we have to pay for the things that we say.
It made me forget that there is weight behind words.
I was so consumed with this great image that I had had that I thought I was invulnerable
to everything.
As an example, Edgar said a lot of highly inflammatory things during his second mental
breakdown, and many people took the opportunity to write him off, it seems, due to the rigidity
of some people's moral compasses.
This doesn't validate any of what he said as remotely true or appropriate, and as separate
actions they could well be criticised, but they did not warrant people suddenly judging
a character that was clearly not completely present to think through their actions.
We have to be very careful when we assign a rigid moral value to certain actions that
discount mental state, because you will marginalise people who are suffering and mentally vulnerable,
and I know some people don't want to do that because they don't want certain things
to be quote humanised, but they are human, and when they're coming out of someone who
is losing their mind, it's not going to be from the perception of glorification that
you might criticise others for.
Let me make it clear, there are many reasons for why people might be pissed off, dangerous
behaviour shouldn't just be ignored, and it definitely shouldn't be encouraged, but
it felt like a lot of people used the doubt of legitimacy to write off whatever he was
going through, and give license to rather harsh judgement that he clearly felt.
He felt that he couldn't come back from this, and we should never make someone feel
like that.
We should never make someone like him feel like they can't have a second chance, because
I do think Edgar deserved it.
On top of this, although the online culture did come across as disappointingly unsympathetic,
it wasn't the sole cause.
It's not just the mob alone that will fully drive someone to insanity, it often requires
a lack of support from all corners, and you've got the feeling that Edgar just seems so alone
when he probably needed support most, and pushed many people away.
This isn't to say that there isn't an obligation on anyone to do more, maybe that was how Edgar
set himself up, and most people just didn't anticipate it, but it should always serve
as a reminder that if you have someone in your life that you care about, that you do
genuinely value, make sure you let them know from time to time.
At the end of the day, what we witness publicly is only the tip of a very deep iceberg, and
to judge the person from the situation alone is to miss the point.
However, it was something that many people did, maybe even something that I did when
I took a passing glance, but I think the best thing we can do is try and be more mindful
in the future of what might happen.
There'll be no way to fully prevent these things, and internet trolls will always exist,
but if we can have at least a few people re-evaluate the sort of statements they make, then we
might do a bit better.
As said at the start, I think this was the first time a community suffered something
so intimate to many people, and you can see it all over the site, but we learn, we grow,
and I hope next time we can do a bit better.
When people act like they are mentally suffering, it puts them in a position that isn't inherently
desirable.
Although I can understand why some people may think that such behaviour is baiting for
attention or sympathy, and I can understand why people may want to see who's telling
the truth and who isn't, because we want to be putting the right energy into the right
people, we still have to do it with sensitivity, and with the knowledge that we might be wrong.
Also, regardless of whether you believe mental illness to be real or not, the result of this
situation was from a specific mindset that does deserve exception in its treatment.
Whether that's due to society or not is another question, but unless you're planning
on being the person to uproot society, then you should probably play the game with caution.
I don't think you can hold a single individual accountable for the death of Etika, I think
it was a collective failure due to a limited perspective, though really, I wish someone
had just stepped in at the right time, and that's a reminder, if you have the power
to step in, then don't shy away, you really don't know the difference it might make.
As always with this sort of video, I'll leave links below to suicide hotlines, this
video will not be monetised, because I feel it's a situation that is bigger than all
of us, some people did suggest I monetise it and give the ad sense to charity, but I
feel that would just cause confusion, and it'd likely be demonetised anyway, there'll
be some links to reputable suicide charities below if you want to donate.
Take care of yourself, people.
So yes, that's the video, I want to give a thanks to my editors once again for their
work, I know that this is probably a situation close to many of their hearts, and I'm gonna
leave their links in the pinned comment, go and check them out, send them some love, because
I'm sure this was not an easy one for them.
I'd also like to give a big thanks to my Patreons, thank you for supporting me so much, it makes
a hell of a lot of difference, particularly when dealing with these topics, some of those
Patreons are up on screen right now, I'd like to give a big thanks to two specific Patreons,
Hello Right at $50, Caroline at $50, Nico Deschamps at $50, Rocket Ralph at $50, Sarah
Elizabeth at $50, Samhala Baloo at $50, and The Specter Angel at $50, and to go one step
up, you have Adam Michael on $100, Brandon Junk on $100, Evening Steel on $100, thank
you so much guys, it's great help.
If you wanna get in touch with me, if you wanna reach out, then you can, at The Right
Opinion on Twitter, Right Opinion on Fischl on Facebook, I also have a Discord, two links
will all be in the pinned comment for those as well, and I don't really have too much
else to add, but just take care guys, and I do love you, appreciate you a lot, I'm The
Right Opinion, and I'll see you in the next one.
Bye.
