Hey guys, got an announcement for you.
You got a crust hanging off your lip.
So for everyone who watches this for Gamergate, this is good news for you.
I did an interview, a four part interview with Paper Mario about all things related
to Gamergate.
It was a lot of fun.
It's kind of noteworthy because he is a subscriber.
What are you coughing about?
His name isn't Paper Mario.
Oh shit, it's Photo Mario.
Oh my fucking god!
Everyone just looks up Paper Mario.
It's just one of those games.
So I did a series of Gamergate interviews with Proto Mario and it was actually really
cool and we talked about all things Gamergate over a course of like four parts of videos.
It's actually kind of noteworthy because he is a YouTuber with like 250,000 subscribers
and he does have an open letter to anybody who's in Gamergate or even opposed to it to
go over and talk to him.
He'll listen to pretty much every side of it and just give everyone publication just
to kind of talk about the issues.
So if you want to go see my interview, you can go check out the link.
If you want to go talk to him, he's more than willing to talk to anybody so go have some
ethics.
And as for our next Gamergate video, it is coming in a few days so come say hi when that
comes out.
Are you like just eating shit in bed last night?
Eating like some ghetto nachos or some KFCs?
Again dude, my lips are really chapped.
Yeah, so is your asshole.
I know, that's why I've got to put chapstick on though and then put it back.
Man, when someone actually says like the expression chapped asshole, do they actually like, they
just like a dry asshole that just cracks when you take a shit?
Are we talking about the literal meme or the textual meme?
I don't know, whatever.
I'd deliver a lot of those because people say that, like it's actually the thing they're
comparing it to.
I think it's just like just dried, like red.
So do you like, do you like chapstick your asshole?
I don't think so.
I think you just let it in the store.
Is there asshole chapstick that you could like put on it?
Operation Age.
Oh, Anosol!
Anosol is an actual thing?
Yeah, it is.
It's a legitimate thing.
Okay, well, let's try it, Dave.
Together.
You want to like share a stick of it?
Oh my god, I'm so wrong on so many levels.
