Hey guys, Dev here, doing another update vlog for you.
It's March 1st, and I'm gonna go over some changes happening to the channel right now.
I'm sure some of you have noticed that there is now a Patreon link on the end slates of
our Let's Plays.
Yes, we've given in to the dark side and started up a Patreon.
For those of you who don't know, Patreon is a service where you can incrementally pay
your favourite internet content producers.
It's sort of become a big thing recently.
A lot of mid-sized video producers like TheSpoonieOne and such are using it.
It also became a big thing negatively because in Gamergate people discovered that developers
and journalists were donating to each other's Patreons.
And I'm sure we'll have a whole Indiefensible video coming up on that soon.
Patreon is different from something like Indiegogo or Kickstarter.
Indiegogo, Kickstarter, GoFundMe, those type of things, they're to fund a single project.
You know, um, just a famous and controversial example was Anita Sarkeesian getting a boatload
of money to do videos.
Now I'm not here to discuss Anita Sarkeesian at all, that's a topic for another video.
But basically, her campaign was set up like you give her a total sum of money, she creates
a video series.
And that model works for a Kickstarter or for an Indiegogo.
But Patreon's different.
Patreon is an ongoing payment where as people produce the content, you pay them in pieces.
So you know, for example, I think Spoonie's Patreon is set up so that every time he releases
a new review, you're supposed to pay him money.
And that exchange happens automatically.
He puts up a video, he tells Patreon, they withdraw from the account.
Other people's Patreons are set up monthly.
And there has been abuse with this.
Again, in Gamergate, people have discovered that, you know, there are people like Indie
game developers who are just breaking in money through Patreon monthly on a monthly
basis for doing nothing.
And we're not going to be like that because I think anyone who's watched our channel for
any amount of time knows we put out two videos a day.
So our Patreon is going to be a monthly contribution so that you, if you're so inclined, and we
would be very grateful if you were, decide to give us money through Patreon every month
you'd pay so much, we would put that towards the show.
And it makes sense for us because we put out so many videos.
The idea of having you pay for every video is kind of absurd.
And Patreon even suggests that people who put out consistent content like us go buy
a monthly plan.
So that's what we're going to do.
Lord Cat has done some talking about Patreon recently, where he mentioned that a lot of
people who do Patreons set their goals for individual contributors.
They set them kind of stupidly.
And here's what I'll mean.
Like, say you're, I'm just going to use the gamer game example again, because it's what's
on my brain right now.
Say you're an Indie developer, and you have a Patreon.
And one of the goals is, okay, if you donate $50 every month, I'll make you an Indie game.
Okay, great.
So let's say I'm going to invest in that person.
I invest 50 bucks for one month, I get my Indie game.
And what is my incentive to keep giving $50 every month?
That was a one time reward for a monthly contribution.
One time rewards work for things like Kickstarter, wherein you're backing an entire project,
and you get a reward from the project, along with the project itself, but it doesn't work
for an ongoing payment like Patreon, which is why we've actually kind of, over here we've
kind of gone back and forth with the idea of should we do a Kickstarter or something
like that versus should we do a Patreon, we ultimately decided to go with Patreon because
we're not funding a new project per se, you know, our channels already going, the channel
would continue to go.
Even without the money, though, it would probably go worse, but it would continue to go.
It's not it's not like with a Kickstarter where if a Kickstarter fails a project stops,
our channel, even if even if this Patreon idea completely falls apart on us, we're still
going to keep making stuff on our channel.
So here's how our Patreon is going to work.
We're coming up with a mechanism that will allow people to view the daily videos, which
is the Let's Play stuff earlier.
So if you were to contribute not a large amount, probably some small amount, like 10 bucks
or something a month, you could see the videos during that month, probably about a week ahead
of schedule, a week earlier than everyone else.
And that probably sounds pretty weak, admittedly.
But here's the thing, every other good alternative we thought of would have been one time, one
time rewards, which don't fit with a Patreon.
Like if you wanted, okay, if you wanted to donate, say 50 bucks a month, and we do an
anime review for you, okay, after we after you do your review, you know, why would you
keep donating $50 you know, it's kind of ridiculous.
We do have a separate system set up, where if you want to donate a DVD copy of an anime,
then we will do a review of that for you.
And that that's outside of Patreon.
But that is really the only goal we've thought of.
And because we don't expect to get much, admittedly much money from this.
So it's a small goal for a small Patreon.
I think it fits.
It is something that is ongoing and somewhat substantive.
So you would get your $10 worth at least if you like our stuff and want to see it sooner.
And I will promise you that whenever we get money from Patreon and decide to spend that
money on something, it will be towards the show.
We do plan to buy new equipment, to buy some hardware, maybe to buy games or anime to use
on the show, props, lighting, you know, costumes.
And any time we buy something with your money, we will publicly post the receipt so you can
see exactly where it's going.
There will be more details in the Patreon to come.
We're hoping to have it set up by April so that April is when the monthly rewards will
start rolling out.
So in one month.
And with any luck we'll get enough money out of it that we could expand the program, maybe
offer some different rewards.
We do also want to have total sum rewards where if we manage to get, say, X amount of
dollars in total, we could do a certain project.
I know our ultimate goal for this channel is the following.
Two Let's Play videos daily.
One indefensible gamergate video weekly.
Two anime reviews monthly.
And then on top of all that, really anything else that we could throw in.
Like if you wanted to do, if you wanted to like go see a movie and do a vlog about it,
we could do that.
If I wanted to finally pick up the slack on doing the Pokemon retrospective, I definitely
want to do that.
And I mean, we're going to try to do that whether we get paid from you guys or not.
This is no pressure.
We're going to try.
We've been trying for a while.
But the money would help.
We could buy things that were missing and so on and so forth.
But I mean, don't, of course, don't feel obligated.
Don't feel obligated.
We're a fucking tiny internet show.
But it would help us with those goals.
It would be appreciated.
You would get at least the meager rewards that we could offer and it would all go towards
the show and you'd see proof of that.
Now on the topic of the end slate, when we put the Patreon link into the end slate, we
took out the BlipTV link.
And I'm going to go over just what's going on there.
I'm sure a lot of you already know this, but basically BlipTV is closing its doors.
And there was a time in which, this was back in 2009, 2008, when actually YouTube didn't
make YouTubers any money.
The money was on BlipTV.
And if you could get on BlipTV and then even better get on a conglomerate site, the big
one back then was that guy with the glasses, you could actually make serious internet money.
Because YouTube back then, in 2009, was considered just a place to kind of build an audience
but not really make money off the audience.
You had to build a YouTube audience, then get accepted on BlipTV.
Even better, get accepted on one of these sites, because Blip paid out significantly
more than YouTube.
And we got lucky.
You know, right during Blip's heyday, August 2009, we got on BlipTV and we started posting
our anime reviews on BlipTV and they started actually getting decent hits and getting money.
And for a good while there, we actually had a bigger following on Blip than we did on
YouTube.
But then I think in like 2012 or something, Maker, the YouTube studio, the network, bought
Blip and it's kind of gone downhill since then.
They started purging people from Blip so that content producers were kicked off, usually
because they didn't meet Blip's standards of quality.
Luckily, we stayed on.
I don't know how.
I mean, there are people there who I think were better than us that got the boot and
we didn't.
And everybody has seen this coming for about a year now because there's been every, between
six and nine months, there's been new cuts of people saying, okay, we're going to tighten
the rules some more, kick more people out, tighten the rules again, kick more people
out.
We've survived each purge from Blip, but it's not the site that it used to be.
It's pretty obvious that when Maker bought Blip, they just kind of wanted the exclusive
talent that was signed to Blip.
There were some contributors on Blip TV that were only on Blip TV.
They had like contracts with Blip that made them exclusive and Maker wanted them.
Maker wanted them on their network, so they bought Blip to get them.
And then after that, Maker really didn't care what happened to Blip.
So the Blip surge has gone down.
The money is back on YouTube again and Blip is ultimately closing its doors and becoming
Maker TV.
And it will be a Maker only service.
And even then, not for everybody on Maker, only for like the privileged few that the
top of Maker will be, will have their videos hosted on Maker TV.
So I mean, we are leaving Blip.
It's not really a priority for us anymore.
It's not a priority for anybody anymore, but it's not really a big deal because Blip's prominence
has faded.
I mean, we'll still upload to Blip like when it's convenient.
I mean, if, for example, no one in the house is using the internet and we got a couple
episodes that we haven't uploaded to Blip yet, we can put out and just slap them up
there, get maybe two bucks off them before the service closes.
It's not a big deal, but it's no longer a priority.
But the reason I bring up Blip is to bring up Maker because I do want to talk about YouTube
MCNs, multi-channel networks, because we have joined one, in fact.
We haven't made any cash on our YouTube channel in about six months.
And for the longest time, the money that we got was from Blip.
In fact, during the heyday of Blip, we were getting about a hundred bucks a month.
Nothing you can live off of, but it paid for props, it paid for anime, it paid for lighting
equipment.
It paid for pretty much everything that the show has right now.
Was that a hundred bucks a month?
So recently we kind of had the one-two punch of coming to grips with the fact that we weren't
having any copyright problems with YouTube, but we were placed in a non-trusted state
where we had to prove that we could monetize every video, even if it would, like, normally
YouTube will allow you to monetize and then let people claim against it.
We got put into a state where we could not monetize without proving it first.
So because of that, we haven't made any money on YouTube recently.
So there was the one-two punch of recognizing that situation as being something we could
no longer handle by ourselves, coupled with the fact that our revenue on Blip between
December and January dropped from about seventy-five bucks to two bucks.
The fact that Blip is now finally just giving out its last breath, and we realized we had
to, you know, rectify the situation somehow.
Camera's first thought, because she handled most of the multi-channel network stuff that
we ended up doing.
Her first thought was to look into joining Maker.
I mean, it made sense.
We were on Blip TV, we had been kept on through multiple purges.
Maker was turning Blip TV into a Maker-only service.
You know, why not try to get on Maker and be like, hey, can we still use Blip after
the doors close?
And that was a good idea.
And then, like, somebody from Maker said, yeah, you could do that.
Somebody else from Maker said, well, we have to talk about this first, like, I don't know.
And they kind of gave us the runaround.
We did get a yes, we did get a no, we did get a lot of maybes.
But it was always a, hold on, we'll get back to you, you know, we'll look over the contract
and we'll see if we can fit it in, and we'll do this and that.
And, you know, as we were waiting for them to make up their minds and to finally come
to a decision, because we did hear pretty much every answer under the sun from them,
we sort of realized that, yeah, Blip doesn't matter anymore.
You know, like, assume that we went with Maker and they said, yes, you can stay on Blip.
What will we actually get out of that?
I mean, like I said, Blip is not the place that it used to be.
There was actually a point in time, like I said before, that we actually had a bigger
following on Blip than YouTube.
There was actually a point in time when people visited the Blip main page, the Blip portal,
and discovered new shows.
And people actually got discovered through Blip.
At this point, the main page hasn't been updated in like eight months.
Our knee-jerk desire to go with Maker, to stay on Blip, was kind of rooted in more of
like a nostalgia and kind of like a past way of thinking where Blip was actually prominent
and now it's not.
And as they were kind of hemming and hawing over there, we realized that, yeah, it's not
prominent anymore.
And as soon as Blip was taken out of the equation, we didn't have any specific reason to go with
Maker.
No offense to them, they'll do fine without us.
But with Blip out of the picture, the only thing that we needed from an MCN was to solve
our non-trusted state problem, and any MCN can do that.
So at that point, we began looking into other networks.
Heard of Fullscreen, I've heard many terrible things about Fullscreen.
We all unanimously said no to that.
The same with Curse the Lesso, definitely the same with Machinima.
I've heard stories of people signing up with Machinima and then losing their channels,
like Machinima now owns your brand.
And then we started looking at Screenwave Media, and actually when the three of us sat
down to kind of cast our votes, camera wanted to join Screenwave Media.
It does have some decently big names on it, it also has a few of our internet friends
on it as well, and something that Camera Lady liked was that it had its own proprietary
media player.
Macau Maker has Blip, Screenwave the network has Screenwave the player.
Now I want to point this out because this is how we're different from a lot of other
YouTubers.
We don't like having all of our eggs in one basket, we liked uploading to YouTube and
to Blip, so that if one channel got fried, the other one would still exist.
It's always good to have a backup.
You don't want to completely depend on YouTube, even during this era of YouTube dominance,
you don't want to completely depend on it, in my opinion.
And I mean, when we started our channel, YouTube was kind of the place to be to see our content,
and Blip was the backup.
And then as time went on, Blip became the main place to see our content, and YouTube
was our backup, because that's just where the numbers and the money were at the time.
Camera really wanted Screenwave, because Screenwave has that player.
But then Dave and I both told her, you know, if you want to diversify, not have all your
eggs in one basket, this isn't the way to do it.
You know, Screenwave, for as cool as I'm sure they are, if we did that, we would have
our stuff on Screenwave, the media player, and then our stuff on YouTube through Screenwave.
Like, you're not diversifying there.
And ultimately we decided to go with the Freedom Network.
Freedom is not as big as the big three of Machinima, Fullscreen, and Maker.
It's kind of structured a little bit differently.
Freedom is like an overarching network that supports a bunch of smaller networks, all
with their own contracts, and their own rules, and their own leaders, but still ultimately
financially backed by Freedom, at least this is how I think it works.
And the group we ended up joining was called Creator, and Creator is run by Queenie from
Gamergate.
And I mean, as soon as we joined Creator and Freedom, I don't exactly know how to parse
the two terms.
We're with both of them, but one's a subset of the other.
But as soon as we joined them, our copyright issues were resolved on YouTube, which is
great.
That's pretty much the one thing we wanted out of a network, and we got it.
And we do, of course, trust her because she's from Gamergate.
And I think what was most important to me personally is that it was not a lock-in contract.
We can leave their network anytime we want, given them 30 days notice.
It's not like with Maker, where Maker wanted you to stay for two years and then have an
auto-renew contract that you had to fight your way out of.
Because really, we're new to the multi-channel network thing.
We're just sort of experimenting with it right now.
This is no offense to Queenie or Creators if she's watching this, but we don't quite
know how this will play out.
We're just sort of taking it one step at a time and kind of exploring the possibilities.
So it being a first network, it being a trial run for us, and kind of just getting used
to the idea, it is nice that we can leave.
We just sort of want to try this out and see how it goes, and not be with a gigantic penalty
if we decide that MCNs just aren't our thing, or whatever.
You know?
Basically, it's our first try and we're going it slow.
And I don't think that should reflect poorly on them at all.
If anything, it should reflect poorly on us, because we have no fucking clue what we're
doing.
What can freedom or creator have to do with the show?
Nothing.
You're still going to get the content at the same times.
They're just going to give us a hand with some copyright issues, give us a hand with
some search engine optimization stuff, and then we'll kind of see how we like the partnership
and then go from there.
So that's really where we stand right now.
Starting a Patreon, it's got shit rewards, because we're a small channel.
If you want to help out, that's great.
We'll expand things as we go, we'll figure out how it works as we go, and we will prove
to you that your money is not being wasted.
BlipTV is closing.
It makes absolutely no difference to anybody at this point, because BlipTV is archaic and
it's going to be gone.
It's a ghost town, and when it becomes Maker TV, it will be even more of a ghost town.
And the market will adjust.
Someone else will show up with a new video carrier and everyone's going to flock to it
and it's going to be great.
Maybe Daily Motion's going to rise to prominence again.
Maybe Lord Cat's new video startup I hear he's doing will actually become a big thing.
Who knows?
Maybe Vimeo will start allowing ads, though I doubt that'll happen.
However, BlipTV closing means that we join the Freedom multichannel network under Queenie's
creators subnetwork within Freedom.
They've helped us a lot, even though it's only been like a week and they're great, and
it's not going to impede the actual progress of our show, which is what you guys care about
the most.
I do want to talk a bit about the schedule of those video game episodes.
I'm sure you all have noticed, it's taken us a while to get through games, and part
of that is just due to Dave not playing them very well.
However, a lot of that is because we just have too much on our plate, and we had this
problem a year ago, where a year ago we were posting, we had like six games on the go,
and we posted one part of a game on Monday, one part of the second game on Tuesday, one
part of the third game on Wednesday, and Thursday, Friday, Saturday, then back to Monday
we post the second part of the first game, and then on Tuesday we post the second part
of the second game.
And we realized really quickly that was kind of ridiculous.
You know, it shouldn't take three months to get through a game, but it did for us because
we were posting one part a week.
So when the summer came along, the summer of 2014, we started posting two videos a day
and we started posting them in large blocks, and we started getting through games that
way.
But then we basically, we just took on too many games, we started too many games.
Games that we intended to finish, because like, there are certain games that we're obviously
not going to finish.
Like, we're not going to play like a Mario Party to completion to get 100% in that game,
that's ridiculous.
But there are games that we do at least want to beat, if not 100%.
Our internal schedule works like this.
We have a rotation of six games, well five games now, because we just finished Sonic
and Knuckles.
Rogue Legacy, then Super Mario Sunshine, then our Pokemon Soul Silver Ballock run, then
Muramasa the Demon Blade, then Snatcher, and then Sonic and Knuckles.
Now that we just finished Sonic and Knuckles, there's only five games in the rotation.
And basically what we would do is, either camera lady or myself, since I do some editing
now, we would edit up a session of, say, Rogue Legacy.
That would go out.
The accompanying Rogue Legacy would be a session of Super Mario Sunshine.
So that would go out.
Whichever one of those sessions ended first on the release schedule, on the YouTube upload
schedule, in that slot would be the session of Pokemon Soul Silver.
And then whatever session ended next, whether that be Sunshine or Soul Silver, then taking
that spot would be Muramasa.
Then whatever session ended next, it would be Snatcher, and then Sonic, and then back
to Rogue Legacy.
Additionally, we have special games.
Skyward Sword is one of those special games, Mario Kart, Smash, anything that requires
people more than Dave or I would consider a special game, because Dave and I can film
this anytime we want.
We live together.
We can do it every day of the week if we want.
Getting other people's kind of a task sometimes, and that's not a slight to them, it's just
people have lives.
So whenever we get something from them, we put it up either as soon as possible, or if
it's a holiday show, whenever appropriate.
So these two factors combined, the abundance of special games we have on the go, and the
random availability of the people involved in them, along with six full-time games, we
were posting twice a day, and we were rotating session to session, not game to game, one
at a time, it was still taking a full month to get back to the next session.
We started posting the first session of Rogue Legacy at the beginning of January, the second
session came out near the end of January.
That's still a bit too inconsistent for my taste, and I'm sure for some of the viewer
tastes as well.
I'm just assuming.
I mean, I wouldn't want to shoot myself in the foot here, but I wouldn't want to watch
a channel that kept rotating large numbers of games and only getting back to the games
that I liked every once in a while.
So here's what we've decided to do.
The special games will stay the same as they always were.
Whenever they're available, they're available, and that's just how it has to be, because
it involves people other than myself or Dave.
The main games, those five in the rotation now that Sonic's done, we're not starting
any new games until that's cut down to at least two, preferably one.
You know, at the time of filming this, we've completed about two-thirds of Mario Sunshine,
though it hasn't come out yet, but we've completed about two-thirds.
Muramasa is nearly complete, Snatcher is done, it just has to come out, we have to wait for
the schedule to get to it, but we've finished Snatcher.
The two big ones left are Pokemon Soul Silver, which we're just barely halfway through at
this point, and Rogue Legacy, which we're also just barely halfway through at this point.
So before we start any new projects, we're going to start completing some of these games.
And when we get to a point where we only have, say, Rogue Legacy and Pokemon Soul Silver,
because those are two just giant beasts of a game, at that point, maybe we'll start bringing
in new games.
Because, I mean, I want to start the next Banjo, I also want to start the next Sonic
and kind of get that series back underway.
I know Dave really wants to play Charles Barkley again, and so do I, and we have begun
filming a completely new game unrelated to any old series, but again, we're not going
to release it until we free up some time with the schedule, because it's kind of getting
ridiculous at this point.
So throughout the month of March, we're going to really try and get this stuff done, so
hopefully there'll be space for new games very soon.
And I mean, if he wants to play something, all you have to do is ask, you can't promise
when we'll get around to it, but if we have a copy of it, sure, we'll play it.
The gift rule still applies, where if somebody decides to send us a game, or maybe send us
money with the express note attached saying, buy this game with this money, I guess, then
we will put that request at the head of the line.
We will say, you know what, you just gave us something, we're going to do this for you.
You know, because you're being generous, we're going to give you what you want.
You give us an anime, we'll give you a review, it'll be the next thing we do.
You give us a video game, we'll give you a let's play, it'll be the next thing we play.
We've always wanted to reward fans that have decided to give us something, admittedly there
haven't been many over the years, but there have been some, for example, Bible Black happened
because we actually got the DVDs for Bible Black from somebody.
So yeah, we did several riffs of that monstrosity because of fans.
And that's our upcoming schedule, you know, whether you donate or not, whether the money
works out or not, whether the freedom network works out or not, we are going to try our
very hardest for two video game shows a day, one gamergate video a week, two anime reviews
a month.
I can't guarantee anything, but we are going to try.
And again, no obligation, but the higher that Patreon number goes, the more likely we'll
get it done.
And that's not blackmailer me trying to be a money-grubbing jerk, that's just an economic
fact.
That's just how it is, you know.
The show has grown, and it's grown to the point that either it needs to start funding
itself again after BlipTV goes under, or we need to basically cut it out.
And to all of us here, cutting it out is not an option, we love doing this.
So if you're still with me, thanks for listening, and let's hope the coming months work out,
in all these endeavours.
Endeavours.
