Hello, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time.
Now, a lot of people ask me, yo, why are you doing this? You don't need to. You have a decent life and a decent future, and they're not wrong.
I have a perfectly good life with great family and great friends, but I can always do better, and I want to do better.
I want the cars, I want the girls, but most of all, I want the power.
I jest, I jest. To the people wondering about what content you'll find here, I'm a man of many interests, but I will be starting on current affairs and what's going on in the news.
I'm happy to take requests if a topic is workable enough, and eventually, if I become popular, then you may expect to see more side series talking about other topics such as music and film.
Starting from next week, I will be attempting to upload every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, hopefully with little series, maybe set out on specific days.
This isn't just about me, this is also about you, the public, and I feel we often rely too much on modern media to try and shape our opinions when nearly all sources these days are completely fucking biased.
And what I'm going to do is hopefully present more weighted arguments with a dash of humour for the greater good.
The greater good.
Now, no doubt there'll be times when you think, this guy is chatting a load of shit, and to be honest, I probably will chat some shit in my time, but it's a learning experience.
I can't always be right, but I will attempt to refine my opinions over time when I've gained that information.
Undoubtedly, if I do blurt for some unfathomable reason, this will be the channel where you find massive comment wars.
But in a way, that's what I want. Debate is perfectly healthy, as long as it's done with respect for others' opinions.
Which will definitely not happen on the internet, but I live in hope.
I have no problem with people disagreeing with my opinion, in fact I want to bring as much variation in belief as possible to my videos.
So if you do feel like you have something important you'd like to say, say it.
I must thank a lot of YouTubers for inspiring me to start my own channel, I'm not denying you will be able to draw parallels between my style and others,
but I'll also be relying on my own personality to try and bring this channel some individuality.
Emphasis on the trying part.
So, if you like what you hear, take my personal unbiased advice and press that subscribe button, and if you don't then you've probably already clicked back to Pornhub.
Dickhead.
.
