Hello everyone, welcome to SJ Weekly for October 14th, 2018.
However, one of my Twitch moderators, Torvar, has suggested that I rename the show
The Age of Reason. I kinda like it, what do you guys think?
Before we start, as always, I have a coffee here. This time I have something new.
I picked up these coffee pods called Midnight Eclipse.
That sounds real interesting, I'm gonna try it out right now.
It just tastes like regular coffee. I feel like I've been gypped.
Let's begin with this blast from the past, from October 8th, 2016, on Slate.
Donald Trump could have been president. Let's not forget what a terrifying thing we
almost did. I hope this Mr. Isaac Chotiner, whatever,
I hope he lost his job over this article. Let's read this shit.
Donald Trump is never going to be the President of the United States.
As we sit and digest each successive leak of damaging material, each unendorsement,
each Trump threat to attack Hillary Clinton in the most personal terms imaginable,
the fact remains that Trump has almost surely destroyed his chance of ever becoming the
most powerful man on Earth. The discussion will now slowly shift to Republican
hopes of shoring up down-ballot races and, just wait, the creation of Trump TV.
But we cannot and should not forget. A couple of days ago it was still fathomable
that America could have voted into office the biggest threat to the country in decades.
Well, uh, two years down the line, it's still pretty fucking fathomable.
The danger of Donald Trump is, and always was, two-fold.
He leads a movement that is bigoted and racist, and plays to people's worst impulses.
Yeah, see, this didn't work two years ago. That's why you lost, because you thought that
that was going to be your winning gambit. It's also why you lost with Kavanaugh.
It's also why you lost with Brexit. It's why the left has been losing, basically,
since Gamergate. He promises policies, many of which are bigoted
and racist, you probably just copied and pasted that phrase throughout the article, didn't
you, that would be extraordinarily dangerous for America.
Well, how dangerous has it been? Because America seems to be doing alright.
Thin-skinned, corrupt, incompetent, bullying, immature, mentally fragile, full of rage.
All of these qualities have been in ample abundance for well over a year, and in office
they would promise to be catastrophic. Well, they have been catastrophic, but only
to the Democrats. The problem with treating Trump's candidacy
as being so deathly serious, however, was always that, in addition to being a racist
demagogue, Trump is also a buffoonish jerk who tweets at 3am and loves nothing more than
to put on a show. Now, I recall very clearly the Hillary vs.
Obama situation, where one of the big public relations moves that Hillary pulled was that
Hillary would be up at 3am, should there be a disaster.
Um, but didn't she sleep through Benghazi? I mean, if something goes down at 3am, Trump
will be up dealing with it, but he'll also be up tweeting about it, and maybe you just
don't like that. But ever since Trump's election, a hidden
war has been raging. A supernatural war, using powers that humans
dare not comprehend. Each month, thousands of witches cast a spell
against Donald Trump. How the witches of the hashtag magic resistance
rise up against the Trump administration. On a typical Wednesday, by the light of the
waning moon, Kate Doucette joins several thousand strangers on the internet in casting
a spell to bind Donald Trump. Doucette is one of the resistance witches,
an at least thirteen thousand strong umbrella group of internet neo-pagans, wiccans, solo
practitioners who self-identify as hedge witches, long-time magical practitioners in various
traditions and committed activists. They've come together each month since Trump's inauguration
with one goal, to perform a spell, equal parts quasi-religious ritual and activist performance,
to bind the president, forming a collective known as the magic resistance.
Well, the good ol' Christian folk of the US of A will not stand for that, so Florida Democrat
invokes the blood of Jesus against witches and warlocks seeking to harm Donald Trump.
A freshman Florida Democratic House member from Jacksonville, who moonlights as a preacher,
has invoked the blood of Jesus against all witches and warlocks working to curse the
administration of President Donald Trump and his family.
But there's no way the wizarding world would allow this muggle oppression to go forth unopposed.
We refuse to be silent any longer, magic as self-care after Kavanaugh. Modern day witches
are creating rituals to foster solidarity, activism, and healing. Magic ritual as a form
of feminist self-care. First, take a candle, then pour some salt into your hand, preferably
where there's an open wound. Then, keeping the grains in your palm, take a pen to write
out a thank you to Christine Blasey Ford, the woman whose allegations of sexual assault
against Supreme Court nominee and now Justice Brett Kavanaugh stunned a nation. Or, if you
prefer, simply say, I believe you.
Yeah, we did a dumping with Scrump on Kavanaugh recently, and I covered basically the entire
thing there. I don't think there's any need for me to do a full Kavanaugh video, because
we went over pretty much everything. But this is insanity that there's actually magical
spell-slinging going back and forth over Trump, especially since in retaliation to this, pastors
are calling for prayers to protect Trump from the occult. I don't know if you're going to
believe me when I tell you this, but what's happening right now in America is witchcraft
is trying to take this country over. Make him stronger than ever, Holy Spirit. Lord,
let no weapon be formed against him that will knock him out of power. Help him, Lord.
So who's everyone's bets on? You have the Christians and the power of prayer on the
one side, and you have the Wiccans and the power of magic on the other. Personally, I'm
just going to side with Buddha.
Of course, all of this magical and religious talk is absolutely offensive to Muslims, and
we have to keep that in mind, because a French hero who sacrificed himself to save a hostage
from an Islamist won't have a place named after him, as it may offend Muslims. This
would seem to be contrary to the Not All Muslim hashtag, where very clearly, not all
Muslims are Islamists. Not all Muslims support ISIS. There are a lot of liberal Muslims out
there. Well, if that really is the case, and frankly, I do think that it's probably the
case, why would your average Muslim be offended because a man who fought and died against
radical Islam would be given a place of honor in society?
On the 24th of March, 2018, an ISIS terrorist stormed a supermarket, armed with a handgun,
a hunting knife, and three homemade bombs. He shot two people dead and took others hostage.
During the negotiation with the police, the terrorist accepted Beltram's offer to swap
places with the last hostage, a female cashier. Beltram also set his phone on a table with
its line open so that the police outside could monitor the activity inside. After a three-hour
standoff with police, the terrorist stabbed and murdered the police officer Beltram, but
apparently paying tribute to Beltram's sacrifice is seen as being potentially offensive by
Marseille's leftist elected officials. Here's what Stéphane Ravier, Marseille's 7th District
National Rally mayor, revealed during a town council with the elected officials.
Leftist elected officials, socialist and communist, refused that a place in the 15th district
be named after Arnald Beltram. In the first time they've said, under fallacious pretext,
that this place wasn't prestigious enough before telling the truth in these terms. We
are on the field, we witness that the population has changed, and if we give the name of Arnald
Beltram in this district, the population will take that as a provocation.
Well, fuck the population. In my opinion, Europe's fucking falling apart. There are
no reason why there should be Islamist enclaves where the rule of law does not extend in European
nations. And regardless of how racist or Islamophobic somebody calls you, there is no reason that
people should put up with massive human rights abuses in our own countries.
Here's another instance of this from Germany. Police file assault charges against father
who defended daughter from migrant sex attack. Police in the German city of Munich have filed
charges against a 42 year old man after he punched a migrant in the face who sexually
assaulted his daughter. In the United States this wouldn't happen. I'm pretty sure even
in Canada it wouldn't happen, though I guarantee you the lefties here are trying to change
that. The incident occurred at a train station and saw an intoxicated 28 year old man reach
under the skirt of a 21 year old woman. After becoming aware of the sex attack, the young
woman's father punched the man in the face.
While police have filed sexual harassment charges against the migrant, they've also
filed charges of bodily injury against the 42 year old. That's self-defense. I mean,
maybe not strictly because it wasn't the father who was sexually assaulted, it was the daughter.
But generally, when you come to the defense of someone else, you shouldn't be charged
unless you use excessive force. And a punch to the face in this instance does not sound
like excessive force.
We've got France, we've got Germany. How about something ridiculous with Islam coming
from the UK? Well, UK clothing store Marks and Spencer is now selling a hijab for three
year olds. For those of you who don't know, the hijab is basically a sign that a woman
is sexually mature enough to enter an adult relationship. And Muslims generally put them
on children from nine years old and up. The main reason being that the widespread belief
that Muhammad's last wife was nine years old and therefore nine is an acceptable age to
start fucking children. However, when you put a hijab on a three year old girl, that
is basically a Muslim saying, yeah, you can fuck this kid. It's disgusting. It's atrocious.
Let's watch Majid Nawaz's video on the subject here.
It's OK to criticize religion. Absolutely. It's OK to criticize democracy. Absolutely.
Scrutinize these ideas all you like. It's OK to criticize British foreign policy. It's
OK to satirize religion, just like it's OK to satirize politicians. You know, you can't
on the one hand applaud spitting image because they're satirizing Margaret Thatcher and yet
then forbid people from satirizing the religion of Islam, which probably has more influence
over people across the world than Margaret Thatcher does. How on earth are you going
to say that you're for holding power to account if some of the most powerful ideas on this
country, in this country, in this world, like religion, suddenly you don't want to allow
for that to be scrutinized? Well, I'm sorry. You can't have it both ways. So religion must
be scrutinized and especially when it's imposed on children. And so for Marks and Spencers
to say as they did when they responded and when they were pressed about this, they said,
they're meeting demand. They said, we've had some orders. We're fulfilling the orders.
And then it said, it's not for us to have a view. They said, it's not for us to have
a view on the morality behind sexualizing children by imposing modesty culture on them.
Three year olds. Really? It's not for you to have a view. All right, then Marks and
Spencers. And I know you're listening. I know you're listening because you responded to
me on Twitter. Here's a challenge for you. If it's not for you to have a view on the
morality of stocking headscarves that are designed to preserve the modesty of fully
sexual adult human females, right? It's not for you to take a view and stocking those
for children. Why don't you stock Confederate flag t-shirts as well? See if that suits your,
you know, if there's a demand for it, why not stock it? I'll tell you what, stock t-shirts
with images of monkeys on them, like happened in Sweden or where was it in somewhere in
northern Europe, Scandinavian country and adverts of young black kids advertising those
t-shirts with monkeys on them. And fine, you shouldn't have a view. If there's a demand,
stock them. You know, if it's not about morality, do what you like. In fact, why don't you just
stock Nazi uniforms as well? I'm sure there's a demand for those too. But no, you won't.
You won't do any of those things. And I'll tell you why you won't. Because you, like
everyone else in the politically correct climate, is incredibly sensitive when it comes to themes
such as racism and rightly so, themes such as sexism and rightly so. But suddenly when
it comes to minority communities, a bigotry of low expectations kicks in. You abandon
all of your sensitivities, you abandon all of your political high principle. You abandon,
in fact, your liberalism and suddenly decide that this other, this, you know, third element
of society, which is the brown Muslim, is no longer expected to adhere to your liberal
values that you apply so strictly on everyone else. Suddenly, we collectively as polite
society, because of this bigotry of low expectations, don't think that our values suddenly apply
to minority communities. That's their culture. Let them get on with it. Let them deal with
their own issues. No, these are British children born on British soil. They happen to have
a different skin tone to you and they happen to have a different culture from which their
parents hail. But that doesn't mean that the same values don't apply to them. The same
standards that you would apply and the reasons for why you would not stock confederate flag
t-shirts because you would know that that would get you into trouble over race relations
are the very same reasons that you should not be stocking hijabs for three year olds.
Damn, that guy said it way better than I ever could. Here's some more UK stupidity. Should
women be spelt wum-ex-in? Well, no. One because I can't pronounce it. Wumsk-in. Wumsk-in.
To the untrained eye, it may look like a typo. But when the Welcome Collection, a museum
and library in London, sent a tweet promoting an event using the word, it led to a Twitter
backlash from hundreds of women and an apology from the organization. Maybe lefties don't
quite understand why this leads to a backlash. So let me just quickly explain it. People
don't like someone trying to force a new word or force a cultural change. Yes, language
is fluid. Yes, culture is fluid. But they change naturally over long periods of time.
When you try to enforce it, at best, it just seems cringy. Like when someone tries to force
a meme or something. But at worst, it seems authoritarian. Like women, wum-ex-in refers
to females, but it is an attempt to get away from patriarchal language. Dr. Clara Bradbury-Rantz,
fellow at King's College London, well, shouldn't it be Gender Neutral Monarchs College London
now? Says that the spelling stems from a long-standing objection to the word woman as it comes from
man. The word is also supposed to be inclusive of trans women and some non-binary people.
But how is it pronounced? Yeah, that's my biggest question. I've heard it pronounced
in lots of different ways. I've heard some pronounce it wum-inx. Wum-inx. We're gonna
call them wum-inxes now. Guardian Journalist said the museum's new gender categories are
men and other. Suzy Layton said she would not be referred to as a wum-inx until men
became minx. She already said it was demeaning and insulting women. Listen. Nog-nix-ense?
A load of bull-lexes? What the f- what the fuck is this? Okay, listen. Listen. There
are definitely things to talk about regarding women's rights, even in the West, especially
for example in the UK, where there are tons of islamists who are eroding women's rights
daily. But changing fucking grammar and spelling is a non-issue. It's ridiculous. It's stupid.
It's not about any kind of women's issue. It's about controlling the population. But
here we are. We're at this week's peak UK. Pizzas must shrink or lose their toppings
under a government's anti-obesity plan. Oi, mate, you have a license for that pizza.
Makers of ready meals and pizzas could be forced to make their products healthier. Calorie
limits of 928 for pizzas and 695 for savory pies could be introduced under new draft proposals.
Because rather than just letting people choose to be fat, the government has to stick their
hands into everything. Also, wouldn't this be fat-phobic? But by decreasing the amount
of calories in foods, you're going to be committing a genocide against fat people. You're going
to be turning them into thin people. Dr. Allison Tedstone, chief nutritionist, said these are
early days in the calorie reduction program, but the food industry have a responsibility
to act. The simple truth is, on average, we need to eat less. Well, then eat less. Don't
buy a full fucking pizza and eat it all in one sitting, you fat fucks. Children and adults
routinely eat too many calories. Well, stop doing that. I mean, especially with children,
like you're the fucking parent. You say no, you can't have any more to eat. Jesus, like
take responsibility for your fucking lives. Let's end it off with the Kansas City Star
saying white people prefer white people on dating apps, but that could be changed, said
the study says. Why would you want to forcibly change someone's sexual interests? What purpose
would that have? I mean, do you want to do it with straight people and make them gay?
Do you want state enforced homosexuality? Dating applications can allow users to fall
into their own racial biases while searching for a partner. Maybe you just like fucking
Asians or something. I don't know. The end goal, the study says, is to promote more diverse
pairings in the dating sites. State enforced race mixing. Intimacy is very private and
rightly so, but our private lives have impacts on larger socioeconomic patterns that are
systemic. And that's what's important. The privacy of your life does not matter. What
matters is the system. What matters is the socioeconomic patterns that are systemic.
That's more important. Not, not people, not people's individual lives. Katakara sued Grindr
because some users on the site had captioned saying not interested in Asians. Well, I guess
they should just be forced to fuck you then. Right, Katadara? That's that's what we should
do. Like we should just make it illegal not to have sex with you. Do you remember when
the left was all about no means no and the primacy of consent? What happens in Los Angeles
where you have no fats, no femmes? It happens in South Africa as well. They will say no
rice, no chocolate, no curry. Asian men and black women have the lowest chance of receiving
a message or a response. White people of all ages prefer to go on dates with their white
people. College students are most likely to avoid going on dates with black women. Stephanie
Aboah, a blogger, said she has experienced racism as a black woman on online dating apps.
Some people ask offensive questions like if they can get a taste of jungle fever and say
they want to see if black women are aggressive in bed as they've heard. Well, it sounds like
you're dating assholes. And frankly, if you're looking for partners on a fucking dating app,
yeah, there's going to be assholes there. It's going to be mostly assholes. Comments
such as these are extremely dehumanizing to myself and other black women who are only
looking for companionship. Do you know what's dehumanizing? Using an app like Tinder where
the point of it is casual sex. Okay, I'm not actually shitting on anybody who enjoys casual
sex. You know, it's your life, you do what you want. But during my own short foray into
the casual dating scene back in university, I realized that doing that kind of thing felt
like I was dehumanizing myself. I realized that I wanted relationships, that I wanted
love. And, you know, I'm now in a loving relationship. And I've also been in other
relationships. They didn't work out, obviously, but but they were loving at least when they
started. Um, maybe your problem is that you're dehumanizing yourself. I hate to sound like
a prude, because I'm not not really but maybe maybe maybe what you're doing is you're walking
into a fucking sexual meat market and then complaining that you're there. Okay, Cupid
itself experimented with pairing up users and saying they were highly compatible, even
though they weren't considered good matches, and found that the conversation between the
two people often went well. In other words, it appeared that just the mere suggestion
that two people were compatible, made both users more likely to give the connection a
chance. The study's authors wrote in a press release that it proves the strong power of
suggestion that can be used to bridge the gap between people of different races. And
there's actually some logic to that, like there's definitely a type of personality out
there that refuses all new experiences, but if forced into one will generally have something
positive from it. But at the same time, things like romantic attraction and sex are different
from any other experience. If you're not attracted to a certain body type, or skin tone, or dare
I say it, set of genitals, simply being exposed to them again, will probably not make you
change your mind. The study's authors conclude that sexual racism is a hard thing to conquer,
but Kyodara, who threatened to sue Grindr, said fixing the problem would improve the
mental well-being of people of color looking for a chance at love on dating apps. Well,
you know what? As important as your mental well-being is, it does not trump the ability
of somebody else to give or deny consent to a sexual encounter with you. And that is simply
how it fucking is. No pun intended. I do like how the first comment is, every time a happy white
family is formed, someone out there a shlomo cries. There's a lot of fucking woke takes in
these comments. That does it for me guys, I as a white male I'm gonna spend the rest of my day
with my Jewish girlfriend, hope that doesn't trigger anybody. I'm working on a video on the
the better help situation, I'm hoping to get that out on Tuesday or Wednesday, but knowing me it'll
probably be late. And as always I stream five nights a week Monday to Friday on my twitch
channel, so please drop by and say hello. I hope to see you there. I love you.
