As of recording this video, one week ago, Google employee James Damore released a document
that went internally viral within the company.
This document was titled Google's Ideological Echo Chamber, but has become colloquially
known as the Google Manifesto.
I'm going to be referring to the manifesto throughout this video, but it's a bit too
long to simply read the whole thing.
I highly recommend you go read it yourselves at the website googlemanifesto.com.
I will, however, read the TLDR of it, just so you can get an idea of its content.
Google's political bias has equated the freedom from offense with psychological safety,
but shaming into silence is the antithesis of psychological safety.
This silencing has created an ideological echo chamber where some ideas are too sacred
to be honestly discussed.
The lack of discussion fosters the most extreme and authoritarian elements of this ideology.
Extreme meaning, all disparities in representation are due to oppression.
Authoritarian meaning, we should discriminate to correct this oppression.
Differences in distributions of traits between men and women may in part explain why we don't
have 50% representation of women in tech and leadership.
The question to reach equal representation is unfair, divisive, and bad for business.
I'm guessing you probably had the same reaction that I had when I first read it.
Sounds reasonable, but oh boy is this guy in for a world of hurt.
And that's exactly what happened.
The Google employee who wrote the controversial Google Manifesto was fired after CEO Sundar
Pichai called it not okay.
And of course, because this guy just has to sound like a Twitter SJW, he would use the
phrase not okay to describe something that he's ideologically opposed to.
A Google engineer has been fired following the release of a now infamous diversity manifesto.
The engineer confirmed to Bloomberg that he was fired on Monday.
His writing has caused shockwaves across Google and the larger tech industry.
A source confirmed the firing, but a Google representative declined to comment on personal
matters.
CEO Sundar Pichai objects to the author's claims that biological differences make women
less suited for careers in tech.
Pichai suggests that this portion of the manifesto was not okay, and he said it went too far
by advancing harmful gender stereotypes in our workplace.
To suggest a group of our colleagues have traits that make them less biologically suited
to that work is offensive and not okay.
Now that's quite the claim for Demore to apparently make, that women are less suited
for careers in tech.
Let's look at the actual manifesto and see if it's true.
Possible non-biased causes of the gender gap in tech.
At Google, we're regularly told that implicit and explicit biases are holding women back
in tech and leadership.
Of course, men and women experience bias, tech, and the workplace differently, and we
should be cognizant of this.
But it's far from the whole story.
On average, men and women biologically differ in many ways.
These differences aren't just socially constructed because they're universal across
human cultures, they often have clear biological causes and links to prenatal testosterone,
biological males that were castrated at birth and raised as females often still identify
and act like males.
The underlying traits are highly heritable, they're exactly what we would predict from
an evolutionary psychology perspective.
I'm not saying that all men differ from women in the following ways, or that these
differences are just.
I'm simply stating that the distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women
differ, in part due to biological causes and that these differences may explain why we
don't see equal representation of women in tech and leadership.
And in my opinion, here's the important bit.
Many of these differences are small, and there's significant overlap between men and women,
so you can't say anything about an individual given the population level distributions.
Here's a graph that seems to illustrate DeMoor's point a little bit later in the
manifesto, regarding how men as a whole seem to be predisposed to value higher status over
personal comfort.
The green looks like it represents men, and the purple women, and as an aside, nice callback
to gamergate buddy.
As you can see, the absolute upper echelons of men, the top tier, seem to be the pinnacle
of human potential in this regard, and they are there alone.
But the vast majority of men?
They're equal to the vast majority of women.
There is significantly more overlap of genders than anything else, and his second graph goes
on to show how only taking the raw mathematical averages of these cases misrepresents his
argument.
Do you think that Pachai's claim of advancing harmful gender stereotypes, and suggesting
that a group of colleagues have traits to make them less biologically suited for work
at Google is accurate to DeMoor's position?
Because I don't think it is.
In fact, if you look on DeMoor's graph, you can see a giant swath of people where
this is not the case.
But of course, DeMoor was fired from Google for authoring the manifesto, presumably for
wrong think.
Pachai stated that the memo violated Google's code of conduct, and Danielle Brown, Google's
new vice president of diversity, integrity, and governance, sent a statement to staff
condemning DeMoor's views and reaffirmed the company's stance on diversity.
So yeah, wrong think.
The memo and surrounding debate comes as Google fends off a lawsuit from the US Department
of Labor alleging the company systematically discriminates against women.
Google has denied the charges, arguing that it doesn't have a gender pay gap, but has
declined to share full salary information with the government.
According to the company's most recent demographic report, 69% of its workforce and 80% of its
technical staff are male.
Oh, oh, so there's really only two possible ways to interpret this.
DeMoor's assertions were in fact correct, despite Google's attempts to promote diversity,
or Google's actually run by a bunch of fucking bigots.
Well, it may very well be that the second answer, that Google is run by bigots, is actually
the right one.
But not in the way that you might be thinking.
James DeMoor gave an interview to Jordan Peterson on August 8th, and what he has to say on the
subject is really striking.
Let's listen in.
I went to one of our diversity summits, all of it unrecorded and super secret, and they
told me a lot of things that I thought just were not right.
Okay, what do you mean unrecorded and super secret?
Well, I mean, they were telling us about a lot of these potentially illegal practices
that they've been doing to try to increase diversity.
What kind of practices?
Well, basically treating people differently based on what their race or gender are.
Oh, you mean racism?
Yeah, basically.
I see.
And it was ultra secret and unrecorded in what manner?
Yeah, so most meetings at Google are recorded.
Anyone at Google can watch it.
We're trying to be really open about everything, except for this.
They don't want any paper trail for any of these things.
Okay, why?
Because I think it's illegal, and I mean, as some of the internal polls showed, there
were a large percent of people that agreed with me on the document, and so if everyone
got to see this stuff, then they would really bring up some criticism.
Yeah, well, a large number of people in Google and a very large number of well-informed biological
scientists we might also add.
So I mean, I was quite struck by your document, given that it would have been a decent document
for a well-informed psychologist, research psychologist to write, but you're somewhat
of an outsider, but you've got the highlights accurate as far as I'm concerned.
So okay, so you went to this diversity meeting, and you weren't happy with the sorts of things
that you were being told and with the practices, is that both correct?
Yeah.
What were you being told?
I mean, there's a lot of ways in which they pressure people to increase the diversity
of their team, and there's no way to do that besides actually choosing someone based on
their race or gender, right?
It's certainly also distressing to hear that there is acceptance of the idea that diversity
can be mapped onto race and gender, especially with regards to performance, because there's
no evidence for that whatsoever.
So okay, so you went to this meeting, and then you decided to write this document, and
how long had you been working on it before you released it?
Yeah, so I was doing it throughout my free time, and I just wanted to clarify my thoughts
on this, and I really just wanted to be proven wrong, because if what I was saying was right,
then something bad is happening.
And so about a month ago, I submitted it to feedback to that program, and I saw that people
looked at it, but no one actually said anything.
What sort of feedback did you submit?
I basically said what I said in the document, and then I linked to the document itself.
And so I actually published this about a month ago, and it was only after it got viral and
then leaked to the news that Google started caring.
Okay, so how did it go viral, and do you know, and how was it leaked?
Yeah, so there was a group at Google called Skeptics, and so I was like, okay, maybe they'll
be able to prove me wrong in some way.
Like they're skeptical about things, right?
I was naive, I guess.
And so I sent them a message like, okay, what do you think about this?
Is Google in some sort of echo chamber, or am I in an echo chamber?
And then it just exploded after that, and our internal, yeah, it was just spread throughout
all of Google.
And do you know, was it the Skeptics group that started to spread it around?
Yeah, and then there were a lot of upper management that, you know, specifically called
it out and started saying how harmful it is and how it's unacceptable.
This sort of viewpoint is not allowed at Google.
Yeah, what sort of viewpoint exactly?
The idea that there are differences between men and women that actually might play a role
in the corporate world?
That's an opinion that's not acceptable?
Yeah, it seems so.
Oh, so Google is racist and sexist, but apparently in the name of diversity, as in discriminating
against white men.
I know that the bullshit SJW definition of racism and sexism is prejudice plus power,
but legally that's not the case.
This is illegal, which is presumably why these meetings are unrecorded and not released to
the public.
It's no surprise to me that Sundar Pichai, Danielle Brown, and a couple of other Google
execs are regressive left ideologues.
This does seem to be the case at a lot of the big tech giants right now.
It's also no surprise to me that a lot of the underlings actually end up agreeing, at
least in part, with Demore's less ideological and more reasonable point of view.
An examination of the internal memos at Google while the manifesto was going viral, but before
it became public knowledge, shows that a number of employees do, in fact, question Google's
diversity at all costs stance.
But does anybody want to take a guess at how the news media decided to spin this story?
James Demore, the Google employee fired for his controversial manifesto, is almost certainly
not a victim of a free speech violation.
Why free speech couldn't save that Google engineer's job.
I'm a woman in computer science, let me lady-slain the Google memo to you.
How you can use the Google manifesto to advance women, not gender stereotypes.
Google firing its manifesto engineer is a powerful lesson in emotional intelligence.
And many, many more.
I don't need to go through them all with you, links are in the description if you want
to check them out yourself.
But all these articles revolve around three arguments.
1.
That the hurt feelings of the employees that found themselves feeling judged or ashamed
or misrepresented or whatever is more important than the factual accuracy of the manifesto.
2.
Keeping the ideology intact is more important than considering alternative points of view.
3.
That the first amendment protects us against government infringing on free speech, not private
organizations like Google.
Let's go over all three of these points.
1.
The reactions of many journalists, as well as the official reaction by Google's staff,
seems to consist of feelings over facts.
In doing so, these people obfuscate the facts presented within the manifesto.
General trends of large groups of people become specific statements about coworkers.
Talking about ways in which current diversity projects are failing becomes an opinion that
wants no diversity at all.
For an emotional reaction to be sufficient, things had to be blown out of proportion.
Fringe interpretations become the narrative that the media coalesces around, solely to
stamp out dissent.
But in reality, not only are the hurt feelings of employees not more important than the facts,
but these facts are distorted in order to generate the maximum amount of hurt feelings
possible.
2.
The Google Manifesto specifically states that the author, Demore, is not interested in being
anti-diverse.
It states that many women at Google are deserving of their positions due to their hard work
and dedication.
The manifesto advocates for a let-things-fall-where-they-may approach.
Rather than courting specific demographics in an effort for 50-50 parody, allow talent
to rise to the top solely on merit, and the women who have the merit will rise just as
well as the men.
Demore said specifically in the manifesto that he believes sexism exists, and that he
values diversity, but that Google's approach to the problem was wrong.
He advocated for treating people as individuals, not as just another member of their group.
The problem with this point of view wasn't that it was flawed, or that it was sexist.
It was that it went against the ideology of Google's top brass.
When everything is seen through the lens of victimhood, alternative opinions and solutions
to the problems of bigotry are also considered to be bigotry.
3.
The government does, indeed, protect against the government infringing on free speech.
Not Google.
And unless you're part of a union, or you have specific stipulations in your hiring
contract that say otherwise, or it can be proven that your employer broke the law on
firing you, you can be fired for any reason.
Or even no reason.
Just like you can quit your job for any or no reason.
It works both ways.
It seems to be well within Google's legal rights to fire Demore for publishing his manifesto
on their internal servers.
That is a consequence of his free speech.
However, is it unethical of Google to fire him?
Considering that the manifesto is not inflammatory, it's not discriminatory, and it's backed
up by scientific fact?
I think it is.
It's legal, but also unethical.
And now that the public knows that Google, though entirely within their legal rights,
has acted unethically, should we use our own free speech rights to push back against Google?
Yes, we should.
But I don't think Google's going to allow us to do so, at least not on YouTube or other
Google owned platforms.
Remember the adpocalypse of a few months back?
Where ad rates plummeted and despite YouTube's insistence to the contrary, never really recovered?
Well, we've now entered into a second round of YouTube restriction, known as the limited
state.
In a recent YouTube blog post, titled An Update on our Commitment to Fight Terror Content
Online, a number of methods YouTube uses to moderate their platform are described.
I'm going to read a few choice sections for you, and try to give you an honest interpretation
of them.
Tougher standards.
We'll soon be applying tougher treatment to videos that aren't illegal, but have been
flagged by users as potential violations of our policies on hate speech and violent extremism.
If we find that these videos don't violate our policies but contain controversial religious
or supremacist content, they will be placed in a limited state.
The videos will remain on YouTube behind an interstitial, won't be recommended, won't
be monetized, and won't have key features including comments, suggested videos, and
likes.
So basically, the limited state is where YouTube is going to be placing videos that contain
content that they consider to be controversial, even if the video breaks none of YouTube's
rules.
These videos will generate no revenue, and will garner no audience interaction or growth.
YouTube could just boot these videos and their creators offline, but I think the people over
there are smart enough to know that keeping up the pretense of YouTube being a free speech,
free for all platform where people can hear from other people and not just approved sources
is integral to their business.
But it's also clear that YouTube does not want people who create this content around
anymore, and this is them squeezing those content creators hoping they'll up and leave
on their own.
And this is happening right now.
Mundane Matt's channel made $15 and 101,000 views, which is ridiculously low, presumably
because he's a political YouTuber.
The Act Man made a video on how we should all stop making racism and sexism an issue
in video games, titled Feminists and SAWs vs Video Games, and he got a community guidelines
strike for hate speech.
Musical antiheroes been private messaged by another YouTuber who received this lovely
message, limited or no ads due to content identified as not suitable for all advertisers.
Upon requesting a review of this decision, he received this message.
We are only able to review videos with at least 1,000 views in the past 28 days, so
if you're simply not popular enough, you're not even able to have your video reviewed
to see if it was placed in limitation and error.
And it's happened to me too.
I did a video a few months back, titled Is it possible to be a moral pedophile?
In that video I discussed pedophilia from a rational, non-emotional point of view.
I was not apologetic for pedophilia, of course, but I didn't resort to baseless insults
or reactionary comments in my explanation of why I thought pedophilia was an obviously
bad thing.
But because I dared to discuss the topic at all, the video was deemed not advertiser friendly.
It's my opinion that these moves on YouTube's part are directly linked to the Google Manifesto.
It's no secret that YouTube is bleeding money like crazy.
400 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube's servers every minute, and the cost to maintain
that amount of data is absolutely colossal.
Every time somebody clicks a video, that's bandwidth and server strain that comes out
of YouTube's pocket.
And like Damore said in the Manifesto, Google's finances are not infinite.
There's only so much ad revenue to spread around.
I think that YouTube needs to start cutting costs in order to stay afloat in the long
term, and one way they can do this is by giving creators a smaller cut of that revenue, through
actions like the adpocalypse.
Another way to do this is to put videos in the limited state described earlier, where
no creator revenue will be paid out, and the video won't appear in search results and
have no audience interaction, driving the number of views down, which in turn will drive
down the strain on YouTube's servers, saving them a little bit of money.
I think the limited state, in the coming months and years, will be expanded to large swaths
of content as a cost-cutting measure.
I think they're starting off with non-left political or anti-social justice content for
a number of reasons.
This content is relatively easy to identify at a quick glance.
The community surrounding this type of channel is somewhat insular, so their loss will create
minimal shockwaves.
And because they're ideologically opposed to that content, which we already know to
be the case with the Google Manifesto, it's like killing two birds with one stone for
them.
This connects to another point on YouTube's blog post about methods currently being taken
to moderate the platform.
Early intervention and expanding counter-extremism work.
Well okay, when somebody searches, say, how to join ISIS, they're going to get videos
related to why ISIS is bad, how to get help, etc etc.
That's not necessarily a bad thing.
But recall the Google Manifesto again.
Recall Sundar Pichai's blog post describing the women at Google as hurting and feeling
under threat.
I do not trust YouTube's determination on what should be covered by redirection.
This honestly sounds to me like in the near future we're going to be seeing a scenario
in which somebody searches for anti-SJW on YouTube and the search fetches a bunch of
social justice videos telling him that social justice is the superior ideology and that
the people who disagree are bigoted.
Or experts.
Of course, our systems are only as good as the data they're based on.
Over the past weeks, we have begun working with more than 15 additional expert NGOs and
institutions through our trusted FLAGA program, including the Anti-Defamation League, the
No Hate Speech movement, and the Institute for Strategic Dialogue.
Tell me Google, did you include Crash Override in that list of partners?
You know, Zoe Quinn's organization, the one that was all about helping victims of
online harassment, but specifically set out to harass people they disagreed with?
You know, the harassers you invited to Google to get their opinion on how to stop harassment?
Rather detection and faster removal driven by machine learning, we've always used a
mix of technology and human review to address the ever-changing challenges around controversial
content on YouTube.
We recently began developing and implementing cutting-edge machine learning technology designed
to help us identify and remove violent extremism and terrorism-related content in a scalable
way.
Oh yes, yes, we all know that Google's AI technology is cutting edge.
Meet Perspective, Google's AI bot that will take comments and speech and tell you how
toxic it is.
Let's give it a go, shall we?
The U.S. Government is Corrupt Oh, 71% toxic, is it?
We'd better censor that opinion straight away.
The U.S. Government is Wonderful Ah, 5% toxic, that's better.
The word Trump all on its own is 42% toxic.
If you're going for 100%, that's a gimme right off the bat.
Black man dating white woman 86% toxic
How many millions did you spend, Google, to develop an AI that disapproves of race mixing?
If I hadn't made it clear by now, I don't trust YouTube to be objective in their policing
of its platform, because of the extreme ineptitude of its staff and tools, its past behaviors
when it comes to the DMCA, and because its parent company, Google, has an ideological
stake in YouTube not being objective.
But there is a silver lining here.
The media has not completely united around Google in the way that it united around developers
and press during Gamergate.
Even though it's a very similar story of an insider publishing trade secrets that show
illegal and unethical practices.
Though there was that one idiot over at the Guardian that actually blamed this all on
Gamergate.
But okay, okay, that's enough stupidity for one video.
Silver lining, silver lining.
No, the Google manifesto isn't sexist or anti-diversity.
It's science.
Mr. Demore confirmed last night he was fired for perpetuating gender stereotypes.
Despite how it's been portrayed, the memo was fair and factually accurate.
Scientific studies have confirmed sex differences in the brain that lead to differences in our
interests and behavior.
As mentioned in the memo, gendered interests are predicted by exposure to prenatal testosterone.
Higher levels are associated with a preference for mechanically interesting things in occupations
in adulthood.
Lower levels are associated with a preference for people-oriented activities in occupations.
This is why STEM fields tend to be dominated by men.
And this speaks to the regressive left's extreme problem with science.
They only claim it as part of their domain when its outcomes agree with their ideology.
But could climate change, you know, that thing that hard-left environmentalists repeatedly
say that the science is settled on?
Like here, over at Slate, climate science is settled enough.
How long do you think it's going to take me to dig up a Slate article talking about how
the Google manifesto is wrong and that science isn't representative of the truth?
Well I'm back.
It took me about three fucking seconds.
Science is something that, when it agrees with the regressive left's worldview, is cool
and awesome and worthy of upvotes on Reddit.
But when it tells them that they're wrong, it's hateful and discriminatory.
Remember that bit with the black student who thought a shaman could call down lightning
and that the guy who told her she was wrong was racist?
There's a place in Kabyalihana, and they believe that through the magic, the black magic, you
call it black magic, they call it witchcuff to others, that you are able to send a lightning
to strike someone.
Yeah, isn't that a special brand of insanity?
Well a bit later in the video, she talks about how science must be destroyed and remade from
the ground up with her specific style of understanding.
Western modernity is the problem that decolonization directly deals with, to say that we are going
to decolonize by having knowledge that is produced by us, that speaks to us, and that
is able to accommodate knowledge from our perspective.
So if you're saying that you disagree with her approach, it means that you are vested
in the Western and Eurocentric way of understanding, which means you yourself still need to go
back, internally decolonize your mind, come back and say, how can I re-look at what I've
been studying all these years, because Western knowledge is very pathetic to say the least.
I from a decolonized perspective believe we can do more as knowledge producers, as people
who are given the ability to reason or whatever, is that people say we do when we think or
rationalize.
So decolonizing the science would mean doing away with it entirely and starting all over
again to deal with how we respond to the environment and how we understand it.
Here's the problem with that.
If your African scientists are worth a damn, they're still going to come to the conclusion
that shamans can't summon lightning.
The scientific process is the scientific process, and it does not change based on your culture
or lived experiences.
The nerd in me would now like to reference this Star Trek clip, just to show you that
despite your ideology, science will always be correct about the nature of the universe.
Beyond the science angle, people are also taking other stands.
Demors filed suit against Google and I hope it goes well for him.
I truly believe that the professional treatment of people who don't share the political views
of their CEOs is serious enough to possibly consider it a civil rights issue.
Some think that Sundar Pichai was in the wrong, so much so that he should step down.
Others are talking about the free speech angle too.
The application of hostile work environment law to workplace speech, including basically
political or ideological discussions, not just vulgar jokes or unwanted personal talk,
goes back decades.
Jonathan Rauch, for example, in the New Republic in 1997, wrote that quietly, gradually, the
workplace has become an exception to the general rule that in America the law does not seek
to restrain wrongful opinion and expression.
And Rauch explained the indirect mechanism by which this has come to pass.
What the government cannot do directly, it now requires employers to do in its stead.
Police discriminatory speech.
It seems to me that conservatives aren't really all that welcome within Silicon Valley.
I'm not even a conservative, and I can tell that rational conservative arguments are being
snuffed out at major tech companies in the USA, in favour of feels-based, regressive
left policies, as well as more than a few cry sessions after Donald Trump's election.
I think political affiliation and opinion should be protected by law from firing in
the same way as race, religion, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, and so on.
It's the only way to ensure diversity of opinion at these companies, which by the way,
is far more important than surface level diversity like race and sex.
And yet the higher ups at these companies just don't see that there's a problem with
how they treat conservatives.
The subject of Google's ideological bent came up at the most recent shareholder meeting
in June.
A shareholder asked executives whether conservatives would feel welcome at the company.
Executives disagreed with the idea that anyone wouldn't.
The company was founded under the principles of freedom of expression, diversity, inclusiveness,
and science-based thinking.
You'll also find that all of the other companies in our industry agree with us.
Either they're entirely unaware of their horrendous and unethical treatment of people
that disagree with them, or they just simply do not care.
If this doesn't stop, I think we're going to see a balkanization of the tech industry.
Talented young minds, not interested in working within the oppressive atmospheres of today's
Google, Twitter, Reddit, and Facebook, will flee to alternative services and startups
with potential.
We're already seeing it, with Vidme, Gab, Vote, and Mines springing up as viable, growing
healthy alternatives.
I foresee a future in which there's two sets of social media platforms.
The left will define the two as reasonable people versus bigots, while the rest of us
will simply see them as hard left versus everybody else.
The regressive left will continue to reinforce their echo chambers, perform witch hunts,
and drive people away to the remaining social media platforms dedicated to free speech.
And those platforms that remain out of their ideological grasp will be branded as hate
sites with no value whatsoever.
Two sets of services, two internets.
And this will only be bad for the current social media giants.
They have everything to lose in this future, and if it happens, they'll have only themselves
to blame for it.
Of course, considering the upcoming balkanization of social media, now is probably a good time
to start getting on some of those alternative sites.
I've already got a Mines account where I post each one of these videos, under the name,
you guessed it, Short Fight Otaku, and I'm going to start looking at mirroring my work
on Vidme as well, because I hear that's actually a very good YouTube alternative.
Alright, that about does it for me.
I'll catch you later, guys.
I love you.
