Music
In my video about Team Squirrel, I told you that this information is important, so let's get to the second story.
First, when I told you that Team Squirrel was the public force because of the platform,
and immediately because they were involucred, and that Paypal and Stripe were going to make a Subscribestar,
I didn't include the capture of those pants.
So, let's look at some of these.
Look at this picture of this.
Well, when I told you that Team Squirrel was the public force because of the platform,
one of the people I invited to regularize their work,
was sexually abused by various members of the committee.
Team Squirrel had this three years ago,
only because the information was filtered by other people.
This was due to the lack of respect for the use of the platform.
During my time as the president of Team Squirrel,
I was also the director of the network.
A few years ago, I was on Twitter and frequently invited to talk to members of the committee.
Informally, I told them that I would not be able to invite them.
I was not sure that it would be encrypted by a member of the committee,
and that the members of the committee would be involved in the situation.
Finally, the Subscribestar was sent.
I was able to talk to these people,
and they could help me to ensure that this person was completely exiled from the Cambridge Center.
I was not exonerated, and they were fired.
I was scared that other people would be replaced.
And that was all possible, because of the use of the platform.
When I was young, I was scared that other people would not be able to have access to the status.
I could not name the person in question because of the use of the platform.
It was a problem that regularly existed in academic work.
I used to be able to do it.
I had no idea.
I could not do other things that would have helped me to make a future.
I was going to do it, but I was going to do it better.
How many people would say that when Milo and I would not be able to explain to them what had happened in Hollywood,
despite the lack of information about the members of the committee.
Some people attacked one of the subjects, which was Welton,
because he was my brother, and presented the same thing to me.
You know, I lived in Hollywood a while ago.
Did you? Did you go to one of his parties?
I went to other people who I won't name, of a similar stature in Hollywood.
I went to their boat parties and to their house parties and things, and some of the things I have seen have beggared belief.
Yeah? Can you give us like a...
Well, just, I can't, I don't want to be indiscreet about specific people.
Right, you don't have to do that. Just dance around the facts.
Yeah, dangerous, but I can tell you the truth without dropping anyone in it.
I mean, some of the boys there were very young.
Very young.
And this is really recently?
I don't remember, no, no, like, I don't know, eight years ago.
I don't remember...
Stactional limitations.
I don't remember whether I ever met Brian Singer or whether I even knew who he was then.
But I knew other people of similar stature, as I say, and there were some very young boys around at that time.
There was a lot of drugs, and a lot of...
Twinks.
A lot of twinks, taking drugs and having unsafe sex with older men, and some of these boys were very young.
But the most fascinating result is when people of my age want to progress,
and they are left with a lot of bad things.
And they have to ask if they are going to sacrifice themselves in the number of poor people,
or if they are going to be burdened by the virus,
because they are simply too important for the cause.
For those of you who are watching this last group, of those who are sleeping giants,
I'm sure you've seen it in a video on that.
But well, it's not sufficient, this is Rodolfo Rancida.
The Patreon page is still constant in my last video.
I wanted to share some important points between more and more people.
Many creators, like me, went to the platform where they were able to buy their own terms of service,
and the word of the company's name, to try to find a good way to do it.
But it seems that Patreon has entered a bit of a panic.
In the department, I'm sure of my confidence.
In the case of Jacqueline Hart, one of my stories has extended my view of the socialistic republic of Patreon,
and I think it's not only about you, it's about Matt Christensen.
One of my recapitulations.
Jacqueline Hart wanted to be a cooperative family.
She has experience in taxes and finances,
but she wanted to be a part of her time in conferences about women,
about diversity, and things like that.
The main thing is the audience.
One of them is Luana Vandonado,
from Patreon's Patreon page,
who told me directly about the topic and told me about all the information needed.
Our experience with each creator is individual,
and I'd like to talk about what I can do to help our audience.
More specifically, I'd like to thank the audience for their experience with Patreon and their support,
and what they've done in the work that they do.
Now, remember this message that I didn't do for Nade.
This Patreon is trying to secure their own stories,
and the description of it is for an exclusive discussion about the rules and the causes of one of them.
And I'm sure you'll be able to tell me that the idea of what depends is secure with you.
You can share it with others.
Well, this message that I gave on the phone at the end of December
between Matt Christiansen and Jacqueline Hart.
I'm going to leave the description on the table.
And if you want to see the video I'm going to share with you,
I'm going to share it with you.
It's very good news for the people of Mujar,
but I'd like to introduce what I believe are two integral points.
Matt and Jacqueline are good news in a principle
for the expression of expression,
and because people are going under the platform.
The one I'm going to tell you about is Jacqueline.
The problem is that Patreon is so bad,
and I believe that we can get to the first point
and there are other things that we need to consider.
First, our financial transition to the graduation class.
To be able to complete our transition,
we have created a community of graders
who are so much like us in the platform.
If we wanted to make some expressions,
which are some expressions of expression,
then it's only the graders that use Patreon
that don't have any problems with these decorative forms,
they are the ones who use the platform,
and our transition is very bad.
But, besides, as a platformer in Brazil,
processing pages is one of our nuclear values.
And we depend on the processing of pages
that have the appropriate rules
on what you are going to be processing, and what not.
Matt, I was thinking that this Patreon decision
would be something that the president wouldn't do.
Jacqueline, no.
This was entirely a decision by Patreon.
Matt, well, I'm not sure why you're passing the card
over there, Matt.
Jacqueline, no, I'm not passing the card over there.
We have some linear terms.
I'm trying to explain that, number one,
our transition is financed by the graders,
and that, obviously, some people don't want to be associated.
Matt, well, if it's a mission,
then the processing of pages is irrelevant.
It's a mission.
That's what I'm talking about.
Jacqueline, we're not using the card.
We don't have the rules.
That's what I'm saying.
There's a track on all of this.
There's also a contradiction.
For the fact that the decision to share the card
with you is completely a Patreon,
but by the way,
there are no visas and Mastercards,
and they are not what are the rules.
So we have three possibilities.
One, this Patreon decision
always has extreme forces,
with which a boycott of the social areas is justified.
Two, visa and Mastercard are forcing a Patreon on this,
and it's a bit of both
that companies have an interest in Sargon.
Or three, that a company has an ideological line,
and that it's a thing.
There's a demand for a ride,
and with what Patreon is doing internally,
I think it's a big problem.
We have a second point
that I want to share with the three Christians in my heart,
the inerrant success that Patreon has adopted
as part of their solutions.
Jacqueline, the second one is that we have a reason
that we are observing all of your work and determining
if this is something that is multiplexed.
We have to see these things as your work,
and as good as possible.
Matt, are you saying that you are an individual?
Jacqueline?
Yes.
Matt, how is it possible that you are a standard?
Don't you want to be a platform for everything?
Jacqueline, this is a very good question.
And yes, I would like to see a platform for everything,
but as you can imagine,
it's very difficult to do it manually.
And it's very clear that we want to see this direction,
because I think it's a human element.
Today, we have humans that resonate with us
and contact us with creators,
and for that reason, they resonate with us.
But we want this to be a platform
that can be used as a platform for three private products.
We want these to be analytic.
Matt, are you saying that you are an individual?
Jacqueline?
Yes.
I understand.
Matt?
Okay.
I understand that you are someone who is creators like me,
and to all the people who are confused about your platform,
Jacqueline.
What we are trying to do is to have the most possible tools
to be able to be transparent
and consider all the points of view.
We want to ensure that we are not operating on a camera.
We don't want to have a process
where we consider different opinions
when we are creators.
This is my point about this,
but I am partially concerned with Jacqueline's report.
We want the concept of the spirit of the letter of the law.
The exception to the law,
but one of the exceptions exists,
and many of these can be necessary
that the law and the laws are in crisis,
so we can live with extraordinary circumstances
that were not thought about.
From this point of view,
not only do you understand and know that it is preferable
that the law is used by human beings.
For example, the biggest problem with YouTube
is that it is essentially this subjective choice.
Since the copyright laws are proposed for both,
they don't have any context or use for them.
Although I don't think I have any experience in this area,
but I find that people who want to do things,
subjective and just,
are one of the biggest problems in the system.
There are people from all over the world,
and they are looking at everything, case by case.
If you look at this from a dialogical perspective,
you can completely understand the context
of the law and the law,
so the things that exist are good.
But that is not what they are saying.
I think it is subjective that they want to try something
that is much more tyrannical
than an automatically automated option.
And the comments from Jacqueline from my channel,
that the subjective system of Patreon
doesn't only try to try something in any form,
if not from each,
if it's an ideology.
Jacqueline.
Otherwise, this is the case by case.
Every creator has the opportunity to talk.
I want this to be completely clear.
Every time we talk about Algen,
this person has the opportunity to talk.
That was true when I was a child, for example,
but the time with the public opinion,
which expressed respect for the group
with which they were associated
and which we cancelled out,
had to come from the creator's side.
So, if you see what I'm saying,
I think there are a lot of people
who don't believe that this is going to happen.
Matt.
Okay, so it's a very subjective choice
if the reputability was sufficiently good.
Jacqueline.
Basically, you can shoot different groups on Patreon,
but if a creator is there
or actively opposed to these groups,
then it's not going to be permitted on the platform.
Matt.
I'm going to go, and I'm going to go.
Decho has his photography on me.
This is a form of a person who is pro-crypto
who can pro-crypto me for his association.
I'm going to go now, I'm going to go.
I think I'm going to go.
Jacqueline.
No, for some reason I can't.
The time is when my respect for the group
doesn't have anything to do with this.
But the time is not with the group
that they are associated with.
It's more about the group that they are associated with.
Matt.
Well, I'm going to go,
and I'm going to go on Patreon.
Why don't you do a similar session?
Jacqueline.
To the group, it's not the same
that I'm talking about on the other side.
Matt.
What is it that made you want to be on the other side
of this network?
Jacqueline.
I don't want to talk about specific things.
Really, Matt.
Why don't you send me a mail
that references a specific case?
The network is called Charla.
It's the one that I wrote.
In the New York Times article,
Patreon excluded anti-feminists for racist discourse,
indicating a result.
It is possible that,
given the political views of Patreon,
the company has been contacted
with the interview and the question,
and they have made specific plans.
They have included in the world the material
that has led to politics
and has made a public discourse.
I would like to say that
we have been in the hands of the creators
and we have worked with them
in a way of one to one.
And yet, all the creators are reformers.
So, it's a very exciting process.
Sargon has not responded to the platform of Patreon.
Patreon has not seen its creators as clients.
They seem like children who are vigilant
and, when they cross the line,
uneducated.
Or, in their own words,
they are made of the man.
Even human beings with the same respect
participate involuntarily in the process of reform,
with the question of principles.
Patreon is a company of tyranos,
where the most important thing is to reduce,
especially in the news,
to admit that you are a victim
and to ask for your pardon.
That is not to create a negative relationship,
to create a relationship between your guests.
During all times,
it is the principle of the sake of Patreon's support,
but it is also that the heart is at the center of everything.
In the next episode, we are going to talk about what this is all about.
First, let's see how the time has passed,
because if you are a young person
at this event,
and you want to know what happens the next time,
we will see Jacqueline's career in LinkedIn,
the one that she has been working on.
My question would be,
what is the most that she is trying to solve?
And here is a time limit for you to consider.
The 30th of October 2008,
Patreon has been an event
based on the recent administration for workers.
Jacqueline has been at this conference
for a long time,
and during that time,
she has been working on the recent administration
of her colleagues at PayPal.
The 30th of April in Patreon
is much more than ideal.
The present of PayPal,
David Marcus,
has invited Patreon to show their support.
Another significant member of Patreon
is Thrive Capital,
which is also an important member of Thrive.
And, as a part of the group,
Joshua Kushner,
Raman of Jared Kushner,
Nueva de Nueva del Tramp,
is also the founder of Thrive Capital.
Despite the great separation of Tramp,
I have no idea what the Emperor told us
when he pushed us to do it.
It's a bargain.
The final result of Sleeping Giants
has also been attacked by Thrive
two months ago,
during the attack in Aqaba.
I don't know about the attention,
but Thrive has been so happy
to be able to support the subscription service
that Team Squirrel
has also invited a potential
for Sleeping Giants.
We are extremely happy when Thrive
has been able to,
to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to
be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be
to remove Sargon's financing.
It's possible that the Twitch account doesn't benefit from that.
But Team Squirrel and platform hate
don't know how to deal with connections as important as Senna's,
the one that makes things happen.
And you have to remember Jacqueline's admission
that Patreon doesn't monitor her service,
and that she has to report to her users.
The Twitch account can do everything it needs to do for Senna's team.
And in that moment,
all that Patreon needs is one that can be used against her.
And of course, Chazaben,
who wants to go there
to be able to make a reason.
All that's needed is an excuse to use it.
It's not a definitive pro,
but for me, at least, it's how it is.
If this is the project that Patreon is using as a game market,
it's going to be new.
The game market music is too.
Where the monumental market of a very corrupt game
exposes the corruption of the industry
and tracks different people
against different threats,
controlling narratives,
and removing people from incorrect politics.
I think this is a very pertinent description,
because, as I said earlier,
the part of our new queen and the team that we have,
at the end of the game, is much more evident.
And that's why Patreon can be a very big part of it.
Jacqueline said that the decision to remove her service with Patreon
is not a visa, it's a mattercard.
It can't simply be a real one.
The mattercard is used to do things like this.
David Horowitz said that his Freedom Foundation
should remove the services of visa and mattercard
from the SSPL.
He declared that it was only a group of people.
A visa that could communicate that it was not an involuntary one.
SubscribeStar was invited by all the paid processors.
PayPal was a pioneer, Stripe,
including Ambas, Visa, and Mattercard.
In the meantime, Mastercard recorded all the services in the 2010s.
Here are the questions.
The companies that are trying to convert in the new decade
are going to do this, and they're not going to select what is good and what is bad.
In the 2000s, at WikiLeaks, Visa and Mattercard also created their services,
similar to Megablot.
And, as I said, WikiLeaks was already being invented,
Mattercard was used to remove the services.
In the past, it was the point of expanding governmental corruption.
The
package that they had was removed from Patreon by Mastercard.
Not by PayPal, not by Visa, by Mattercard.
Not only for the possibility of continuing their work,
not for continuing their work with money, but for their services.
For this, Mastercard, specifically, is
maintaining the goal in its terms.
The commitment to move is what the business
of regular forms, consistent and consistent, in two motivations.
The importance of inclusion and the importance of data collection.
We can see that Mastercard is also the most important
motivation for the success of others.
In the 2000s, Mastercard started to
have a lot of relationships with mechanisms to present political events.
From their political and financial relations,
this process did not allow attention,
but it did make sense from what they said.
In the 2000s, Google took data from Mastercard
to show that their policies are online,
and they are offline.
This, of course, is not a surprise,
because big companies like Informatica and
Google have been associated with the data for many years.
But what does it have to do with Mastercard in all of this?
It has to be relevant,
because it is the declaration that there are political activities in Mastercard.
All political activities that Mastercard has seen in my head
are based on the interests of the company,
with complete and precise preferences of their official and exclusive services.
The same process is repeated in their work of conduct,
based on the fact that we are in the process
of making the forms responsible and ethical.
If Mastercard's post-oppression to PayPal,
Payoneer, Stripe, or Patreon, sorry,
David Horowitz, Subscribestar, or Shihatwatch,
this declaration is clear,
which does not promote ideological ideas,
if not because they want to represent the interests of a company.
But it is even more obvious that there is a special relationship between PayPal and Mastercard.
Similarly, the special relationship between Patreon and PayPal,
which I shared in my video earlier,
can be found in the article on PayPal's target,
obviously on Mastercard,
on my article in 2016.
Paypal and Mastercard expanded their association,
to benefit consumers,
investors, and financial institutions.
We can now see a list of the names of the companies
that made an increase on the other,
like Robert Seibert,
Nitin Srivastava,
Liam Spence,
Monica Yasuja,
John Mwangi,
Jesse Tran,
Karen Pascoe,
Attula Baig,
Rasia Sultana,
Beth Kitchener,
Roger Griffith,
Luke Olbridge,
Diego Steinhandler,
Adrian Collard,
and Eduardo Riggi.
I don't know what to say,
but please do not contact these people.
This is only to demonstrate how PayPal and Mastercard
have one of the best methods in the world of the other.
But,
as we are talking about numbers,
there is an interesting one.
George Soros and Mastercard
are there to help immigrants and refugees.
If you know George Soros,
people immediately tell you that he is anti-semitic,
and that he is competitive.
So, he is going to do everything possible to not be bullied.
He is going to be the principal of the people.
Obviously, he is a racist.
But there are various factors that are involved.
Other groups of activists in social rights,
Hope Not Hate,
and financial support through Open Society,
and also in the form of just being part of the law
and being part of the law in Southern debate,
when the remover was in defense of massive immigration.
So, George Soros and Mastercard are together
with the time of the economic immigrants.
So, what are the details in this case?
Well, in this case,
the plans of Mastercard and George Soros are aligned,
and we have the motivation and the means to help them.
We have the numbers of people annually,
and since the beginning of 2015,
we have started to focus on the inclusion of finance.
This is a concept that we always have.
We are in the six relationships that we have,
with PayPal and some other interesting numbers,
which are not part of this video.
Visa and American Express, for example,
are not part of the concept.
The concept has been declared a political submission,
but the main part is its members
that are globalist and liberal.
And the actual president of the concept, Richard Gass,
is an article on the title that says
that there are so many liberal people in the world.
In the case of Daniel,
which is a population movement in democratic countries,
the cause of his global project.
But it is also possible that political decisions
represent the interests of Mastercard.
None of the people are the people in the company.
Instead of Mastercard as a corporation,
to finance the market in the first place
is a very big and obvious challenge.
But certainly not the biggest and most important one.
Many of these JWs and people who want to help
to buy online Mastercard
because of the group's financial aid.
But the difference between Patreon
is that it does not have an effect.
If anything, Mastercard is a role active in politics.
There is an enormous number of panel presentations
and foundation opportunities for Mastercard.
There are many social and intersectional issues.
But there are some that are repeated throughout all of them.
What I would like to share with you is digital identity.
Digital identity is a function of the two motivations
that we started, inclusion and data.
For me, I would like to show you some examples of Mastercard
based on two different things.
Before we move on,
let's see how this works in the digital identity concept.
The recent increase in Mastercard financial aid
has been the leader of infinite
to think about the relationship between political and data.
Some of the people who work on Amazon,
Mastercard and PayPal,
have also been a part of the articular relationship
with inclusivity and data.
The idea of Mastercard is that
the data is on the new petroleum tax.
The CEO, Ajay Banga,
said that he considered the data as a public bank
and not only as a commercial market.
Multiple people with all sorts of Mastercards,
including officials at FFS Inclusion,
representatives of the diversity of Inclusion
and other real-life cards,
have been invited by Solpreza and Inclusion.
In special, Inclusion Financier,
which is a part of the digital identity club.
In one of my first SJ Weekly
I discussed an article about Inclusion Financier.
To be sure,
basically what I said is that
the bank system considers it to be good
when more people are engaged in the financial system,
which is through an account or a credit account.
Of course, it is good,
because it signifies more clients,
but it also represents a form
for which people have to access
a private financial system
with modern global financial systems.
And what makes people in the system
is diversity and inclusion,
because the people who have not been engaged
are engaged in the digital world.
This is linked with the other initiatives of Mastercard,
such as the migration in Africa
during the Cinclos Fin of Inversion
and collapse of the region,
or the red red area of Mastercard,
which can achieve digital financial forms
in other sectors and in political conflicts.
I don't know what these things are,
but I think that by looking at the third world market
you can achieve this kind of form
in order to pass the situation,
which is more expensive than being able to finance it.
But there are no chances that Mastercard
is getting this out of the fund of its own existence.
Remember,
when Mastercard was the company that made me
I could have done political work with the fund
to increase its profits.
Mastercard wanted to achieve
the profits of millions of new clients.
In 2020, I was in the business of diversity and progress,
including finance.
And then I became the emperor of economic immigrants,
the dissolution of international jobs,
positions of the extreme care of the people
that enabled all the narratives of the ultra-right
to be sold out of the book,
in its last two years.
From the fourth notice of Mastercard,
when new companies are increasingly more inclusive
and opportunities for everyone.
The integration of the 25th,
as four Refugia missions,
to new communities is a theme
that is the result of the whole world.
Ironically, the solution to Refugia,
which is being adopted by a new company,
is to increase the opportunity and opportunities for everyone.
Mastercard is globally developed
with the commitment of the United States
to increase the access to essential technologies
and products that advance financial education
and to provide financial services
to communities that are being sold out of the world.
So, to answer this question,
if this is the power of the great economic sector,
it is to find Mastercard.
And Mastercard is going to be the leader of inclusion,
when in reality,
everyone who wants to have access to a new market,
back to the market of progress.
I mean the people with the same values.
The people are meant to be a member of the industry
that is not able to reveal their numbers,
by obvious reasons.
We know what they have to say.
I mean, for example,
the security of the world,
the security standards of the industry
in the market of goods,
or PCE of this.
They are made by the market of goods,
by the same company,
without the commitment of the government
and without regulations.
Some states are referring to PCE of this,
but only in reference to the new market.
They don't want the company to comply with these standards,
but they feel that it is protected
by the legal responsibility
in a filtration case of this.
My guess is that it is a filtration.
Visa and Mastercard don't want to contract
a foreign PCE of PCE,
which decides to pay a lot.
What would happen if we didn't?
We wouldn't be able to get access to Red,
and we wouldn't be able to make a payment online.
There is a huge interest to be able to get access to Red
and to have the capital's flux.
The value of everything is the number of security.
Mastercard and Visa have complete control
of their payments, not being effective.
If you can get their interest in any form,
you can use PCE of PCE to get your money.
The other businesses depend on Visa and Mastercard
to help them process their payments.
This is a mafia.
It is not a free market.
It is a very big mafia
that Paypal and Stripe are trying to find
and subscribe to to protect the interest of Patreon.
This is a mafia of the companies of the market.
They have control over the financial structure of the world.
I believe that the social market is being infiltrated by Mastercard.
Mastercard is using its infrastructure
to block people who have political differences
from accessing the global market.
The PCE of PCE is the agreement you can use,
unilaterally, to get access to whatever you need
to have a financial presence online.
Remember that Jacqueline Hart has a reference to this
in her book with Matt Christiansen.
Processing payments depends on our ability
to access the rest of the payment,
and we have to be able to access it.
If we are able to supply it,
what do we need to access it?
Well, why don't we do that?
Here is a PDF of his internal job,
the Mastercard deal.
In his article about the hot watch,
David Horowitz, Mastercard localizes
both of them,
to their political affiliations.
But, between the Mastercard deal,
the political affiliations are not considered.
The consequences are
that the continued adults,
the pharmaceuticals,
tobacco dealers,
and the silver lockers,
are all considered altruistic,
but there is not a mention of political affiliations.
And, certainly, there are other political affiliations
that don't support the most sensitive.
Why would Mastercard consider
only one of them as altruistic?
In case I want to represent an altruistic,
I want to put my plans at the right place.
But, well,
how do we apply this in real life?
Because this is only going to appear on Twitter.
I know that Twitter is going to be a personal account,
as well as the president of Mastercard.
And, of course.
Innovation, diversity, inclusion, support.
And, Twitter.
If you want to talk about the global conference
of the people of Bocconi, it's there.
The account of Mastercard
is the one that I was supposed to respond to.
The private and public associates
were influenced by the economic crisis and innovation.
But, we have to be careful
to apply it to the real world and to the real world.
We need to know how to adapt to global standards
and to be able to produce local barriers
to the global innovation.
And in this event,
in 2015, I want you to know what I'm talking about.
Great discussions on the competition.
But, more standards are more important.
We are talking about the country being the source.
If you want to enter the line for all,
the idea is the same.
Nationalized movements
that bring global plans to Mastercard
are considered local barriers to be crucial.
Mastercard has to be able to get to the real world
and make sure that it's not autonomous.
So, if these are the rules,
what is the plan at the workplace?
Let's talk about two questions.
What is a clear example of the person
who is talking about all of this time?
There is one inclusivity of two.
Another is financially, for example,
and digital.
The corporation can be used in social terms.
In Mastercard, we are considering a sustainable model
that allows us to do good things.
I don't understand that they also have
the right to say no
to the government of the country.
They also come together as a country
with the appropriate conditions
to make a relationship between
the marketplace of Mastercard.
By declaring that the sophisticated consumers
with the smartphone have been ineffective.
This has been so good for the economic market
that it has not been used for the global economic system,
that it has not been used financially.
And yes,
there has been some of this.
In the art of Markle,
Ant and Poco are very happy to see that
they have succeeded in doing so.
They are also very happy with the economic market
for which they have been financially funded.
Ant also thinks that the diversity of inclusion
should be increased in all the levels
of the operation of the company,
from the services and products,
to the essential properties of universities
for their employees.
And if you look at one of the things
that is the famous model of Mastercard's Mastercard,
which is now released,
Ant is more than willing to have a conversation with us
in respect to how the monetary contribution
of the companies has influenced the position
of an independent market.
Every Mastercard project is about diversity of inclusion.
Every one of them says things like
they don't have any sense of having the internet
of all the things,
if they don't have the internet of all people,
they are talking about things and things.
Because, like Ant,
Mastercard doesn't have the power
to exclude anyone who wants to see
some of the things they are interested in.
Mastercard will have the potential
of people not being characterized
in the economic market of the majority.
So, Chigatwatch, Imilow and Horowitz
have to be excited.
Mastercard will be interested in the actual mafia
of technological companies,
so that Gab, Bitchute and Subscribestar
will have to be excited.
And remember,
after all,
the political act of Mastercard is
based only on the economic sector of the company.
All of this was decided.
It's easy to put tweets and articles like this
and to share them with you
if you want to see my content in one of your videos.
See the videos on YouTube
about those things that have been going on in the last years.
Well,
if that's all what's going on in this country,
then it's going to be voluntary.
Because if all of this is the truth,
you won't find the important part.
This is digital identity.
The function of inclusion and data,
of political inclusion and social inclusion
with financial inclusion,
and what is significant to Mastercard.
I won't talk about it with ideology.
But let me tell you what I say.
These are two tweets,
very different and very different.
One is about Mastercard being built on social rights,
and the other is about
putting an global identity on a national level.
What one of those means
is the digital identity concept.
Here I share with you a few.
Mastercard, I believe that the European Union
needs a digital market.
And Mastercard, I believe that Refugia
needs a digital identity document.
What connects these two things?
Digital identity.
The digital identity is the enemy of inclusion.
Digital identity is digital identity for refugia.
Digital identity for refugia.
The real identity is the first in the year
since the equality of gender.
One in Africa is ineffective.
Without digital identity,
the demography has been destroyed.
Mastercard works to integrate refugia.
Efficiency is ineffective.
Financial inclusion blocks social progress
and economic potential.
Diversity can't be something that is real.
This is all digital identity.
Inclusion is data.
Political inclusion.
Social inclusion.
Financial inclusion is the same thing
for Mastercard as a company.
This is the reason why
the refugia in the global financial system
is treated with the same level of security
as social justice.
This is the reason why digital identity
is a combination of inclusive and data.
And that's why this is the strategy of Mastercard.
There are so many people
who are possible in the financial system.
If this means supporting initiatives in Africa
against philanthropy,
that's fine.
If this means pushing motions
against the limits of refugia
against social justice,
that's fine.
But with this global financial system
and the exponential growth of its users,
it's important to keep the value
of equity in the equation,
the progress of its growth in firms and countries.
It's important to keep digital.
The financial legacies are social.
Hashtag, an effective social association.
One way that finance
and digital identity are completely digitalized
is to use the protocol PES and DDS
to personalize with any other person
who is a pong.
Ah, digitality against those immigrants on Facebook?
Well, not only on Facebook,
you can use it on the phone
and you can't use PayPal.
But your Mastercard
will not be able to buy it.
Your bank will process the page of the tool killer
and your digital identity will be revoked.
This is the way to prove that Mastercard is working.
Let's see how this works.
You need to excel people in society.
And don't refer to people
who are restaurant owners.
Don't listen to people
who are eating your food for what they eat.
Because participants from the Twitch channels
have been considered toxic.
But don't be afraid.
You need to know that the art department
has a video tutorial template.
I was just trying to rent a room
in an apartment building
and this ad that someone put out,
they Googled me,
they saw my,
I'm assuming they saw my Twitter or Facebook or something
and it said that I used to work at Fox.
And they sent me back an email saying,
like, you know, we're sorry,
but we have different political views on you.
We hate Fox.
Good luck in your search for housing.
And this was actually the second time
that it happened.
First time it happened actually yesterday.
I met companies from the market
who are using a free structure
to block the company from being free
and which is illegal to buy
in the United States.
And every time I went to one of these things,
there was one idea in the social media
the progressive one.
The inclusive one is that these companies
are active in the air,
in order to understand how their politics
are completely completely co-opted
by the people of Negocios
that are doing the art.
This mentality,
of which I have used to be the most
minimal power that can be used
by people innocent of political motives,
has been in my head in society
during the last few years.
That being in a restaurant
is a small part of a massive problem
in bringing the forms that are Negocios
and one with the other.
When the social media started
in the country,
a number of television companies
were only a small part of this campaign.
I'm sure you will know the next one.
It's guaranteed.
We're going to have a lobby
of more than one hundred people
in the market
and more than the other.
It's guaranteed.
That's going to be the next campaign.
If you want to make a very straight line
or a digital way,
with a set of titles,
you can make it
even more intelligible.
But you can't make it
because you simply want to create
another number of studios
and a new one.
This is a way to allow the other
in the world to be ineffective.
There is digital identity
and the reaction of the social media
is too much.
It's an effective way
to procreate value
against all financial systems.
You can't control the value
of value if it's physically
in support of you.
You can't control the value of value
if it's not in support of your physical value.
That's why, for example,
you have to trust all the levels.
There are projects that you have to
trigger your contract
for a positive deposit.
But I don't know if you want
to use digital value
or any other way.
And there are these two things.
Legally, it's incredibly easy.
At the same time, digital values
are easy to falsify,
making them much more insecure.
This is the reason for the fact
that being ineffective
is the enemy of inclusion,
because inclusion is required
to be included in your control.
It's the reason for the fact
that you are so anonymous.
It's the reason for the fact
that you are an anonymous animal
and it's the reason for the fact
that in the year 2017,
the curse of Mastercard
started to happen.
It's time to promote inclusivity
to achieve the goals
that are required in inclusivity.
The priorities are inclusivity
that makes confidence.
We can't take the life
of security.
When you deliver a pet,
what is permitted?
Who is going to represent this pet
for Mastercard?
The dog.
So that's why I was the dog.
As if I was Alex Jones,
I'm the dog.
And I'm not content.
I didn't think of myself
as being a person
that prepares to be competitive.
But all the dogs are here
for what they do.
And if you're in all this
you're intrigued with pneumonia,
compare it to all the tweets,
one of the others.
Mastercard.
The corporations that can
minimize you in their social socials.
Patreon.
Mastercard.
We're not sure what we're talking about.
This culture is so much
about Sargon, Jack Ellingart
and Patreon.
And I don't think that some of the
poppies in Mastercard
are about the remotion of Sargon.
I think we are.
Patreon and Paypal
are talking about the type of
obedience that Mastercard
is talking about.
They are talking about the
rights of Mastercards
without receiving direct orders.
For now,
the evidence is concrete
that other companies
and credit targets
don't have involucrades.
I'm a bit of an extraneous person.
But, in this moment,
Mastercard has demonstrated
to be morally repugnant
in the best way possible.
Open the decisions
and the lessons of the day.
Look for the expression of expression
or the most strict immigration.
Criticize the social and feminist justice.
Contribute in any form
of political support,
nationalized or popular.
Because all of these things
that offend Mastercard
so much in ideology
like Negocius
will be the use of these gigantic structures
to try to replace them.
And we are on this.
The only reason for what we know
is that all of this
is the same as in Gamergate.
A significant and significant point
connected to people more importantly
is that they are a part of the project
and how they will be interviewed
in some cases.
Patreon,
yes,
is so significant.
But if you convert it into an internet
through which we can see
the mechanisms of the incredibly corrupt
financial industry,
you have all the experiences
that the efforts of Jordan Peterson
have created an alternative platform
that is so much more productive.
You have all the experiences
that YouTube World is preparing
to present to the Federal Commission
so that they can start an investigation
of Patreon and PayPal
in one way or another.
Can I do something
that can actually make a difference here
beyond the protest,
beyond the speaking about it,
beyond the explanation?
And until somebody else picks up the mantle,
I figure I'm in a unique position
to actually do something here
because I'm an attorney.
Now I know that some people
are trying to work
on potential alternative platforms
and alternative payment processing
and I think that's great,
but I think that we need to try to do our best
to actually stop the practice.
So I decided to file a complaint
with the Federal Trade Commission
against Patreon and PayPal
for collusion.
Now this is frankly a massive undertaking
so I basically want to tell you my story,
why I decided it and what I'm going to do
and what it would take to actually succeed
because frankly, I need your help on this.
I have all the experiences that Jack Conte,
CEO of Patreon,
wants to make an appeal
and to know the truth about all of us.
Because frankly,
Jack, your company is the arena.
And if you're going to fund it,
the best fund is to send the money
and to open it in the next year,
but I'm saying that you have to pay the bills.
We have to pay the bills,
if you're going to do that.
But before that,
the only reason why
your financial platform is not functioning
is because you can't find a bank
to process your payments.
It's possible that this is a very difficult problem
from what we've imagined in principle.
Many things that simply mean that
Patreon has paid for Jack and Jack
to buy our appropriate platform,
or what it is.
But I also think that we are in a situation
where we have to pay the bills.
More money can be made,
but the more that my money is spent,
it's better than what we're asking.
At the same time,
the next piece that we're going to talk about
in the Internet of Patreon
is the mechanism for which
most of it is Hitler's transformation.
The controversial one is extremist.
Its provocateur is expanded and transformed.
And the human being is inspired by terrorism
or Nazi philosophy.
Basically,
the forms of these people
transform into expression
in ways to justify the sense of personalization.
This, if said,
is the reason why all of the media's
communication methods
have emphasized the capacity of Sargon
and others to inspire act of violence.
Don't commit act of violence to each other
but to inspire others.
This is the reason why the majority of media
use terms like
adjacent to the right
or the right of the extreme.
Because they guarantee that someone,
in some way,
will be in the mastercard
or in the exterior of the sector
and they will be able to utilize
anti-terrorism methods
such as the measures of security
of the great informatics companies
to make the most simple of the political decisions
as if it were the catalogued
discourse of the audience.
Using the excuse of the inspiration.
Because of Trump or Brexit,
this is the signifier
of the rise in the coming of the US
to consolidate digital identity.
And all of this, because of this,
has been said a lot on the internet.
There are several books about this video.
There is a correction that no one
has read online during the time of the war.
There are also several books about
all of the world,
in all social rights.
I'll tell you.
Generally,
there are no types of things.
But it is well known
in the Greek literature.
If you have connections with a member
of the intellectual rights race
like Jordan Peterson or Derek Rubin,
or even people with no politics
like PewDiePie or Encea,
you can download this video.
You can also download the books.
I'm not interested in receiving the credit.
But it is important that we are not in the creative realm.
And I don't think that this is a Patreon or PayPal.
I would like to thank Monro and YouTube for their
contributions to form a big part of this video.
Simply by doing what I do,
there is a version that you can watch.
I don't want to be surprised,
but I would like to mention on Twitter
to make a free book for you.
If you want to know about me
and my projects,
you can find a link to it in the description below.
Today, Game Boomer Show.
I talk regularly about these things.
If you want to watch my tracks financially,
well,
this is a bit complicated, right?
But I can make a few videos on PayPal.com
via Short Photo Taco.
Or maybe on Twitch,
on Twitch.tv
via Game Boomers.
You have to check out my Patreon
because it is only necessary.
But I can't recommend it with a drink.
And to do this,
I will just put it in the description below.
And...
If you want me to not be able to
make a big part of this video in time,
and not simply to relish my videos with my friends,
go to this Twitch page.
I will continue all of the days of the week
till the end.
I hope to see you.
